Fitness Report. Employee serial number.

Section A: General. Name: Smith, Joseph B. Date of birth: 16 June 1921. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. SD: D. Official position title: Instr Ops.

Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Initial; reassignment supervisor; reassignment employee. Date report due in O.P.: 30 April 1968. Reporting period: 1 April 1967 to 29 March 1968.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating-period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Chief Instructor for the Cover Action Operations Seminar and the CA Politics Workshop. PA 20. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Course Coordinator for the Vietnam Psychwar Course given to the military in conjunction with FE Division. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Tradecraft Advisor and Coordinator for the Operations Support Course. Rating letter: S.
