resistance and in a manner drowned in secrecy due to the tremendous pressures and limitations imposed upon the Palestinian people by the Arab states. These constraints and the concomitant secrecy were the two prime obstacles preventing the creation of widespread cadres among the Palestinian people and obstructing the cohesion of the vanguards and the people. This, in turn, slowed down the growth of the Revolution, for the organic development of the movement requires a total merging of the Palestinian people with the revolutionary vanguards. They, in turn, should unite with the Arab masses, for then and only then will the Revolution come into its own as a revolution that is Palestinian in inception, Arab in depth, capable of effective action and continuous growth to meet the enemy's challenge.

After the June War, however, the Palestinian Revolution moved from the preparatory stage to the actual launching of the revolutionary struggle. The June War proved the validity of the operational and theoretical foundation underlying the Palestinian armed struggle. The War turned opponents of the Revolution into supporters and to a great degree effectively silenced the doubters and the skeptics. In general, a widespread shift in the attitude of the Arabs as a whole, and the Palestinian people in particular, occurred. Some changed because of their true belief in the principles of the Revolution; others for emotional reasons. We believe, however, that continued action, continued mobilization and organization, and continued struggle will alleviate the dangers inherent in such an emotional allegiance, and reinforce a principled commitment, which leads to fusion between the Palestinian Revolution and the Arab people in a conscious organized struggle.

Therefore, the Revolution must succeed as it gradually acquires its Arab and human depth, for it is a revolution based on the masses. It aims to alleviate the injustice that has befallen the Palestinians as the first victims of Zionism, to safeguard the Arab rights insofar as they are the ultimate goal of expansionist Zionism, and to reaffirm those human rights that the world community cherishes and that are threatened by racist movements everywhere starting with Zionism.

Brothers: Since the basic aim of the Palestinian Revolution is the liberation of Palestine, it is clear that it must mobilize, absorb, and utilise all Palestinian and Arab potentialities regardless of their social and economic status. It was therefore inevitable that we should raise the slogan of "non-interference in the internal affairs of any Arab state." This does not mean that we do not recognize the relationship of the Palestinians to the Arab people. It simply means that we consider the current phase of our struggle as one of national liberation; and, therefore, the interest of the Revolution is best served by avoiding entanglement in secondary fights and side issues. This is particularly feasible since Zionism is not opposed to any specific Arab doctrine, but rather aims at the Arab lands which it seeks to occupy, the Arab nation which it seeks to destroy, and the Arab individual whom it seeks to enslave. This only means that the Arab states are also living in a state of national struggle, for they, too, are threatened by the same danger regardless of their political orientation. This fact of paramount importance gives opposition to Zionism the primary position in any ranking of Arab problems. Furthermore, protracted armed confrontation with the Zionist enemy is certain to produce greater cohesiveness and cooperation among the Arabs and will eventually destroy many of the obstacles hitherto encountered on the path to unity.

The newly born Palestinian Revolution was conceived by the will of the Palestinian people to
