Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 064828. Signature date: 09/15/68.

Section A: Joannidis, George E. General.

Name: [REDACTED] (First) (Middle). Official position title: Ops Officer. Grade: [GS-11]. Current station: JMAWAVE. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/S.A.S. Date of birth: 5 July 1922. Sex: Male [REDACTED].

Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career-Provisional (see Instructions—Section C); Special (Specify).

Type of report: Initial; Reassignment Supervisor; Reassignment Employee. Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: 1 January 1962–31 December 1962.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Deputy Chief of Branch handling, in absence of Chief, all aspects of political action and psychological warfare and supervising [fifteen case officers and clerical personnel]. Rating letter: 99 (O) 2/6.
