or Robert Kennedy:

“The Chairman: You do not recall ever having discussed with the Attorney General a plan or a proposal to assassinate Fidel Castro?”

“General Lansdale: No. And I am very certain, Senator, that such a discussion never came up...neither with the Attorney General or the President.” (Lansdale, p. 18.)

Lansdale further testified that the plausible deniability concept had no part in the fact that he never discussed a Castro assassination with President Kennedy or the Attorney General. Lansdale testified that he “had doubts” that assassination was a “useful action, and one which I had never employed in the past, and during work in coping with revolutions and I had considerable doubts as to its utility and I was trying to be very pragmatic.” (Lansdale, p. 31.) When asked if he thought the President was not aware of efforts to depose Castro and his government by any means including assassination, Lansdale answered, “I am certain he was aware of efforts to depose of the Castro regime. I am really not one to guess what he knew of assassinations, because I don’t know.” (Id., p. 32.)

With regard to the Castro assassination attempts, Lansdale testified that Harvey “never” told him that Harvey was attempting to assassinate Castro. (Lansdale, p. 24.) Lansdale stated:

“I had no knowledge of such a thing. I know of no order or permission for such a thing and I was given no information at all that such a thing was going on by people who I have now learned were involved with it.” (Lansdale, p. 58.)

Thus, when Lansdale was questioned about the “touchdown plays” (discussed in detail above at p. ), there was this testimony:

“Senator Baker: Now do you completely rule out the possibility that the touchdown play had to do with the possible assassination efforts against Fidel Castro?”

“General Lansdale: Yes ... I never discussed, nor conceived, nor received orders about an assassination of Castro with my dealings with either the Attorney General or the President.”

“Senator Baker: Is that the reason you didn’t, because of the principle of deniability?”

“General Lansdale: No, it wasn’t. The subject never came up, and I had no reason to bring it up with him.”
