20 S. 12th Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 19107. Telephone: LO 3-4310

Dear WSPER:

Women Strike for Peace nationally is supporting the Jeannette Rankin Brigade. Planeloads, trainloads and carloads of women will be coming into Washington on Monday, January 15th, from all over the country.

We are particularly pleased with this action because it represents for the first time a real coalition of women's peace groups, church groups, theatre personalities, and community leaders.

The day is envisioned as a solemn, dignified confrontation of those who should be representing the ever-growing opposition to the war. We ask that you write your Congressmen urging that they support the four points listed in the enclosed Call as Congress reconvenes. Later in the afternoon at our Women's Congress we want to be able to report on Congressional responses.

We will all meet at Union Station in Washington at 11:30 AM and slowly walk to the Capitol. We ask the women to wear black. We will be led by Jeannette Rankin, who will proceed to the top of the Capitol steps with a representative delegation of 50 women to present our petition to the two men who represent the whole of Congress, Senator Mike Mansfield and Speaker of the House McCormack. The delegation will read the demands before the assembled women and the two Congressmen. Leaving the Hill, the women will enter buses for a motorcade to a Congress of American Women (place to be announced). Women will present an analysis of the current crisis on the war front and the domestic front, leading to suggestions for program and actions to be taken back to our communities for implementation.

Women may choose to remain in Washington the next day to meet with their Congressmen. If you wish to stay and wish help in securing accommodations, contact the Hospitality Committee, 2140 P. St. N.W., Washington, DC (293-2020). We regret that in order to get the lowest train fare we had to guarantee return the same day; therefore you would have to finance your own trip back on the 16th.

Our hope is that 10,000 women will converge upon Washington. We urge you to participate.

Meet at 30th Street Station information desk at 7:45 to allow time for press and TV coverage. Limit of 200 seats on train—reserve early.
