Louis Stokes, Ohio, Chairman

Richardson Preyer, N.C.  
Walter E. Fauntroy, D.C.  
Yvonne Brathwaite Burke, Calif.  
Christopher J. Dodd, Conn.  
Harold E. Ford, Tenn.  
Floyd J. Fithian, Ind.  
Robert W. Edgar, Pa.

Samuel L. Devine, Ohio  
John B. Anderson, Ill.  
Stewart B. McKinney, Conn.  
Charles Thone, Nebr.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations  
U.S. House of Representatives  
3342 House Office Building, Annex 2  
Washington, D.C. 20515

Memorandum

To: Clifford A. Fenton, Jr.  
From: Jack Moriarty  
Re: Peter Carroll Glynn, Jr.  
Date: April 25, 1977

Pursuant to an earlier phone contact, I interviewed Mr. Glynn on his job at 4301 Suitland Road, Suitland, Maryland, at 2:35 p.m. Friday, April 22, 1977. Subject is employed as an Intelligence Analyst by NOSIC (Naval Oceanic Surveillance Information Center), 763-2258, and resides at 107 Howard Street, Dumfries, Virginia, 221-8748.

He was serving with the U.S. Army on 11-22-63, assigned to Fort Wolters (Fort Walters), Mineral Wells, Texas, as a radio technician and as such regularly monitored messages between Mexico and Cuba. As a result, he overheard comments in the sphere which were adverse to the newly assassinated President and were upsetting to him. Although he doesn't recall the exact dialogue, the gist concerned the humor found by the Cubans and Mexicans appraising this murder as being done by his own people and yet suspecting foreigners like themselves.

Consequently, it has occurred to Glynn that we may benefit by causing a thorough check to be made of the ASA (Army Security Agency), who Glynn believes recorded all such messages usually in tape form and stored same. He also prepared a dossier, of which he gave me the original and one copy.

He goes on to say their mission at Fort Wolters (Fort Walters) was labeled a training mission and, as such, was comprehensive enough to encompass the recording of all such collateral messages. Additionally, he recalls the Mexican sending station used the name of “Chihuahua.”

JM/rlm
