Did anyway. I let it go at that to see the developments, as it were no use to refute him again. However, when we parted, I did mention to him again that he should not do so at random, as I did not think it necessary nor what we had agreed upon. Dr. F'dez. did say so as he introduced us to Despain as his Jefe (chief) and wanted to show him loyalty, at the same time explaining to him that he was cooperating with us in all ways possible against Castro and Communism, which plainly showed that Despain didn't like at all. Despain sat silent, no questions asked, hard, eyeing us as if waiting to see how far the FBI had gotten into matters of the Frente. I did not ask the Dr. the questions I wanted to and only said that I would like to be in touch with him at all times. Enclosed you will find photostatic copies of letters sent by Cubans here to Prague and the answers to same. He told me to ask him how he got this information. I did not feel that I should have done so at the moment. However, I will be in touch with Dr. F'dez. again soon, as I said I would. I will not go to the one of this Intell. again, as I was almost seen by a Frank Paez, Pepe Aguero's friend. Pepe Aguero is Paula Grau's husband, now here. I turned my head away, I think, in time. Dr. Fdez. says that he has more information to give me and that loads of stuff reaches him daily, all of which he can turn over to me for study. He said that he will get for me CIA files that the Frente has hidden and wants to work with him. I feel, if Despain is out of the way, I could do much to get what is needed of them. I do not feel safe with him around. I may be wrong, but that is the way I feel about security with him. I promised to return the enclosed photostatic copies but feel that some of the files can be taken over for copying for the asking, as Dr. F'dez. said he would cooperate to the fullest.

Dr. Jose Julio Fernandez: Office (9 to 11 A.M.): FR-1-5133. Home (from 8 P.M. to 8 A.M.): III-4-1853. Frente (from 11:30 A.M. to 1 P.M.): FR-4-2630-38-39.

He holds a Frente Carnet No. 102, Frente Revolucionario Democratico (F.R.D.), Delegacion de: El Salvador (Rescate), and receives $200.00 monthly as a salary from the Frente.
