Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 007894.

Section A: General.

Name (First, Middle, Last). Date of birth (Milestones). Sex: Male. Grade: OS-14. SO D. Official position title: Ops Officer. Off/Div/DR of assignment: DDP VII. 2. Current station: Buenos Aires.

Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Annual. Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: 5 June 1962 - 31 March 1963.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W - Work. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Maintains contact with the Chief and other key officers of the Psychological Action Department of the principal Argentine intelligence service. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Case officer for an important and large CA project run in conjunction with the local service. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 3: Case officer for two unilateral CA projects, one in the propaganda field and the other political action with important FI overtones. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Case officer for two American staff agents in the CA field. This involves four formal projects and important developmental work. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 5: Assists the Station CA officer in over-all and tactical planning.

Specific duty No. 6.
