Activities, July 1959–January 1974

World Youth Festival, Vienna 1959

Shortly after Wiley signed his contract with this Agency, he became involved in the World Youth Festival (WYF) held in Vienna during July 1959.

A memo dated 19 February 1959 to the Acting Chief, SRS, from Helene Finan (SRS) reports on a meeting between Finan and Wiley at which Wiley furnished information relative to the forthcoming WYF to be held in Europe in mid-summer 1959. According to this memo and an accompanying one, Wiley said that Herb Romerstein (ex-Communist and HCUA employee), with the aid of Alfred Kohlberg (NYC importer and long-time anti-Communist activist) and Colonel Archibald Roosevelt, had a project extant to send a delegation of 10 or more people to the WYF in Vienna in July, along with the left-wing American delegation. Romerstein, who was running the “show” for us (Finan’s words), had asked Wiley to help, and Wiley would, but not in an overt manner. Wiley told Romerstein the project was his and Wiley should not be given any prominence. Wiley and his wife would sign up the following week. Don Sweeny (sic) of the American Legion and several individuals from various state police would also be among the group aware of the project. The group, probably no more than 10 in all, would attempt subtle propaganda, sit singly throughout the hall, and interject controversial or embarrassing topics into discussions. Wiley would play the role of the typical American with his ever-ready camera. Wiley would also work on behalf of the I&NS in gathering names and pictures.

Helene Finan reported on 12 March 1959 to the AC/SRS that Wiley would attend the WYF in Vienna in summer of 1959 for us (SRS). A 17 March 1959 memo states Wiley would leave New York with the delegation on 20 June 1959. After the Festival, the group, less Katina Wiley, planned to spend three weeks in the USSR as members of the U.S. delegation to the Festival. Wiley later changed his plans to include a visit to Europe and the Middle East before, and to Europe and England after, the Vienna and USSR phases of the trip.
