The “Sample Security Regulations” prepared by the Department contains information regarding the manner in which hearings are to be conducted by the Security Hearing Boards under Executive Order 10450. These regulations, however, do not state whether these hearings are to be opened or closed to the public. For your information, the Loyalty Review Board, in connection with hearings held under Executive Order 9035, issued a directive to all departments and agencies advising that such hearings should be in private and attendance limited to representatives of the agency who are directly connected with the adjudication of the case, representatives of the Loyalty Review Board, and the employee or applicant concerned, his counsel or representative, and the witness who is testifying. You may wish to issue appropriate advice to all departments and agencies regarding who shall be permitted to be present during hearings held under Executive Order 10450.

It is also noted that the “Sample Security Regulations” state that the employee shall be permitted to cross-examine any witness offered in support of the charges against him. This raises the question as to whether Security Hearing Boards may be allowed, upon the request of a witness, to hear such witnesses in the presence of the employee or his counsel. In connection with this problem under Executive Order 9035, the Loyalty Review Board issued a directive to all executive departments and agencies permitting loyalty hearing boards to hear witnesses in the absence of the employee and his counsel if the investigation so requested. In this regard, this document under Executive Order 9035, at the request of Mr. Arthur Inman, Chairman of the Loyalty Review Board, indicates that individuals who permit their names to be used, who give recommendations or information adverse to the employee, and who do not explicitly indicate an unwillingness to testify, should be asked their desires regarding the following questions:

1. Whether they will testify before a loyalty hearing board in the presence of the individual under investigation and his counsel, which would subject them to cross-examination;

2. If not, whether they will testify before a loyalty hearing board not in the presence of the individual under investigation and his counsel.
