M. A. Jones to Bishop

Re: Luncheon with Attorney General

At the present time the Bureau has the following electronic surveillances in operation: (1) In Bureau cases, 31 telephone surveillances; (2) At the request of State Department, 19 telephone surveillances; (3) At the request of NSA, 39 teletype surveillances.

As of this date, there are four telephone surveillances pending approval by the Attorney General with subjects and dates of request to the Attorney General as follows: Ralph Alan Dale, since 3-27-67; Charles Morris, since 7-25-67; Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, since 8-2-67; Frederick Douglas Andrews, since 8-14-67. In addition, we have a request for FBI assistance on behalf of the NSA pending with the Attorney General since 6-16-67.

H. R. 421, Interstate Travel to Incite Riots:

This bill was passed by the House on 7-19-67. It provides for Federal prosecution of persons who travel interstate with the intent to incite a riot. Its practical and legal usefulness has been questioned by a number of people, including many Senators, due to the extreme difficulty in obtaining evidence to prove intent. Our Hill sources have advised there was a hope the Bill could be bottled up in committee unless it could be changed to make it more practical. These sources concede the Bill will pass the Senate without difficulty if it reaches the floor because many Senators would consider it politically unwise to vote against it. We took no stand on the Bill with the Department, but did cite examples of interstate travel by militant Negroes and hate group leaders to areas where strife developed. The Bill, if passed, could substantially increase our investigative responsibilities, depending, of course, on the policy established by the Department.

H. R. 5037, Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Assistance Act of 1967:

This is the Administration's bill, originally called the Safe Streets and Crime Control Act, although it has been changed considerably by Republican-sponsored amendments made when the House passed the bill on 8-8-67. One of these amendments by Congressman Robert McClory (R.-Ill.) which changed Title 3 of the Bill, would empower the regional institutes to engage in police training. This would duplicate and compete with the extensive police training program we conduct on our own and in cooperation with local and state agencies. This has been brought to the attention of our friends on the Senate Judiciary Committee. Many of them have voiced agreement and stated they will take the necessary action to correct this wrong. Our Hill
