Central Intelligence Agency.

Country: British Guiana/Cuba. Report No. OO-B-3,247,344. Subject: Jagan's Political-Economic Viewpoints/Expropriation of Foreign Properties Linked to Foreign Aid/Futility of Jagan's 5-Year Plan/Peoples Progressive Party Infiltration of United Front/Arms Smuggling from Cuba/Filariasis Disease Common in Guiana Back Country. Date of info: Thru Oct 62. Place and date acquired: British Guiana/Thru Oct 62.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: US national, executive in a US aluminum company.

Source has frequently traveled to and within British Guiana in connection with geological surveys for his company. He has known Jagan for about nine years, and on his latest trip had several conversations with Jagan.

1. On the basis of many conversations with Cheddi Jagan (mostly concerning possible investments by my company in British Guiana), I am convinced that he is not a Communist. In fact, Jagan does not know what he is. He is simply looking for anything new that will help to pull up his people quickly. In this context he sees Soviet and Chinese Communism as the two principal Twentieth Century economic experiments—and as economic experiments he is willing to try them.

2. In talking with me, Jagan has made clear that he is not a “Castro Type.” He wants help from anybody. The one thing that might in the future seriously hinder his getting economic aid from the USSR is that he demands that aid be without strings.

3. Both Jagan and his Trade Minister, Frank Hubbard, have told me that Jagan would hesitate to do anything (such as confiscating foreign properties in an attempt to increase revenues) which would offend the US or the UN for fear of ruining any future chances of obtaining US or UN aid. Jagan is of course quite conscious that he is still under the UK and that it is therefore unconstitutional for him to expropriate anything. After British Guiana achieves independence, I am confident Jagan would not expropriate anything if he is getting aid from the US or the UN—that is, until the money is spent. If at any point (after independence) Jagan is receiving no such aid and has no prospects of receiving such aid, then anything could happen. I would, however, temper this somewhat depressing estimate of Jagan by commenting that in 1953 when he entered office, he was something of a wild-eyed fanatic without direction. Since then he has matured considerably.

4. The PPP capability for increasing the industrial wealth of British Guiana is hopeless. Jagan indiscriminately wants all kinds of factories. His “Five Year Plan” is no plan at all. In his eagerness to do something for British Guiana, Jagan thinks he ought to build any kind of factory that the country does not have. Whenever he thinks of something, he just tells a subordinate to add it to the Plan. But there is no one in the Jagan government who has done or can do the marketing research, etc., which is necessary for any such investment.
