United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: Legal Counsel

Subject: SENSTUDY 75

Date: 12/3/75

John T. Elliff, Domestic Task Force Director of the Senate Select Committee, advised at 9:15 a.m. on 12/3/75 that the following is a statement to be read by Senator Frank Church of that Committee on 12/3/75.

Attorney General Kennedy authorized wiretaps in 1962 on New York Times reporter Hanson Baldwin and his secretary, and that lasted for about one month. In addition to the wiretap on New York Times reporter Hanson Baldwin in 1962, the Committee has received materials from the FBI reflecting authorization by Attorney General Kennedy of a wiretap on a reporter for Newsweek Magazine in 1961 during the investigation of another leak of classified information. Further materials reflected authorization by Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach for a wiretap on the editor of an anti-Communist newsletter in 1965, also during the investigation of a leak of classified information. The Committee has received materials from the FBI reflecting authorization by Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy of wiretaps on at least six American citizens, including three Executive Branch officials, a Congressional Staff Member, and two registered lobbying agents for foreign interests. The materials also reflect that these wiretaps relate to an investigation of agents by foreign interests to influence United States economic policies.

Elliff was advised by SA Paul V. Daly of this Division that an impression would be created by the aforementioned statement that this Bureau may have conducted electronic surveillance on Capitol Hill and that this, of course, was inaccurate. The electronic surveillance concerning the Congressional Staff Member was not located on Congressional property. Elliff agreed with this observation and indicated that he would check the material to ensure the electronic surveillance in question was not on Congressional property and, as agreed, make a change in the aforementioned statement.

Recommendation: For information.

PVD:lad (AD)
