Considerations affecting national defense in Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico require broadest possible construction of requirements for dissemination to intelligence services in those areas. See MRR, Part II, Section 5, pertaining to Bureau's overall responsibilities and policies in dissemination.

a. Members of armed forces

Delimitations Agreement between FBI and armed forces intelligence agencies (see Section 102B, Volume IV, of this manual) requires each agency to exchange freely and directly with other subscribing agencies all information of mutual interest. Any information developed concerning members of military services must be referred immediately to appropriate military branch having primary responsibility, even though allegations have not been fully resolved or verified. Specifically point out in such instances that information has not been verified. If it is determined subject is member of armed services, discontinue investigation immediately, advise Bureau, and disseminate pertinent reports locally to appropriate intelligence agency. Dissemination regarding military personnel is not confined to subjects of security investigations but extends to any subversive data developed against member of armed services during FBI investigations. If member of armed forces has been in contact with security subject or any individual or group with security implications, immediately advise appropriate local intelligence service, even though security aspects of contact have not been resolved. Point out in such instances that information is unverified and transmit any additional developments immediately.

Determine during security investigations whether subjects have any close relatives in armed forces. Promptly call such associations to attention of appropriate military intelligence services, together with pertinent data, including reports, on subjects involved. Evaluation of these associations lies entirely within province of military intelligence services, but Bureau must disseminate this information immediately upon receipt. Advise Bureau by letter concerning any subversive contacts or information developed concerning military personnel, including statement as to local dissemination and enclosing LHM setting out subversive data.

b. Aliens and naturalized citizens

Furnish information which might have bearing on their deportation or denaturalization to Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS). If in doubt, disseminate.

c. Employees of or persons having regular access to key facilities or employees of plants having contracts with military services

See instructions in this section concerning individuals employed in or having access to key facilities.

d. Employees of public utilities (including state and municipal facilities) which are not on key facilities list or otherwise in manufacture of materials vital to national defense

Disseminate locally to Army and other intelligence services if their interest is apparent.

e. Individuals on inactive duty who are members of or hold commissions in reserve branches or National Guard

Disseminate locally to appropriate military intelligence service.

f. Seamen and subjects employed in maritime industry, including longshoremen and waterfront employees

Disseminate locally to Coast Guard and, when circumstances dictate, to other interested intelligence agencies, including NISO.

g. Employees of Federal Government within purview of Executive Order 10450

No dissemination of reports in security of Government employees cases may be made in field. If, however, subject is employed in key facility,
