MHFNO: 93-3747541

SENSIND: RYBAT

Difference in rank or duties. DAGGERS commented that they found it strange that another former Russian Embassy official (a hard-liner) had returned to a former post so soon after leaving, and with no apparent change in duties nor increase in rank.

DAGGERS have not seen ((ZHILTSOV)) at the Russian Embassy since he left on home leave.

D. Operational:

1. Collected photos and KDPEEK in-out comments.

2. Issued DAGGERS a box containing an unassembled CD for KDPEEK.

3. Paid D/2 the August 93 salaries for KDHUSTLE/18 (H/18) and KDHUSTLE/31 (H/31).

4. D/2 advised he had questioned H/18 and H/31 (H31) regarding the CISN's decision to no longer provide KDPEEK with the negatives taken from the operation. D/2 stated the HUSTLES had informed him of this action by the CISN about two weeks ago. The HUSTLES, at D/2's direction, made subtle inquiries at CISN headquarters regarding the reason for CISN's action, but were unable to learn the reason, only that it had been a decision made by the Department of Video and Photography at CISN headquarters. The HUSTLES, however, identified their immediate supervisor as Licenciada Angelica Carbajal, the area director as Wilfredo Robledo, and Robledo's assistant as Ingeniero (FNU) Figueroa. The HUSTLES do not believe any of these individuals were informed of the decision by the Department of Video and Photography.

5. C/O advised DAGGERS to be on the lookout for possible pretext knocks at KDPEEK's door, this due to the recently released report on the JFK assassination, which included information on photos taken of an individual at the Russian Embassy. DAGGERS agreed that if such pretext calls at the KDPEEK door occur, D/11 will, if necessary, answer the door, appearing as a housewife.

6. C/O will be out of town 8 August through 10 August 93. Arrangements were made to have the next scheduled meeting on 16 September 93, since it is a Mexican holiday and a day off for both C/O and the DAGGERS, and since traffic, both human and vehicular, will be down considerably.

F. Plans: C/O will make appropriate inquiries of Liaison Branch regarding what may have caused CISN headquarters to decide to no longer provide Station with KDPEEK photo negatives, since the whole affair may stem from a misunderstanding, rather than from a deliberate decision by someone at CISN headquarters to change the rules of the agreement between Station and CISN headquarters.
