United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. E. S. Miller

From: T. J. Smith

Date: 11/17/71

Subject: Demonstrations, Washington, D. C., and San Francisco, California, November 20, 1971, sponsored by the Women's National Abortion Action Coalition.

This memorandum advises of demonstrations being scheduled in Washington, D. C., and San Francisco, California, on 11/20/71 to build public support for the repeal of antiabortion laws.

The Women's National Abortion Action Coalition was formed at a conference held at Columbia University, New York City, in July, 1971, which was attended by approximately 1,000 women from 29 states. The conference voted to make a woman's right to abortion a national and political issue. Subsequent to its formation, the coalition called for demonstrations in San Francisco and Washington on 11/20/71 to build public support for the repeal of all antiabortion laws, to protest forced sterilization, and to call for an end to restrictive contraceptive laws. A source of the Washington Field Office has advised that the march in Washington is supported by the Young Socialist Alliance, the youth group of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP). Carol Lipman, who is a member of the SWP, is Project Director of the Washington march.

Coalition leaders in requesting a permit for the demonstration have estimated that participation in the Washington march will range between 10,000 and 20,000 persons. The Washington Field Office has developed information that 46 buses have been chartered to bring participants to the demonstration. Participants will represent some 80 cities. The Metropolitan Police Department anticipates participation will be in the vicinity of 5,000 persons.

Demonstrators are scheduled to assemble at the Ellipse between 10 a.m. and 12 noon and will march via 17th Street to H Street, down H Street to 15th Street, down 15th Street to Pennsylvania Avenue, and then east on Pennsylvania Avenue to the west steps of the Capitol. A rally will be held at the latter site between 2 and 6 p.m.

RHH:ekn
