Subversive Activities on College Campuses

The field of education has long been a major target of the Communist Party. The communists' emphasis on students in the recent past was best expressed by the Party's General Secretary, Gus Hall, when he stated, "Communism is big, really big, on college campuses now. You've got to play the ball game where the players are and the really good players are in college." Today there is considerable unrest and agitation on college campuses throughout the Nation. Subversive agitators constitute the major source behind this unrest and, from a long-range viewpoint, these campus subversives may well become seriously damaging to our national security. In light of this, the FBI will continue to carry out its defined responsibilities, whether they be on the college campus or elsewhere, while at the same time respect the spirit of academic freedom on which our college system is based.

The two major student and campus groups in the United States today are the communist-inspired W. E. B. DuBois Clubs of America, with an approximate membership of 425 members, and the Students for a Democratic Society, with approximately 5,000 members. The Students for a Democratic Society has been described by Gus Hall as a new left group which the Party has "going for us."

Today there is a concerted effort on the part of student groups to "knock" the FBI and other Government agencies off the college campuses and to prevent such agencies from carrying out their assigned duties. For example, in early March 1967, a handful of Students for a Democratic Society members at Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, alleged that the FBI in conducting investigations on that campus was infringing on academic freedom by securing information from responsible campus officials and students. While we have interviewed officials and students at the University in matters within our jurisdiction, the charges that the FBI was infringing on academic freedom were baseless.

Another example involves allegations made by a group of "liberal" faculty members at State University College, Brockport, New York. This group alleged that the FBI was having faculty members "spy" on other faculty members, again raising the cry of infringement of academic freedom. These charges also were baseless and without foundation.
