CIA, Mobsters Linked to Cuba Raid Plans

Newspaper Names 4 Mafia Figures

SACRAMENTO (AP) — The Central Intelligence Agency relied on four underworld mobsters for intelligence used in planning the ill-fated 1961 Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba, the Sacramento Bee said today.

The CIA's underworld informants, all former Havana casino bosses, had buried $750,000 in Cuba when they fled Fidel Castro. Therefore they had a stake in encouraging the United States to undertake the invasion to overthrow Castro, the Bee reported.

"The information they supplied to the CIA supposedly pinpointed troop and naval vessel positions," Bee investigative reporter Denny Walsh wrote in the Sunday edition.

"More importantly, perhaps, the mobsters also reported that many of the people of Havana were unsympathetic to Castro and would almost certainly rise up in support of a counter-revolutionary force once it had established a beachhead," Walsh continued.

In exchange for their help, the hoodlums had been promised they would be allowed to recover their buried cache undisturbed, Walsh said.

He said the hoodlums and their copy boat, with one CIA man aboard, standing off the Cuban shore when the Bay of Pigs invasion started, was

when it became obvious that the invasion of 1,400 exiles was a failure, the mobster boat returned to Florida.

Walsh identified the source of his information as a former employe of the CIA. He did not identify the employe in the story, which carried a Las Vegas, Nev., dateline.

He quoted Lawrence R. Houston, described as the CIA official receiving the underworld information, as declining to confirm or deny the accounts.

The Bee reported that Houston, retired general counsel of the CIA, said of the story:

"I do not recollect such a thing, but that doesn't mean it didn't happen. I won't deny it, but I don't remember anything like that. My testimony is probably not enough as a witness. When you reflect on it, it is not an implausible situation, is it?"

It said one is Russell Bufano, no. 71, described as a still active two northeastern Pennsylvania state
