Fitness Report. Employer Serial Number: 017974.

Section A—General.

1. Name: Fox, Jerome (mm). Date of birth: 9 Oct. 1925 M. Grade: GS-13 D. Official position title: Ogs. Officer. Current station: DDP/FZ PMI Manila.

Type of appointment: Career Reserve; Annual Reassignment Supervisor; Reassignment Employee.

Date report due in O.P.: 28 February 1971. Rating period: 1 May 1970 to 31 December 1970.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory. Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal. Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient. Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in accordance with the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Station Communist Movement (CA) officer responsible for functional coordination of overall program, including program guidance, analysis and research, and maintenance of central subject files pertinent to program targets (1 May–10 August 1970). Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Serve as the Station Referent for Communist Matters (August–30 December 1970). Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Spot, develop, assign, and recruit agents to obtain intelligence from the decision-making level of the communist parties, particularly the Maoists, and their main front organizations. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 4: Handle on-going cases: tighten operational
