Section C. Narrative Comments. 1 April, 10 a.m., 1965.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper performance their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Kent has sustained the same high degree of competence, imagination and conscientious application to his duties noted in the last fitness report. He is unusually well qualified for his present job by reason of experience, knowledge and sensitivity to the Latin American culture and mentality. Although he is a person of strong convictions, not always tactfully expressed, it is to his credit that he has adapted to the role of a staff officer with admirable self-restraint and self-discipline.

Were it not for the fact that Mr. Kent cannot accept a permanent overseas assignment at this time for family medical reasons, he should now be considered for assignment to a senior position at a country desk preparatory to a Field Station assignment. Under these circumstances, Mr. Kent is making a valuable, perhaps even indispensable, contribution to the covert action mission of WHD and should remain in his present position for the immediate future.

No further training is recommended at this time. He completed the Midcareer Executive Development Course No. 4 during the reporting period.

Mr. Kent has no supervisory functions in his present position, but he appears to be capable of performing such duties. His security record is excellent and his cost consciousness is good.

Certification and Comments by Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 31 March 1965. Signature of employee: William M. Kent.

By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 8 mos.

Date: 3-31-65. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/PO/B. Typed or printed name and signature: Seymour R. Bolten.

By reviewing official.

Comments of reviewing official: I agree with the rating of Mr. Kent. He has been energetic, imaginative and professional in his work. The only thing that I can add to the assessment is that Mr. Kent speaks excellent Spanish which has been an essential ingredient in his critical abilities in the handling of media operations for Latin America.

Date: 31 March 1965. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, WHD. Typed or printed name and signature: R. W. Herbert.
