American Community Service in Memory of

The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King

Pastor – Civil Rights Leader – Holder of the Nobel Peace Prize

8 April 1968

The Call to Worship – The Rev. Robert A. Spencer – American Church  
Prayer of Invocation  
The Lord’s Prayer

Hymn No. 429, “For All the Saints” (verses 1–5), Sino Nomine

Proclamation of the President of the United States

The Hon. Woodruff Wallner, Chargé d’Affaire – U.S. Embassy

Old Testament Lessons – Canon James McNamee – American Cathedral  
Psalm 90  
Daniel 3:16–25

Prayers – Dean Sturgis Riddle – American Cathedral

Messages from the French Churches

The Rev. Dr. Charles Westphal – Federation Protestante de France  
Mgr. Julien Gouet – Roman Catholic Diocese of Paris  
Pastor Henri Vincent – Eglise Baptiste de France

New Testament Lessons – The Rev. Dr. Clayton E. Williams, Pastor Emeritus – American Church  
Romans 8:31–39  
Matthew 10:24–39

Anthem – The Choir

“Psalms of Penitence” from King David by Arthur Honegger

Mercy on me, O Lord; pity, according to thy great compassion. Wipe away my transgression; cleanse me unto the depth of my iniquity. In sin was I conceived. In evil was I born. And thou wouldst have a pure soul? I have sinned. Thou hast taught me thy wisdom, and I have failed in my weakness. Mercy on me, O Lord.

Tribute to Dr. King – Mrs. Carline Polite – American Author

From an Address by Dr. King – Washington, D.C., Aug. 28, 1963  
Read by Mr. Neville Aurelius – Actor

Prayers – The Rev. Martin v.B. Sargent – American Church

Hymn – “We Shall Overcome,” Negro Spiritual

We shall overcome, we shall overcome,  
We shall overcome some day.  
Oh, deep in my heart I do believe  
That we shall overcome someday.

We shall live in peace, we shall live in peace,  
We shall live in peace some day.  
Oh, deep in my heart I do believe  
That we shall live in peace some day.

We shall brothers be, we shall brothers be,  
We shall brothers be some day.  
Oh, deep in my heart I do believe  
That we shall brothers be some day.

Recessional – The 23rd Psalm

A book of condolences is in the chapel to your right for those who wish to sign it.
