U. S. Senate Committee on Intelligence Activities

Re: Interview of former Assistant to the Director John F. Kohr by Geo Graff Harris

Mr. Kohr also recalled that during his interview of May 9, 1975, he had advised Miss Gentry that the official and confidential files of Mr. Mark Pelt (Felt) of the FBI were turned over to Mr. Mark Pelt (Felt) by Mr. Gittenstein, which amounted to one-half a file drawer.

Subsequently, Mr. Kohr learned from Miss Gentry that the official and confidential files turned over to Mr. Pelt (Felt) amounted to one and one-half file drawers. This information was subsequently furnished to Mr. Gittenstein by Mr. Kohr. On that occasion, Mr. Gittenstein asked Mr. Kohr whether an itemized list of the official and confidential files was made and, if so, where the list was. Kohr told Gittenstein that he was sure a list was made and that in all probability the list accompanied the official and confidential files turned over to Mr. Pelt (Felt) by Miss Gentry (Genty).

In addition to the above, Mr. Kohr on May 12, 1975, recalled that Gittenstein asked about a requirement of all Bureau employees to turn over any confidential files in their possession ordered by Mr. Hoover following the revelation that former Assistant to the Director William C. Sullivan had turned over certain confidential files to former Assistant Attorney General Hardin. Mr. Kohr advised Gittenstein that Mr. Hoover had in fact levied such a requirement on Bureau officials and that all confidential files were to be turned over to Mr. Pelt (Felt), along with a memorandum explaining the nature of these files. Gittenstein asked Kohr where those memoranda would be filed. Kohr responded by saying he presumed (pressured) they were confidential memoranda and would have gone with the confidential files turned over to Mr. Pelt (Felt) by Bureau officials maintaining such files.

Note: The original and one copy of this LHM is being furnished to the Attorney General. The copy is to be forwarded by the Attorney General to Mr. James A. Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President. The information herein was taken from two memoranda, Cregar to Vannall, dated 5/9 and 12/75, entitled “Senstudy 75.”
