National Committee to Combat Fascism  
Ministry of Information  
611 Continental  
Detroit, Mich.

Open Letter to the Community

The National Committee to Combat Fascism is an organizing bureau of the Black Panther Party. This means that we will be implementing and organizing the various socialistic programs for the people in the community as established by the Black Panther Party.

The free breakfast program, which is soon to be started, will feed the youths in the Black community a good, wholesome meal. We recognize a child cannot study, learn, or concentrate as well on an empty stomach as he can after having eaten a healthy meal. Capitalism, the way of all people, has caused many Black families to have to send their children to school in the morning without food. But through our program, this problem will be eliminated.

The free medical health care clinic will supply the people with much-needed free health care. Time and again, Black people have died from lack of medical treatment because they didn't have the money to pay doctors. We must suffer for hours in crowded doctors' offices to receive medical treatment, which is similar to being treated like a piece of machinery on a factory assembly line. Our free medical clinic will give treatment and medicine to the people through the services of qualified, licensed doctors and nurses.

We, too, realize that dope addiction is a very pressing problem in the Black community. It is literally assisting the enemies of Black people in their plans of extermination of our race. Our young brothers and sisters, and sons and daughters, are losing their lives constantly because of an overdose of some poison drug. The Black Panther Party and its organization, the N.C.C.F., has stood forth boldly and condemned those upon whom blame should really rest. It is the greedy, avaricious businessmen and the crooked, bribe-taking pig policemen who are letting and promoting the entrance of heroin and cocaine into the Black community. And now they are trying to cover up for it with a program that gets the addicts strung on methadone, a drug similar to heroin. We now have a program which will end this problem once and for all.

We also have a free clothing program which will meet the clothing needs of the people through the donations we receive, and are working urgently toward opening a free shoe factory, a free people's library, and a no-interest loan program.

We have just recently opened a new office in your community at 2009 East. The office hours are from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. You are welcome to come through any day.

All Power to the People
