28 January 1963

Memorandum for Reference

Subject: Cuba

The Executive Committee met on Friday, January 25th, and approved the new policy as outlined by the Coordinator.

Decisions bearing on covert operations were reached as follows:

1. The Special Group will have the responsibility of continuing review of the program for infiltration of covert intelligence agents. Progress will be regularly checked with the Group. Higher authority made a particular point of saying that, although the objective of “intensified covert collection” is approved, nonetheless, CIA should not feel it is under pressure to “get good men killed” in the process. In other words, the advantages to be gained from intensified collection must be continually weighed against the risks. This will be done by the Special Group.

2. The Attorney General expressed great interest in the extent to which key members of the Brigade will be brought into planning and current operations. He thought that they should be thoroughly consulted on plans for intelligence teams and he indicated that he will personally keep an eye on progress in this regard.

3. The use of propaganda balloons was disapproved at this time. It apparently was not clear as to exactly how far CIA should go in maintaining its current capability for launching balloons.

At Mr. Bundy’s suggestion I had a long talk with Cottrell on Saturday, the 26th. We discussed in particular the method of operation with the Brigade. I pointed out some of the security aspects that would have to be watched, but expressed the opinion that a workable method of operation could be devised so that the Brigade leaders could provide motivation and could feel a sense of participation, without having to bring them so closely into the details of target areas, dispatch, commo, etc., as to constitute a security hazard. I cited the Agency’s experience with the NTB as a possible guideline in this regard. We agreed that after Mr. FitzGerald returns from Panama, about the first of February, the three of us should discuss this matter further.

TAP
