Date of transcription: 8/13/74.

William Junior Stafford, residing at 1103 Claridge Lane, Lexington, Kentucky, and known to interviewing agents as Jay Stafford, furnished the following information.

Stafford advised that an individual known to him as Hinden appeared at Stafford Lock Shop, Lexington, Kentucky, in the fall of 1973 and at that time involved Jay and his brother Larry Stevensy Stafford in a conversation concerning the Staffords’ knowledge of lockpicking. His ability to pick locks and their attitudes considerably involved in such activities which might require the unauthorized picking or opening of locks. Stafford advised that neither he nor his brother expressed any interest in Hinden’s suggestions, and Hinden left the Stafford Lock Shop and was not seen again until his appearance at the Stafford Lock Shop on or about Monday, July 22, 1974.

Jay Stafford advised that on or about Saturday, July 20, 1974, an article appeared on the front page of the Richmond, Kentucky, newspaper, and this article referred to the fact that Jay and his brother, Larry, had been involved in a burglary in Frankfort, Kentucky, on the evening of July 5, 1974. On this appearance by Brown at the Stafford Lock Shop on July 22, 1974, Brown disclosed that he had read this article concerning Jay and his brother Larry and advised that he felt like the Staffords were his kind of people. Brown suggested that the Stafford brothers might need some help in getting out of this mess and that if they were willing to “go to broke,” he would disclose to them a scheme to be concluded, wherein the Staffords’ participation might mean their influence and friends who could help the Staffords with the revolution of their problem. Brown then advised the Staffords that if they were interested in this scheme, they should contact him at his residence at 101 Cherry Street, Berea, Kentucky.

Interviewed on 8/9/74 in Lexington, Kentucky. File No. LS 185-6.

By SA John W. Gill. Date dictated: 2/12/74.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.
