SF 100-46832

Massive documentation for his article in “Ramparts” regarding Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) contributions to the National Student Association, a United States affiliate of IUS. Scheer’s trip from West Germany to Czechoslovakia was financed by the Czechoslovakian Government, and Wlodzimierz (Wlodomierz) Konarski, Vice President of IUS, was in charge of this visit.

Scheer had a wide range of interviews with IUS executives and was provided with some internal IUS documents. While in Prague, Scheer wrote an article based on material which he obtained while in Europe, and this article was later published in “Rude Pravo,” datelined New York.

SF T-73

August 1, 1967.

The “California Jewish Record” newspaper, an English-language weekly newspaper published at Oakland, California, in its issue of September 1, 1967, contained an editorial captioned, “Is Bob Scheer An Anti-Semite?” This editorial described Scheer as Managing Editor of “Ramparts” magazine and an unsuccessful candidate in the primary election of 1966.

The editorial stated Scheer had recently returned from a trip to Cairo and Israel and then spoke at a meeting in Berkeley, California, August 25, 1967, when he told his audience about his trip. In his speech, Scheer claimed he had been accused of being an anti-Semite and an anti-Arab because of what he said on the matter of Arab-Israel relations. The editorial said that Scheer referred constantly to the people of Israel and the American Jews as the “Zionists” and used this term constantly when criticizing actions of the Israelis.

The editorial continued by stating that Scheer accused the Zionists of being imperialistic, of being excessively hard on the poor Arabs they defeated, of provoking the war—in short, of doing everything the Arabs and the Soviets accused them of—and Scheer attributed these lies to Israel’s subservience to the United States. In his speech, Scheer was further accused of using the term “American Grand Concourse Zionists,” the “Anti-Semites’ favorite euphemism for Jew.”
