World Youth Festival, Algiers—1965

The 9th Communist-sponsored WYF, after early speculation as to the probable site at which it would be held, was finally announced for Algeria from 27 July to 6 August 1965. This WYF, however, was cancelled in late June 1965 despite the advance planning and arrangements that had gone into it.

An August 13, 1964, memo from Morse Allen to C/SRS, subject: 9th WYF, concerns what, if anything, SRS and/or Wiley might do regarding the probable holding of a 9th WYF during the summer of 1965. Wiley had several weeks earlier reminded Allen that he, Wiley, had attended the last one at Helsinki and had been active in the “disruption of that festival.” Wiley wanted to know if SRS had any planned operations in connection with the 9th or had SRS given any thought to setting up some plans. He pointed out that it would take considerable time to execute plans for another penetration effort. Allen told Wiley that Wiley was too old and too well known to spearhead any U.S. activities in that direction. Allen said Wiley could, however, organize and direct it, possibly from without the area, if it were decided for SRS to take part. Wiley indicated that he would be perfectly willing to commence working on it and to direct the operations from behind the scenes. Allen asked Wiley to write up and submit a proposal regarding the matter if he had a chance. Allen suggested to C/SRS that the matter of penetration and a disruptive effort in connection with the 9th WYF be given consideration in the near future.

An October 1, 1964, memo for the record by Morse Allen records an interview he had with Wiley on 30 September 1964. One long paragraph titled “Communist Youth Festival, Algiers, July 1965” notes that Wiley had spearheaded anti-Communist attacks on Youth Festivals in Vienna and Helsinki previously, had disrupted their programs, and had to a considerable extent interfered with their propaganda at these festivals. Because of this, Wiley was interested once again in divisive and disruptive efforts against the Communists in Algiers in 1965. This time Wiley states.
