(10) Submit semiannual letters March 1 and September 1 under caption “Communist Infiltration of Mass Organizations,” Bufile 100-3-106. Set forth desired data utilizing the following topical outline and headings:

(a) I. Data concerning Communist Party program

Set forth details of data received concerning the Communist Party’s program, both nationally and locally, to infiltrate mass organizations; steps taken to carry out the program; and the success being achieved by the Party.

(b) II. Organizations concerning which data previously submitted

List names and Bureau file numbers, if known, of those organizations concerning which data has been furnished to the Bureau since submission of the previous semiannual letter.

(c) III. Organizations concerning which data being submitted by instant letter

List the names and Bureau file numbers, if known, of those organizations concerning which data is being submitted with the semiannual letter for the first time.

Submit data as an enclosure to the letter. Utilize the five-point outline set forth under item (4) above. Submit a separate enclosure on each organization listed in this category. Furnish two copies of each enclosure and sufficient copies of the cover letter in order that a copy of the semiannual letter and enclosure can be placed in the Bureau file on the organization. This will eliminate the necessity of submitting a summary letter under each individual case caption. Do not use T symbols in the enclosure, but set out the identity of sources.

(f) Members of law enforcement agencies are not to accompany Bureau Agents during the course of security-type investigations without prior Bureau authority.

(g) Photographic surveillances

(1) No photographic surveillances are to be conducted in Communist front organization cases unless it is essential to protect the Bureau’s interests in the internal security field by supplementing live informant coverage of a particular meeting with such a surveillance.

(2) Request Bureau authority to institute such a surveillance and outline the manner in which it will be conducted and the supervision that will be afforded it.

(3) No such surveillances should be instituted without specific Bureau authority.
