Name: Moskalenko M. P. Specialization: Internal medicine. Career position: Institute of Cardiology in A. L. Myasnikov, AMS USSR, Moscow.

Publications, articles: “Changes of the total and renal hemodynamics in orthostatic hypotension” (co-author); “Compensatory changes in the kidneys in unilateral affections and nephrectomy” (co-author); “The diabetic and hypotensive effect of Uregit (ethacynic acid)” (co-author).

Name: Moskalenko Yu. D. Specialization: Cardiovascular surgery. Career position: Division of Vascular Surgery, Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery in A. N. Bakulev, AMS USSR, Moscow.

Publications, articles: “The clinical picture, diagnosis and surgical treatment of congenital arteriovenous fistulas of peripheral vessels” (co-author); “Hemodynamics with arteriovenous fistulas (on data of cardiography and scanning of the heart cavities)” (co-author).

Name: Moskalenko, Yury Ivanovich (YOBY IVANOVICH). Specialization: Physiology. Career position: Head, Laboratory of Regulation of Blood Circulation in the Brain, Institute of Evolutionary Physiology and Biochemistry in I. A. Sechenov, AS USSR, Academician.

Publications, books: Intracranial blood circulation under the conditions of stress and weightlessness, 4, 1971 (co-author); Dynamics of blood filling of the brain under normal conditions and during gravitational loads, 1, 1967.

Name: Moskalev, Yury Ivanovich (YOBY IVANOVICH). Specialization: Roentgenology and medical radiology. Career position: Institute of Biophysics, Academician.

Publications, articles: “Changes in lenses of rats after total external beta-irradiation” (co-author); “The comparative effectiveness of europium-152 and curium-244” (co-author); “The distribution and biological effect of californium-252” (co-author); “The effect of sub-acute 241Am doses on rabbits” (co-author); “Experimental investigations on radiobiology in the USA”; “Ways and principles followed in applying animal experimental data to man.”

Publications, books: The radiobiological experiment and man, 8, 1969; Problems of the distribution and experimental evaluation of permissible levels, 8, 1968 (co-author).

Name: Moskalik K. G. Specialization: Oncology; roentgenology and medical radiology. Career position: Research Institute of Oncology in A. B. Petrov, Leningrad.

Publications, articles: “Effect of energy magnitude of impulse and rhythm of irradiation on the antitumor effect of laser radiation” (co-author); “Positions on the use of lasers in oncology” (co-author).

Name: Moskovich N. G. Specialization: Internal medicine. Career position: Clinical Hospital in S. P. Botkin, Academician.

Publications, articles: “Development of a grave form of diabetes mellitus and of hyperglyc erinemia in two patients after taking hypothiazides” (co-author); “Two cases of hyperosmolar coma during diabetes mellitus.”

Publications, books: Di.
