Asia-Africa

French Cabinet Minister to Visit Cambodia

Armed Forces Minister Pierre Messmer's visit to Cambodia from 4–7 January is designed primarily to strengthen French influence there in the wake of Prince Sihanouk's call for an end to the US aid program. Messmer's high-level entourage, which includes the chiefs of the Foreign Ministry's Indochina and Cultural and Technical divisions, will probably recommend some increases in aid, but De Gaulle apparently has no intention of taking on any large new commitments.

French-grant aid to Cambodia since 1956 has amounted to only $15 million. Current assistance is threefold: a military training mission of at least 250 men; cultural aid in the form of a university mission and 319 teachers in Cambodian schools; and the maintenance of about 40 experts in the fields of health and public works. In addition, a number of French nationals hired by the Cambodian Government hold positions of considerable influence in the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury, and the premier's office, and are among Prince Sihanouk's advisers.

Paris has indicated it has no intention of equaling the US aid program. Any increase in military aid probably would be limited to reconditioned and obsolete equipment, such as trucks and light armored vehicles. Increased cultural and technical assistance probably would include further help for the French university mission, more teachers, and 30 or 40 additional technical experts, especially agriculturalists.

The extension of French aid will be complicated by Cambodia's claims for compensation for losses incurred as a result of the 1958 devaluation of the French franc. Since 1958 France has asserted that a large-scale aid program would be impossible until there is agreement on an exchange rate, but a compromise may now be in sight.

Sihanouk has sought French help in maintaining Cambodia's policy of neutrality, and in recent talks with the US and the UK, France has supported his call for an international conference on Cambodian neutrality, despite US objections. Indeed, De Gaulle has consistently sought to meet Sihanouk more than halfway, and Paris may now encourage Sihanouk to press this issue.

27 Dec 63

Current Intelligence Weekly Review
