March 2, 1965

Director, FBI

Personal attention.

A most sensitive and reliable source has advised that Irving Kahn of Abraham and Company, Room 700, 120 Broadway, New York, New York, was in contact with V. D. Kazakevich, also known as “Kaz,” during June, August, and November 1964. From the nature of these contacts, it was apparent that these individuals are in contact with each other frequently. Although Kahn has criticized the U.S.S.R. for not sending more visitors to the U.S., he appears to be pro-Soviet. —C—

Identify subject, conduct background investigation, check office indices, and make recommendation regarding additional investigation and interview. —J—

Since information from [source] indicates that subject has traveled abroad, after background data has been determined, request Washington field to check records of Central Intelligence Agency and Department of State (agency, subject, and his wife). —J—

The foregoing and the following information obtained from [source] is not to be disseminated outside the Bureau and should not be set out in any investigative report. Information from this information should be utilized for lead purposes only, and any statement confirming this coverage is [effected] in this instruction must be avoided. Under no circumstances should the subject or any unauthorized person become aware that we have knowledge of these contacts. —C—

During June 1964, Kahn advised Kazakevich, Moscow, U.S.S.R., that his friend, Professor Sterling Spere, who had just retired as Dean of the School of Government, New York University, expected to be in Moscow from July 30 to August 1 and would like to see Kazakevich regarding the structure and conduct of government institutions. Kahn requested Kazakevich to make inquiry at Intourist as to where Spere could be located. —N—

Kahn informed Kazakevich that he and his family were flying on a Pan Am flight to London on July 25 with a “plane full of security analysts” plus two others. Upon a month visiting large corporations in England, France, Belgium, West Germany, and Spain. If Kazakevich analysts should find out if he is flying this week or any of those countries, Kahn would make a special call to get him off the plane. —N—

H. P. could be in any of those countries. Kahn would make a special call to get him off the plane.
