Memoranda have been expressly prepared for dissemination to Secret Service only and have not been furnished to the Department or INS; therefore, the copy furnished INS locally and two of the copies furnished the Bureau should reference the last communication to INS.

For instructions pertaining to dissemination to Secret Service in other than security index cases, refer to section 83K, volume III, of this manual.

Copies of letterhead memoranda prepared in security index cases should be retained in the individual case files only.

Upon transfer of office of origin in one of these cases, the old office of origin is to furnish Secret Service locally with the subject's new residence and business address and advise the Bureau that such has been done by the submission of two copies of the letterhead memorandum disseminated locally. The new office of origin need take no action regarding dissemination to Secret Service until such time as further changes occur with respect to the subject's status.

(10) Dissemination at the Bureau

There are some situations in which dissemination is made at the Bureau instead of in the field. In the majority of instances, information received by the FBI should properly be furnished immediately to some other agency within the executive branch of the Government so that the responsibilities of the other agency might be fulfilled properly. Care must be taken, however, not to disseminate information to any field branch of another Government agency where such a procedure is deemed inadvisable because of the inadequacy of security measures in that branch. In these instances the data should be brought to the immediate attention of the Bureau for dissemination at the SOG. An example of the latter is, of course, the Atomic Energy Commission, which receives reports only through the Bureau, as noted in section 87D 7c (3) of this manual. Information relating to foreign travel plans of security subjects is disseminated to interested agencies, including the State Department, only at the SOG, as set out in 87D 6b (4). Dissemination is also made at the SOG to the State Department, unless it appears undesirable, in those cases in which subjects have been indicted for violations grounded on subversive activities. Dissemination in these cases is made to preclude these subjects from utilizing the fact they obtained a passport to refute allegations of subversive connections. The State Department, therefore, will be in possession of data concerning a defendant should he attempt to utilize this tactic in such an action.

b. Data developed concerning individuals who are not within the Bureau's investigative jurisdiction

(1) Members of the armed forces

The Delimitations Agreement between the FBI and the armed forces intelligence agencies states that the responsibility assumed by one organization in a given field carries with it the obligation to exchange freely and directly with other subscribing organizations all information of mutual interest.
