United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams  
From: Legal Counsel  
Subject: Assassination of John Fitzgerald Kennedy, Dallas, Texas, 11-22-63  
Date: 5-23-75

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities

On 5-22-75 CIA requested from the FBI copies of photographs of three “bums” who were taken into custody by Dallas authorities on 11-22-63 in the vicinity of the Texas School Book Depository. It has been alleged that the three persons shown in the photographs were E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis, individuals involved in the Watergate incident, and Thomas Arthur Vallee, who was arrested in Chicago, Illinois, several days before the Kennedy assassination based on a threat against the President. Don Donahue, Special Assistant to Senator Henry Jackson (D-Wash.), made available on 9-12-74 to Inspector Bowers a set of the photographs depicting these “bums” which had been furnished to Donahue by one Michael Canfield, and the FBI Laboratory made copies from these prints, the original being returned to Donahue. Donahue requested that his identity be concealed as the source of these photographs. Canfield was supposed to furnish a set of these photographs to Washington Field Office but it has been determined he never did so.

At Mr. Adams’ instructions, Bowers contacted Donahue on 5-22-75 and advised him of the CIA request for a set of these photographs. Donahue was told that if he has no objections we intend to furnish CIA a set of the pictures with the statement that the originals were obtained from an individual who requested his identity be concealed. Donahue stated that was quite satisfactory to him, adding that if it becomes necessary he would agree to his identity being disclosed as the source of these pictures.

DWB:kjs (8)

Continued—over.

Therefore, suggested for the reason that these do not contain an original document. Please contact our office immediately if you are able to provide a copy of these documents or if you have any other requests for the concession of other documents. Please notify us immediately by calling our number, to be available for achieving a confidential classification of the documents that we may be able to generate.

This is an automated machine with no man at work on the line. We are not responsible for the content of the documents or their transmission and will not be assumed to have read them. We are simply carrying out our program of identifying and recording the transmission of documents.

We will then contact you to discuss further what we can do for you. Thank you for your time and coverage spent on this matter.

We wish to express our appreciation of any assistance that we may be able to provide you at this time. We are especially grateful to anyone who may be able to provide us with information concerning documents that may be of interest to us.

We also wish to express our gratitude to all those who have helped us in the past and continue to help us in the future. We are very grateful for the cooperation of you and your organization.

We wish to thank you once again for your time and effort in identifying and recording the contents of the documents that we are able to give you. We also wish to thank you for your assistance.
