Office Memorandum, United States Government

To: Mr. Belmont  
From: S. B. Donahoe  
Date: 12-12-58  
Subject: Intelligence Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries

Synopsis:

This memorandum evaluates the captioned program and recommends its continuation in the present form. The program provides for acquisition of positive intelligence and investigative information through three facets: (1) receipt of notification from six other agencies of the arrival in the U.S. of intelligence personnel of friendly foreign governments; (2) at the specific request or with the specific approval of Deputy Under Secretary of State Robert Murphy or an official designated by him, maintenance of technical surveillances on official establishments of countries located in trouble areas; and (3) with prior State Department approval, development of live sources within establishments of friendly countries, as the Bureau's intelligence and investigative requirements demand extension of coverage.

Operation under the first category, instituted in November 1954, is smooth and serving a useful purpose in keeping us informed of the identities of foreign intelligence personnel in the U.S.; costs are nominal, involving principally indexing procedures and a small amount of supervisory time at Seat of Government.

Coverage under the second category, first considered in October 1955 and instituted two months later, has been the source of highly valuable intelligence data as well as investigative information. The State Department has made highly laudatory comments on the value of the material in the formulation of foreign policy. Actual cost figures on technical surveillances conducted are not available; it is noted, however, that in three years establishments of 14 separate foreign countries have been afforded technical coverage, mostly on a short-term basis of one to three months but in five instances on a continuing basis: Egypt since 12-23-55, France since 10-31-56, Syria since 8-16-57, and Iraq and Jordan since 7-16-58. Technical coverage of these establishments is designed to be elastic and tailored primarily to meet the intelligence needs of our Government.

Development of live sources (category three above) is a sound counterintelligence procedure of long standing. Our efforts in this field directed at friendly foreign countries were brought under the captioned program in May 1958, with adoption of a policy that before continuing efforts previously instituted or undertaking future efforts involving a country not previously considered, we would clear our intentions with the State Department to avoid wasting investigative endeavors. We currently find that the program provides useful intelligence coverage.
