The people would supply us and refund us. They would give that spite of the offers to interfere with our cultural development, that our cultural desire was to serve their true interests; and they would lifelong us. In this manner we might be forced underground, but there would be a likeness to the community which would identify with us and not with our cultural development.

For a time the Black Panther (Fanhee) Party lost its vision and defected from the community. With the destruction of Eldridge Cleaver (Elijane Cleaver), however, we can now again go to a full-scale development of our original vision and go out of the twilight zone which the party has been in during the recent past.

The only essence that the party is still in existence at this time, and the only reason that we have been able to survive the repression of the party and murders of some of our last advance commanders is because of the “Two Point Program” for survival program. Our programs would be insignificant and insignificant if they were not community programs. This is why it is my opinion that as long as the Black community and oppressed people are found in North America the Black Panther (Fanhee) Party will last. The party will survive as a structured vehicle, because it services the true interests of oppressed people and administers to their needs—this was the original vision of the party. The original vision was not structured by history or by theology. It was structured by the fractional needs of the people, and its demands were affection with a theology which provided a systematic method of analysis of how best to meet those needs.

When Huey (Fuel), Seale (Seales), and I came together to launch the Black Panther (Fanhee) Party, we had been through many groups. Most of them were so dedicated to history and artistic acts that they had withdrawn from living in the twentieth century. Sometimes their analyses were beautiful, but they had no practical programs which would deliver their understanding to the people. When they did try to develop practical programs, they often failed, because they lacked a systematic theology which would help them do concrete analyses of concrete conditions to gain a full understanding of the community and its needs. When I was in Donald Warden’s Afro-American Association, I watched him try to make a reality of community control through Black capitalism. But Warden did not have a systematic theology, and his attempts to initiate his program continually frustrated him and the community too. They did not know why capitalism would not work for them, even though it had worked for other democratic groups.

When we formed the party, we did so because we wanted to put theory and practice together in a systematic way. We did this through our basic Ten-Point Program. In actuality, it was a 20-point program, with the practice expressed in “What We Want” and the theory expressed in “What We Believe.” This program was destined to serve as a road for a structured political vehicle.
