Anybody’s head, and he further indicated that he was deliberating whether or not the recording should be used. It was recommended that the Liaison Agent follow the matter for the purpose of determining if the recording was to be used by CIA. The Director’s notation was, “No. The fat is in the fire now and it is useless to waste any more time on it. We will probably hear of any details in Pearson’s column. H.”

The strong position we took in resisting the dissemination of such sensitive information to a foreign government was fully justified. (Memorandum Reach to Belmont, dated July 22, 1958, re “CIA Request for Permission to Play Technical Surveillance Recording to King Hussein (Hussien), Jordan.”)

37. CIA ALLEGED PARTICIPATION IN MEXICAN GOVERNMENT DEPORTATION OF AMERICAN COMMUNISTS

In 1958, CIA officially informed us that it was engaged in a program designed to disrupt overall communist activity in Mexico. We became concerned because this program was to involve deportation of undesirables, including American communists residing in Mexico. The implementation of such a program would have resulted in the return of American communists to the United States. CIA denied that it was engaged in any operation specifically designed to disrupt American communists. In September 1958, we were informed that the Mexican Government had embarked on a strong anticommunist program and certain Americans were ordered deported. We checked with CIA, and the Agency’s chief in Mexico City claimed that his Agency was not involved.

The Liaison Agent subsequently was informed on a strictly confidential basis that the American Ambassador had been in contact with certain Mexican officials concerning possible anticommunist activities. The Ambassador had consulted with the local CIA chief and had asked for a list of Americans who could be considered as being deportable. The CIA officer reportedly furnished a list of approximately 40 names. (Memorandum Reach to Belmont, September 17, 1958, “Legal Attaché’s Office, Mexico City, Relationship with Embassy and CIA.”)

38.

We expressed our displeasure to CIA in September 1958 because of that Agency’s unauthorized investigation in the United States of a Romanian citizen who was here in connection with an exchange program. The Romanian indicated to an American friend that he was interested in staying in the United States, but was not ready for actual defection because of a
