BLACK PANTHER PARTY (BPP)
PEORIA, ILLINOIS

On August 30, 1969, mentioned above, advised that there was no meeting held at the Freedom Hall, 321 First Avenue, Peoria, Illinois. He advised that Russ Meek did not speak in Peoria, Illinois, as scheduled and stated that either Meek declined the invitation or that Meek was to speak tomorrow, August 31, 1969, in conjunction with the Black Panther Party rally. He advised that he doubts seriously that James Polk or Reverend Blaine Ramsey, local coordinators of the Peoria, Illinois United Front, will speak at the BPP rally. He advised that the purpose of the BPP rally is to recruit members from the Peoria, Illinois, area in order to form an organization in Peoria, Illinois. He advised he still expects no violence at the BPP rally.

On August 31, 1969, mentioned above, advised that members of the Black Panther Party in Peoria, Illinois, held a rally at Freedom Hall, 321 First Avenue, Peoria, Illinois. He advised that the only scheduled guest speaker who spoke, other than local Peoria, Illinois, Black Panther Party members, was Reverend Blaine Ramsey, local coordinator of the Peoria, Illinois United Front. He advised that James Polk, Fred Hampton, Jewell Cook, and Russ Meek did not speak at the rally and, to the best of his knowledge, were not present in Peoria on August 31, 1969. He advised that approximately one hundred persons attended the rally. He advised that the crowd consisted mainly of Negro juveniles, curiosity seekers, and approximately six white persons. He advised that news reporters were admitted at the rally and all males were searched by two young local Peoria Black Panther Party members.

Further advised that Reverend Blaine Ramsey, coordinator of the Peoria, Illinois United Front, gave support to the Black Panther Party group in their constitutional right to speak and meet but disagreed with the Black Panther philosophy of violence in accomplishing Negro equality. He advised that Reverend Ramsey, who was first to speak at the rally, left the rally as soon as his speech was terminated. He advised that Horace Jones asked for the black people to lend support to the
