That if these people were allowed to gain a foothold, China would revert to the days of Chiang Kai-shek, when there was unlimited corruption, and he felt this had to be settled once and for all. Lin stated that Mao, Chou, and Lin Piao were unanimous and there was no disagreement among them.

Lin stated to Jaffe that he would not set foot in the United States until the Vietnam War was ended; however, later, when Lin asked Jaffe if he was aware of the fact that he (Lin) had been in Hong Kong in January 1969, and Jaffe replied in the affirmative, Lin stated, “I am sorry, I am not being completely honest. You know that I was in Seattle.” Lin then explained that en route from Hong Kong to Canada, he decided to return through Seattle to Canada against the advice of his friends in Hong Kong, who indicated that there might be trouble. Lin stated that he was detained at the airport in Seattle for two hours, was interrogated, and all personal effects were gone through. Lin stated he was sure everything was photographed and he was furious. Lin stated that he subsequently contacted an attorney, “the number one professor of law at Harvard University,” who was also incensed over the incident.

Lin inquired of Jaffe if he knew other news correspondents, such as Harrison Salisbury, Doak Barnett, or Frank Trader. Lin indicated that he knew Salisbury well and stated that he was sure Salisbury would speak well of him (Lin). Lin also discussed Mortin Schafer, Canadian correspondent, who entered China as a tourist and who apparently concealed a camera in a cigarette lighter to take photographs in China. Jaffe indicated that that was unfortunate, as it had made it more difficult for foreign journalists to obtain permission to enter China. In commenting on correspondent Milton Nash, Lin stated that he thought Nash was “bright and understanding.”

Lin was shown a United States newspaper article concerning China, and Lin expressed a desire to have a copy of that article. Jaffe promised to send him a copy of the article.
