Sec. 14. Active U.S. or Foreign Military Service.

Country: U.S.A. Service: Army. Last name, first: Osaka, Japan. Original number: 63264528. Rank: T/5. Dates of service: October 5, 1944–March 29, 1948. Type of discharge: Honorable.

Remarks: 25th Inf. Div.; 25th Proc. Cav. Ren. Trp. (Military Police).

Selective Service Board number: 28. Address: 1910 Arthur Ave., N.Y.C. 52, N.Y.

If deferred, give reason: N.A.

Membership in military reserve organizations: Army Security Agency (Enlisted Reserve Corps), honorable. Branch: Military Police (N.Y. National Guard), honorable discharge.

Sec. 15. Chronological History of Employment for Past 15 Years. Account for all periods. Include casual employment and periods of unemployment. Give addresses and state what you did during periods of unemployment. List last position first. List all civilian employment by a foreign government, regardless of dates.

From August 17, 1950 to June 17, 1951. Classification grade, if in Federal service: N.A.

Employing firm or agency: Almacén y Librería El Siglo. Address: San Salvador, El Salvador. Kind of business: Department store. Name of supervisor: Edgar Schaening. Title of job: Manager. Salary: $200 per month. Duties: Advertising, publicity, store and window display, wholesale shipments, supervision of employees. Reason for leaving: No future with the company.

Classification grade, if in Federal service: N.A.

From July 1950 to July 1951.

Employing firm or agency: Commercial National Bank of N.Y. Address: N.Y.C., N.Y., U.S.A. Kind of business: Banking. Name of supervisor: Don't recall. Title of job: Translations. Salary: $10 per day. Duties: Translating letters and forms from foreign languages into English and from English into foreign languages. For languages to be employed. Reason for leaving: Job on temporary basis while regular translators (transilers) were on leave.

Some items may not appear on this page due to space limitations. All other details can be provided upon request. Thank you for your interest in our company's services. We hope to have the opportunity to be able to assist you in any way we can. Please contact us as soon as possible. We look forward to the possibility of being able to assist you. We are here to serve you and your business. If you have any questions or need further information, please feel free to contact us at your convenience. We will do our best to answer all your questions and provide all the information you need.
