Intelligence services are aware of his plans and that he has no difficulty in their implementation. Participants at the meeting were then asked to contribute funds for the purchase of weapons; the total cash raised exceeded $1,000.00. Kassel commented that it is his impression that the funds raised were intended for Masferrer’s personal use rather than the purchase of weapons.

D. Kassel discussed with Ramiro de la Fe the possibility of founding a conspiratorial and secret political movement to create a mechanism of penetrating Cuba for the purpose of contributing to conditions which would result in a military coup against Castro. The movement would be headed “in absentia” by Ernesto de la Fe, who had been released from prison in Cuba two months ago. The decision to launch this movement was made on 25 August in the apartment of Ramiro de la Fe. Present at that time, in addition to Kassel and Ramiro de la Fe, were Armando Medina, Manuel Cavedas and Miguel A. Zerqueira (Cubans) and Juan Lopez (naturalized American). The new movement was named Movimiento Independiente Radical de Cuba (MIRC) and Ramiro de la Fe was named its temporary leader until such time as Ernesto de la Fe can leave Cuba. The MIRC will seek contact with Cuban armed forces to launch a coup against Castro and it will also seek contact with anti-Communist groups in Brazil and with the government of Chile. Ramiro de la Fe claimed already to have contact with Patricia Berdugo, a Chilean supposedly working for the Chilean Intelligence Service in Miami. During the meeting, Armando Medina said that he had once worked for CIA and that he participated in an attack on a Spanish merchant vessel which was mistaken for the Sierra Maestra of the Cuban Merchant Fleet. Kassel was named the editor of the MIRC Manifesto, which will be published in the Latin American press on 10 October.

E. Kassel met with Alberto Diaz Masvidal, editor-in-chief of “Miami Extra,” and offered his services as an unpaid contributor of articles from Bogota. The offer was accepted.
