(c) Large contributions by known party groups or front organizations.

(d) Identity of any new party “angels.”

(e) Distribution of funds not sent to Communist Party headquarters, such as funds in safe-deposit boxes, separate bank accounts, etc.

(f) Any special padding of expense accounts by Communist Party functionaries should be reported.

(g) Possible violations of state or Federal tax laws.

(h) Disbursements and collections of the “Reserve Fund.”

(i) Receipt of any money from abroad.

(4) Security measures (Bureau file 100-3-84)

Any activities on the part of the security commission of the district which bring about new or unusual security measures, such as reducing clubs to “group captain systems,” destruction of records, use of codes, clandestine meetings, investigations by the party of party members, etc.

(5) Underground operations (Bureau file 100-3-94)

Pertinent general information suitable for dissemination relating to underground operations of Communist Party. No information should be included in quarterly reports which would jeopardize informants or special investigative techniques. Current investigations relating to expanded underground operations during period 1951–1955 should be submitted by separate letter under individual case caption and should not be included in quarterly reports except for general information relating to methods of operation.

(6) Factionalism (Bureau file 100-3-88)

(a) Submit pertinent information indicating that any ranking Communist Party members or group of members have developed views as “left-wing sectarianists” or “right-wing opportunists” inasmuch as the party has a policy of expelling members who develop such views.

(b) Unusual disputes or arguments between leading Communists in any district should be included in this section.

(7) International relations (Bureau file 100-3-81)

(a) Information relating to communication or contact between Communist Party, USA, and communist parties of other countries.

(b) Identities of Communist Party officials who plan to travel in foreign countries, including the reason for their travel.

(c) Reaction of responsible Communist Party officials to events taking place in foreign countries.

(d) Communist Party strategy and tactics directed to attacks on U.S. foreign policy and support of U.S.S.R. and satellite foreign policy.

(e) Policy matter concerning colonial affairs, such as Communist Party policy relative to obtaining of independence by colonial people.

(8) United Nations (Bureau file 100-3-80)

(a) Communist Party policy or pertinent information in connection with the United Nations, including such matters as infiltration of the United Nations, contacts by Communist Party officials with representatives to the United Nations.

(b) Communist Party strategy and tactics directed toward attacking U.S. policy and/or to support U.S.S.R. or satellite policy in the United Nations.

(9) Deleted
