Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in mind proper perspective and their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give reasons and recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

July 19, 1968, 11:08 AM.

Mr. Noel is much too experienced and practiced a hand for his performance to vary very much from year to year. He has continued to turn in the highly creditable performance in San Francisco that has been standard for him for many years. He has managed his subordinates well and has exercised uniformly good judgment in directing their operational efforts. Of particular value has been his steadiness in the face of administrative adversity disrupting the organization of his Base. Mr. Noel insured that the work of the Base continued uninterrupted and demonstrated his capacity to keep on top of all details and report them to Headquarters as appropriate. It is a credit to Mr. Noel that in the post-Ramparts exposure period there was not a single instance of an academic asset withdrawing from a relationship with the Base.

The performance of his officers attest the careful guidance and wise leadership which has enabled them to operate securely and well in sensitive areas. His relations with the FBI and DCS are excellent. He is appropriately economy minded. In short, he is a decidedly strong supervisor.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

I. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 18 months. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Mr. Noel is in the Field and will be shown a copy of this Fitness Report on his next TDY trip to Headquarters. Date: 15 July 1968. C/DO/I. Typed-on-printed name and signature: Stanley H. Gaines.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: Concur in rating officer's judgment. Date: 17 July 1968. Typed-on-printed name and signature: Chief, DO Division, Gordon F. Jensen.
