Fitness Report.

Section A. General Information.

Employee number: 0 17974. Name: Fox, Jerome (nmi). Date of birth: 9 Oct 28. Sex: M GS-13 D. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: FE/PMI. Current station: Manila. Type of appointment: X Career. Reporting period: 30 Nov 72–31 July 73. Type of report: Special. X Annual. X Reassignment.

Note: Supervisor or Reviewing Official may assign a higher classification if confidential is not adequate for the report when completed.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

U — Unsatisfactory. Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M — Marginal. Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P — Proficient. Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Serves as Station referent for MILABYSS matters. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 2: Spot, develop, assess and recruit penetration agents in the Philippine liaison services. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 3: Spot, develop, assess and recruit agents to obtain intelligence on production and
