1. Preference for next assignment.

10. Describe directly the type of duty you would perform for next assignment if different from that indicated in Item No. 9 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choice.

Supervise field unilateral and liaison MIABYSS program.

11. Indicate if you desire to extend your current tour by checking the appropriate box. Also indicate preference for next regular assignment by inserting 1, 2, 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in remaining boxes. Complete all alternate choices and options in all cases even though you are requesting an extension of your tour.

Extend tour 12 months at current station to 1 July 1974.

Be assigned to HQs for a tour of duty, indicating your choice of division, group, or office: 1st choice FZ, 2nd choice WA, 3rd choice EUF.

Be assigned to another field station, indicating choice of geographic area or specialization: 1st choice Bangkok, 2nd choice Scout, 3rd choice Singapore.

Return to my current station.

To be completed by field station.

12. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee and his preference for next assignment, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training.

I believe that Subject could make a contribution as a case officer at a station with an active MIABYSS program. He knows the subject well and can get along with LNAGON personnel. His other strength lies in Communist Party operations either as a handler of recruited assets or as an analyst of doctrine. In light of the foregoing, Bangkok Station might well be an appropriate assignment. Should that not be practical, recommend that Subject be reassigned to HQs, in a component where his strengths can be utilized. If assigned at HQs, he should be given the To Be Completed by Specific Headquarters of the Office (cont'd).

13. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee, his preference for next assignment and the staffing requirements of your component, indicate your component's recommendation for his next assignment and training.

Mr. Fox will be assigned to EA/PMI upon completion of his tour and home leave. He has been so advised.

Date: 21 Jul '73. Title: C/EA/Personnel. Signature: William H. Boults. For use by Career Service: Ernest L. Hardt.

14. Approved assignment.

15. Employee notified by dispatch No. Date.

Cable No. Date.

Cabinet Service Representative. Date. (Signature)
