(9) Movement of subjects between offices and transfers of security index cards

(a) Subjects of security index cards

I. Requests to verify addresses of security index subjects from other offices must be assigned immediately, and results of investigation to verify the new address must be transmitted to the office of origin within two weeks.

II. The office of origin, upon receipt of verification of address, should submit FD-128 immediately, transferring office of origin. Forms regarding unavailable section subjects should be prepared in accordance with 87D 7b (6) (b) IV above.

III. Submit the original and one copy of FD-128 to the Bureau. Submit two copies thereof to the office covering the subject's new address, enclosing copies of all previous reports, other pertinent serials, photograph if available, and security index cards. FD-128 should show full title and priority level designation.

IV. Information concerning key facility employment of the subject in the new office should be furnished by that office to the old office of origin so that geographical reference number, agency having security responsibility, and interested agencies can be included on FD-128 submitted by the old office of origin.

V. Where a security index flash notice has been placed with the Identification Division, notation to that effect must appear on FD-128, and an extra copy of FD-128 must be specifically designated for the Bureau, marked for the attention of the Identification Division, so that those records will show the new office controlling the existing security index flash notice.

VI. The old office of origin will submit a current report in priority I and priority II security index cases and a succinct letterhead memorandum in priority III security index cases.

Submission of FD-128 should not be delayed solely for preparation of a report or letterhead memorandum when the office of origin is to be changed, but notation should be made on FD-128 that the old office of origin is preparing the appropriate communication.

The old office of origin is responsible for furnishing Secret Service locally with the subject's new residence and business address.

The case will remain pending in both the old and new offices of origin until the report or letterhead memorandum is submitted by the old office of origin. The new office of origin is responsible for following the matter until completed.

In Priority III security index cases, a succinct letterhead memorandum should be prepared setting forth all pertinent information for the Bureau and new office of origin. If applicable, information contained therein may be summarized. The yellow file copy retained by the old office of origin must contain notations indicating the exact location of all original information which has been set forth or summarized in the letterhead memorandum. The cover communication transmitting such letterhead memoranda must contain a statement indicating that such notations have been made.
