Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Ascertain or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is an exceptionally able political action officer. His capacity for grasping a rapidly developing political situation quickly and for making on-the-spot decisions is quite unique, and he would be a powerful addition to any station with a challenging political program. He is not always able to separate the significant from the insignificant and therefore tends to over-report. He is also inclined to operate more as a singleton than as an integrated member of an operations team. He has been quite successful in exploiting PP contacts for FI by-product. Additional training does not appear necessary at this time.

In preparing this report, careful consideration was given to the guidance in FS Field Dispatch No. 20-40 which recognizes the principle of rating the individual against the group, and establishes an “average” rating as being an entirely satisfactory performance. The supervisor, however, considers this fitness report to be in keeping with that guidance.

This report has been approved in accordance with Division standards which recognize the individual against the group. Thus an individual reflects an entirely satisfactory performance.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this report. Date. Signature of Employee: /s/ Joseph B. Smith.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employees under my supervision less than 30 days. Report made within last 30 days. Others specify. Date. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Donald H. Richardson.

By Reviewing Official. X I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee’s performance. Comments of reviewing official. Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ John H. Richardson.
