Castro's Speech:

Fidel's 27 November speech to the students at Havana University evidently had been scheduled some weeks ago, before the assassination of President Kennedy, and was intended as a fairly sweeping review of the country's economic situation, post-Hurricane Flora salvage operations and, lastly, the regime's plans for changes in the educational system. In fact, it was the third time in a week that Castro has addressed himself publicly and at length to the death of the late President and to imputations that the Castro regime was involved in any way. On 24 November Castro had displayed considerable apprehension that already strained US-Cuban relations would worsen markedly as a consequence of the assassination. We do not have an adequate text of Castro's seemingly impromptu remarks of 26 November to a group of high school students; but that speech apparently went little beyond his statement on the Sunday following Mr. Kennedy's death. The address of 27 November obviously was a carefully prepared refutation of charges of complicity between Castro's regime and Oswald.

Whatever the Cuban leader's intent, textual analysis of the speech neither proves nor disproves that he had advance knowledge of the plot. He is determined to indict unnamed "reactionaries" in the United States with conspiring to murder the President, using Oswald as their innocent dupe, and to frame Cuba in order to provoke punitive action by the US Government against the revolution. To this end, he presented a considerable body of "evidence"--much of it admittedly speculative--based on what is generally known about Oswald, the "normal" behavior pattern of paranoiacs, the weapon the killer used, the technical difficulties presented by the use of a telescopic sight, the 36-hour Dallas police interrogation of the alleged killer and, finally, Oswald's death at the hands of Jack Ruby in the basement of the Dallas police headquarters.

Castro rehearsed the details of Oswald's 27 September application at the Cuban consulate in Mexico City for a Cuban visa and protested the 23 November arrest of two employees of the consulate by Mexican authorities. (Castro's remarks were followed up on 28 November by the delivery of a formal protest by the Cuban Foreign Ministry to the Mexican Government--which rejected it.) Oswald's Dallas television interview in July, his attempts to infiltrate the pro-Castro Fair Play for Cuba Committee, and his street brawl with anti-Castro refugees in New Orleans--all were intended by those behind Oswald to mislead public opinion, according to Castro. And, finally, the decision of the Dallas police to "close" the Oswald case with the shooting of Sunday, 24 November, "demonstrates that the persons guilty of the death of Kennedy needed and urgently had to eliminate the accused at any cost...so that he would not talk...."
