II. Preference for Next Assignment.

IIA. Describe briefly the type of work you would prefer for next assignment if different from that indicated in Item No. 9 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choice. RA.

IIIB. Indicate if you desire to extend your current tour by checking the appropriate box. Also indicate preference for next regular assignment by inserting 1, 2, 3, or 4 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in remaining boxes. Complete all alternate choices and options in all cases even though you are requesting an extension of your tour.

Selected: Extend tour 18 months at current station to 20 May 1978.

Be assigned to headquarters for a tour of duty. Indicate your choice of division, staff, or office. 1st choice; 2nd choice; 3rd choice.

Be assigned to another field station. Indicate choice of geographic area or specialization. 1st choice; 2nd choice; 3rd choice.

Return to my current station after home leave.

To be completed by field station.

I2. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee and his preference for next assignment, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training.

I favor strongly the return of Subject to this Station for a second tour of duty following home leave. He is handling one of the most complex fields of activity at this Station, one which is of a very high priority—the radical left in all its manifestations. Continuity and experience are essentials to any significant progress against this target. Returning Subject for a second tour of duty would give us both at a time when the radical left will be expanding and moving ahead towards its goals.

To be completed by appropriate headquarters office.

I3. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee, his preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of your component, indicate your component's recommendation for his next assignment and training.

The Division approves Subject's request for home leave and return to Manila.

Date: 10 Dec 70. Title: CFE. Signature: James R. Doherty.

For use by Career Service.

I4. Approved assignment.

I5. Employee notified by dispatch No. FPMS 5918, dated 10 Dec 70.

Cable No. Date. Career Service Representative.
