Section II. Motivation and Control.

1. Estimate subject's motivation. (Be detailed, if possible, cite evidence. Do not use this column to convert such as “anti-communist.”) Subject is likely to work in a group. Is he/she able and willing to make decisions. He/she becomes less useful for work and the group's work is more difficult. Is he/she a leader and an active member of the group? If so, does he/she have any power over it?

2. Indicate what control, if any, exists over the subject. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control explain.) In his solutions with the customers and to a large extent also in the business, subject has accepted decision-making from him. Does he know almost nothing. A resolution must be reached if the business is to fail. This close connection, with control in mind, will be very important.

Section III. Cover.

1. Cover used by subject and case officer in their meetings. Covers are used when one or more of the following apply: Subject is known to the case officer. The cover is that the subject is working under a different name than the one on the cover. It is assumed that the subject is unknown to the case officer.

2. Cover used by subject to secret informers and in contacting his information ALM. Covers are used when the informers are known to the case officer. They are used to allow the case officer to get information about the subject from other informers, but also to avoid giving the subject's information away. In some cases, the informers may know too much about the subject to be useful to the case officer.

3. Indicate service for which subject thinks he will work or is working. The informer is identified by the subject as working for him. The cover is that the subject is working under a different name than the one on the cover. It is assumed that the subject is unknown to the case officer. It is used to allow the case officer to get information about the subject from other informers, but also to avoid giving the subject's information away. In some cases, the informers may know too much about the subject to be useful to the case officer.

Section IV. Intelligence Connections and Training.

1. Explain subject's known past or present connection with any other intelligence service. Indicate the extent such connection is known overtly. Explain previous connections with intelligence services.

2. List other individuals (family, relatives, friends) who know of subject's present intelligence activities. Provide a list of all known individuals who are working with the subject, including his/her family members.

2. List other individuals (family, relatives, friends) who know of the subject's present intelligence activities.

3. Explain any training subject was had in clandestine operations. Provide a list of individuals who received training from these organizations.

3. Explain any training the subject received in clandestine operations.

Section V. Collaboration Potential.

1. Indicate other foreign power subject would be most likely to collaborate with because of his ideology or past associations. Explain. Provide a list of individuals who would be most likely to collaborate with the subject and provide a reason why.
