23 February 1972

Subject: Foreign Support for Activities Planned to Disrupt or Harass the Republican National Convention

1. There are only limited indications thus far of foreign efforts to inspire, support, or take advantage of activities designed to disrupt or harass the National Convention of the Republican Party in San Diego, 21–23 August 1972.

2. Some American participants at the Soviet-controlled World Assembly for Peace and Independence of the Peoples of Indochina, held 11–13 February 1972 in Paris/Versailles, attempted unsuccessfully to include a call for international demonstrations to take place at the time of the Republican National Convention. A representative of the San Diego Convention Coalition (SDCC), one of the domestic action groups targeting the Republican Convention, requested the American Delegations' Steering Committee at the World Assembly to include a specific call for international support of activities against the Republican Convention in their proposal to the Action Commission of the World Assembly. This request, however, was dropped as too divisive by the Steering Committee, despite initial indications that the proposal would be taken to the floor of the Assembly.

3. John Lennon (LENNON), a British subject, has provided financial support to Project “YES,” which in turn paid the travel expenses to the World Assembly of a representative of leading antiwar activist Rennie Davis (DAVIS). Davis' representative is tentatively planning to assist in preparations for disruptive actions at the San Diego Convention. Project “YES” is an adjunct to another Lennon-supported project, the Election Year Strategy Information Center (EYSIC), of which Rennie Davis is a key leader, which was set up to direct New Left protest activities at the Republican National Convention. In Paris Rennie Davis' representative to the World Assembly met at least once with officials of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam; it is not known if the Republican National Convention was discussed.
