Fitness Report.

Section A—General Information. Employee number: 059198. Name: Kent, William M. Date of birth: 9 May 29. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. SD: D. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDO/PS/CMG/NOC. Current station: Washington. Code: HGB, DF. Type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Contract. Reporting period: 1 January 75–31 October 75. Date report due in O.P.: 30 November 75.

Section B—Qualifications Update. No.

Section C—Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

1. Under the general guidance of Branch management, develops and implements a centralized system for finding suitable NOC personnel to fill specific vacancies; devises and implements procedures for identifying suitable NOC positions for unassigned NOC personnel. Rating: O.

2. Maintains effective working relationships with various elements of the DDA, such as Office of Personnel, Office of Medical Services, Office of Security, and DDO's operating divisions, concerning placement and assignment of personnel for NOC duties. Rating: O.

3. As Chief of the Branch's Personnel Resources and Requirements Section, establishes and maintains liaison with the respective CIA components to develop data on nationality, background, education, language skills, and professional specialties available to the Branch as aids to systematic NOC personnel. Rating: S.

4. Searches and surveys. Serves as Branch area referent for LA and AF Divisions. Monitors and reviews assignments, effectiveness, and problems of NOC officers in LA and AF Divisions. Recommends as appropriate concurrence or corrective actions in conformity with DO objectives and standards. Rating: S.

5. Rating: S.

Overall performance in current position. Rating: O.
