Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 010032.

Section A—General. Date of birth: 20 Feb 28. Sex: M. Office division of assignment: DDP/FK/VRO. Grade: GS-9. SO: D.

Check type of appointment: X Career. Reserve. Temporary. Career-Provisional (see Instructions—Section C). Special (specify).

Check type of report: Initial. Reassignment supervisor. Annual. Reassignment employee. X Special (specify): Promotion.

Reporting period: Oct 4 '67 to March 6 '68.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Chief Station Registry. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Management and training of personnel under his supervision. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 3: Scheduling of routine and exceptional work assigned to his unit. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 4: Preparation of routine and other reports on the activities of his section. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 5: Overall security of Registry operations. Rating letter: P.
