The Attorney General

Director, FBI

Mr. Belmont  
Mr. Sullivan  
Mr. Evans  
Mr. Donahoe  
Liaison  
Mr. G.C. Moore

October 13, 1961

Intelligence Coverage of Foreign Countries

It is felt you will be interested in recent developments relating to our efforts to expand and improve our capacity to produce data of intelligence and investigative value regarding countries in Central and South America.

An integral part of our intelligence and internal security coverage is the developing of individual sources within the diplomatic establishments in the United States of foreign countries. We endeavor to direct our efforts in those areas where such coverage is likely to be most beneficial. For this reason we concentrate on those countries faced with increased communist subversion, countries tending toward alignment with the Soviet-Sino bloc or countries involved in actual or potential revolutionary situations with international ramifications.

We are fully cognizant of the delicacy of such a program and have set up what we feel are sensible safeguards. In order to assure coordination with foreign policy objectives we request clearance from the Department of State before designating a particular country as a target. We then conduct most discreet investigations of carefully selected individuals, preferably citizens of the United States, who are connected with the diplomatic establishments of the particular country. When we feel there is a reasonable potential for success we then request clearance from the Department of State for an interview with the individual. As an additional safeguard the interview is conducted under a precept, usually unrelated to our internal security responsibilities, in order to reduce substantially the possibility of any repercussions arising from the interview. Further contact, if any, depends upon our agreement of the attitude and reliability of the individual and the agree of cooperation volunteered. REC-95

As a result of this program, which has proceeded on a most careful and discreet basis, we have developed our

65-63113

See note page 3
