Notice of Rating

United States Civil Service Commission

Notice of Rating

Applicant must fill in all blanks in this section only.

Title of examination: Stenographer and Typist. Place of examination: Washington, D.C. Date of test: April 25, 1977.

Name and address: Lillian B. Johnson, 7516 Forest Road, Landover, Maryland 20875.

This is not a notice of appointment. It is a record of your rating. It is important that you keep it.

Period of consideration from issue date: 3 years. See reverse side.

You are eligible for the following grades:

Clerk-Typist: GS-4, GS-5. Clerk-Stenographer: GS-5. Clerk-Dictating Machine Transcriber: GS-3. Clerk-Stenographer (Trainee): GS-2. Your numerical rating is 82.0.

Amount of veteran preference included in your rating: 5-PTS; 10-PTS.

You are ineligible for the following grades:

Clerk-Stenographer: GS-5.

Reason for ineligibility:

You did not earn a passing score for the grade(s) checked ineligible; therefore no numerical rating is assigned for them.

You did not pass the typing performance test.

You did not pass the stenography performance test.

Your lowest acceptable salary is higher than that of the position in which you qualify.

Your qualifications statement does not show that you meet the minimum experience or education required for the grade(s) checked ineligible.

You failed to reply to official correspondence.

The items checked below apply to you:

You passed the general tests. If you recompete, you need retake only the typing part (and omitting part if you apply for stenographer) of the test. You must also present this notice and a Personal Qualifications Statement, Standard Form 171.

You failed the stenography test only. If you recompete, you need retake only that test. You must also present this notice and a Personal Qualifications Statement, S.F. 171.

You may not enter on duty until completion of required education is shown.

Your qualifications statement is attached in case you wish to apply for a different position.

Date of issue. Issuing office.
