United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams  
From: Legal Counsel  
Subject: SENSTUDY 75  
Date: 5-19-75

K. William O'Connor (O'Conner), Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, who has recently been designated by the Attorney General to coordinate all responses by the Department to the Senate Select Committee (SSC), advised on the afternoon of 5-19-75 that he had met with Chief Counsel to the SSC F. A. O. Schwarz and John Elliff, who is the head of the task force of the Senate Select Committee on the FBI. O'Connor stated he informed Schwarz and Elliff that he would not make available Bureau secretaries Mary Ann Massa and M. Ann Mierzejewski, who are scheduled for interview on Tuesday, 5-20-75, absent an agreement by the Committee that an FBI representative would be allowed to be present during the interview. O'Connor indicated that the Department's stand in this matter regarding the insistence that FBI representatives be present during the interview was backed by the White House, the Attorney General, and the Deputy Attorney General.

By way of background, it should be noted that Mr. O'Connor and Associate Deputy Attorney General McDermott were contacted on 5-14-75, and advised of the requested interview of the two aforementioned employees at which time O'Connor and McDermott did not advise of any way in which the employees could be prevented from consenting to interview. While they were upset at the prospect of service personnel, such as stenographers being interviewed by the Committee, they indicated at that time they could not see any legal leverage which could be used to preclude such interviews. With this decision in mind arrangements were made to make these employees available for interview.

Schwarz told O'Connor he would have to check with the SSC prior to agreeing to allow FBI representatives to be present. O'Connor stated Schwarz was quite upset at the Department's stance in this matter, but indicated he would give O'Connor an answer this evening. O'Connor indicated to Schwarz that the two Bureau employees would be available for interview on the 20th should the Committee agree to the presence of FBI representatives during the interview.
