MHFNO: 96-5536596. SENSIND. FRP: Staff. CONF: EA/PAMSI/A. INFO: C/ORMS, DC/EA, EA/LGL, EADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/EA, EA/XO (3/P). 96 5536596. ASO.

TOT: 272220Z SEP 96. Director 960961.

Staff. To: Immediate Canberra. From: LIMIT EA/PAMSI/A. Info: EA/LGL, Chief/EA, DC/EA. Slugs: WNINTEL. Subject: Australian demarche to USG regarding US legislation on declassification. Ref: None.

Text:

1. Action required: Please fax by COB 2 Oct a copy of the 1995 Australian demarche to the USG regarding legislation on the declassification of documents. Additionally, we would appreciate Station's recollection of Liaison's reaction to the US legislation as well.

2. The John F. Kennedy (JOHN F. KENNEDY) Review Board (JFK Board) established by the President to declassify all documents relating to the John F. Kennedy (JOHN F. KENNEDY) assassination has come across two Australian documents (and four CIA documents) which they would like to declassify, which reveal the existence of an Agency-Australian liaison relationship. The Review Board has broad authority to declassify documents related to the JFK collection regardless of their country of origin or the sensitivity of the substance. It has come to our attention that the Board has reviewed the two Australian documents and the four CIA documents and deemed them appropriate for release. Given the obvious sensitivity of our liaison relationship with Australians, OGC, in coordination with EA/LGL and EA/PAMSI, is preparing a memo to the Board requesting they not release the first two documents because the documents are the property of the Australian Government. Instead, we are willing to provide summaries of these documents omitting any mention of their Australian origin or of the existence of a relationship between our two services. The Agency documents which make reference to our liaison relationship would be redacted to take out all references to Australia.

3. In our effort to present a solid case to the JFK Board, the memo includes a strong argument that even approaching the Australians on the issue of declassification of an Australian document will strain our relationship with them. Our argument.
