Theft, fraud, sabotage, EDP equipment malfunctions, and human errors are considered the most sources of danger.

On-line terminals connected to central processors from remote points are more exposed to violations and thefts. The increasing popularity of time-sharing systems among large corporations and service bureaus has given rise to even more potential security breaches. Data transmitted over a communication line could be subject to wiretapping and eavesdropping by other hazards such as piggyback entry, whereby the intruder intercepts and compromises communication between a terminal and the processor while a legitimate user is inactive but still holding the line open. The intruder can even cancel the user's sign-off signal and continue operating in his name. A knowledgeable person could enter program changes from a terminal and play havoc with the system.

Need for Protection

Due to the increasing popularity of computing services, the issue of control and security protection has become more important. It is evident that time-sharing systems present few obstacles to unauthorized parties. The security problem has been made much more critical by the growing number of people trained in computers and by the fading of the computer mystique. In addition, communication by means of time-sharing systems has no more protection than telephone conversations or Morse-coded methods, since the technological skills necessary to interpret computerized data are widespread. More and more companies are appointing security monitors from their EDP staffs to centralize security matters. Trade organizations such as the American Management Association and the Bank Administration Institute, computer firms, and research firms such as Advancement Management Research, Inc. find their seminars on computer security overcrowded by data processing managers and security officers from business and government.

Target of Attacks

Computers have become an important source of information and, as a result, the target of many attacks. Some of the general information targets for industrial espionage are sales and service information, market analysis strategies, bid prices, corporate finance, stockholder information, legal negotiations, planned policy changes, expansion plans, product developments, personnel changes, payroll data, general administrative matters; and the list could be expanded even more.

Threats

The case of an 18-year-old Cincinnati youth who lived long distance telephone to tap the lines of a time-sharing system firm in Louisville, Kentucky, and extracted data from its ledgers, as well as records of its customers, is representative of the type of risk to which computer installations are exposed.

Accidents can have serious consequences such as the incident in which income tax return records for $100 were erased by energy emitted from the radar of a nearby airport in Austin, Texas.

Safeguards

It is important to consider that too much control and too many security safeguards can become bothersome and costly. The measures to protect data from unauthorized access vary from one system to another. According to Richard F. Cross, Security Officer for the Bank of New York, security systems should include each of the following segments: physical security; personnel security; procedural security; audit control; insurance; and any needed interfacing.

The quality and level of protection required depends on the sensitivity of the data handled. Nevertheless, control and security in a time-sharing environment should encompass the whole system, since it is well known that even the strongest control measures can be violated at the weakest point. These measures should be taken in the central processing unit, software, personnel, communication lines, the terminal, and its users.

Methods and Provisions — Central Processing Unit

The central processor is threatened mostly by sabotage, fire, water, theft, EDP equipment malfunctions, human accidental errors and environmental problems.

The computer center of any company is the heart of the organization, and protection of the equipment against these threats can be provided by a carefully planned computer room. Luis Scoma, President of Data Processing Security, Inc., recommends that the computer center be located out of the main traffic areas. It must be fireproof, dust-free, and waterproof and provided with temperature and humidity control and carbon dioxide fire extinguishers. Water lines should not run through the computer room. A separate, fireproof storage area should be provided for data files, documentation, and operating supplies. It should also have alarm devices sensitive to magnetism, humidity, heat, pressure, dust, theft, power blackout, etc. There should be strong access control including armed guards, fenced areas, TV monitors, personnel identification (visual, voice print, fingerprint, badge, passwords, etc.), well-performed maintenance service, and a number of extra provisions for protection.

Data Processing Security, Inc. has developed, for high security necessities, an electronically operated double-door entry system for access control into the computer room. When a person enters the buffer zone, the door locks behind him while
