United States Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence

Washington, DC 20510-6475

February 4/7, 1990

SSCI #90-505

The Honorable James A. Baker, III  
Secretary of State  
Department of State  
Washington, D.C. 20520

Dear Secretary Baker:

The Senate Intelligence Committee, as part of the annual budget authorization process, will hold a hearing on U.S. counterintelligence and security programs on May 10, 1990, in Room SH-219 of the Hart Senate Office Building. We request that you make available to testify at that hearing Mr. Ivan Selin, Undersecretary of State for Management. Other witnesses invited to testify are FBI Director William S. Sessions, Mr. Ted Price, the announced successor to Mr. Gardner Hathaway as CIA Associate Deputy Director for Operations and head of the CIA Counterintelligence Center; and Mr. Rich Haver, Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.

We are asking all witnesses to be prepared to discuss with the Committee the results of the Administration's review of counterintelligence and security programs for the 1990s, whether recent changes in the threat and operating environment require modifying objectives in the 1990s, and the implications for NFIP and non-NFIP resource allocation, program direction, and possible legislation. The hearing will also consider issues identified in testimony from a group of prominent citizens scheduled for March 22, and we will be in touch with you further on those matters.

We would like Mr. Selin to address in his written testimony and be prepared to discuss the following questions: (1) To what extent has political change in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe affected their intelligence threat in the 1990s and the requirements for CI operations and security measures against that threat? (2) To what extent do other traditional threats, such as the PRC and Cuba, require greater attention in the 1990s? (3) What are the emerging threats in the 1990s from third world and "friendly" intelligence services, as well as narcotics traffickers and terrorists? (4) What new challenges do technological advances and transfers to criteria countries and terrorist groups pose in the 1990s? (5) What are the consequences of these changing threats for embassy security priorities and protection of diplomatic, military, and intelligence secrets?

62-116395-1739

David L. Boren, Oklahoma, Chairman  
William S. Cohen, Maine, Vice Chairman

Sam Nunn, Georgia  
Ernest F. Hollings, South Carolina  
Bill Bradley, New Jersey  
Alan Cranston, California  
Dennis DeConcini (Deconcinl), Arizona  
Howard M. Metzenbaum, Ohio  
John K. Glenn, Jr., Ohio

Orrin Hatch, Utah  
Frank Murkowski, Alaska  
Arlen Specter, Pennsylvania  
John Warner, Virginia  
Alfonse M. D'Amato, New York  
John C. Danforth, Missouri

George Mitchell, Maine, Ex Officio  
Robert Dole, Kansas, Ex Officio

George J. Tenet, Staff Director  
James H. Dykstra, Minority Staff Director  
L. Britt Snider, General Counsel  
Kathleen P. McGhee, Chief Clerk

The Senate Intelligence Committee, as part of the annual budget authorization process, will hold a hearing on U.S. counterintelligence and security programs on May 10, 1990, in Room SH-219 of the Hart Senate Office Building. We request that you make available to testify at that hearing Mr. Ivan Selin, Undersecretary of State for Management. Other witnesses invited to testify are FBI Director William S. Sessions, Mr. Ted Price, the announced successor to Mr. Gardner Hathaway as CIA Associate Deputy Director for Operations and head of the CIA Counterintelligence Center; and Mr. Rich Haver, Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.

We are asking all witnesses to be prepared to discuss with the Committee the results of the Administration's review of counterintelligence and security programs for the 1990s, whether recent changes in the threat and operating environment require modifying objectives in the 1990s, and the implications for NFIP and non-NFIP resource allocation, program direction, and possible legislation.
