H. Symbols

1. Assigning numbers

a. All informants should be designated by permanent symbol number, of which the Bureau must be advised. Once a number is assigned, it must not be subsequently reassigned to any other informant or source.

b. Potential security informants and confidential sources whose identity must be protected may be assigned permanent symbol numbers if they are producing sufficient information to warrant use of such designations.

c. Individuals to whom permanent symbols are assigned are not to be advised of such symbols.

d. A cover name should be used by the informant in signing his statements and in communications between the informant and field office. Advise the Bureau of the cover name.

e. The prefix of the symbol number consists of the appropriate field office teletype abbreviation. The suffix of the symbol number will consist of the letter “S” for a security informant, the letters “PSI” for a potential security informant, or the letters “OS” for a confidential source.

f. Although a source may subsequently furnish information requiring a change in designation, such as from security to criminal or racial, the number previously assigned will remain the same; however, the suffix is to be changed to the appropriate letter or letters indicating this change, such as NY-000-S to NY-000-C or NY-000-R.

2. Communications—use of symbols

a. After the Bureau is advised of the permanent symbol, in subsequent communications the true name of the informant should not be set forth; use the symbol number.

b. In all communications after the initial letter, Bureau and field office file numbers for the informant must be set forth.

c. In communications between offices, follow the same procedure.

d. Informants and sources entering another division

(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on a temporary basis should be referred to in the initial letter to the interested office by true name and symbol number if necessary for the other division to know the identity. The office receiving such letter should make appropriate index cards for the “Informants and Sources in Other Divisions” index. Subsequent letters between interested offices may then identify the individual by symbol number only.

(2) Individuals who leave the division where they have been furnishing information and do not plan to return should be immediately discontinued, their symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, and their true name used in all administrative correspondence.

(3) If an informant is transferred to another office and remains active, his identity must still be protected.

e. In communications concerning a potential security informant when a symbol number is not assigned, the name of the potential security informant and the abbreviation “PSI” shall be used; for example, “John Doe, PSI.”

f. In espionage and foreign nationality matters, the caption of the communication should also show the character and country designation, such as IS-R for Russia or IS-PO for Poland. This facilitates routing at the Bureau.

I. Indexing

True names and aliases of all informants, as well as the assigned cover name, shall be indexed in general office indices as any other name. Index cards should show the file number of the informant, but such terms as “Informant” or “Potential Security Informant” shall not appear.

J. Indices

1. Alphabetical name index and symbol number index

Are to be kept by the SAC, ASAC, or security supervisor consistent with maximum security and best administrative practice.

a. Alphabetical name index

In all offices, maintain a card index showing the true identities of all security informants, potential security informants, and security confidential sources. This is to be known as the alphabetical name index. File cards in alphabetical order.
