MHFNO: 96-3620327

Denials of CIA presence in Japan would be used as a club by the left to attack LDP support for the US-Japan Mutual Security Treaty and the presence of US forces in Japan. With a state visit by the US President fast approaching and delicate negotiations over US bases in Okinawa likely to continue into 1997, this would be a particularly bad time to open the door to additional questions about US activities and intentions in Japan.

4. Acknowledgement of CIA presence would also revive old controversies that have largely receded from the headlines. In 1995, the press made a major issue of CIA funding for the LDP in its formative years. Anything that lent credibility to the story would be a serious political liability for the LDP. Then Foreign Minister and LDP President Kono Yohei personally asked Ambassador Mondale that the US Government not release documents on this subject. Kono explained to Ambassador Mondale that the LDP can deal with rumors and even unconfirmed leaks, but official confirmation of CIA activity in Japan would be an entirely different affair, threatening to damage both the conservative political leadership as well as the US-Japan security relationship. Kono explicitly impressed on the Ambassador the need for the US Government to hold the line against disclosure.

5. In the fall of 1995, a New York Times article alleged that the CIA had wiretapped Hashimoto Ryutaro, who has since become Prime Minister. In response to the ensuing press queries, Japanese officials of the concerned ministry dismissed the story as implausible. If the US Government declassifies a document that confirms CIA presence in Japan, it would hand the Japanese press new opportunities to reopen the issue of alleged economic espionage and attack the United States and its friends within the Japanese Government.

6. Disruption of liaison relationships: The Japanese services go to great lengths to keep their relationships with US intelligence agencies secret. In the case of the most important of those relationships, all contact could be severed in the event of disclosure and embarrassment. Such a rupture in the relationship defies easy repair. The South Korean Agency for National Security Planning, which seriously embarrassed Japanese liaison when it kidnapped opposition politician Kim Dae Jung from Tokyo over two decades ago, is still treated as a pariah today.

7. Impact on continuing operations: Our ongoing cooperation with a Japanese liaison service in pursuit of a major international terrorist group could be totally disrupted by disclosure. Extremely important US law enforcement and intelligence equities are at stake in this cooperative endeavor. The terrorist group is probably not aware of the extent of US involvement in their pursuit. Disclosure that reminded them of the possibility of US-Japanese cooperation against them could be detrimental to our ability to collect intelligence on the group.

8. Impact on sources: Station's relationship with at least one source predates the JFK assassination. Publicity about CIA presence and activity, even in the past, often causes sources to wonder about secret
