The first request for cards was filled and received during the latter part of the week of June 25, 1978. The second request was filled and received on July 5, 1978. Investigator John Moriarty had contacted Pvt. Colon Alford of the Metropolitan Police Identification Section and requested that he try to make comparisons of known and latent prints.

During the week of June 26, 1978, Pvt. Alford spent one hour in Committee spaces checking staff members’ prints against those lifted. On July 5, 1978, at the request of Pvt. Alford and with the consent of Chief Counsel G. Robert Blakey, the 13 cards of lifted prints and all staff member print cards from the FBI were turned over to Pvt. Alford, which he receipted for, so he could take them away from Committee spaces to enable him to spend more time studying them.

During the week of July 2, 1978, Pvt. Alford was able to obtain the fingerprints of Regis Blahut, an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency. On Friday, July 7, 1978, at approximately 2:30 P.M., Pvt. Alford phoned William H. Cross of Security Staff and stated he had made a tentative identification of Blahut’s prints on the inside of the safe door and on one of the photos in Book Five, Part One of the Kennedy autopsy photos.

On Monday, July 10, 1978, at 2:30 P.M., Pvt. Alford responded to the Committee offices and, in the presence of Chief Counsel G. Robert Blakey, Robert Morrison, and William H. Cross, returned all fingerprint cards and the 13 cards of lifted prints. These were returned to safe #45471 in Room 3381.

Pvt. Alford stated he had identified a certain number of points in several prints and, in his opinion, they were those of Regis Blahut. These prints were matched with those on the inside of the safe door and on the back of photo 39E2, which had been ripped from Book Five, Part One of the Kennedy autopsy photos, and the photo which had been removed from the cellophane cover.

After returning all materials, Pvt. Alford departed Committee spaces at 2:55 P.M. Monday, July 10, 1978.

Robert Morrison  
Director of Security

William H. Cross  
Assistant Director of Security
