Political Assassinations in the United States

Articles Published in Computers and Automation May 1970 to October 1973

Inventory of Titles, Authors, and Summaries

May 1970

30. The Assassination of President John F. Kennedy: The Application of Computers to the Photographic Evidence

By Richard E. Sprague.

A reexamination of some of the evidence relating to the assassination of John F. Kennedy—with emphasis on the possibilities and problems of computerized analysis of the photographic evidence.

July 1970

29. The May Article, “The Assassination of President John F. Kennedy: The Application of Computers to the Photographic Evidence”—Report No. 2:

32. More About Jim Hicks.

32. Confirmation of FBI Knowledge 12 Days Before Dallas of a Plot to Kill President Kennedy.

35. The Second Conspiracy About the Assassination of President Kennedy.

August 1970

48. The Assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy:

48. Preface, by Edmund C. Berkeley.

50. Two Men With Guns Drawn at Senator Kennedy’s Assassination: Statement to the Press, by Theodore Charach.

50. Map of the Scene of the Assassination of Senator Robert Kennedy.

51. The Pantry Where Senator Robert Kennedy Was Assassinated.

52. Bullet Hole in the Frame of a Door.

53. Two Bullet Holes in the Center Divider of the Pantry Door.

September 1970

39. Patterns of Political Assassination: How Many Coincidences Make a Plot?

By Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor, Computers and Automation.

How the science of probability and statistics can be used as an instrument of decision to determine if a rare event is: (1) within a reasonable range; (2) unusual or strange or suspicious; or (3) the result of correlation or cause or conspiracy.

48. Computer-Assisted Analysis of Evidence Regarding Progress Report

By Richard E. Sprague.

October 1970

52. The Conspiracy to Assassinate Senator Robert F. Kennedy and the Second Conspiracy to Cover It Up

By Richard E. Sprague.

A summary of what researchers are uncovering in their investigation of what appears to be not one but two conspiracies relating to the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy.

56. Index to “Special Unit Senator: The Investigation of the Assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy”

An index is supplied for the Random House book written by Robert A. Houghton, of the Los Angeles Police Department, about the investigation of the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy.

November 1970

44. Confidential and Secret Documents of the Warren Commission Deposited in the U.S. Archives

By Neil Macdonald, Assistant Editor.

A list of the subjects of over 200 documents of the Warren Commission which were classified confidential, secret, and top secret.

December 1970

39. The Assassination of Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., The Role of James Earl Ray, and the Question of Conspiracy

By Richard E. Sprague.

James Earl Ray says he was coerced into entering a plea of guilty to killing Martin Luther King . . . and contrary evidence (plus other evidence) have led to filing of legal petitions for relief.

January 1971

45. The Death of Walter Reuther: Accidental or Planned?

By Edmund C. Berkeley and Leonard Walden.

Some significant questions about the plane crash in May 1970 in which Walter Reuther was killed.

February 1971

48. The Report of the National Committee to Investigate Assassinations

By Bernard Fensterwald, James Lesar, and Robert
