Memorandum

18 April 1951

To: Oliver G. Martell

From: Terence U. Nasmith

Subject: The Hanging of Lyle O. Kelly.

1. The most serious accusation against Kelly is based upon the developments regarding Kelly's connection with the French. He told us about recent contacts he made with Pierre and Mrs. Florimond from Salonika. He denied that he had ever had contacts with them previously. We have learned from Ogive that, in 1949, Kelly worked for Florimond.

On Thursday, April 12, Kelly stated that he was to tell Florimond by Friday, April 13, whether or not he would work with him. Kelly asked us for instructions. We told Kelly his answer was to be a definite, final no. In other words, he was never to see the French again. We know definitely, however, that Kelly saw Florimond on Friday, on Saturday, and on Tuesday. On Tuesday he saw also a certain French Assistant Military Attaché named Piray.

Yani Kolomonos, Kelly's friend, stated that Kelly has agreed to meet Piray at the French Embassy between 11 and 12 o'clock on Thursday, April 19. At this meeting Kelly will (1) give the Frenchman detailed accounts of all U.S. intelligence operations of which he is aware, with special emphasis on Radio Gorianin, and (2) receive for this information 10 to 15 million drachmae.

It is imperative that this meeting be stopped. For instance, two of the Dreamer radio announcers are known to Kelly and hated by Kelly. Since they have relatives inside Dreamland, their position should be as secure as possible.

Our Greek informant suggests, not without plausibility, that this effort of the French might be a Communist-inspired attempt to penetrate U.S. intelligence activities. The Greek bases his guess only upon the reasoning that normal French intelligence activities would not be so interested in penetrating U.S. work, since—allegedly—we are close allies.

2. We accuse Kelly also of many proven lies and of theft of funds. These malpractices, known to us through personal observation over a period of several months, include such things as the following:

a. Kelly stated that he wrote three books, for which he was paid a sum of money. He did not write the books, as he himself has testified on the enclosed photostat of a document which he signed.

b. On one occasion
