MC 100-743G

Cuban Exile Activities

On January 28, 1960, PSI Miguel Andres de Leon Rojas reported that responsible Cuban exile groups in Mexico City and the United States, who have supported Dr. Emilio Nunez Portuondo, are convinced that General José Eleuterio Pedraza Cabrera, who commands a group of Cuban military exiles in the Dominican Republic, would not be a wise selection as the military leader of the attempt to overthrow the Castro government. The PSI further advised that these Cuban exile groups believe that Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz, former Chief of the Cuban Air Force, would be a much better military leader.

The PSI also advised that information received from sources within Cuba reflected that Fidel Castro had prepared a decree ordering the United States to vacate the Guantanamo Naval Base. According to this information, the decree was originally prepared in late November 1959, but had not yet been signed for issuance.

The PSI further reported that he had heard reports in Miami, Florida, of an invasion attempt which allegedly would be made by supporters of Rolando Masferrer, a Cuban exile who resides in Miami. The PSI stated that Masferrer, Roberto Fernandez Miranda, Norman Rothman, and their associates form a group which is not regarded in a favorable light by responsible Cuban exiles or by responsible elements within Cuba. The PSI stated that from the information available to him in Miami he doubted very much that Masferrer would be able to make an attempt at invading Cuba or, if an attempt were made, that it would be successful.

Nicaragua

PSI de Leon also advised on January 28 that he had received information from within Cuba that Ernesto “Che” Guevara has not abandoned his project to utilize pro-Communist Nicaraguan exiles and Cuban “volunteers” in an attempt to invade Nicaragua. This source advised that approximately 400 guerrillas have been trained to make up the invasion force. The PSI stated he had received no information as to the timing of such an attempt, but expressed doubt that it would occur in the immediate future in view of the concern of the Cuban Government over a possible early invasion attempt by Cuban exiles. (LW)
