D. Training

1. The scope of training varies with the time available. One agent who participated in a four-week course in mid-1961 received basic training covering cross-country movement of guerrillas, use and maintenance of weapons, and basic guerrilla tactics. Another clandestine source who spent nearly six months in Cuba in 1962 devoted more than 10 weeks of training to weaponry, communications, the fortification of defense positions, combat tactics, general strategy, map-reading, security, and sabotage. Both men reported considerable time devoted to political indoctrination and physical conditioning.

2. One controlled agent reported that his entire group was required to fill out an extensive questionnaire aimed at developing targets in the homeland for sabotage, subversion of military and police, illegal entry and movement, operation of dummy business concerns to cover clandestine operations, and possible zones for air-drops.

3. Extensive use is made of Che Guevara's book on guerrilla warfare. The trainees also use a handbook by Alberto Bayo, former colonel in the Spanish Republican air force who trained the original guerrilla group with which Castro invaded the Sierra Maestra. Thousands of copies of these books, in Spanish or in Portuguese, have been printed or mimeographed and are circulating in Latin America. Some have been specifically revised for individual countries.

4. We also have reports of related courses of instruction, lasting as much as six to eight months, in such fields as espionage, psychological warfare, political action, agent communications, and military medicine. Some of the trainees are women.

5. Most of the instructors of the guerrilla warfare courses are Cuban. There are some reports of Spanish instructors. Del Bayo himself is too old to participate actively, but apparently has an “emeritus” connection. General Enrique Lister has been reported to be associated with guerrilla training. There have been a number of reports, without hard confirmation, that Soviet and satellite instructors handle some of the more sophisticated training in such matters as sabotage and espionage.
