Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

Re: Luncheon engagement of the Director with the Attorney General and Mr. Sargent Shriver, Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, during week of September 18, 1967

Misuse of FBI Information by OEO

In connection with the recent arrest by Kentucky authorities of Alan and Margaret McSurely, employees of the Southern Conference Education Fund, and Joseph T. Mulloy, an employee of an organization being funded by OEO, on a state sedition charge, someone in OEO apparently leaked to the press a report prepared by an OEO investigator which contained statements attributed to the FBI. An article concerning this matter appeared in the 9/1/67 issue of “The Evening Star.”

The Director approved the lodging of a vigorous protest with OEO concerning the fact that information appearing in an FBI memorandum subsequently was published in “The Evening Star.” In approving this action, he noted, “Yes, and if they can’t or won’t give us the necessary assurances against leaks, we will cut off all investigative services to OEO.”

Such a protest was lodged through liaison with Mr. Edgar May, Assistant Director, OEO, on 9/5/67, who advised that steps had been taken to insure that such did not recur in the future. A detailed memorandum is attached.

Statements Against Established Law and Order

While no direct evidence has come to the Bureau’s attention of outright seditious statements on the part of anti-poverty workers, allegations have been received of statements against established law and order and of statements tending to incite the people. Examples follow:

Marion S. Barry, Jr., former Washington Director of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, joined the United Planning Organization, Washington, D.C., as a $50-a-day consultant on 7/21/67. This organization is funded by OEO. On 6/30/67 Barry reportedly conducted a press conference on the steps of the 13th Precinct, Metropolitan Police Department, at which time he denounced the Police Department and stated that Negroes would
