Nude Psychotherapy

Now available! A personal detailed account of the first experimental NUDE PSYCHO-THERAPY marathon, written by a participant, reveals the happenings at a scientifically conducted weekend session involving 3 nudists and 17 non-nudists. Only $1.

ELYSIUM Institute  
5436 FERNWOOD AVENUE, DEPT. RAM8 1  
Los Angeles (719 Angeles), CAL. 90027

REPORT states that when the prisoner was being led from court on January 24, 1964, he “made wild accusations to newspaper reporters, accusing the FBI of not attempting to prevent the assassination of President Kennedy…” (CD 404).

That the charges may not be so wild is indicated by the fact that the government threw the book at Nagell, a first offender who says he expected to be charged only with discharging a firearm on government-protected property. Since his sentencing, he has been shuttled between Leavenworth and the federal medical center (a euphemism for mental institution) at Springfield, Missouri. While the government has suggested in court that his airplane crash mentally affected Nagell, the fact remains that he was given intelligence training after the crash. What Nagell alleges is damning not only to the FBI, but to the CIA. In brief, he says that the motive for the assassination was Kennedy's move in the direction of a rapprochement with Castro, which was a rank betrayal in the eyes of anti-Castro elements. As he puts it, an anti-Castro group in New Orleans and Mexico City, code name Bravo Club, decided to give Kennedy a “Christmas present” to be delivered September 26, a date that was postponed. A party was required. Two members of Bravo Club approached Oswald while he was working at the Reily coffee firm in New Orleans in the summer of 1963, and appealed to his ego in setting him up as the patsy. When the “delivery” site was shifted to Dallas, Bravo Club enlisted the aid of a Dallas “subsidiary,” Delta Club.

Meanwhile the CIA got wind of the plans and sent several agents into the field to ascertain whether they were “for real.” Nagell says he was one of the agents dispatched. Within a short time, he claims, he was pulled in. It had been verified that the plans were authentic, that “gusanos [anti-Castroites] were making the watch tick,” and that the sum of the plot was right-wing in nature. Nagell says that he was instructed to “arrow” the patsy, that is kill him, after the assassination. At this point, he contends, he got cold feet and bailed out. “I would rather be arrested than commit murder and treason,” he declared in a self-prepared petition for habeas corpus.

In the petition, Nagell asserts that he used the pseudonyms Robert Nolan and Joseph Kramer in the U.S. and three foreign countries under the authorization of the Defense Intelligence Agency. He states that the files of the FBI and the CIA contain information that Oswald was using the aliases Albert Hidel and Aleksei Hidel. He charges that the FBI illegally seized from him evidence crucial to his defense, such as notebooks containing the names of certain CIA employees, photographs, two Mexican tourist cards (one in the name Joseph Kramer, the other in the name Albert Hidel), and receipts for registered mail, including the one for the letter sent Hoover warning of the assassination.

When Nagell complains he has been “salted away” because of what he knows, he just might be making the understatement of the year.

The Elimination of a Patsy

“DIDN'T KILL ANYBODY... I'm just a patsy,” Oswald shouted to newsmen while in police custody. A marked patsy, contends Garrison—one who was not supposed to have lived long enough to utter his cry of innocence. But something had misfired, and Oswald fell not into the hands of his would-be executioners, but into the comparative safety of the Dallas jail. The denouement presented a crisis that the conspirators could solve only by pressing police buff Jack Ruby into service.

Although the Warren Commission concluded that Oswald ducked into his Oak Cliff rooming house to pick up the .38 revolver, later confiscated from him in the Texas Theater, it did not explain why, if he had gone to work at the School Book Depository that morning intending to kill the President and escape, he did not take the revolver with him. That he made a beeline to his rooming house for the sole purpose of getting the revolver speaks of a man who desperately wanted to protect himself from treacherous comrades rather than from the police. Notwithstanding the mild resistance he put up in his refuge in the Texas Theater, Oswald’s demeanor in custody gave every
