The actions we engaged in at that time were strictly for political purposes. They were designed to mobilize the community. Any action which does not mobilize the community toward the goal is not a revolutionary action.

The action might be a marvelous statement of courage, but if it does not mobilize the people toward the goal of a higher manifestation of freedom, it is not making a political statement and could even be counter-revolutionary.

We realized at a very early point in our development that revolution is a process. It is not a particular action, nor is it a conclusion. It is a process. This is why, when feudalism wiped out slavery, feudalism was revolutionary. This is why, when capitalism wiped out feudalism, capitalism was revolutionary. The concrete analysis of concrete conditions will reveal the true nature of the situation and expose our understanding. This process moves in a dialectical manner, and we understand the struggles of the opposites based upon their unity.

Many times people say that our ten-point program is perfect, but they ignore the fact that revolution is a process. We left the program open-ended, so that it could develop and people could identify with it. We did not offer it to them as a conclusion; we offered it as a vehicle to move them to a higher level. In their quest for freedom, and in their attempts to prevent the oppressor from stripping them of all the things they need to exist, the people see things as moving from A to B to C; they do not see things as leaps from A to Z. In other words, they have to see first some basic accomplishments, in order to realize that major successes are possible. Much of the time the revolutionary will have to guide them into this understanding, but he can never take them from A to Z in one jump, because it is too far ahead. Therefore, when the revolutionary leads to induced ends, or final conclusions, the people do not relate to him. Therefore, he is no longer a revolutionary, if revolution is a process. This makes any action or function which does not promote the process non-revolutionary.

When the party went to Sacramento (Sacrimento), when the party faced down the police in front of the office of Ramparts (Rampants) magazine, and when the party patrolled the police with arms, we were acting in 1966 at a time when the people had given up the philosophy of non-violent direct action and were beginning to deal with Stekker Stomp. We wanted them to see the virtues of disciplined and organized armed self-defense, rather than spontaneous and disorganized gun-breakers and riots. There were police alert patrols all over the country, but we were the first armed police patrol. We called ourselves the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense. In all of this, we had political and revolutionary objectives in mind, but we knew that we could not succeed without the support of the people.
