TDCS DB-3/650,938.

Is known to have been dissatisfied with his present assignment and to have harbored resentments against Diem for alleged slights, despite the fact that Diem promoted him from colonel to brigadier general several years ago. Major Long has exhibited professional competence in his present position.

11. Field comment. It is possible that all of the information proceeded from a single source or from two sources and the variation in detail was in the oral accounts of different sources. The Government of Vietnam (GVN) Central Intelligence Organization (CIO) was unaware of any possible coup shortly after midnight on 1–2 August. However, at approximately the same time, the normal presidential guard had already been reinforced and police checkpoints also seemed to have been reinforced. Given the advance alert by the GVN military and security elements, it is probable that any intended coup would be abortive.

Field comment.

12. At 0200 on 2 August, Saigon was quiet and there were no signs apparent of any coup attempt, except for the alert of some of the GVN elements stated in paragraph. This would indicate an air attack in Saigon. When did we hear his AC and he? I did not. This is a complex situation and I would welcome any intelligence from you on this matter.

(JE12-13) Kifield comment. The intercept of a plain text VC radio message referred to in paragraph five is not convincing, and raises the possibility that the VC might be engaged in a confusion maneuver. It sepes capability to intercept and decode a message in the same day, as reported in paragraph nine, is questionable.

Of the interpretation, as reported in paragraph five, is not convincing, and raises the possibility that the be engaged in a confusion maneuver. It sepes capability to in paragraph (b), is not convincing, and raises the message in the same day, as reported in paragraph nine, is questionable.

(C) E-4. Mike field-dissem. State of CINCPAC & ARPAC to PACAF9 PAFLT.

Meey (20CSG CGME) maybe Pong did not know the origin of the workpage.

End of message.
