Trafficante Made Secret Appearance At Senate Investigation, Sources Say

By RON LaBRECQUE  
Herald Staff Writer

Florida's reputed organized crime boss, Santos Trafficante of Tampa and Miami, made a secret, four-hour October appearance before the Senate Intelligence Committee to answer questions about his role in a CIA assassination plot, investigation sources have disclosed.

Trafficante, 62, had not previously been questioned by the committee or its staff in the two-year-old investigation of CIA activities.

Of the three Mafia figures involved in the early 1960s plot to kill Cuban Premier Fidel Castro, only Trafficante is still alive. Both Sam Giancana and John Rosselli were murdered within the last 16 months.

The murders are unsolved.

John Rosselli

Investigators also said that Trafficante had dinner with Rosselli at The Landings, a Fort Lauderdale restaurant, in mid-July, less than two weeks before Rosselli disappeared. Rosselli's body, stuffed in an oil drum, floated to the surface of Dumfoundling Bay the first week of August.

Trafficante reportedly has told police that the July dinner with Rosselli—as well as several other meetings previously at the Cordoba Restaurant in Miami, formerly owned by the husband of Rosselli's niece, according to police—were “friendly, social events with no business.”

Investigators in recent weeks have centered their efforts on tracing the whereabouts of Trafficante's associates at the time of Rosselli's disappearance, a source said.

Trafficante, who for about four years after Rosselli's death has maintained a home at 740 NE 155th St. in North Dade, could not be reached for comment.

Trafficante was identified as the head of a South Florida Mafia family in testimony in 1963 before a U.S. Senate subcommittee.

His attorney, Henry Gonzalez of Tampa, who accompanied Trafficante when he went to Washington, according to sources, would not comment on either the Senate appearance or Trafficante's past activities. When first asked about the Senate appearance, he said, “You realize you're treading on dangerous ground.”

A committee source said that Trafficante had not been questioned previously by the committee because his role in the plot had been considered “secondary.”

Interest was renewed in the plot after Rosselli's death. Investigators sought to determine whether the murders of the two men were connected in any way with their testimony or potential testimony before the committee.

Giancana, who was a Mafia boss in Chicago for many years, was killed in June 1975, at the same time Senate investigators were preparing to contact him. The gun used to kill Giancana, found discarded on a roadside several miles from Giancana's house a month after the murder, was traced to a Miami gunshop, but the trail stopped there.

Investigators said the gun was part of a shipment purchased in 1965 by the Tamiami Gun Shop, but there are no records to indicate where it went from there, according to investigators and gunshop owners.

Rosselli, whose most powerful Mafia days were reportedly in the 1950s and early 1960s in Las Vegas and Los Angeles, did appear before the committee at least three times in the 12 months before his death.

In Washington, the committee has kept a tight clamp on comment about the investigation, and only one member, Robert T. Stafford (R., Vt.), acknowledged the Trafficante session, saying, “I was not present when the witness you speak of was in front of the committee.”

Sen. Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii), the committee chairman who, along with Sen. Howard Baker (R., Tenn.), pressured for Justice Department and FBI involvement in the Rosselli murder case, said, “I have never met Mr. Trafficante. That’s as far as I’ll go.”

A prime interest of the committee has been possible links between the CIA Castro plotting and the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Revelations of the Senate committee were a key factor in the creation of the new House of Representatives investigation, which is taking a new look at the JFK murder.

Trafficante reportedly has told investigators that he first met Rosselli about 1956. It was in the early 1950s that Florida law-enforcement officials estimated that a Bolita (Boilita) operation run by Trafficante and his brother netted $2 million annually.

Trafficante was a major gambling figure in pre-Castro Havana, where he ran a casino. In 1959, it was estimated that $1 million or $2 million was bet nightly in all the Mafia-run casinos in Havana. The gambling stopped when Castro took over in 1959.

Rosselli was the first of the three Mafia figures to be recruited by the CIA in 1960 in its plot to assassinate Castro.
