First Name: John. Last Name: James. Date of Birth: Meyly. Place of Birth: Consult. Marital Status: General (now deceased). Sex: and Female. If present, telephone number: Clerks. Nationality: E. Citizenship: U.S. Habitat of Residence: Born 1920. In Country of Citizenship: Resident. Possession of passport and visa at time of interview: Passport and Visa in Charge of Department. Current Employment Status: 3 years. Previous Employment Status: continues in service. Reason for leaving current employment: with the State Dept. at a different Mexican post. To accept position with OSS: to accept position in the American Foreign Service.

Name of Supervisor. Name of Employee. Department. Phone Number. Date of Employment: San Diego, California. State of Employment (City and State). Number and Type of Employees Supervised by Him. Date of Birth: July 1930. Marital Status: San Diego. Sixty or More Years of Age: California. Not Applicable: Wholesale All-Silk Insurance Agency, also of Los Angeles. Description of Your Work: Management and operation of gasoline service station. Duration of Current Employment: 7 Years.

Affiliation (Name and address of Employer): Alfred E. Noel (Father). Service Station Manager. Management and operation of gasoline service station. 5 Years. Continued in service. To accept position with OSS.

Name and Title of Immediate Supervisor. Name and Title of Employee. Department. Date of Employment. State of Employment (City and State). Number and Type of Employees Supervised by Him. Name and Telephone No. of Supervisor. July 1930. San Diego. California. Toll Free Service to all U.S. States, except Hawaii. Description of your work: Assistant to Foreign Trade and Traffic Manager of San Diego Chamber of Commerce. 3 Years. 1800 per year.

None. None. None. July 1930. San Diego. Kind of Business or Organization: Assistant to Foreign Trade and Traffic Manager of San Diego Chamber of Commerce. July 1930. San Diego. California. Stenographic work, drafting routine correspondence, maintenance of traffic rates files.
