Fitness Report. Employer serial number.

Section A: General.

Name: Smith, Joseph B. Date of birth: 16 June 1921. Sex: M. Grade: 03-13. Service designation: DP. Official position title: OP's Officer, PP. Office/division/grade of assignment: Manila. Career staff status: Not eligible, pending, declined, member, deferred, denied. Type of report: Annual. Reassignment/supervisor. Reassignment/employer. Date report due in O.P.: September 1958–31 October 1959. Special: Promotion.

Section B: Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

1—Unsatisfactory. 2—Barely adequate. 3—Acceptable. 4—Competent. 5—Excellent. 6—Superior. 7—Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: As case officer has directed and managed two well-established PP projects. DG 70. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 2: Served as a principal case officer for a special election project. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 3: Collects and produces intelligence according to Station requirements. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 4: Assists in the production of Station PP themes as required. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 5: Act as Deputy Chief, PP. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 6: DG 72. Rating No. 4.

Section C: Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position: performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements. Rating No. 1/5.

2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.

3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.

4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
