Vice-Intelligence Division  
Montgomery County Police Department

Continuing Investigations Reports

Subject/Case Reference: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael

Date Observations/Investigation Conducted/Expenses

VO with only one or two ounces in the bottle. Several pills were noted on the table with the bottle. Two bottles of prescription Librium; only six capsules were in the bottle.

Interviewed the manager of the hotel, who indicated that he had noticed an odor coming from the victim's room and, having had previous experience of such, contacted the engineer and they went in. Not one of our better places; it is right in the Rush Street area, which is our swinging part of town. She indicated the last time she saw her was six days prior, when she left instructions for the maid not to clean her room until Tuesday the 20th, which is kind of strange. They don't elaborate any more on that.

Alban — that would be the 15th then if she was found the 21st.

Adorjian — yeah, and she doesn't want her room cleaned until the following Tuesday. In the room were various hospital bills indicating the victim had recently been hospitalized. They were from Henroten (Henrotin) and Northwestern Hospitals, which are in close proximity to the Maryland Hotel. They went to the hospital, examined the body, and nothing other than the decomposition was noted. Went to the Henroten (Henrotin) Hospital and revealed victim was in fact a patient of the hospital, but failed to show for next of kin purposes. Went to Northwestern Hospital and interviewed Doctor Nelson Berrelli, who indicated the victim was receiving psychiatric care and listed an ex-husband whose name you've got.

Alban — that is Louis Piccerelli.

Adorjian — no, George E. Hanley.

Alban — George Hanley.

Adorjian — with an address—another address in here. Doctor's record: victim's father, Melvin Bliffen. Door was locked on the inside, 13th floor up, no fire escape. Due to the fact all the pills other than that, it is being classified as a death investigation, waiting outcome of coroner's examination and inquest. Apparently, no foul play connected at this particular time unless we have some further information.
