Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of manager or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be documented, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This officer has continued to perform with a high degree of effectiveness and accomplishment. He has concentrated on improving our records holding standards and on purging irrelevant and out-dated files. In May 1972 he began a monthly series of progress reports for the Chief of Station outlining the month's accomplishments. Copies of these reports through January 1973 were sent to Iqfs in OIRT-18014 and 18015, dated 9 Feb 73. These reports clearly show this officer's focus on records management activities, his ingenuity and aggressiveness in launching programs of review of files and his tireless efforts in reducing Station holdings to a practical and useable minimum. His records inventory as of September 1972, reporting a total reduction in excess of 85 feet, speaks for itself. His next report also promises to show dramatic reductions.

This officer shows a sense of professional responsibility and determination in the oft neglected function of records management, deeper and more intense than any other witnessed by the rating officer in his career. He performs his other duties as Chief, Registry with an equally high degree of effectiveness. Subject officer may have been inadvertently hiding his talents under the proverbial bushel basket by having remained in the field for so long. It is the rater's hope that Iqfs now has focussed on him and has discovered his potential for greater responsibilities. The records in this Station are tremendously improved for his having had a tour in Rome. We are certainly glad he came.

Section D: Certification and Comments by Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 30 April 1973. Signature of employee: /s/ James B. Woods.

By Supervisor. Months employer has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation.

Date: 23 May 1973. Official title of supervisor: Admin Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Thomas McKinley.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: This officer has been remarkably effective during his tour in Rome. While we are very sorry to lose him, there is no question that his formidable talents should be used on a much broader range of records management and related problems than could be done in this Station. His next assignment in Headquarters appears to give him that additional scope. We are glad that he served in Rome and that during this tour here he received a well-deserved promotion. Rome Station's records have improved considerably as a result of this officer's tour here. I am in full agreement with the above comments and ratings.

Date: 23 May 1973. Official title of reviewing official: Ops Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ William Acon, Jr.
