The information plugged into the indexing system will not become an actual file until there is some reason for opening a file on a particular person. At that point (for example, a file search requested by another Agency), all information relating to a particular person will be collated in one place. This, in turn, will be developed into a separate file (a personality file). If the information on a particular person is requested by a CIA field office, the collation process would occur and the field would be told how the particular person had come to the attention of the Agency in the first instance and would also be told any derogatory information which the field station would want to know.

Other CI files derived from ongoing cases. Part of these files emanate from information provided to the Agency by defectors. For example, one element of this information is designated “Soviet leads.” This is because the CI staff learned from a defector that all Soviet women employed in the United States Embassy in the USSR during a certain period were Soviet agents. Some of these women, in turn, married Americans, and, as a result, now live in the United States. The FBI is advised of the identity of all these women. The CI staff, under official cover, occasionally goes out to interview these women, in an effort to convince them to reveal what they know about KGB operations. The effort was first to determine whether the women continue to be KGB agents, and, if not, to gather information from them. The general modus operandi would be to tell the women that we know that at one time they were KGB agents and, while we did not intend to take any action against them, to request them to reveal information that they may have learned at that time concerning KGB operations. Generally, the women would agree to do so. If they did not, the contact would, at least temporarily, be dropped. These women are used as “defectors who did not defect.”

Other examples of ongoing cases are: a journalist who had private contact with George Blake, a former KGB agent in England; an American who was tied into the Able case (in this instance, the actions are taken by the Bureau, but guidance given by CI staff); and a journalist who the KGB, on three occasions, attempted unsuccessfully to recruit.*

Other files may relate to actions begun because of some kind of counterintelligence implication in a particular situation. In these instances CI would maintain the files because of the particular sensitivity of the matter, even though action may be taken by another Agency component.

*Stein noted that the decision as to whether to utilize someone as a double agent is made by the CIA. If the decision is affirmative, the double agent would be handled by the Agency (if he is abroad) or by the FBI (if he is in this country). The only exceptions to this pattern would be where the double agent is in the United States for only a brief time or where he has a special relationship with a particular CIA officer.
