Affidavit

United States of America  
District of Columbia

I, C. Douglas Dillon, being first duly sworn, do upon oath depose and state:

From June 1959 until early January 1961, I served as Under Secretary of State. During approximately 35-40 percent of that time, I served as Acting Secretary of State because of Secretary Herter's absence from Washington.

Secretary Herter, who preceded me as Under Secretary of State, had served as the State Department representative on the 54/12 Committee, a predecessor of the present Forty Committee. When I became Under Secretary, the President asked me to retain my earlier responsibilities for foreign economic policy. Accordingly, the Number 3 position in the Department of State was designated as Under Secretary for Political Affairs. Robert Murphy was appointed to this position and took over the State Department's responsibilities on the 54/12 Committee.

Because of the frequency of my service as Acting Secretary of State, I was kept regularly informed of important 54/12 Committee decisions. On occasion I met with the 54/12 Committee and participated in its deliberations.

During this entire period I have no recollection of any discussions or decisions looking toward the assassination of either Generalissimo Trujillo or Prime Minister Castro.

On one occasion in late July or early August of 1960, shortly after Patrice Lumumba's visit to Washington, I attended a meeting in the Pentagon at which the overall Congo problem was discussed. During the discussion, which covered a great variety of matters, my recollection is that a question regarding the possibility of an assassination attempt against Lumumba was briefly raised. The CIA representative indicated that the Agency did not undertake this sort of operation. This ended consideration of this subject. With this one exception I never heard any discussion of assassination attempts against anyone.

Dated this 21st day of May, 1975.

C. Douglas Dillon

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 21st day of May 1975,

Notary Public  
District of Columbia
