Letter to SJC, New York

Re: Irving Kahn

In August 1964, Kahn told Kazakevich that Sterling Spero probably would not meet him in Moscow. Spero had a heart attack in Berlin and planned to return to New York. Kahn indicated that Phil Baum had told him that he had enjoyed his visit with Kazakevich. In November 1964, Kahn informed Kazakevich (Kazakavich) that he had visited Sterling Spero in the hospital in Berlin. Spero was then better and back in New York. (C)

During the contact in June 1964, the subject wanted to know whether Kazakevich ever saw his cousin, Sam Jaffee, representative of AIG-Paramount. In August 1964, the subject mentioned his cousin, Sam Jaffee, again, stating that Jaffee represented WACC in Moscow. He wished that Kazakevich could visit Jaffee. Kahn told Kazakevich that Jaffee was married to a young girl from New Zealand and resided in Moscow. (C)

Sam Jaffee (San Jaffee) is undoubtedly identical with Samuel Jaffee, subject of our file 134-3315. (C)

During a contact in August 1964, Kahn answered what was believed to be a previous inquiry from Kazakevich regarding an unidentified individual. Kahn told Kazakevich that he did not know “him” but believed that he was then in charge of the International Affairs Committee in Haarlem’s (not further identified) office. (C)

In November 1964, Kahn reported to Kazakevich regarding the trip he and his wife, Ruth, had taken to Europe with a group of financial analysts. They flew to London, Brussels, Dusseldorf, Berlin, Frankfurt, Vienna, Madrid, Paris, and Amsterdam and spent about a month visiting corporate managements and meeting with bankers. (C)

Kahn told Kazakevich in June 1964 that American impressions of Russia were improving, but the Russians would get good out of a large exchange of visitors. In August 1964, Kahn urged the Russians to let the Soviets travel to the United States. He thought such travel would result in obtaining goodwill, and the visitors could persuade influential Americans that the U.S.S.R. did not want to widen its borders or to make other countries accept communism. (C)

Kahn assured Kazakevich that the Soviets could call upon the United States to repeat the material help and military aid given during World War II if they needed help against aggressor Eastern nations. Kahn indicated that he had “long felt” that the U.S.S.R. had no plans for military conquest. (C)
