Publications

CARIC publishes a bi-weekly Intelligence Report and a quarterly publication named Counter-Spy, featuring various articles examining the structures and operations of U.S. intelligence. In addition, CARIC publishes occasional pamphlets on various concepts in the craft of intelligence. CARIC also provides reprints of selected articles on intelligence which have appeared in other publications.

CARIC is preparing a guide to U.S. intelligence which will serve as a citizen access device to the hidden world of government operations. We hope that any controversy raised by this guide or any other CARIC publication will lead to public debate and resolution of the issues involved. Our analysis is based in a firm belief that no human being should be denied life, liberty or the pursuit of happiness by our government or its agents. CARIC publications aid the public effort to ensure the veneration of this concept by those in our government.

In-From-the-Cold Hearings

CARIC will sponsor In-From-the-Cold Hearings featuring public testimony by individuals intimately involved with U.S. intelligence. The hearings will focus on American intervention abroad, domestic repression in this country and the effects of secrecy on the individuals' personality. Former intelligence workers and those who have been victimized by the intelligence community will publicly relate their participation in activities of our government which can no longer be ignored by good citizens.

Join the Counter-Spy Team

Join with us in our effort to end “illegal, unconstitutional and gross acts” by our government. CARIC is entirely supported by donations from American citizens. Donate and become a sponsoring member of the Committee for Action/Research on the Intelligence Community. Sponsoring members receive our bi-weekly Intelligence Report and our quarterly Counter-Spy as well as additional information on government operations. CARIC actively seeks the advice and viewpoints of all sponsoring members in our activities. Write to CARIC, Box 647, Ben Franklin Station, Washington, D.C. 20044, or call (202) 785-8330.

With your support we can prevent the visions of George Orwell in 1984 from becoming an American reality.

Stop the Spying. Stop Technofascism.

CARIC  
Box 647  
Ben Franklin Station  
Washington, D.C. 20044

I wish to sponsor the efforts of CARIC. Please find enclosed my donation of $

I wish only to subscribe to the Intelligence Report and to Counter-Spy ($6/individual, $10/organization).

Name

Address

ZIP

The Committee for Action Research on the Intelligence Community (CARIC)

Don’t Read This Out Loud!
