Fitness Report. Employer serial number: 10032.

Section A. General.

1. Name: Woods, James (Last, First, Middle). 2. Date of birth: 20 Feb 28. 3. Sex: M. 4. Grade: GS-09. 5. DO: D.

6. Official position title: Intel Analyst Gen. 7. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/FE/JKO. 8. Current station: Tokyo.

9. Check type of appointment: Career; Career-Provisional; Special (Specify); Reserve; Temporary.

10. Check type of report: Initial; Annual; Reassignment Supervisor; Reassignment Employee.

11. Date report due in O.P.: 30 November 1963. 12. Reporting period: 1 Oct 62–30 Sep 63.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

W – Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A – Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P – Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S – Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O – Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Chief of Central Registry and Records with responsibility for the receipt and routing of all incoming and outgoing cables, dispatches, and memoranda of the Station, including all other organizations corresponding with the Station.
