Section X continued from page 8.

List any significant published materials of which you are the author. Do not submit copies unless requested. Indicate title, publication date, and type of writing (non-fiction, scientific articles, general interest subjects, novels, short stories, etc.).

8. Indicate any devices which you have invented and state whether or not they are patented.

9. List any public speaking and public relations experience.

10. List any professional, academic or honorary associations or societies in which you are now or were formerly a member. List academic honors you have received.

Section XI. Organization Work Experience—Since Last Completion of a Personnel Qualifications Questionnaire.

Inclusive dates: April 1947 to April 1949. Grade: GS-12. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/WH Division. Number of employees under direct supervision: 2. Official position title: Chief of Station, Guatemala City, Guatemala. Description of duties: Responsibility for the administration and operations of a field station. Opened our Station at Guatemala City. Established and maintained relations with other U.S. officials and agencies. Agent development and handling.

Inclusive dates: August 1949 to Nov. 1951. Grade: 13-14. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/WH Division. Number of employees under direct supervision: 8. Official position title: DCOM & later Chief of Mission, Buenos Aires, Argentina. Description of duties: Chief of Station. Supervision of all station activities. Planning and execution of field operations. Maintenance of liaison with Ambassador and other U.S. officials. Agent handling.

Inclusive dates: Sept. 1952 to Nov. 1955. Grade: 14-15. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/WH Division. Number of employees under direct supervision: 10. Official position title: Chief of Station, Caracas, Venezuela. Description of duties: Chief of Station. Supervision of all station activities. Liaison with local security services in Venezuela and Netherlands West Indies and Surinam. Liaison with Amb. & other U.S. agencies. Planning & execution of field ops. Agent handling.

Inclusive dates: January 1956-June 1957. Grade: GS-15. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/WH Division, Branch I. Number of employees under direct supervision: 21. Official position title: Chief of Branch. Description of duties: Supervision of activities of
