Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 017974.

Section A—General. Name: Fox, Jerome. Date of birth: 10/09/65. Sex: M. Grade: GS-12. SO: D. Official position title: Ops Officer. Type of appointment: Temporary. Initial: X. Reassignment supervisor: Annual. Reassignment employee: Special (Specify). Date report due in O.P.: Feb 66. Reporting period: 29 December 1964 to 31 Dec 1965.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Officer in charge of liaison with the Municipal Police. DES. Rating letter: P. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Officer in charge of liaison with postal authorities. Rating letter: P. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 3: Officer in liaison with operational components of Headquarters, Special Branch. Rating letter: P. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 4: Handles all the correspondence, files and associated memoranda connected with the tasks cited above. Rating letter: P. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 5. Rating letter: R.
