Garrison and Shaw, it has not been validated for historical research. Even though familiar with the machine believe it can be used in this way, my project’s first attempt to do so.

It was easier to demonstrate with the PSE that the speaker is telling the truth than that he was lying. Stress can be caused by other factors than deception; but the absence of stress is an extremely reliable sign of truthfulness. Of course, the absence of stress does not prove that a person is telling the truth, only that the speaker is trying to be truthful.

Though I found a great deal of stress involved in the assassination tapes, not once can I say that the interviewee was lying. I point this out not only because of its logical significance but because I was not morally certain that any one individual was not telling the truth.

Nonetheless, stress in the testimony of witnesses to the same event makes the mathematical probability overwhelming that at least some of them were lying.

A point could not be better illustrated than it was by the Jim Garrison–Lee Shaw affair.

Garrison, it may be recalled, was the New Orleans District Attorney who, in 1967, claimed to have solved the Kennedy assassination. He presented an elaborate case for a local businessman, Clay Shaw, as a member of an assassination society. In one of the hour-long pro-CBS interviews, Garrison discussed Shaw and other people involved in Garrison’s affairs.

An interview. Garrison was hostile and made many firm, factual statements tested with the PSE. However, he did not say, “There’s no question about it [that they had the assassination carried out] ... we know the key individuals ... there is no question that the conspirators were there [in Dealey Plaza].” The PSE showed good to hard stress on each of these statements. I also tested a controversial statement of Garrison’s as a control: “Oswald was not killed at the movie theater where he was [arrested],” and found no stress. Garrison’s statements about his case against Clay strongly indicated deception.

He ran some statements by Clay Shaw into his involvement in such a conspiracy, denying ever knowing or meeting Lee Harvey Oswald. I also ran a control item. Shaw turned out to be heavily involved throughout.

It was not particularly surprising. The President of the United States had been accused of conspiring to overthrow the government and was being interviewed about it before television cameras. He would have to have been a pretty cool customer not to show stress, even if he were telling the truth.

I bring this up because both Garrison’s and Shaw’s stress was not encouraging.

Valid evidence linking Shaw to the assassination was lacking, and then, in the time-honored tradition of prosecutors, Garrison invented the rest of his case. But Shaw’s stress could easily be the result of his predicament, and Garrison’s might also be the result of some outside issue. The situation was ambiguous.

I ran the testimony of Lee Odom. Odom, a Dallas businessman, was attempting to explain the mysterious coincidence of the post office box numbers. It seems that the Dallas post office box number 11906 appeared in the notebooks of both Clay Shaw and Lee Harvey Oswald. In his testimony, Odom stated that he could not account for the number appearing in Oswald’s notebook, but he knew how it got into Shaw’s. It was Odom’s box number, and he had given it to Shaw, whom he’d met by chance on a business trip to New Orleans. The PSE showed hard stress during his statement. No unrelated control statement was available for me to run for comparison.

This didn’t really clear things up. There were several obvious alternative explanations for Odom’s stress. For example, there had been a number of rather unsavory allegations in the press about Clay Shaw, unrelated to the Garrison charges. Odom may have felt extremely uncomfortable about linking himself to this man in any way. The coincidence of the box numbers seemed very suspicious, but Bob Smith of the Committee had pointed out to me that both Shaw’s and Oswald’s notebooks were filled with numbers, so the chance of such a coincidence was not that remote.

Deception is not proved by stress, but given enough witnesses’ testimony, the PSE is able to arrive at the truth.

At this point I began to wonder if the television camera was the “outside issue” in every case. Perhaps just being on television will so thoroughly rattle the average person that, lying or not, he is going to show stress on the PSE. I checked this out by recording and charting a number of people on television programs—public officials, men in the street, even witnesses to a particularly gruesome accident. There was occasional stress, but it never reached the high level I was finding in the assassination tapes.

I also recalled something else which put my mind to rest on this point: the PSE had been used to analyze the statements of “so-and-so” with an accuracy of better than 94 percent. The problem obviously was not the television camera.

I ran the testimony of William Gurvich on the PSE. Gurvich had been Garrison’s chief aide in the investigation of Clay Shaw until he.
