Office Memorandum, United States Government.

To: Mr. L. V. Boardman  
Date: 10-13-55  
From: Mr. A. H. Belmont  
cc: Boardman, Belmont, Branigan, Liaison, Sanders

Subject: State Department Requests for Surveillances of Latin Americans

By letter of 10/10/55, Mr. Robert Murphy, Deputy Under-secretary of State, noted that it is important that State keep track of movements and contacts of selected Latin Americans while in U.S. when there are reasons to believe subversive activities directed at other governments of this hemisphere are being planned and coordinated here. The letter notes that the FBI has cooperated in furnishing information from established sources but “has shown understandable reluctance to become involved to the extent of conducting direct surveillance in cases where there is no evidence of nor reason to suspect subversive activities directed against the United States or violation of United States laws.” Letter requests opinion as to how surveillance of selected Latin American visitors might be arranged on individual case basis and notes that identical letter being sent to CIA in the hope a coordinated approach can be made.

In November, 1954, Bureau refused State request for surveillance of Pedro Estrada, Director, Venezuelan Security Police, who was brought here by State and escorted around by State Department Security Division agent. In August, 1955, State requested Bureau furnish as complete information as possible regarding movements of Colonel Romulo Fernandez and his aide during 3 day stay in Miami. No request for surveillance made and State was advised none being conducted; individuals covered by other means and State furnished information developed. No other identifiable instances where State has requested or indicated possible desirability of physical surveillance.

Attached is suggested letter to State advising Bureau investigates promptly cases indicating subversive action against other Governments in this hemisphere using investigative techniques appropriate; that full-time surveillances require tremendous expenditures of manpower and in most cases more information can be obtained through other techniques but Bureau not reluctant to use physical surveillance when circumstances warrant; that when State has creditable information of type of activity referred to, it should be referred to Bureau in order that prompt investigation may be made; and that Bureau will consider physical surveillance when requested by State when agreed it is warranted. Attached letter also notes it would be desirable, appropriate and in accordance with U.S. laws that such individuals not be allowed to enter U.S. when reason to believe they would engage in such activities.

Enclosure.

Venezuelan Army Chief of Staff.
