CO-2-5,206,971

Observation of an unstable non-rotating ionized particle with albumin and glycerin as the result of moderately high caloric doses of mixtures of the acids of lactalbumin: 3% or 20%. It is also revealed from such exposures what appeared to be a variable exponential or power-type urinary uranium excretion function and a strong retention of the uranium oxides in the lungs and mucosal areas. These conclusions also allegedly caused a deterioration of conditioned reflexes in their dogs, but no pathological changes were found in the nervous system at autopsy. They did find sclerotic damage in the pulmonary mesenchyma, peritoneum, and mediastinal lymph nodes. This damage was more prominent in the dogs inhaling mixtures of oxides containing the highest percentage of Uranium 210. One case, however, was so severe that there was a carcinoma of the lung and another type of atypical interstitial change in the lung. V. S. Karmakar of the US reported that silicosis plus radon exposures in animals caused more deaths and pathological pulmonary damage than either silica or radon alone. I. N. Callsboy of the USSR reported on the body distribution and biological effects of numerous inhaled radioisotopes with acute, subacute, chronic, and late-onset lung diseases. A person known to us said little about the effects of the radiation sources and was not aware whether it was new knowledge or not.

5. J. Lafuma from France reported finding two radiation cases in a slave dog attached by a cross-bleed circulation experiment when the slave dog inhaled radon. Radon daughters were born by way of the master dog. The Yugoslavians reported confirmation of information on finding the immediate radon daughter attached to dust articles, and they stressed the importance of determining radon data in the environment in order to calculate alpha lung doses. A second speaker reported studies of people and animals exposed to radon in their spaces and found a high lung retention of radon daughters, and that the bisocket daughters of radon were more readily exposed by cross-contamination than the lead daughters. Another speaker had made the case for a further increase in the function of mass mean diameter and chemical composition of radiation, with relation to lung retention. A speaker gave an interesting theoretical discussion on the effect of the thickness and physiological activity of the bronchial mucosa and on alpha-lung doses. A member of the US gave a theoretical discussion of the expected neighbor-code alpha dose from a point source. A third speaker from Poland unfortunately was not present to give his discussion. There was a report on the finding of radiolabel in the hair and nails of uranium-excreting subjects and its hypothetical evaluation of Lead 210 body burden therefrom.

6. J. C. Cilitland of the US gave a report on the secular disequilibrium of urinary daughters in uranium multimeals, methods for determining a mean time-weighted exposure to radon in millicuries at a frequency of sampling for 95% confidence, exceeding or not, a maximum allowable concentration. He detected no new ideas. There were papers on environmental exposure and internal and external contamination from Japan, France, and Canada.

7. E. C. Hyatt of the US, in a paper presented on techniques for measuring and sizing radioactive particles, recommended again that the particle size and density of radioactive particles should be separately evaluated, otherwise it would be too difficult to evaluate biological effects. It is generally accepted in the section on “Biological Protection” that ventilation is most important in controlling radon and radon-daughter products in nonsmoking atmospheres and that this has only a specially limited use in temporarily uncontrolled areas of exposure. The US results, however, paid unusual attention to Mr. Hyatt’s paper on respirators and seemed quite concerned about the acceptability by workers of the described respirators. The Russians apparently are using disposable masks.

8. Management of wastes appears to be a unique problem for the areas in which wastes occur. No general management of wastes was promoted.
