(b) Contacts during investigation

I. Once Bureau authority is granted to conduct the investigation, it is permissible to contact:

(A)

(B) All individuals not connected with the institution of learning who, consistent with discretion, would be contacted in a usual security case; e.g., neighbors, credit agencies, past employers, etc.

(C)

II. No contacts are to be made with students, graduate students, and professors, including established sources, informants, and other sources at educational institutions without prior Bureau authority. In requesting Bureau authority for such contacts, full justification should be set forth, as well as the individual's name, position, and a positive statement concerning his discretion and reliability.

[III.] Superiors of faculty members

No contact should be made with the superiors of a subject who is a member of the faculty since the superiors might take action against the subject as a result of our contact.

(c) Receiving voluntary information

These instructions must not deter or prevent the immediate and proper interview of any person connected with an institution of learning who desires of his own volition to furnish information to the Bureau or who desires to be contacted by an Agent.

(2) Subjects not connected with an institution of learning

When the subject of a security-type investigation is not connected with an institution of learning and you desire to interview, in connection with the case, a student, faculty member, or other employee of an institution of learning, prior Bureau authority must be obtained for such an interview. In requesting authority, the name, position, and a positive statement concerning that person's discretion and reliability should be furnished to the Bureau.

(3) Contacts of foreign establishments

In connection with investigations of contacts of Soviet, satellite, and Yugoslav officials and official establishments, Bureau authority must be obtained before conducting any inquiries or surveillances at any school, college, or university. Submit complete facts and your recommendation when requesting such authority.

b. U.S. Government employees, individuals having foreign diplomatic or official status, employees of foreign official establishments, employees of the United Nations or international organizations, and members of the armed forces

Should information be received or investigation develop the fact that an individual being investigated under a security caption is or becomes
