Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position.

Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject, a senior officer in this capacity, has been at this station for the past 20 months as the responsible CA and Political officer. His past fitness report covered very thoroughly and accurately his ability to meet, develop, and recruit assets that are important to station's objective. He enjoys his work and the challenge of being on the spot. He is a thoroughly experienced officer in his field and although forced to specialize for years, we must start thinking of more responsible and more diversified employment for this fine officer.

He is conscientious, dedicated, and a team worker. He takes direction well and takes great pride in completing his obligations on schedule. One of the more imaginative officers of the station who is aggressive and effective. He handles his financial responsibilities well and has a good appreciation for the expenditure of official funds.

I was particularly impressed with Subject during his recent activity here the MAR disclosures. Subject cannot be credited for the disclosures but he can be given full credit for exploiting these events. He quickly put to use all of his assets. He personally prepared material for passage to the press. He supplied information for coverage in other papers in the hemisphere. He coordinated and furnished guidance to other Latin American stations on this subject. In all, he worked—continued.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 26 March 1971. Signature of employee: /s/ Joseph B. Smith.

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 26 March 1971. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ George A. Fill.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I agree with all of the above. Subject does a marvelous job in the propaganda field, getting a great deal of product out of a greatly-reduced (in number and cost) propaganda apparatus. He has a good sense of politics, and we have a few operations which are devoted to finding out what the COM won't tell us and what the political section probably can't get at. He has a good way with people and has made some interesting acquaintances which, in themselves, greatly increase the sensitivity of the station.

Our lack of a political mission here, aside from the limited one—continued. Date: 26 March 1971. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ John R. Horton.
