Committee Detailed in Lines.

Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for improving. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties should be described, if applicable.

This employee continues to be Chief of the Station Registry. During the past year his level of performance can be properly evaluated as exceptionally proficient. He continues to welcome hard work, is not bothered by constantly changing deadlines and is able to fill in for any absent member of his unit, and keep up his own work as well. He is quite conscious of the value of Government personnel and materiel, and does everything in his power to conserve these resources. He continues to come up with new ideas on how to perform his functions in a more efficient and effective manner. This results in benefits to the entire Station. It is regrettable that the position this employee fills does not allow for promotion since he has been performing at a level above his present grade for several years.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 1 Oct 64. Signature of employee: /s/ James S. Woods.

2. Months employee has been under my supervision.

Date: 1 Oct 64. Official title of supervisor: Ops Officer. /s/ Frederick Randall. Typed on printed name and signature: /s/ Frederick Randall.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: I fully concur with the rater's comments and sentiments. I have known this employee for a number of years during which time he has evidenced real growth in self-sufficiency and also in the handling of his responsibilities as a supervisor.

Date: 29 Oct 64. Official title of reviewing official: COS. /s/ William V. Broe.

Typed on printed name and signature.
