(2) Security index subjects considered for priority II. All individuals who are considered to be of second-level leadership of basic revolutionary organizations and other subversive organizations, and individuals who present significant threat but are in less influential positions than those in priority I.

(3) All other security index subjects will be tabbed priority III.

c. Recommendations for priority tabbing

(1) Approval of SAC designation of each subject as to priority, or any change in priority, must be personally approved by SAC, or, in offices having more than 1,000 security index subjects, by SAC, ASAC, or a Bureau-approved security supervisor.

(2) When FD-122 is submitted recommending either tabbing for priority or change in such tabbing, attach an additional page setting forth a brief summary of facts supporting the recommendation.

d. Administrative procedures

Take the following action to assure security index cards will be readily available for emergency action:

(1) Geographical section

Divide the geographical section into three parts:

(a) Cards for subjects tabbed priority I.

(b) Cards for subjects tabbed priority II.

(c) Cards for subjects tabbed priority III.

(d) In offices having two geographical sections, i.e., geographical-employment and geographical-residence, each section must have parts I, II, and III.

(e) Priority cards will be the following colors: Priority I—beige, Priority II—green, Priority III—white.

(2) Alphabetical section

The alphabetical section is broken down into two groupings. The first group includes priority I and II cards. The second group contains priority III cards.

e. Tabbing of cards

Tab alphabetical cards on subjects designated “Pro-Cuban” with a metal tab.

12. Individuals employed in or having access to key facilities

a. Responsibility

The FBI is responsible by Presidential directive to advise interested Federal agencies of developments affecting plants having armed forces contracts, as well as other facilities, utilities, and critical points of transportation and communications systems which have been designated vital to national defense by the Department of Defense. The FBI is responsible under the Delimitations Agreement for investigating employees of private contractors who have contracts with agencies of the Department of Defense where there is credible subversive information concerning the employee. Conduct a thorough investigation and consider for the security index any individual employed in or having access to a key facility who is alleged to have been, at any time in the past, a member of any basic revolutionary organization or against whom there is sufficient other subversive information to warrant such action.

(1) Requests for investigation from another agency.

When another agency requests investigation of an individual employed in a key facility, institute the investigation immediately if the basis of the request so warrants, and advise the Bureau.

(2) Verification of key facility status.

Check the Department of Defense Key Facilities List, maintained in each office, to verify that the subject’s place of employment is included.

(3) Individuals denied access to restricted information

Intelligence agencies of the armed forces frequently report that an individual has been denied clearance to work in a defense plant or to handle classified or restricted information. The intelligence agency is responsible for furnishing the Bureau with any information involving
