“Staring at a ring?” In fact, his yes to that was accompanied by such stress as I had only once or twice seen in the class slides.

The next morning Kradz called on me. “Did the suspect take the money?” he asked. “Did he?” I didn’t think so. Kradz nodded. “Did the suspect take the money?” “Yes,” I thought he did. “Very good,” said Kradz. “Did you see anything else about the interrogation?” Well, yes, there was this business about the ring. Perhaps the suspect had taken it. Kradz smiled. No, the kid hadn’t taken the ring, but he was gay. He had changed rings with another guy. Nobody had asked about it, because Kradz had gone over all the questions with him. Still, when the ring was mentioned, he panicked.

By the third day of the course, I had begun giving some thought to what I might do with the PSE. I was particularly interested in the fact that the device works from a tape recording. Sound-recording technology is more than a century old (Edison invented the phonograph in 1877), and an enormous amount of history is stored on phonograph records, sound tracks, and tape and wire recordings. I thought how many press conferences, interviews, and public pronouncements are stored away in the film and tape archives of the world, and how many questions could be settled if we knew for certain that a stress pattern in the testimony of several witnesses to the same event was genuine, I would very probably have uncovered deception.

Encouraged, I reviewed the list of recent mysteries. Watergate was, of course, the first to come to mind. The ITT affair was also of recent interest. The Kent State incident had never been fully cleared up. But one subject seemed to loom above all the rest—the assassination of John F. Kennedy.

Like many others, I have found it difficult to believe the Warren Report. When Mark Lane’s book came out, I read it carefully. I read much of the other criticism of the Warren Commission’s findings. The more I read, the more I doubted the official account of what happened that day in Dallas. I waited for the real story to emerge. It didn’t.

I needed access to the recordings. I was certain the television networks would have them, but I wasn’t sure exactly what to ask for. There must be thousands of hours of sound recordings relating to the assassination. Where, among all this talk, was the critical testimony?

I started digging and soon discovered the existence of a group called the National Committee to Investigate Assassinations, located in Washington, D.C. I called the number listed in the telephone directory and was soon speaking to Bob Smith, the Committee’s Research Director. I told Smith that I was a writer and wanted to do a piece on the John F. Kennedy assassination. I asked him for an interview, and he agreed.

We met in the offices of Bernard Fenster-

During the lunch break I took Kradz aside and asked him. Could the PSE be used outside interrogations, where the speaker was telling what may or may not have happened? Yes, he said, the PSE could be used for that. Where there was no stress, I could be confident that the speaker was telling the truth. However, when I did find stress, I had to be very careful about reaching conclusions about its cause; it could result from something other than deception. But if I found a stress pattern in the testimony of several witnesses to the same event, I would very probably have uncovered deception.

Voices prints by the Psychological Stress Evaluator of former Chief Justice Earl Warren in May 1972, indicating hard stress on the words “no evidence.”

The newswoman came out.
