Roselli Probe

By Ron Labrecque, Editor Staff Writer

Sen. Gary Hart (D., Colo.) made an unannounced trip to Miami Friday for a private meeting with homicide detectives to underscore the strong interest of the Senate Select Intelligence Committee in the John Roselli murder investigation and to insure that federal agencies cooperate with local police.

The FBI was ordered into the case last week by Attorney General Edward Levi after pressure from the Senate committee.

“We’re not here to solve the crime,” Hart said, “we want to find out if there is any connection between (Roselli’s) death and his testimony before the Committee.”

Hart said he also hoped to meet with local officials of the FBI and Immigration and Naturalization Service, et al.

Roselli, 71, organized crime figure who testified three times before the Senate Intelligence Committee in the past year about his recruitment by the CIA in a plot to kill Fidel Castro, was found dead two weeks ago, stuffed in an oil drum floating in Dumfounding Bay.

Hart made it clear that the Intelligence Committee is concerned about the possibility that Roselli’s death is connected to his testimony, although he did say there was no evidence indicating Roselli might have been killed to prevent him from talking about other CIA-organized crime plots.

“I know of no plans whatsoever to have him come back,” Hart said, “but that’s not to say we wouldn’t have called him back if some new facts arose.”

“But it would be reaching to say we had some indication... he had (not yet verified about) evidence important to us,” Hart said.

For the murder of Roselli, who last testified in April, renewed Intelligence Committee interest in the death of Chicago organized crime leader Sam (Momo) Giancana (Giangana). Giancana was shot to death in his home in June of 1975, just a short time when Intelligence Committee investigators were tracking him down...

Accompanying Hart Friday was Michael Madigan, a committee attorney who, in June of 1975, was preparing to interview Giancana (Giangana) about his involvement with Roselli in the Castro plot.

Giancana (Giangana) and Tampa organized crime figure Santo Trafficante played “accompanying roles” in the CIA-inspired Castro assassination plot, another committee staff member traveling with Hart said Friday.

The committee had also “considered” suspending Trafficante, the staff investigator said, but Trafficante was never called because the Committee considered Roselli’s testimony the most important.

Chicago-area investigators concluded that Giancana’s (Giangana’s) death was part of an internal gangland struggle.

Nevertheless, Hart told The Herald Friday that with “Roselli’s death, troubling questions about Giancana’s (Giangana’s) murder linger.” The coincidences begin to string themselves together, said the 1972 presidential campaign manager for George McGovern...

Asked if he was satisfied with the conclusions of investigators that Giancana’s (Giangana’s) death was not connected to his potential testimony before the committee, Hart said: “There is the absence of any corroborating evidence which previous...
