Federal Bureau of Investigation

Date: 5/19/66

Mrs. Ann Beach, Deputy Registrar of Voters, Sonoma County Court House, 2555 Mendocino Avenue, Santa Rosa, California, advised that according to the records of her office she registered a Richard C. Ivey, 7314 Lynch Road, Sebastopol, California, on November 3, 1965, for voting purposes.

She stated that she can testify that her signature appears on the Affidavit of Registration, No. B75888, and that she personally witnessed the affiant's signature.

She stated that the usual and accepted practice in registering an individual is as follows:

The registrant comes to the counter in the Office of Registrar of Voters. He asks to be registered. He is questioned about his former registration, which in this case was Alameda County. He is then asked for his height, birthplace, and birth date. In this case the height was listed as 5'8", birthplace as California, and birth date as April 13, 1941. The next question he is asked is, “Can you read the Constitution in the English language?” If the affiant states in the affirmative, he is then asked for his full name, address, occupation, and the name of the party with which he would like to affiliate. He is then asked, “Do you swear that all statements are true to the best of your knowledge?” If the affiant states in the positive, he then has placed before him the Affidavit of Registration, which he must sign in the deputy's presence, and in this matter the affiant signed the name “Richard C. Ivey, 7314 Lynch Road, Sebastopol.”

Mrs. Beach, after witnessing the signature, in the proper column entitled “Subscribed and Sworn Before Me,” affixes the date, signs her name in full, and enters the precinct number.

Mrs. Beach stated that the proper person to testify to this long and accepted voting procedure in Sonoma County, California, is the Clerk of the County Court.

On 5/13/66 at Santa Rosa, California. File No. SF 14-207. By SA Merle R. Adams/pae.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

Date dictated: 5/13/66
