SAC, WFO (105-34566)

July 29, 1960

Director, FBI (105-85418)

Ceylonese Activities in the United States

IS—Ceylon

For the benefit of the New York Office, a source of WFO furnished information on 2-16-60 which disclosed that the Ceylonese Ambassador to the U.S., R.S.S. Gunewardene, while assigned as Ambassador in Rome in 1954, did not conceal his sympathies to representatives of the countries in the “peace camp” and that he was often in attendance at cultural and social events of the “Peoples Democratic States.” In view of this information, WFO was requested to analyze its informant coverage pertaining to Ceylonese activities in the U.S. WFO’s views and recommendations regarding a program for the development of sources and informants in the Embassy of Ceylon were requested. WFO advised it had no coverage at Ceylonese establishments at the present time and recommended instituting investigations of certain individuals for the purpose of exploiting their potential.

In view of the information concerning the Ceylonese Ambassador’s past sympathies, coupled with the Bureau’s responsibilities in security investigations regarding international trends or developments affecting the internal security of the U.S. and our responsibilities for keeping other interested agencies advised of current intelligence information, we should at this time consider the possibility of establishing appropriate informant coverage within all Ceylonese diplomatic establishments in the U.S.

State Department clearance to institute a program to develop informants and sources within all Ceylonese diplomatic establishments in the U.S. was granted on 7-19-60. State Department related, however, that Ceylonese activities are of no particular interest to the Department of State, but in view of the past activities of Ceylon’s Ambassador to the U.S., R.S.S. Gunewardene, State would have no objection to the Bureau developing live sources, providing the target is a citizen of the U.S. State related that a contact of a

VRS:ms

1-65-63113 (Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of Friendly Foreign Countries)
