9. Preference for next assignment (continued).

2. Indicate your preference for next assignment of indeterminate number 1, 2, and 3 (approved if needed, and third choice) in the boxes below: Return to my current station. Be assigned to [OCR: MEETINGSTERS] for a [OCR: TROOF] of duty. Be assigned to another field station.

With respect to a possible assignment to another field station, indicate your first and third choice for geographic area or specific station. First choice: London; MAN-ACON. Second choice: Singapore. Third choice: none indicated.

How much leave do you desire between assignments? 50 days. Indicate number of work days.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents who will be travelling or moving with you: Three, 31, 23 months, 8 months.

12. Signature. Complete item no. 9-1, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form.

To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training.

This officer's job performance has been outstanding. His accumulated experience over the past 18 months has given him a thorough grasp of his function and has enabled him to establish himself in the ODIOTR and Japan intelligence community as the focal point for Factory Harkings intelligence activities in this area. Since this officer is now reaching the point of maximum capability to carry out his mission, I believe it to be in the best interests of KUBARK (XUBARK) to extend his tour to cover a period of three years. This recommendation is, of course, subject to and contingent upon Headquarters decision on the proposal contained in FTA-6969 that the FNOO slot at Tokyo Station be withdrawn from the Japan area.

14. Signature. Complete item no. 9-2, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form.

To be completed by appropriate supervisor at Headquarters.

10. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the division to which he is currently assigned, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training.

XX Division recommends subject be re-assigned by the DC Career Board. Headquarters recommends extension of tour for another year.

Lewis R. Perth, Personnel Officer, ORR.

15. Name of supervisor. Signature: Edward M. Colberg. Title: Clerk, FE/MO Recruitmaster. Jail: not indicated.

16. Recommend (additional notes).
