Assassination Review Board

Second Public Meeting, 12 July 1994  
Room 105, NARA

Official Attendees: Members of the Board, Steve Tilly, NARA.

Public: 25/30 in attendance, including four from FBI (Terry & Grant), Lesar, and Newman. Also one network (ABC?) representative.

Purpose: Transact official business; briefing from Tilly on recent releases; discuss future board activities.

Selected items of HRG interest:

I spoke with Jack after the meeting. Executive Director Marwell will be on board 8 August; they expect to be in new offices by 15 August and have a core staff in September. Jack said after the meeting that he would like to meet us the last part of August or early September.

Tilly said that the CIA would be releasing 70,000 pages later this summer. He asked me before the meeting if July was still a good date; I said, “no.” He also mentioned the 20,000 pages of HSCA material in our files that we would be reviewing this summer.

FBI received praise from the Board; there was not much discussion of CIA. DOD agencies are now the “bad boys.” Hall asked several pointed questions about the “small” DOD releases, then Newman blasted NSA and DIA during the question period.

Items/issues addressed by the Board during the meeting:

Announced appointment of Executive Director David G. Marwell (see bio sheet). He will be on board 8 August.

Passed resolution extending the Board to October 1995.

MOA signed with the White House—funds through September 1994.

Discussed status of items before Congress, including extending the Board to October 1996 and funding. Funds were included in the House version of the appropriation bill and deleted from the Senate version. They assume that the funds will be restored in conference; however, funding could be reduced, which would impact the number of public meetings to be held outside of Washington.

Expects to move into new office space by mid-August and have a core staff in place in September. The bulk of the staff would come on board in October.
