1963–1973 Program

Friday, November 23

9:00 — Late Registration. Early registrants pick up passes.

9:50 — Welcome:

Mr. Bernard Fensterwald, Jr., Executive Director, Committee to Investigate Assassinations.

Mr. Norman Mailer, author and forwarder of *The Fifth Estate*.

10:00 — Current Status of Prominent Assassination Cases:

JFK Case — Mr. Robert P. Smith, Director of Research, Committee to Investigate Assassinations.

RFK Case — Mr. Robert Hanson, Attorney, present counsel for Sirhan Sirhan.

King Case — Mr. James Lesar, Attorney, present counsel for James Earl Ray.

Wallace Case — Mr. Ronald Van Doren, Newsman, author and researcher into the background of Arthur Bremer.

Rockwell Case — Ms. Meredith Rode, Professor at Federal City College, authority in killing of George Lincoln Rockwell.

11:30 — Unique Investigative Techniques:

Mr. William Turner, Moderator — Former FBI Agent, author of numerous books on investigative techniques.

Mr. George O'Toole — Former CIA Agent, freelance writer, expert on the FSE (Psychological Stress Evaluator).

Mr. Robert Saltzman — Computer Engineer, lecturer on the Warren Commission Report.

Friday — Continued

12:30 — Break for Lunch.

2:00 — Medical and Physical Evidence:

Mr. Josiah Thompson, Moderator — Professor at Haverford College, author of *Six Seconds in Dallas*.

Dr. Cyril Wecht — Professor of Law and Forensic Medicine at Duquesne University; Coroner of Pittsburgh, Pa.

Ms. Sylvia Meagher — Attorney, UN Official, author of *Accessories After The Fact*.

Mr. Roger Hanson — Attorney, counsel to Sirhan Sirhan.

Mr. Herbert MacDonnell — Professor of Criminalistics, Corning University; expert in case of Fred Hampton.

Mr. Mark Lane — Attorney, author of *Rush To Judgment* and *Executive Action*.

6:00 — Break for Dinner.

8:30 — Warren Commission Report: Fact or Fiction. A slide show and lecture by Mr. Robert Saltzman.

Saturday, November 24

9:30 — Assassinations and the Media:

Mr. John Henry Faulk, Moderator — Humorist and author of *Fear On Trial*.

Mr. Robert Kaiser — Author of *RFK Must Die*.

Mr. Donald Freed — Co-author of *Executive Action*.

Mr. Harold Weisberg — Author of *Frame Up*.

Mr. Ted Charach — Author of *Second Gun*.

Mr. Peter Noyes — Author of *Legacy Of Doubt*.

Mr. Fred Cook — Author of numerous books and articles.

12:30 — Break for Lunch.

2:00 — Theories of Conspiracy:

Mr. Richard Sprague, Moderator — Computer expert and author.

Dr. Richard Popkin, Professor at Washington University; author of *The Second Oswald*.

Col. Fletcher Prouty (Proxy) — Former Liaison Officer between Pentagon and CIA; author of *The Secret Wars*.

Mr. Robert K. Brown — Former Special Services Officer; expert in attempts on life of Castro.

Mr. Earl Solz — Reporter for Dallas Morning News, expert on organized crime.

Mr. Victor Marchetti — Former CIA Agent; author.

Mr. Peter Dale Scott — Professor at Berkeley; author of *The War Conspiracy*.

5:00 — Individual Workshops with the Speakers. Question and Answer Sessions.

6:00 — Fini.
