Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 110082.

Section A—General. Name: Hobbes. Date of birth: 30 February 1928. Sex: M. Grade: A-5. Service designation: DI. Official position title: Records/Acting Officer. Career staff status: All. Type of report: Initial reassignment/supervisor; annual reassignment/employer. Not eligible: A. Pending: Member deferred. Declined: Denied. Date report due in O.P.: 21 October 1959. Reporting period: From 30–31 July to special (specify).

Section B—Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Rating 6; specific duty 1: Liaison with RIO, DDP/RMO, DDP/MMU, other Division records officers, etc.; specific duty 2: Program; specific duty 3: Training and assistance for FE personnel in records management procedures; specific duty 4: Assistance to FE personnel in problems of retention and retirement of records; rating 5.

Rating 4; specific duty 1: Program training and assistance for FE personnel in records management procedures; specific duty 2: Program; specific duty 3: Planning and development of Division vital materials program; specific duty 4: Guidance to field records officers; rating 6.

Rating 4; specific duty 1: Program; specific duty 2: Program; specific duty 3: Guidance in all records problems; specific duty 4: Guidance in all records problems; rating 5.

Section C—Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
5. Performance in every important respect is superior.
6. Performance in every respect is
