Directions:

a. State in the space below up to five of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include any unimportant duties.

b. Rate performance on each specific duty, considering its effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.

c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty (mail, ME, roads, etc.).

d. Compare in your mind's eye, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.

e. Individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

1. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are: oral dripping; giving lectures; conducting seminars; writing technical reports; conducting external liaison; typing; taking dictation; supervising.

Descriptive Rating Number. Aspects to be rated in the performance of this duty:

a. Has and uses area knowledge.
b. Devil's New Programs.
c. Analyzes industrial reports.
d. Managers files.
e. Offered radio.
f. Coordinates with other officers.
g. Writes regulations.
h. Prepares correspondence.
Conducts interrogations.
Prepares summaries.
Translates German.
Drinks fresh sources.
Keeps indoors.
Drives truck.
Maintains air conditioning.
Evaluates significance of data.

For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

a. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner; found in very few individuals holding similar jobs.
b. Exceeds anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Specific Duty No. 1: Assistant Branch Chief in management and supervision of branch. Rating number: 4/5.

Specific Duty No. 2: Provides operational and administrative guidance to field station. Rating number: 5.

Specific Duty No. 2: General supervision of C2, liaison and CP operations of branch. Rating number: 5.

Specific Duty No. 3: Conducts liaison with other Agency elements and outside agencies. Rating number: 6.

Narrative description of number of job performance.
