C. Indicate if you think that any single strength or weakness outweighs all other considerations.

Versatility in dealing on a friendly and extremely effective basis with all kinds of people, particularly those in high-level positions.

D. Do you feel that he required close supervision? Yes. No. If yes, when? April 3, 1956. Mail room.

E. What training do you recommend for this individual? P&P training, and refresher course, if available, in FI operations.

F. Other comments: Subject has an excellent knowledge of the area, its people, and language and is able to use this knowledge with great resultant benefits to his work.

Section VI.

Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under subsections A, B, C, D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties adequately; he is incompetent.

2. Rarely adequate in performance; although he has had specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.

3. Performs most of his duties acceptably; occasionally reveals some area of weakness.

4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.

5. A fine performance; carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well.

6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equaled by few other persons known to the rater.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? No. Yes. If yes, what?

C. Directions: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and any other indications, give your opinion of this person’s attitude toward the organization.

1. Has an antagonistic attitude toward the agency; will definitely leave the organization at the first opportunity.

2. Has strong negative attitude toward organization; linked by restrictions; regards agency as a temporary stop until he can get something better.

3. Tends to have an unfavorable attitude toward the organization; other than minor frustrations; will quit if these continue.

4. His attitude toward the organization is indifferent; has “wait and see” attitude; would leave if someone offered him something better.

5. Tends to have favorable attitude toward organization; makes allowances for restrictions imposed by working for organization; thinks in terms of a career
