United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. Mohr

From: C. D. DeLoach, President

Subject: Assassination of the President

Date: December 12, 1963

I had a long talk this morning with Congressman Gerald R. (Gerry) Ford (R—Michigan) in his office. He asked that I come up to see him. Upon arriving he told me he wanted to talk in the strictest of confidence. This was agreed to.

Ford told me he was somewhat disturbed about the manner in which Chief Justice Warren was carrying on his chairmanship of the Presidential Commission. He explained that the first mistake that Warren made was his attempt to establish a “one man commission” by appointing a Chief Counsel, Warren Olney, that was his own protégé. Ford stated that after the mention of Olney’s name by the Chief Justice, at their first meeting, Allen Dulles, former Director of CIA, protested quite violently. Because of Dulles’ protest, the other members told Warren that they would like to know more about Olney prior to giving their consent.

On the occasion of their second meeting, Ford and Hale Boggs joined Dulles. Hale Boggs told Warren flatly that Olney would not be acceptable and that he (Boggs) would not work on the Commission with Olney. Warren put up a stiff argument but a compromise was made when the name of Lee Rankin was mentioned. Warren stated he knew Rankin and could work with him.

Ford told me that he was currently having problems inasmuch as the majority of the members of the Commission desired to go along with the recommendation made in Deputy Attorney General Katzenbach’s letter to the Commission dated 12-9-63. In this letter, Katzenbach recommended that the Commission make an immediate press release pointing out that the FBI report clearly showed there was no international conspiracy or collusion and that Oswald was a loner. Ford stated he was a minority one that did not want to give out any press release until the Commission had had a thorough opportunity to review and discuss the FBI report. (I noted that the report was on his desk at the time of our meeting.)

Mr. Belmont  
Mr. Rosen  
Mr. Evans  
Mr. Sullivan  
Mr. Jones

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official purposes only and without the express approval of the.
