2A Referenced. List three persons living in the United States or Territories of the United States who are not related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications for any position for which you are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Item 16 (Experience).

Full Name: Gordon B. Dunlap. Past business or home address: 321 Corona Street, San Antonio, Texas. Business or occupation: Motion Picture Distributor.

Full Name: Lee P. Blohm. Past business or home address: 903 N. Canal, Carlsbad, New Mexico. Business or occupation: Retired FSO.

Full Name: H. B. Gregory. Past business or home address: 1700 Shroyer Road, Dayton, 9, Ohio. Business or occupation: Official, Nat. Cash Register.

Referencing: Yes or No answer by placing “X” in proper column.

2A. May it be mentioned to your present employer regarding your qualifications if credible?

2B. Are you a citizen of, or do you owe allegiance to, the United States?

2C. Show your order or major years of experience, a member of the committee or acts of force or vice, to any other persons whose rights are undergoing or will be undergoing due to your activity as a member of a president organization?

2D. Show your order or major years of experience, a member of any organization, service within the group or combination of persons which has used the service of our constitutional form of government, or an intinuation or activity movement group or combination of persons which has accepted a policy of advocating or approving the committee or acts of force or vice, to do any other thing within the Constitution of the United States or of the state, local or foreign government of the United States by force of law or of power.

If your answer to question 27, 28, or 29 above is “Yes,” state in Item 39 the names of all such organizations, associations, movements, groups, or combination of persons and dates of membership. Give complete details of your activities therein and make any explanation you desire regarding your membership or activities therein.

3A. Show the date and time you ever been arrested, incarcerated, if you have been admitted into custody as a defendant in a criminal procedure completed, finished, or imparted, or placed on probation, or have vacancies within the period to extract bail or salute for the raid, or show the name, age, and address of the agent or officer responsible for the detain. If not possible, show the first name of the agent or officer and rate the person as if at all palatable or forfeiture of $25 or less was committed.

If your answer is “Yes,” list all such cases under Item 39 below. List in each case: (1) the date; (2) the nature of the offense or violation; (3) the name and location of the court; (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If appointed, your fingerprints will be taken.

4A. List all persons captured or charged to resign for unwilling or unsafe performance of their duty from the start upon arrival at the base or departure port. If any, state the reason in each case.

5. If your orders or ordinances, or order or instruction from the U.S. Civil Service Commission, or charges or inspection of inspecting civil service appointment? If your answer is “Yes,” give dates of and reasons for each delinquent appointment in Item 39.

6A. Name the physical handicap or disability or.
