The Times Picayune  
Serving America's International Gateway Since 1837

New Orleans, Saturday morning, February 17, 1968

Allen Dulles

Former CIA chief subpoenaed.

“Number Two — never committed any burglary and am most certainly not a material witness except to Mr. Garrison's attempts to fraudulently and maliciously involve myself, who was his former personal Chief of Security, in this alleged investigation of the alleged conspiracy to allegedly assassinate John F. Kennedy.

“Number Three — I have never stated to anyone that I ever consciously worked at any time for or with the CIA.

“Number Four — In reference to his new subpoena, I personally haven't read it, so I will just have to see it before deciding whether to play my game or his.

“Number Five — Perhaps if President Johnson and the CIA pay my extensive personal financial losses for defending the Warren Report this past year and guarantee the probable needed bond requirements for perjury, which is the charge I believe Mr. Garrison is immune from granting immunity on, I may return to testify to Mr. Garrison about his fraud and involvement in the death of David Ferrie.”

“I don't believe Mr. Garrison will take a lie detector test or allow me to testify to his fraud and his involvement on one, or on his truth serum or on his hypnosis before his grand jury. Perhaps if he invites me to a duel in some place other than Louisiana he may find me far more cooperative, and I don't mean a duel with words.”

The subpoenas for both Novel

Covert Penetration

In calling for Dulles' appearance, Garrison said that the former official was “CIA” director when the organization's present methods of operation were developed, and that those techniques “have included the covert penetration of much of the fabric of American life—including schools, organizations of many types, news agencies and even churches.”

The Warren Commission, according to Garrison, was formed to “conceal the involvement of the CIA in the assassination,” and commission members appear to have participated in this tableau on the ground that national security would be jeopardized if the truth were known by the people of this country.

The DA additionally charged that the commission purposely destroyed or never reported other important evidence, such as bullets found in Dealey Plaza just after the shooting of Kennedy on Nov. 22, 1963.

“This office intends to demonstrate,” Garrison said in conclusion, “that the CIA made a mistake in using Orleans Parish as a staging area for the assassination and that the federal government has made an equal bad mistake in attempting to conceal this fact and in attempting to obstruct justice in Orleans Parish.”
