PART II

SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS

13. Additional persons to be contacted shortly after the arrival of the SAC include:

a. Federal judges.  
b. U.S. Attorneys.  
c. Only outstanding state judges.  
d. Governors.  
e. Leading state and county prosecutors.  
f. State attorneys general.  
g. Officers of the National Association of County and Prosecuting Attorneys.  
h. Executive secretary of state chamber of commerce.  
i. In the principal cities: mayors; chiefs of police; officials of newspapers, including publishers, managing editors, city editors of leading newspapers, and heads of newspaper wire services; managers or owners of leading and most important radio stations; heads of outstanding or more important civic clubs, such as Kiwanis, Rotary, and Lions; executive secretary or director of chambers of commerce; heads of Federal intelligence agencies; outstanding leaders of government and business; heads of larger universities; outstanding religious leaders of any faith, such as the bishop of a diocese or the leading rabbi; top representatives of airlines; managers of leading airports; top representatives of railroads; managers of leading railroad stations; top representatives of telephone companies; top representatives of Western Union; managers of the most outstanding and important hotels; heads of better business bureaus; and heads of leading banks.

14. Any derogatory information obtained after the Bureau has approved the SAC contact should be reported to the Bureau promptly.

15. Gifts to office contacts shall not be reclaimed as blue slip items.

M. AMERICAN LEGION CONTACTS

The SAC or ASAC shall contact at least once each year all national officers, departmental (state) officers, and members of the Americanism Commission of The American Legion. A letter shall be submitted on March 15 of each year showing that the above American Legion officials have been contacted.

N. NEWS MEDIA CONTACTS

As indicated in subsection L, paragraph 13i(3), above, officials of leading newspapers must be contacted by SACs. Smaller newspapers and other news media are not to be neglected, however, and, throughout his tenure in a field office, the SAC must insure that his press contacts are continuously effective. Annually, on May 15, the SAC must advise the Bureau of the number of newspapers and radio and television stations in his territory, the number with which he has had contact or with which representatives of his office have made contact, and the steps he is taking to insure maximum effectiveness of this type of contact, as well as what material other than spot news items was furnished to these media; e.g., the Director's Introduction in the FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin each month.
