SENSIND: RYBAT

MHFNO: 96-3377691

By us in our zone of Austria and the new organization was given radios so they could keep in touch with us and each other.

Our paramilitary people put caches of weapons, ammunition, food, and uniforms into the ground in over 70 places in the U.S. zone and elsewhere. Olah's group was to be given the location of the caches when the Red Army moved.

Recently the U.S. government revealed to the Austrian government the existence of these caches and the Embassy gave Austrian officials the locations of these caches. Austrian press, radio, and TV coverage of all this has been generally favorable and even grateful. Olah's involvement is known from his memoirs and from statements he made during his trial in the 1960's. He was tried, convicted, and served one year for using a labor union savings account as security for a loan to buy the Kronen Zeitung, a tabloid which now has the largest circulation in Austria. The two men, Dichand and Falk, he chose to run the paper, then took it over as their personal property, becoming almost the richest men in Austria. Dichand later sold out to Falk and founded another tabloid.

In all our clandestine meetings with Olah, he was accompanied by his two “secretaries,” Josef Las and Heinrich Daurer. Las went to jail for the same offense as Olah and Daurer may have, too.

At no time were our names revealed. I was succeeded (SUFFEDED) as case officer by Paul von Marx, then under State cover in Vienna and now retired in Bern, Switzerland. I don't think Olah knew our true names, but he knew I was in the Embassy.

From a TV show the night of February 26, 1996, I learned there are at least two eager young Austrian historians working to learn all the facts about this case. One had sheaves of top secret documents from the State and Defense Departments bearing on U.S. schemes to re-arm Austria.

If my name is revealed, it will be recognized by several Austrian officers I have known for years. Austrian television can show several lengthy interviews with me on the 1993 occasion of the 150th jubilee of the Vienna Men's Singing Society, which I have belonged to since 1972. Olah, Las, and Daurer can all recognize me.

(Signed)

Reference C IDEN.

3. The margins of the letter also contain the following: I am also well known to many people in Austrian TV.

4. File: 785-120-034.
CL by: 618711
CL reason: 1.5(C)
Decl on: X1
DRV from: HUM 4-82.
