I am alarmed that no witness has pointed a finger of blame at the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949. It is the Magna Charta of CIA's Domestic Intelligence Division. This act specifically provided cover for CIA. It effectively repealed CIA's restriction to foreign operations intended by Congress to prevent a police state.

The 1949 act authorized CIA to conceal huge portions of its budget and personnel within the budgets and personnel roster of domestic agencies of government. These especially include employees on Capitol Hill, in the White House, in the Department of Justice, in the Federal Aviation Administration and in the Civil Aeronautics Board. Until the act is repealed Congress will remain part of the problem, not part of the solution.

When Cornelius and Angela Hawbridge were hit by the CIA's domestic assassins on January 10, 1969 my anger overrode my caution. I wrote all fifteen members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee February 23, 1969. I demanded that Hawbridge be heard by the Senate. Although I received no replies, this forced Carmine Bellino's hand and Hawbridge was subpoenaed. The recipients referred some letters to your Committee.

Six months earlier my letter of August 14, 1968 to the Foreign Relations Committee enclosed a 606 page study entitled “Assassinations of the Industrial State.” It concluded with the startling premise I am now prepared to prove to the Senate:

“It is my firm prediction that when the Foreign Relations Committees get to the bottom of the CIA's conspiracy to usurp Congress' foreign policy authority they will also have solved the conspiracies behind the continuing assassinations of the industrial state.”

I rely upon your fairness for opportunity to refute the claims of William Colby, Director of Central Intelligence, to testify and to aid your Committee to draft legislation that will effectively prevent abuses of power by the government's intelligence agencies.

As an Air Force officer before, during and after World War II, I am concerned, as I know you are, that our country's security will be protected. I will testify for more effective legitimate intelligence and counterintelligence services. Perhaps the most effective testimony I can give is that which will establish that the CIA has been thoroughly infiltrated and corrupted by double agents who owe their primary loyalty to the Soviet KGB.

Enclosure: Letters to Senator Frank Church and Congressman Otis Pike.

Amos E. Heacock  
W110 Oglethorpe, Apt. 703,  
Hyattsville, Md. 20781  
Telephone 864-5353
