If it is determined that the subject of an FBI investigation is a member of the armed services, discontinue immediately, advise FBIHQ, and disseminate pertinent information locally to the appropriate intelligence agency. If it is determined that the subject has close relatives in the armed forces, promptly advise the appropriate military intelligence service and furnish pertinent information, including reports, on the subject involved. Evaluation of such association lies entirely within the province of the military intelligence service.

In all instances, advise FBIHQ concerning any possible subversive contacts or derogatory information developed concerning military personnel, including local dissemination made. Enclose four copies of the LHM or report setting out pertinent data.

b. Aliens and naturalized citizens

Furnish any information which might have a bearing on their deportation or denaturalization to the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) locally.

c. Individuals employed in or having access to key facilities, or employees of private contractors of the Armed Forces

Under Delimitations Agreements, the FBI is responsible for disseminating pertinent data to the counterintelligence agencies of the Armed Forces. Also disseminate pertinent information concerning such individuals to the Chief, Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO), Defense Supply Agency, Columbus, Ohio 43215, Attention: Chief, Adjudication Division, and advise the interested military intelligence agency of such dissemination to DISCO. However, with regard to facilities having classified contracts with the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), dissemination to AEC is made only at FBIHQ. See section 102, volume IV, of this manual for details.

d. Employees of public utilities (including state and municipal facilities)

Disseminate pertinent data locally to the Army and any other Federal agency whose interest is apparent.

e. Members of military reserve branches or National Guard

Disseminate pertinent security data locally to the appropriate military intelligence service.

f. Seamen and subjects employed in maritime industry, including longshoremen and waterfront employees

Disseminate pertinent security data locally to the Coast Guard and, when circumstances dictate, to other interested intelligence agencies, including NISO.

g. Employees of Federal Government

Any subversive information received concerning an employee of an agency of the Executive Branch should be promptly forwarded to FBIHQ for dissemination to interested agencies. No dissemination of reports in Security of Government Employee cases should be made in the field. Instructions regarding all phases of FBI responsibilities under FO 10450 are in section 19, volume II, of this manual.

h. Individuals who own property or reside in the immediate vicinity of an installation or other premises under the jurisdiction of a branch of the armed services

Disseminate pertinent data locally to the appropriate military intelligence service.

i. Airmen licensed by Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)

FAA issues certificates to airmen (pilot, mechanic, or member of crew); to individuals directly in charge of inspection, maintenance, overhauling, or repair of aircraft; and to aircraft dispatchers or air-traffic control tower operators.

Furnish pertinent data concerning such persons to FBIHQ by report or LHM. In the cover communication, recommend dissemination to FAA.
