J. B. Adams. 4-0-76. Legal Counsel.

Select Committee on Intelligence Activities (Select Committee on Intelligent Activities).

During various contacts with William Miller, Special Director of the State Select Committee, and Chairman Leona Rees (D-N.Y.), Chairman of the Police Select Committee, the question has come up regarding the need for a class of the private office of individual and corporate members to allow the passage of any electronic listening device. Committee personnel have been told that we consider such an activity absolutely essential, and they agree.

In exploring this matter, it was determined that the Capitol (Capital) Police Department recently established a special unit to handle all types of warfare problems within the Capitol complex, including checks for electronic listening devices. Personnel of this unit have been selected for training and come from C.I.A. The operations of the unit are controlled through the persons of the Army of the House (Army of the LougE) and Senate.

This matter has been discussed with Robert Song, Deputy Supervisor at Arms of the Senate, and with General Durango, everyone at Army of the House. House advised that the special unit has already conducted photo security surveys of the new legislative space of the Senate Select Committee and certainly will perform any similar tasks of this type needed by the Committee or its individual members. I am told, in fact, that since they now have this capability it may seem that any outside agency coming onto the Hill (Mill) to perform the function would be unnecessary. We want him already to be able to contact each and every one of the members directly concerning the lawmoney security change. The person is still not sure where he wants our advice on his next move. Select committee/...of a checkable. He said their案 require excommunication from the military sample box in writing.

L—Mr. Gruzin  
I—Mr. Capriles  
I—Ms. Dorers  
I—Mrs. Dorens

Continued—CYNA.

J.V.J.: See addendum page two.
