Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject has done an excellent job in a long and arduous task. His layout and arranging the work flow in the new Station Registry. As a result, his unit has been operating on a fully effective and productive basis, even during the recent emergency when certain workloads increased several hundred per cent. In operation and physical appearance the Station Registry may be considered a model registry.

He is very cooperative and works well with other offices in solving mutual problems or setting up new requirements.

Subject is industrious and dedicated and willingly works long hours to meet the daily demands of his position. He performed in an exemplary manner while working for an extended period under stress during the recent emergency.

Subject is a pleasant, dependable individual who is anxious to do the best job possible in a demanding and vital position at the Station.

He is properly cost conscious in the use of personnel, space and equipment.

Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. By employee.

Date. Signature of employee.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Subject has not reviewed this report in advance as it recommends him for promotion. By supervisor.

Date. Official title of supervisor: Recorda Admin Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/John K. Smith.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 5 March 1968. Official title of reviewing official: Ops Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/Vincent Lockhart.
