Monday, March 1, 1976

Novel claims Defense tie

Businessman Gordon Novel, accused of plotting to firebomb downtown buildings during Carnival, claims he is involved in an “enormous project” with a gentleman in the Defense Department.

Asked if the “enormous project” was linked to his arrest, Novel said, “Well, something is behind this. I think I know what it is but I would rather not say.”

Novel, identified as a financial consultant with the Langford Land Co. here whose name surfaced nine years ago in former Dist. Atty. Jim Garrison’s Kennedy assassination probes, made his comments during a weekend jailhouse interview.

Novel was arrested Feb. 21 and charged with possessing a destructive device. He has been held without bond since then, pending a hearing Wednesday.

Affidavits filed in federal court allege that Novel tried to hire an undercover federal agent to firebomb five buildings during Mardi Gras, when large crowds would hamper firemen. Novel called the charge “insane.”

“It’s so insane that the government realizes the only way that it can make a case is to allege that I’m insane,” he said. Novel said he was willing to take a lie detector test and to submit to questioning under truth serum.

He said he has been “deeply involved” in “counter-intelligence” operations in the past, but did not elaborate.

“I know enough about the intelligence community to one day play a major political role in it,” Novel said.

In 1963, Garrison accused Novel of conspiring with a Cuban refugee to steal explosives from an oil company storage site. Garrison’s investigation linked Lee Harvey Oswald, the President’s accused assassin, with a vaguely defined Cuban liberation movement.

Novel sued Garrison for $50 million, claiming his reputation had been damaged, but the suit was later dropped.

Asked if the current charges bore any relation to the assassination probe, Novel’s lawyer, Servando C. Garcia III, said: “It’s a mistake. It’s not related to anything.”

“We absolutely plan to plead him innocent and put on a defense,” Garcia said. “The facts the U.S. Attorney has can be explained.”

Prosecutors allege that Novel tried to hire undercover agent W. Lloyd Grafton to firebomb several downtown buildings at the height of Tuesday’s Mardi Gras celebration, when fire trucks would be hampered by crowds.

Agents reported seizing a can of alcohol, balloons, gunpowder, fuses and matches from Novel’s office on the 40th floor of a downtown building, along with diagrams of the buildings involved.

“That’s absolutely untrue,” Novel said in the television interview. “They found nothing when they searched my office.”

Documents filed in federal court indicated Novel, a real estate financial consultant, was “having a few problems” with some of the downtown property which was supposedly the intended target of the firebombing.

Garcia said he hoped to have his client released on bond at Wednesday’s hearing. He said there was no reason to keep Novel in jail indefinitely.
