WFO 105-8906

The “Diplomatic List” of August 1954, issued by the Department of State, reflects Konstantin G. Fedoseev as a counselor, Embassy of the USSR, and Mikhail N. Smirnovsky as a First Secretary, Embassy of the USSR.

On 7/13/53, one Sam Jaffe (phonetic) asked E. P. Podgornaya for N. P. Savchenko or anyone else with whom he could talk about a visa. Podgornaya advised Jaffe that no one was in the office as it was lunchtime. Jaffe related he would call again after the lunch hour.

The “Diplomatic List,” July 1953, issued by the Department of State, lists Nikolai P. Savchenko as a Second Secretary, Embassy of the USSR, and Elena P. Podgornaya as an Attaché, Embassy of the USSR.

On 12/30/53, Fedoseev contacted Sam Jaffe in New York regarding the letter he had sent to Ambassador Zarubin on November 24th. Fedoseev said, per Jaffe’s request, Zarubin had sent this letter on to Moscow, but to date no reply had been received. Further, in line with Jaffe’s letter of December 28th, Fedoseev would advise him when anything was received. Jaffe went on to indicate that he was coming to Washington tomorrow and was going to visit at the Legation of Yemen, since the King of Yemen had granted him permission to visit Yemen to do the Islamic phase of the religious story. Jaffe mentioned that he was doing a series of articles and stories on the various religions. Fedoseev would contact Jaffe when anything was received from Moscow.

On 1/20/54, Sam Jaffe, “Life” magazine, asked Smirnovsky whether the Embassy had heard anything from Moscow about the thing he had spoken to him and Ambassador Zarubin about. Smirnovsky said they had not. Jaffe pointed out that they wanted to do a completely fair job on all five religions—Hinduism, Islam, Buddhism, Confucianism, and Taoism—and they could not do justice to the last three without actually going to China. Smirnovsky was very friendly and said he would try to see that the people in Moscow were reminded again.

On 2/5/54, Sam Jaffey (Jaffe) (phonetic) asked Smirnovsky if he had received the letters and was told he had. Jaffey asked if any action would be taken. Smirnovsky replied that the Ambassador was not there to act upon it and, as a result, the matter would be decided upon in Moscow. Jaffe said he had heard reports and had read in the newspapers that there were Chinese advisors in Berlin at the present time. Smirnovsky replied.
