Section D: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain reasons given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost effectiveness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, use separate sheets of paper.

In February 1976, following the emergency hospitalization and retirement of my deputy, Subject became my new deputy, a position he has filled since that time in addition to performing most of the assignments he had been tasked with earlier. His undiminished energy and enthusiasm for his work is a hallmark of his performance since that time. Subject has, on his own initiative, developed our referrals system (finding new NOC applicants and those on board for filling specific area priority needs) to a point where it is serving the entire Directorate with distinction and precision, especially in the “crisis” areas of NOC needs, such as Africa and Near East Divisions. Thanks to his creation of an orchestrated system of finding and “shopping” new-hire applicants with rare skills, we have also begun to serve the newly created Clandestine Corps program with dozens of such applicants, in addition to serving normal area division NOC needs.

As a Branch supervisor, Subject deals with the entire spectrum of Branch activity in my absence with sureness and confidence. His broad operational background abroad, his near-native ability in two /continued/.

Section E: Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 14. Date: 24 January 1977. Official title of supervisor: Chief, NOC Branch. Typed or printed name and signature: Harris Greene; M. Harris Kent. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance: Have attached X; have not attached.

2. By Employee. Date: 26 January 1977. Signature of employee: William M. Kent; Robert D. Brown, Jr.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I became C/CMS on 1 October 1976 and thus my comments must be restricted to the October-December 1976 time frame. I have no basic disagreement with the narrative comments but do challenge the letter evaluations. While Mr. Kent’s performance has been strong and he has amply demonstrated he is a GS-15 level officer capable of assuming greater responsibilities, I cannot concur that his performance “is so exceptional to requirements of the work and in comparison of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.” On purely technical grounds there is no other officer serving as DC/CMS/NOC and thus the comparison is invalid. Secondly, as Chief, Career Management Staff and administrator of the (contd).

Date: 26 January 1977. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, CMS. Typed or printed name and signature: R. H. Brown, Jr.; Robert D. Brown, Jr.
