MHFNO: 96-2899456. SENSIND: RYBAT.

Sanchez by passing around stories that he had been withholding organizational funds, intended for the Socialist Current, for his personal use. (Source comment: This rumor campaign may have contributed to Sanchez's reported resignation from the Executive Committee of the Socialist Current.)

E. Reporting on Radio Marti from Miami around mid-1995 allegedly referred to Vladimiro Roca as an agent of Cuban State Security. Roca himself was reported in Cuban dissident circles to have stated that he was a long-time friend of Major General Fabian Escalante Font, who was reportedly the chief of the MININT Directorate of Counterintelligence (DCI). (Headquarters comment: Escalante Font now heads the Ministry's History Commission and is known for his inquiries into the President John F. Kennedy assassination, the Bay of Pigs invasion, and the Cuban Missile Crisis.)

5. Guillermo Fernandez Donates is a civil engineer who was close to Gustavo Arcos Bergnes of the Cuban Committee for Human Rights (Comite Cubano Pro Derechos Humanos). He was suspected of being a MININT source and a provocateur by the CCC leadership. He joined the CCC on the recommendation of Arcos because Fernandez was a member of the professional class. (Source comment: Many members of the CCC are professionals.) The CCC initially became suspicious of Fernandez because he had a history of arrests in which he would be placed with various groups of political prisoners. In prison he would eventually have a fight with a guard or commit an infraction of regulations and be removed by the authorities for disciplinary action. Each time he emerged from prison he seemed to be in excellent health and well fed.

6. Additionally, several other anomalies have caused the CCC leadership to be suspicious of Fernandez:

A. On several occasions, Fernandez has been asked by the CCC to communicate items of mutual interest to Arcos. Subsequent elicitation of Arcos by other members of the CCC led them to believe that information provided by Fernandez to Arcos was often grossly inaccurate. When apprised of this situation, Arcos dismissed CCC comments as being simple misunderstandings.

B. It has been noted by the CCC leadership that Fernandez was friendly with Jorge Gonzalez and with Vladimiro Roca. Fernandez was privy to the activities planned by Socialist Current, the group to which Roca belonged, by his association with Roca. Reinaldo Roque, a member of the CCC, who worked with Socialist Current, noted that when the group was scheduled to meet, it was challenged by Cuban authorities so often that the authorities must have been apprised of its schedule. Either Fernandez or Roca (or both) could have been passing such information to the authorities.

C. On one occasion, to the surprise of the CCC, Fernandez, a karate practitioner, invited the entire CCC membership to go to the Ciudad Deportiva (Sports City).
