Several non-profit organizations under Agency control. An unwritten condition of the sale was that the Agency would contract with the new organization for scientific research of interest to the Agency in the amount of about $900,000 over an eighteen-month period. Only about $770,000 was so committed, and all Agency relations with the successor organization were terminated in 1968.

LILISP/G

This media-type proprietary provided cover for an Agency employee who arranged for a foreign motion picture firm run by an American to produce and distribute foreign-language films throughout Latin America. For funding purposes, the proprietary borrowed working capital from another proprietary, LPBERRY/A, and paid production and distribution costs in anticipation of a return on the proceeds of film distribution. The proprietary was dissolved in 1961, and all rights to the net profits of distribution were assigned to LPBERRY/A in return for cancellation of the note it held from the proprietary. After much wrangling with the American owner of the film production and distribution company, it became evident that appropriate reports were not being submitted covering recoupments or net profits, and the Agency negotiated a settlement which provided that LPBERRY/A and the distribution company would render no further claims against each other. Relations eased at that point.

AMHIM

This media proprietary compiled, published, and distributed a newsletter overseas. In 1975, when the Agency withdrew its support, it was decided to discontinue the publication activity, and the assets of the company were turned over to AMHIM/1, the editor and manager, to enable him to maintain a status independent of the Agency as a commercial print shop.

QKACTIVE

This proprietary radio broadcasting activity was turned over to the Department of State for support and subsequently placed under the control of the Board of International Broadcasters for continued operation with Congressional support.

QRMASTER

This media-type proprietary, which was involved in radio and TV projects, was established in 1963 and continued under Agency ownership until 1969 when it was sold.
