Persons/Entities: Vice President Nixon, Douglas Dillon, H. Shelton (CIA), Mr. Lay. Date: April 14, 1960. Category: Trujillo.

Occurrence: On April 14, 1960, at a National Security Council meeting, Mr. Dulles reported that a Sr. Betancourt (no relation to Venezuelan leader) had defected from Cuba and predicted three outcomes with respect to Castro: (1) an assassination that would make Castro a martyr, (2) Castro's suicide as a result of the failure of the Cuban experiment, and (3) a trend to a socialist dictatorship and a Batista terror regime. Source: Presidential Papers of Dwight Eisenhower (Whiteman [Whitman] File) (NSC meeting series, 441st meeting, April 14, 1960). Staff: Kelley. Date: July 6, 1975. File: Abilene.

Persons/Entities: President Eisenhower, Vice President Nixon, Douglas Dillon, Allen Dulles. Date: July 7, 1960. Categories: Trujillo, Castro, MONGODB.

Occurrence: At a National Security Council meeting on July 7, 1960, Mr. Dulles stated: “The Venezuelan government was engaged in an all-out effort, through the OAS and otherwise, to isolate, condemn and cause the downfall of Trujillo. An important reason for the vigor of the Venezuelan efforts was the fact they have convincing evidence that Trujillo was responsible for the assassination attempt on Betancourt (President of Venezuela) *** ‘Betancourt believes another attempt will be made momentarily and therefore it wants a showdown without delay.’” Mr. Dulles further explained that the Venezuelan Foreign Minister wants the United States to lead the way in breaking relations with Trujillo and that Betancourt wants a meeting of the OAS nations to deal with the Trujillo problem. Source: Presidential Papers of Dwight Eisenhower (Whitman File) (NSC meeting series, 450th NSC meeting, July 7, 1960). Staff: Kelley. Date: July 6, 1975. File: Abilene.

Persons/Entities: President Eisenhower, Vice President Nixon, Douglas Dillon, Allen Dulles. Date: July 7, 1960. Categories: Trujillo, Castro, MONGODB.

Occurrence: On July 7, 1960, at a National Security Council meeting, Mr. Dulles stated that he believes, and the intelligence community agrees, that the problem of Trujillo must be settled before the problem of Castro can be dealt with, even though Castro is the greater threat. Source: Presidential Papers of Dwight Eisenhower (Whitman File) (NSC meeting series, 450th NSC meeting, July 7, 1960). Staff: Kelley. Date: July 6, 1975. File: Abilene.

The NSC minutes further state that the United States told Betancourt of Venezuela that the United States can't act without knowing who the successor to Trujillo would be. The U.S. will work with Betancourt.
