Date: 2/10/60

To: Director, FBI

From: Legat, Mexico (100-743G)

Subject: Monthly Intelligence Summary

Synopsis

Lopez Mateos' South American Trip (cont.) (page 2): Recent South American trip of Mexican President gave emphasis to need for coordinated effort in resolving economic problems of Latin America. Talks dealt with stimulation of commerce, but for present principal importance of trip seems to have been emotional rather than materialistic.

David Alfaro Siqueiros (page 3): While recently in Caracas, Venezuela, Siqueiros made statements critical of both Mexican President and Mexican Revolution. Mexican administration and public anger by remarks.

Caribbean Political Situation (page 3): Cuba. Meeting sponsored by Society of Friends of Cuba held at Mexico City, 1/17/60, to demonstrate support for Cuban Government. Nicaragua: Report received that Cuban Government still planning to support invasion of Nicaragua with pro-Communist elements. Haiti: Political situation reported to be deteriorating.

Partido Comunista Mexicano—PCM (Communist Party of Mexico) (page 6): XIII National Congress, scheduled for 2/22–26/60, again postponed to provide more time for holding of State Congresses and preparation of discussion material. POCM representatives to be invited to attend Congress. Federal District Committee to step up dues collections and general cell activity. JCM held plenum 1/11–14/60.

Partido Popular—PP (Popular Party) (page 7): PP being reorganized and members being solicited to submit background and other data. PP held annual New Year's banquet on 2/6/60. PP inaugurated Pioneers, Boy Scout type organization, on 2/5/60.

Vicente Lombardo Toledano (page 8): Lombardo was principal speaker at PP New Year's banquet and generally spoke favorably of government of Lopez Mateos and his trip to South America.

Soviet Intelligence Activities (page 9): Valentin Vasilevich Bakulin identified as new Soviet principal of MEX-87. The latter made trip to Los Angeles in January 1960 and reported to Soviets.
