Date of transcription: 2/21/74.

Thomas Charles Hurdgaugh (Hurdgauh) was interviewed while incarcerated in the Sangamon (Dungaron) County Jail, Springfield, Illinois. He was furnished the identity of the interviewing agents and the purpose of the interview. He furnished the following information.

Hurdgaugh stated that Frank Drager has been a long-time friend of the family and was his legal guardian for approximately four years until he reached his 18th birthday in December 1973. His family was originally from the New Brunswick, New Jersey, area, and Drager is from the Trenton, New Jersey, area.

He stated he has been traveling with Drager in Drager's camper (canoer) truck since October 1973, at which time Drager came through Daytona Beach, Florida, on his way to the Florida Keys area. He advised that since that time they have spent time in Marathon, Florida; Key West, Florida; Key Largo, Florida; and the Everglades area of Florida. His last employment was as a cook at the Ocean Hoof Club, Key Largo, Florida, for approximately a two-week period in December 1973.

Hurdgaugh stated he and Drager left Florida approximately two weeks ago en route to the East Coast and that they traveled through Alabama, Tennessee, and Arkansas, and were somewhere in Colorado when they decided to return to New Jersey. He stated they were stranded somewhere (sorohore) in Alabama for five days because of the gasoline shortage, but he does not recall the exact city in Alabama. Upon reaching Colorado, Drager was in telephonic contact with his lawyer in New Jersey, and after that conversation he decided to return to New Jersey to take care of a local lending matter in Toms River, New Jersey, resulting from a September 1973 lawsuit.

Hurdgaugh stated that he believes in white supremacy and considers himself to be anti-racist, but he denied having been or currently being a member of any right-wing extreme-right organization. He does not personally believe that that type of organization is operating effectively in this country and that very few people actually believe in or are persuaded by its philosophy. He stated Drager is not currently active in any right-wing organization, but he does know that he was interviewed on 2/19/74 in Springfield (SpringMold), Illinois.

File No. SJ 157-4875.

SA Michael G. Conger, by SA Yvizania L. Hub.

KGG/cmn. Date dictated: 2/20/74.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.
