Analyzed Kennedy's body, member of the directors' council of the Coalition on Political Assassinations (COPA).

D. John Newman. Writer, historian and professor. Testified in U.S. Congress about the Kennedy case and has connections to the CIA. Was a consultant for Oliver Stone for the film "JFK" and the documentaries "Kennedy and Cuba" and "Who Was Lee Harvey Oswald?" Author of the books "JFK and Vietnam" and "Oswald and the CIA."

E. Ed Lopez-Soto. Lawyer and investigator on the Committee on Assassinations in the U.S. Congress. Interviewed more than 100 witnesses and analyzed many secret documents concerning the Kennedy case, such as "Pro-Cuban" and "Oswald in Mexico City." Author of the intelligence reports "Was There a Pro-Cuban Conspiracy to Assassinate JFK?" and "Lee Harvey Oswald, the CIA and Mexico City."

F. Gaeton Fonzi. Reporter and writer. U.S. congressional investigator who, in consequence of his discoveries, wrote an important work about the Kennedy case with restricted circulation entitled "The Last Conspiracy." Deeply knowledgeable about CIA activities and activities of Cuban exiles in Florida.

G. William Turner. Investigator and ex-FBI agent, specialist in military and paramilitary questions. Author of the books "The Red Herring: History of the Secret War Against Castro" and "Hoover's FBI, the Myth and the Men."

H. James Di Eugenio. Writer and investigator, author of the book "Betrayed Destiny."

I. Gordon Winslow. Historian. Participated in the investigations of the Miami-based exclusive Committee of Assassinations.

J. Saul Landau. Journalist and director of the Washington Institute of Political Studies. Author of the investigatory book which revealed all of the plot to assassinate Chilean Orlando Letelier.

K. Fabian Escalante Font. Division general and chief of Cuban counterintelligence. Specialist in the Kennedy case. Directed several operations to disrupt CIA plans in Cuba. Director of the Cuban Center of Security Studies.

L. Arturo Rodriguez. Colonel in the Cuban Ministry of Interior. Responsible for the investigations on the Kennedy case for the U.S. Congress.

4. Following is a field translation of the list of the scheduled presentations and presenters:

29 August

0900 — Opening ceremony

0930 — "Parallel Powers," Lesar

1100 — "A Test of Legal Evidence, Why the Warren Commission Made Mistakes," Wecht and Smith

1400 — "CIA, Mafia and Cuban Exile Papers Regarding the JFK Assassination," Fonzi, Winslow and Escalante.

30 August

0900 — "Connections with Espionage Services," Newman and Turner

1100 — "The Miami, New Orleans and Dallas Triangle," Di Eugenio

1400 — "The Mexican Episode," Lopez and Rodriguez

31 August

0900 — "Parallel Operations: The Letelier
