Three women representing the Black community were also scheduled to fly to Washington from the Southern California JRB Committee. They were Bobbie Hodges, Althea Alexander, and Glory Roberts. Two women affiliated with the peace-oriented Pasadena Chapter of the Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom, Cathy Hofer and Marian Beardsley, were also to join the above women for the flight to Washington, according to Source One.

On January 15, 1968, Special Agents of the Los Angeles Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation observed a group of women assemble in front of the Old State Building, 217 West First Street (First and Broadway, in the downtown Civic Center), Los Angeles, California, at approximately 9:30 AM. The women were carrying placards indicating they were the local representation of the JRB. They also had two leaflets for distribution (Xerox copies of which are appended to this memorandum) which called for women to participate and which indicated that a voting block of American women had the power to put an end to the war in Vietnam. These leaflets bore the address of the JRB as 5899 West Pico Boulevard, Los Angeles, California (90019), which is the address of the headquarters of the WSP in Southern California.

Starting shortly after 10:00 AM, the women proceeded to hold a rally on the south steps of the Old State Building, with the speakers utilizing an electronic amplification system, which was held by actress Leslie Parrish.

Source One indicated that Parrish had originally been scheduled to fly to Washington, D.C., to participate in the JRB action at the Capitol, but changed her plans at the last minute in order to remain in Los Angeles.

The rally was headed by Tina Tomash, who acted as the local JRB organizer and answered some of the questions regarding the JRB from members of the news media on the scene. Veronica Sissons acted as mistress of ceremonies. Speakers included Mary Henry, Negro civil rights and poverty worker; Margaret Wright (who has been identified by Sources One and Two as a militant black nationalist, who has been extremely active in recent months in disturbances at Manual Arts High School, Los Angeles, which resulted in a court injunction to prohibit her entering those school grounds); and television actress Ellen McRae. The speakers all called for a coalition of women to form a strong voting block which could produce legislation to end the war in Vietnam, end poverty, and “legislated injustice.”
