sions, he added, the district hopes to make such computer assistance available at a nearby rural elementary school attended by children of migrant farm workers.

Research Frontier

Talking Ballpoint Pen Under Development

Ronald I. Deutsch  
Stanford Research Institute  
Menlo Park, Calif. 94025

A prototype model of a simple, inexpensive “talking” ballpoint pen, under development at Stanford Research Institute (SRI), could reduce massive paperwork and delay in routine business transactions. The pen is similar to an ordinary pen in size and shape except that it is wired to a computer system. The computer is programmed to receive signals generated instantaneously as a person hand-prints characters with the pen to record information.

“Such instantaneous and remote processing of data might be invaluable to large businesses engaged in daily consumer-oriented services, such as banks, insurance companies and utilities,” says staff scientist Dr. Hewitt D. Crane, the inventor. For example, the pen could be used by a bank teller crediting a savings or checking account. In this case, according to Dr. Crane, the data would not have to be retranscribed from a piece of paper by another employee, or the paper itself put through expensive automatic reading equipment. Thus, costs and delays could be reduced in crediting accounts or establishing cash requirements.

In another case, a meter reader making his rounds for a utility could use the pen in combination with a cassette recorder. When he returned to his office, the cassette tape would be programmed into the system, thus eliminating the need for manual transcription of a day’s worth of data.

In the present laboratory version, the pen is hooked to an audio unit as well as a teleprinter, so that as a person writes, the characters appear on the teleprinter and are spoken by the audio unit.

SRI holds a patent on the pen and is currently seeking financial support for further development, Dr. Crane says. He estimates that the pen itself might cost about $25 to $50. A central computer unit would be extra but could serve many pens.

Miscellaneous

ICCP Names Directors and Officers

Paul M. Pair, Secretary & Chairman  
Institute for Certification of Computer Professionals  
P.O. Box 1442  
Chicago, Ill. 60690

At a meeting in late September, the incorporators of the Institute for Certification of Computer Professionals, Chicago, Ill., adopted bylaws for the newly formed organization and named a board of directors which, in turn, held its first meeting and elected officers. The ICCP is the outgrowth of over two years of intensive preparation and study by representatives of major computing societies. Its primary focus is the enhancement of certification activities in the computing industry. It was incorporated August 13, 1973.

Elected as officers by the board of directors were:

President — John K. Swearingen, Computer Sciences Corp., Las Vegas, Nev., representing Data Processing Management Association (DPMA).

Vice President — Fred H. Harris, University of Chicago, Association for Computing Machinery.

Treasurer — William S. Eick, Alexander Grant & Co., Chicago, Association of Computer Programmers and Analysts.

Secretary — Paul M. Pair, Control Data Institute, Chicago, Association for Educational Data Systems.

Ten professional societies participated in the organization of ICCP and are eligible for charter membership. Of these, seven have exercised their right to such membership, and are entitled to two members on the ICCP board. The seven charter members are: Association of Computer Programmers and Analysts; Society of Certified Data Processors; Association for Computing Machinery; Association for Educational Data Systems; Society of Professional Data Processors; Data Processing Management Association; and Automation 1 Association.

The other three associations eligible for charter membership are: Canadian Information Processing Society, the Computer Society of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and the Society of Data Educators. They are expected to act before the end of 1973.
