Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of this report can help you prepare for a discussion with him about his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item A of Section A below.

Section A. General.

1. Name: O'Neal, Birch D. 2. Date of birth: 1 June 1913. 3. Sex: M. 4. Service designation: SD;DI. 7. Grade: 08-15. 9. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/CI/SID. 8. Official position title: IO/CI/CH. Date report due in OF: 11 February 1957–11 February 1958. 10. Type of report: Special (X).

Section B. Certification.

1. For the rater: This report has X was not been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not: A senior official with an outstanding rating. No weaknesses to discuss. Have advised him orally of contents.

2. For the reviewing official: Before any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report, continued on attached sheet.

X This report reflects my own opinions of this individual. This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors. I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where he stands.

If individual is rated “1” in CI or D, a warning letter must be sent to him and copy attached to this report. I cannot certify that the rated individual meets and evaluates his job performance because (specify).

B. This date: 5 August 1958. C. Type of printed name and signature of supervisor: L. H. Horton, S. H. Horton. D. Supervisor’s official title: DC/CI.
