Section IV. How the Students Are Evaluated (Contd.)

Excellent: The student showed unusual competence, skill or ability in meeting this objective or goal; he demonstrated a thorough grasp of the presented material, or, if skills are involved, he demonstrated that he can perform in an extremely effective manner in this area.

Satisfactory: The student met this objective in a competent and adequate manner; he demonstrated a good understanding and grasp of the information presented, or, if skills are involved, he demonstrated sufficient competence to operate effectively in this area.

Poor: Although the student may have met some of the standards set for minimum achievement of this course goal or objective, he demonstrated serious gaps in knowledge or sufficient lack of skill to be of doubtful competence.

Failure: The student was unable to grasp the concepts of information presented, or demonstrated that he had not acquired the necessary information and skills to operate at even minimum capacity in this area.

Section V: Report of Student Achievement

Figures show grade distribution. The asterisk indicates the grade this student received.

1. Exercise - Interview Reporting: Fail 0; Poor 0; Satisfactory 6*; Excellent 7; Superior 1.
2. Exercise - Brief Daily Intell. Item: Fail 0; Poor 0; Satisfactory 7; Excellent 6*; Superior 1.
3. Exercise - Periodical Intell. Item: Fail 0; Poor 0; Satisfactory 5*; Excellent 9; Superior 0.
4. Critical Book Review: Fail 0; Poor 0; Satisfactory 4; Excellent 7*; Superior 3.
5. Research Problem: Fail 0; Poor 0; Satisfactory 6*; Excellent 7; Superior 1.
6. Skill in Oral Briefing: Fail 0; Poor 0; Satisfactory 6*; Excellent 8; Superior 0.

Section VI: Instructors Overall Evaluation

In terms of all factors observed during the course and taking into account this student's experience in the Agency, grade, and general areas of work, an “X” in one of the boxes shows the judgment of the instructional staff of his performance.

Overall evaluation: Minus.

Comments.

For the Director of Training.

Chief Instructor.
