5. Dimitroff's real aim is to recruit five thousand supporters of fighting age. These would be used to invade Bulgaria by air drop into the southern mountains tier about April 1962. They would easily seize the cities of that area, which are held by mere hundreds of police and commando officials. The attacks would be at night and in sufficient strength to surprise and overwhelm the opposition. Proclamations would be issued, prisoners released, recruiting carried out and a border area set up in the mountains with the passes heavily defended. He said there are only four major roads into this southern area, so that it could be quickly and effectively sealed off. The United Nations would be called to intervene immediately, as it has done in Korea and the Congo.

6. This exclusive in Bulgaria would be the start of the overthrust of the communist government in that country. When this is achieved, Dimitroff said he would want only five years as the head of the state to establish true democracy on the United States order. Therefore, he should be happy to retire, having fulfilled his promise to his followers that he would never give up the fight. He said that he was willing to die for the cause of a free Bulgaria and hopes that he can make it the fifty-first state of the United States.

7. In these words he wrote a letter on 15 June 1961 to President Kennedy (copy attached). When he did not receive a reply, he called personally and was referred by a secretary to the State Department and then to CIA. Dimitroff needs funds and support from CIA and commented that if the Agency does not decide to support him in his anti-communist work, he will try to uncover the names of the US citizens responsible for wrecking his underground activities and for holding his prisoner for three years. This, he said, he owed to his supporters because he has been able to do nothing without support.

8. Belatedly, he mentioned that he had written one of the greatest motion picture scripts ever. It is fictional but based on complete truths and is very strongly anti-communist. Unfortunately, he cannot find financial backing and could use CIA money if his major project cannot be immediately adopted. The title of the piece is "One Dark Night."

9. Dimitroff was informed that his visit and comments would be passed to any interested officials, and he would be contacted should there be any need to do so. He insisted, however, that he would remain in Washington for a reasonable time awaiting an answer and will definitely try to open other doors than those of CIA. He is using a letter drop and answering service—422 Washington Building, DC5, ST 3-9474—in the pseudonym of Dimitron. In the future he can always be reacted through another name—Dimo Petroff—at 67 Richmond Street West, Suite 304, Toronto L1, Ontario, Canada.

F. J. Sheridan

Enclosure: as noted
