That Bredrick contacted his lawyer concerning the pending charges in New Jersey and has probably returned to New Jersey.

Drager did admit to past memberships in the American Nazi Party, National Socialist White Peoples Party, Ku Klux Klan, and Knights of Constantine, as well as generally claiming membership in all right-wing organizations at one time or another during the past 15 years.

He stated he was recently the self-appointed acting Grand Dragon of the Ku Klux Klan in New Jersey. He felt the organization needed leadership and that he had the respect of other leaders in the group, but did have some conflicts with some other independent Klan organizations in New Jersey.

Drager stated that he, in the past, has been harassed by local authorities and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, but that he has never had any problems with any of the leadership of any right-wing organization.

He claimed he is not currently a member of the Minutemen organization, but that he does personally know Robert Defuch. He declined to comment on the last time he had any communications with Defuch.

Drager stated he personally knows several individuals associated with the American Nazi Party, including Matt Konul and Don Parsons in Virginia, and Coleman, first name unknown, in Chicago. He advised that from 1961–1967 he was a member of the American Nazi Party and worked in its national headquarters in Arlington, Virginia. He worked closely with George Lincoln Ritchll during this period as his second in command, although he would never accept any rank higher than lieutenant. For a period during 1964–1967 he worked mainly at the party's training camp in Pennsylvania as the individual in charge of the printing of all literature for the party. After Ritchll's death, Drager advised he was asked to take command of the party, but he declined because of his past criminal record, a decision he regrets to this day. Approximately three months after Ritchll's death he left the Nazi Party. Drager feels that Matt Kohil, the present commander of the party, has the gut but not the know-how to run the party or organization. He does not feel that he has the charisma that Ritchll has, and he does not reach the public effectively with the party's message. Drager stated he currently has no.
