Central Intelligence Agency.

The material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Enigma Law, Title 18, U.S.C. Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Colombia (Columbia). Subject: Growing Disharmony (Dianarmony) between the Government and Business Community. Report No. DC-0-321/37763-67. Date distributed: 10 January 1968. References: GIRL C-DC7-53900. Date of information: 4 December 1967 and earlier. Place and date acquired: Colombia, 4 December 1967 and earlier.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: U.S. national, official of a U.S. firm engaged in providing commercial services to business firms and industries. He travels frequently and has contacts among business executives and government officials.

This report was developed by an APNIA Air Force representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. During a recent business trip to Colombia I had occasion to visit and converse with business executives, owners of industrial firms and government officials. Through conversation with such I gained the information presented below.

2. The majority of the business community, both big and small businesses, is not in complete harmony with the government of President Carlos Lleras. Most business executives confirm that under the previous Conservative Party administration there was a stimulation of interest in foreign investment, a factor which is causing the current administration immense problems due to restrictive legislation on the percentage of capital which may be removed from the country. It is the consensus of the business community that this law will be changed within the next eight months, as a result of pressure by the business community upon the government.

3. At the present time there is much discontent among owners of private business firms as well as among the employees about a proposed new law. Current legislation requires that employers place in a fund a certain percentage of employees' earnings, which will be returned to the employee upon retirement or termination of employment. Under this arrangement the employer may make use of the money for investments or development of the firm or industry. The reason for the discontent is that the government is attempting to pass a law requiring all business firms and industries to pay, on a monthly basis to the government, the money received from the employees. Severance or retirement pay of an employee will then become a responsibility of the government. The business community is adamantly against this legislation because it will restrict much of business operation. Employees are equally against the legislation because they feel once the government collects the money it will be appropriated for other purposes and never returned to the people.

4. The government has stated that the money collected will be used for development of low- and middle-class housing, and rents collected from these developments will be placed in a fund for the payment of severance and retirement benefits.
