Section C. Narrative Comments.

Subject is a mature, experienced officer who has an excellent grasp and understanding of local politics and its ever-changing profile. Most of his career Subject has specialized in the CA activity and this experience has proven very useful to the Station. During this reporting period he was given added responsibility in supervision and a change of pace with operational duties in the subversive, leftist and exile field. He accepted the new challenge and performed well. Just recently the Station has completed major reorganizational changes which resulted in Subject once more concentrating his attention on CA and Mexican government matters. He has done exceptionally well at developing contacts in Government circles and we are taking advantage of his ability to do this to develop long-lasting and meaningful relationships. This is beyond official liaison contacts.

Subject is responsive to guidance and direction and is one of our more imaginative officers. Most recently he has indicated a desire to retire after completion of his present tour in August 1973. Subject has performed well at this Station for over three years and his departure will be most felt in the area of his specialization.

Certification and Comments. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 8 January 1973. Signature of employee: /s/ XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Joseph B. Smith.

By supervisor. Official title of supervisor: Operations Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ John W. Beckwith.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I agree with the above. The loss to the Station is greater than usual for Subject is retiring and thus his considerable talents will probably be unavailable to the Agency, unless some special arrangements are made in the future, depending on what he ends up doing.

I am personally sorry to see this friend leave the Agency and I know further that it will be hard to replace his abilities in various operational fields, including that of good contacts in the community here. He has served the Agency well here and in many other points and his leaving is a loss to us.

Date: 8 January 1973. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ John R. Horton.
