QRMASTER (continued) — to its manager with full expectation of continued operation with heavy Agency subsidy. At the time of sale, substantial funds were removed from the entity, leaving it without sufficient working capital. Consequently, the Agency arranged for a line of credit through a bank guaranteed by the funds removed from the entity. Subsequently, the manager, with Agency permission, sold the entity to a group of foreign nationals. The manager formed his own corporation, which contracted with the Agency for services including the continued management of the company sold, of which he was still president. A management dispute resulted in the removal of the manager from the first corporation, and the bank seized the guarantee for the line of credit, which had been drawn down and used as working capital for the first entity. The manager, no longer supported by the Agency, is the channel through which the Agency is to receive repayment of loans that arose out of the line of credit. So far, the Agency has received no payments.

TPTONIC. TPTONIC/FJINDULGE. LPTONIC/ZRNACARAT — These three proprietary entities were part of a substantial radio broadcasting activity that was turned over to the Department of State for support and subsequently placed under the control of the Board of International Broadcasters for continued operation with Congressional support.

ZRCANNY — This U.S. foundation-type proprietary served as a funding mechanism for a labor organization supported by the Agency. In 1968, all assets plus a termination grant were turned over to the group of U.S. businessmen who backstopped the Agency entity. All Agency funds destined for the labor union were transferred to that organization, and the Agency created a foreign funding company, QRSPIDER, utilizing the same businessmen to continue support to the union. The foreign entity is still in being, although inactive, and will be dissolved after all tag-end negotiations are concluded with the former management of the labor organization, which continues in revised form without Agency support.

DTHABEAS — This proprietary nonprofit entity was supported by the Agency until December 1974, when all Agency funds were withdrawn and the furniture and fixtures.
