Federal Bureau of Investigation  
United States Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20537

Applicant.

1. Loop.

To obtain classifiable fingerprints:

1. Use black printer’s ink.
2. Distribute ink evenly on inking slab.
3. Wash and dry fingers thoroughly.
4. Roll fingers from nail to nail, and avoid allowing fingers to slip.
5. Be sure impressions are recorded in correct order.
6. If an amputation or deformity makes it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that effect in the individual finger block.
7. If some physical condition makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be obtained with a memo stapled to the card explaining the circumstances.
8. Examine the completed fingers to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that lost fingerprints fall into the patterns shown on this card. Other patterns occur infrequently and are not shown here.

2. Wrong.

This card for use by:

Leave this space blank.

1. Law offices may ask in pressing applications, due to a loan on an exercise portfolio.

2. Offices of state are local conformants for pupils of public schools, library, hall, et al., as authorized by statutory authority, as required by the Attorney General’s directive order, a procedure under which the Attorney General has determined that it is needed, or for other good cause.

A. To be annotated as “Not applicable.”
B. To be annotated as “Exceeds limit.”
C. To be annotated as “Not in scope of application.”
D. To be annotated as “Not applicable for the purpose.”
E. To be annotated as “Wrong,” if applicable.

The lines between center of loop and delta need to be shown.

2. Arbitration.

Applicants have to select a portfolio number, subscribe for service number (SO), veteran status, and administration code number (VAC).

Portfolio number is the first number in the sequence. Subscribe for service number (SO) is the second number in the sequence. Veteran status is the third number in the sequence. Administration code number (VAC) is the fourth number in the sequence.

Portfolio. Veteran Status. Administration Code No. (VAC).
