Today, in Battle Creek, Michigan, the city's seal, adopted in 1891, is a white man hitting an unarmed Indian with a rifle butt. Some Indian youth view the television program "Custer" as indicative of racist America. The National Congress of American Indians opposes this distortion of history. Beatings and murder of Indians inidine go unchallenged. Congress voted in 1950 to open up Indian land reservations to state jurisdiction. In actuality, this rides established tribal courts and federal jurisdiction. It gives local bigoted authorities more opportunity to harass (harrass) and opens the way to termination of our treaties and in several places resulted in actual loss of land.

It is as deadly to be an Indian in America as it is to be a soldier in Viet Nam. In the three years before 1967, more Indian children below the age of 10 had died in this country than the 6,628 U.S. combat casualties of the entire Viet Nam War (as of the end of 1966). Most of these were children below the age of six.

The price we pay is the built-in racism our children are taught in school, over television, in cartoons; the Indian has become a joke to white Americans. We pay because we don't know our own history.

The thread of struggle for self-determination runs through the history of Indian-Americans. When a few Indian youth speak of Red Power, the roots go deep into their history in finding nourishment for this demand. Just as some Negro leaders today speak of W.E.B. DuBois as having raised the same issue of identity long before the level of struggle, which is Black Power, arrived. This struggle has gone on for 400 years.

The Indian people have been sending spokesmen to bring their grievances and their positions before the power structure of this country for two hundred years. They have fought in the courts since at least 1830 when the case of the Cherokee Nation vs. Georgia tested the ability and the willingness of the United States to protect an Indian Tribe in its efforts at self-determination.

The Vietnamese war is a continuation of the whole racist war we have waged against the Indian People. Understanding this is a part of understanding the Viet Nam war. We respond to what is happening to Vietnamese children, yet the Indian people have suffered from the same policy of extermination and destruction of their identity.

We must unite with the strivings of those who have had to deal with United States' genocide for 200 years!

We can help to push the United States to ratify the United Nations Resolution, "Treaty Against Genocide", that the United States should correct the history and policy of genocide against the Indian people. Today this refers to the destruction of their identity as a people and links with the struggles of people for their identity all over the world. To stop the policy of genocide, of racism, to develop compensatory steps to undo the effects of the crimes against the Indian people, to remove the oppression of the Indian people!

All the forces in this country cannot win democratic power without making this correction of what was done to the American Indian people.

(Prepared (N prepared) by the Jeannette Rankin Brigade Delegation from Washington State)
