A Call to American Women

Who are outraged by the ruthless slaughter in Vietnam and the persistent neglect of human needs at home.

To come to Washington January 15 and 16.

American women constitute 51% of the voting population, yet a high percentage of us don't vote. It is time for women to break out of their societal molds and take their place as effective, vocal citizens. Women can elect the President they want; women can determine the political, social and economic direction of the nation. We have women power. Let's use it to demonstrate our opposition to this war to the Congress of the United States.

We are a broad coalition of women from many areas of American life. We shall meet in Washington on January 15 for the opening of Congress to demand the following:

1. Congress, as its first order of business, resolve to end the war in Vietnam and immediately arrange for the withdrawal of all American troops.

2. Congress use its power to heal a sick society at home.

3. Congress use its power to make reparation for the ravaged land we leave behind in Vietnam.

4. Congress listen to what the American people are saying and refuse the insatiable demands of the military-industrial complex.

After we petition the United States Congress, we will hold our own congress to articulate our position on the basic problem of achieving peace. We declare our intention to return to our communities and mobilize women to dedicate ourselves to reshaping American society, and restoring our country to a position of honor in the community of nations.

On January 15, we will meet at the Union Depot in Washington, D.C., at 11:30 A.M., and walk behind our delegation which will present our petition to the U.S. Congress.

On January 16, many of us will stay in Washington to begin implementation of these demands by presenting them to our Congressmen and Senators. We hope you can stay.

Clip here and return to:

The Jeannette Rankin Brigade  
c/o Georgina Gronner  
520 North Michigan  
Chicago, Illinois 60611  
(312) 787-1628

Be a sponsor.

Contribute $____.

I will:

Go to Washington on Monday, Jan. 15, 1968.  
Stay for the activities on Jan. 16, 1968.

Please send me ______ train tickets (B & O, leaving from Grand Central Station, Wells & Harrison, January 14 at 4:30 P.M. Return train leaves Washington 11:15 P.M., January 15 & 16. Round trip Chicago/Washington - $42.00 for coach). Enclosed is the appropriate amount of money.

I am interested in a plane flight at approximately $65.00 (check if so).

I am interested in a round trip bus fare at approximately $30.00.

We will only be able to have the plane and the bus arrangements if we have enough people. If you or your group needs help in securing accommodations, contact the Hospitality Office, 2140 Peace Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. Telephone Number - (202) 293-2020.
