Mr. Osborn seems to recall that the Office of Security had similar arrangements with the Washington, D. C. Metropolitan Police Department, and he thinks that there were instances in which such cover was actually used, but he does not recall specific cases. He also states that it is possible that CIA field offices would have used similar cover of local police departments, but he has no knowledge of such instances.

Wire Taps

Mr. Osborn states that he has no acquaintance with the wire taps made of the office and home phones of two syndicated columnists in Washington in 1962 and 1963, which wire taps are revealed in the file as having been authorized by Attorney General Robert Kennedy. (The file reveals continuation of activity with respect to the surveillance of these columnists into the period of when Mr. Osborn was in the Office of Security as its Deputy Director. The file does not, however, show any indication of actual awareness on the part of Mr. Osborn that telephone tapping was involved. On the contrary, there are indications in the file that these telephone taps were discontinued immediately prior to Mr. Bannerman becoming the Director of Security in 1963, at which time Mr. Osborn also became the Deputy Director of Security.)

Training of State and Local Police and Other Assistance

Mr. Osborn states that assistance was rendered to many local police departments, including those of the cities of New York and Chicago, and to the Maryland and Virginia state police during the period 1965 to 1972. He states that this program was vigorously and enthusiastically approved and supported by Mr. Helms.

Assistance consisted of training of personnel, the loaning of equipment, and the declassification of materials and techniques in such areas as photo analysis, surveillance techniques, metals detection, explosives detection, locks and picks, hidden microphones, telephotography and covert photography, and the setting up, handling, and organization of intelligence operations.

This program was terminated upon passage of an amendment to the Law Enforcement Assistance Act, which prohibited assistance to local and state police departments by the CIA.

Mr. Osborn feels very strongly that the program of cooperating with and assisting police departments in improving their capability to fight crime was proper and that its termination is a serious disservice to the American people. Referring to the prohibition on CIA “police and law enforcement functions” in the National Security Act of 1947, Mr. Osborn is of the opinion that the CIA in sharing its information and technical developments with state and local police departments was not exercising any police or law enforcement function.
