Statement by Accused or Suspect Person (AR 195-10).

Place: An Khe, Republic of Vietnam. Date: 26 March 69. Time: 1330.

Last name, first name, middle name: MARTI, Manuel NMN. Social Security Account No.: 093-36-4601. US52773870. Grade: E3.

Organization or address: Headquarters and Headquarters Battery, 4th Bn. 60th Artillery, APO 96294.

Part I — Waiver Certificate.

I have been informed by William L. Brooks, Special Agent of US Army Intelligence Corps, that he wants to question me about association with possible members of the Communist Party of which I am accused or suspected. He has also informed me of my rights.

I understand that I have the right to remain silent and that any statement I make may be used as evidence against me in a criminal trial.

I understand that I have the right to consult with counsel and to have counsel present with me during questioning. I may retain counsel at my own expense or counsel will be appointed for me at no expense to me. If I am subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice, appointed counsel may be military counsel of my own choice if he is reasonably available.

I understand that even if I decide to answer questions now without having counsel present, I may stop answering question at any time. Also, I may request counsel at anytime during questioning.

(Do) (Do not) want counsel. (Do) (Do not) want to make a statement and answer questions.

Interrogator: Donald M. Miyoshi. Witness: William F. Brooks.

Donald M. Miyoshi, Special Agent, 55th MI Detachment (Corps). William L. Brooks, Special Agent, 55th MI Detachment (Corps).

Part II — Sworn Statement.

I, Manuel Marti, want to make the following statement under oath:

Question. What are your views on communism as practiced in the world today?

Answer. I think the communists are trying to take over the world. I don't go for it.

Q. Have you ever participated in any communist party activities?

A. None.

Q. Have you ever associated with any members of the communist party?

A. No, to my knowledge.

Q. What organizations or associations do you belong to?

In Tm. STAMP COL
