Section D. Narrative Description.

Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard. Was act outstanding, and if it was more than normally expected, explain why and how. If an aerial or marine operation, describe type and position of craft, crew position of individual, and all unusual circumstances; list results of the act. Enclose unclassified citation.

Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance. State character of service during period for which recommended. Give complete description of administrative, technical, or professional duties and responsibilities if not covered in Section C; include dates of assignment and relief. What did the individual do that merits the award? Why was this outstanding when compared to others of like grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances? If appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other persons or units. What obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate results of achievement, service, or performance. Include reference to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which supports this recommendation. Enclose unclassified citation.

Mr. Joseph B. Smith has made an outstanding contribution to CIA operations for the past 21 years. He has consistently received strong/outstanding efficiency reports in a wide variety of assignments, including two in the Far East (Singapore/Malaya and Manila) and two in Latin America (Buenos Aires and Mexico City). At Headquarters he served as Chief of the Malaya/Australia Branch in FE Division, on the CA Staff, in WII Division on the Venezuelan Desk and the Division CA Staff, and in OTR on a rotational tour.

Mr. Smith is a recognized authority on Covert Action. While with OTR he was commended for his efforts in completely revamping the CA curriculum. In close coordination with the CA Staff he organized two totally new CA seminars, both of which evoked a very positive response. He also received praise for organizing and conducting a training course for military officers destined for Saigon where they were to conduct psychological warfare operations. In Argentina he worked in liaison with local services on Covert Action operations. This work with liaison was rated as outstanding. He developed a long-time agent in one of the services to a point where the product was considerably improved. Political contacts at all levels developed by Mr. Smith in Mexico City have been instrumental in developing disseminable intelligence. In all his assignments his rating officers have consistently praised his imagination, flexibility, enthusiasm, perception and professionalism.

Mr. Smith's career has been one of exceptional achievement and he has made an outstanding contribution to the Agency's Covert Action program and to Agency training. His record of commendations and sustained superior performance of duty of value to the Agency throughout his career make it fitting that he be awarded the Career Intelligence Medal upon availability.

Enclosure is required if originator is not an eyewitness or does not have personal knowledge of the act or performance. Attach affidavits of eyewitnesses or individuals having personal knowledge of the facts.

Proposed citation.

Recommendation initiated by: Theodore G. Shackley. Title and signature of employee making recommendation: Chief, WII Division. Date: 1/12/73.

Recommendation forwarded through officials concerned for their information.

Head of Career Service. Title and signature: See Item 52. Deputy Director of Career Service. Title and signature: See Item 52. Deputy Director of Operating Component. Title and signature: Deputy Director for Plans.
