SECTION 4. SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS

Manpower to review security index cases.

(e) Names shall be included in the security index only when investigation has established and reports reflect sufficient facts and evidence to justify the inclusion of each subject in the security index.

(f) The contents of the security index must be accurate and correct at all times. Matters pertaining to its preparation and maintenance must be given preferred, expeditious, continuous and detailed attention.

(g) Matters pertaining to the security index are strictly confidential and are not to be mentioned or alluded to in investigative reports.

(h) The general operation and content of the security index must not be discussed by field personnel of the Bureau without prior Bureau authority.

(i) Matters pertaining to the security index may be discussed with duly qualified representatives of other Federal intelligence agencies only on a strictly confidential basis and only in instances wherein an individual subject of prime interest to one of these services is involved.

(2) Determination of dangerousness of an individual

(a) The dangerousness of a member or affiliate of a subversive organization does not necessarily depend entirely upon his personal characteristics, such as aggressiveness or a disposition to violence. Although these factors must be taken into consideration in evaluating an individual's potential dangerousness, other factors are essential in making this determination. An individual's dangerousness also depends upon the contribution he has made or is making in the advancement of the principles and aims of the subversive movement with which he is connected or his subversive potentialities in the event of a national emergency. Bear in mind that a subject active in a subversive organization is not merely an isolated individual but is a part of an organization of which the purposes are opposed to the best interests of the U.S. An individual's loyalty to a subversive organization and the principles thereof is a primary factor to take into consideration in evaluating his potential dangerousness.

Factors indicating an individual's loyalty to such an organization are numerous and will vary with each case in degree.

Among such factors are:

I. Long continued membership in a subversive organization

II. Affiliation with or attendance at training schools, especially leadership schools

III. Frequent or regular attendance at organizational meetings and functions

IV. Subscriptions to publications of a subversive organization

V. Possession of or continued study of revolutionary literature

VI. Preparation or distribution of subversive propaganda and/or literature

VII. Holding positions in the subversive organization or in other organizations of a front character which indicate confidence of such organizations in his loyalty

VIII. Espousal of a subversive doctrine exemplified in his acts and utterances

IX. Contributions to or collections of funds for the organization

X. Recruitment of new members

XI. Revolutionary background

XII. Participation in picket lines in which the subversive organization is interested or which it has fostered, or in demonstrations, riots, mass meetings, or pressure group activity fostered by the organization
