In a key facility, copies of reports being the dual criterion, “Security of Government Employees; Security Matter - C.” should be furnished to appropriate intelligence agencies of the armed services by the field offices as shown in sections 69-70. When III, and 87D 7c (2), of this manual. For instructions regarding dissemination to the Defense Industrial Security Office, see 8 (3), Office, Defense Supply Agency, Columbus, Ohio, of this manual.

Specific instructions with regard to all phases of our responsibilities under Executive Order 10450, including policy, investigative procedures, and dissemination are set out in section 69, volume III, of this manual.

(7) Individuals who own property or reside in the immediate vicinity of an installation or other premises under the cognizance of a branch of the armed forces.

Dissemination should be made locally to the intelligence service of the military branch involved.

(8) Airmen issued certificates by Federal Aviation Agency (FAA).

FAA issues certificates to airmen who are defined as persons in command or acting as pilot, mechanic, or member of the crew in the navigation of aircraft while under way; individuals directly in charge of the inspection, maintenance, overhauling, or repair of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, or appliances; and any individual serving in the capacity of aircraft dispatcher or air-traffic control tower operator. Subversive data developed concerning persons within such definitions should be furnished to the Bureau by report or letterhead memorandum suitable for dissemination, together with cover communication recommending that such data be furnished to FAA. Such dissemination will be made only at the Bureau. For additional instructions regarding dissemination to FAA, see Manual of Rules and Regulations, part II, section 5.

(9) Security index—dissemination of information to Secret Service.

Under the agreement between the Bureau and the Secret Service concerning Presidential protection dated 2-3-65, which is set out in its entirety in section 102, volume IV, of this manual, reports are to be disseminated henceforth to Secret Service in all security index cases. An extra copy of the report in these cases should be furnished the Bureau. At the time the agreement was entered into, letterhead memoranda in all security index cases had been disseminated to Secret Service. Therefore, prior reports in these cases will not be disseminated.

Under the terms of the agreement, it is essential to advise Secret Service of the reason or reasons for referral—the statement of the class or classes in appendix B of the agreement which the individual referred fits. For this purpose utilize form FD-376, which is designed to serve as a letter of transmittal for both local dissemination and dissemination at the SOG. The original and one copy of this form should be forwarded to the Bureau. A copy is to be maintained in the main case file and upon transferral of office of origin in any case, the new office of origin is to be furnished a copy. Careful consideration must be given to insure that the individual is properly categorized. In the case of a subject being recommended for the security index, withhold dissemination pending Bureau approval of his security index status; forward FD-376 as in any other case.

In the case of an individual who was the subject of a prior investigation and is currently being recommended for the security index, do not disseminate prior reports. However, prepare a letter memorandum including pertinent information previously developed which should be disseminated to Secret Service, together with the current report. Copies of this letterhead memorandum should be forwarded to the Bureau for dissemination at headquarters level.
