Samuel Adason Jaffe

Jaffe was then shown photographs of individuals identified by WF T-2 as officers of the First Department, SCD, KGB, and he indicated he recognized the following individuals. He furnished no additional information other than that set forth below:

1. Vladimir Lyovich Artemov: Jaffe commented: “I know this man. Have met someplace.”

2. Yevgeniy Nikolayevich Aleshin: Jaffe indicated he definitely had met this individual. He indicated he might have seen him in Moscow; however, he recalls specifically meeting him in New York at some party. According to Jaffe, the Soviet got drunk and “I took care of the guy.” Subsequently, the Soviets called him at 3:00 or 4:00 a.m., inquiring about the Soviet’s whereabouts. Jaffe indicated that in spite of the favor he rendered this Soviet, the Soviet never looked him up in Moscow. Jaffe stated he ran into this Soviet again in Moscow when he was covering an American businessmen group sponsored by Time-Life and Jaffe asked the Soviet why “he didn’t look me up.” The Soviet indicated he had been too busy.

3. Nikolay Grigoryevich Bagrichev: Jaffe indicated this individual looked familiar; however, he has no recollection of where he might have seen him.

4. Yuri Evgenyevich Chernetsov: Jaffe indicated he has seen this Soviet someplace. He commented the man was somewhat similar in appearance to “Slava’s” boss, but shorter and more handsome.

5. Yuriy Vladimirovich Fedorov: Jaffe commented that this individual is connected with APN and also is connected with KGB. He continued: “This is the guy that set me up with ‘Slava’—Fedorov—who traveled here (United States) with Book Exhibit—vicious, condescending greasy type of fellow.”

WF T-2 has stated Yuriy Vladimirovich Fedorov might be identical with a correspondent and a former agent of the First Department, SCD, KGB, who previously was a Major in GRU (Soviet Military Intelligence). Later, in 1962 or 1963, this individual became an officer of the First Section, First Department, SCD, KGB.
