Their parents. Often, black people are picked up at random for alleged traffic violations. If a black boy is seen running away from the police when the police believe a crime has been committed (usually a property crime), they shoot first and ask questions later. The incidents of this in Berkeley (Berkely), Oakland, and San Francisco are numerous. In fact, it is incidents such as these that have been the trigger in almost all the so-called “riots” that have occurred in this country since Watts.

The position of the Black Panther Party was graphically illustrated when, after Martin Luther King’s assassination, Bobby Seale, chairman of the Party, went around Oakland in a sound truck urging black people to stay home and not become involved in violence. Why? Not because there was no reason for revolt, but because the Black Panthers knew that such spontaneous rebellion results in death for black people and no changes in their conditions of life. Such violence is sporadic (snaradic), short-lived, and costly. However, it is also very clear that non-violent tactics have resulted in no change either. In fact, before his death, Martin Luther King indicated that the Poor People’s March on Washington was his FINAL attempt to use non-violent tactics to get what his people had been denied for 400 years. After that, Dr. King indicated, all he could see was fascism. And he could not urge people to remain non-violent in the face of that.

Why do the Panthers Believe the Black Community will be Annihilated

The white community is prepared for genocide. Whites all over this nation are arming themselves to protect their community from an invasion of blacks. This is so even though not one white community has yet been invaded or even threatened with such invasion. This is true even though whites claim that even if there were an invasion of blacks they would be beaten almost immediately. Why are they armed? Fear. Fear that stems from a lack of understanding of the Watts incidents, fear that stems from a lack of understanding of what it is like to be black in this country. Fear of militancy that asks for change NOW. In part, the fear comes because the whites know that they themselves are powerless to get change that would appease (annease) the militancy of the blacks. They have no more control over their government than do black people. They do not choose who will run for office—that is a back-room political decision. They know that when they vote for a candidate they must rely not on knowledge of his position, but on faith that he will govern well. So when they are afraid they do not rely on their government; they buy guns.

Not only the white man as an individual is armed. Police departments all over this nation are stockpiling weapons which, in their horror, are matched by those used by the army in Vietnam. Why the stockpile? For the Second Civil War. This is the way Esquire Magazine saw it in their March 1968 issue, in an article of that title by Garry Wills. Reporter Wills visited police chiefs all over the country to find out what they were complaining about with regard to possible violence in the black communities. Remember when you read this that black people are arming for self-defense with guns.

A listing of the weapons being stockpiled included: tanks, armored personnel carriers, jeeps with gun mounts, command armored cars built for Vietnam use, gas of all kinds including NACE, now felt by the Federal Drug Administration to be far more dangerous than tear gas, fixed bayonets, M-1 rifles, helicopters, tear gas grenades, shotguns, police dogs, shock batons, machine guns, assault guns which shoot through walls. The list could go on and on. Some of the more.
