6. Use of mail and instrumentalities of interstate or foreign commerce (Title 50, USC, § 789 (§ 10 of act))

The act requires any person acting for or on behalf of any organization for which there is in effect a final order of the Board determining it to be a communist-action organization or communist front to label properly all publications transmitted through the mail or by any means or instrumentality of interstate or foreign commerce.

7. Penalties (Title 50, USC, § 794 (§ 15 of act))

Any organization which violates any provision of section 10 of this act shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for each such violation by a fine of not more than $10,000. Any individual who violates any provision of section 5 or 10 of this act shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for each such violation by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for not more than five years, or by both.

8. Receiving of evidence developed on individual members

A. Admissible evidence showing a violation of the Internal Security Act of 1950, as amended (Title 50, USC, § 784), as it pertains to union officers, employees, and representatives of management (see item 5, part (a) (1) (E) above, and volume III, section 67C, of this manual), should be furnished the Bureau in a report on the individual and the report should carry the single character, Internal Security Act of 1950 - Labor (classification 122). Any admissible evidence showing a violation of this act on the part of any other individual should be furnished the Bureau in report on the individual and the report should carry the dual character, Internal Security - C or Security Matter - C, and Internal Security Act of 1950 (classification 100). See section 87D of this manual for complete instructions relative to investigation of individuals.

9. Instructions

The Bureau's responsibilities in connection with the internal security of this country necessitate that we promptly and thoroughly investigate all organizations subject to communist infiltration, influence, or control as set forth in section 87E of this manual. In view of the Internal Security Act of 1950, the necessity of developing legally admissible evidence as to the communist character of any organization must be emphasized during our investigation. Keeping in mind the factors to be considered by the Subversive Activities Control Board in determining whether an organization is a communist front, every effort must be made to develop legally admissible evidence relating to these factors. An investigation of any organization which might fall within the provisions of the Internal Security Act of 1950 should carry the dual character, Internal Security - C, Internal Security Act of 1950.

10. Emergency detention provisions (Title 50, USC, §§ 811-826)

Sections 100 to 111 inclusive cover the detention provisions of the act in the event of a state of "Internal Security Emergency" and set up a program for the arrests of certain individuals, provisions for hearings after arrest, and the right to judicial review. Criminal provisions are set out in sections 112 to 114 inclusive, making it unlawful in connection with the detention provisions of the act to resist arrest, knowingly disregard or evade apprehension, escape from confinement, or conspire with others to escape from confinement or detention. Violations are also set out covering the aiding and assisting in the commission of the violations mentioned above and in the willful interference with the activities of any member of a review board set up under the detention provisions or any of its agents.

a. Bureau instructions

These provisions do not affect instructions regarding individuals considered dangerous or potentially dangerous to the internal security as outlined in section 87D of this manual.
