Date of transcription: 7/29/74.

1. William Eric Carroll, inmate, Burlington County Jail, was made known the identity of the interviewing agent and the nature of the inquiry. Carroll was advised of his constitutional rights and indicated he understood these rights but was unwilling to sign any forms indicating such or to sign any statements. Carroll was advised that the interviewing agent was specifically seeking information regarding the activities of him and Frank August Drager and a group called the National Revolutionary Army (NRA). Carroll related the following information:

He stated he met Frank Drager in the presence of a Thomas Middaugh prior to the summer of 1973. Middaugh was described as his close friend, and they both attended a Ku Klux Klan (KKK) rally in Upper New Jersey, at which time Middaugh introduced him to Drager. Drager is known to be the legal guardian for Middaugh. He was much impressed by the zeal and philosophy of Frank Drager and immediately became his close friend and associate. Even though it was later learned by Carroll that Drager was a homosexual, he decided to be tolerant of this fact, and they would continue to travel together and expound their right-wing philosophy.

He stated he felt he had quite a bit to do with Frank Drager rejoining the right-wing element. He stated that they talked a lot about how the right wing could change the country and felt they could work together as a highly proficient team. He stated that many of their activities were planned while they were high on marijuana.

Later that summer, he and Drager were in Trenton, N.J., where he was introduced to one of Drager's best friends by the name of Jim Broderick. Broderick was known to have an extensive criminal record and at that time was dealing in marijuana. Broderick was also seen on numerous occasions with stolen checks believed to have been taken from the Trenton area businesses. He, Drager, and Broderick left the Trenton area inasmuch as Broderick was involved in some way with a 200-pound marijuana buy which involved a shooting. Carroll stated he did not know the specifics of this incident.

Interviewed on 7/17/74 at Mt. Holly, N.J.

File # NK 157-2011

SA Charles F. Moffett /mla

Date disclosed: 7/23/74.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.
