Airtel to Birmingham

RE: Eugene Thomas, et al.

Intentions to continue to maintain this residence inasmuch as both he and his ex-wife are residing elsewhere.

Informant's ex-wife has obtained employment at a salary of approximately $228 per month. She has fixed obligations that will amount to approximately $424 a month and feels she could better meet her obligations if she were receiving her alimony payments. Mrs. Rowe has stated she is to receive alimony of $115 a month and that her ex-husband is in arrears for a total of $090. The Bureau desires to know what informant's thoughts are as to meeting this obligation to his ex-wife. Also advise if informant considers these payments as necessary monthly obligations that he would meet under normal circumstances.

The Birmingham Office is to give this your immediate attention and promptly advise the Bureau.

Note:

The Birmingham Office has pointed out that Rowe has performed an invaluable service to the Bureau and has saved an untold amount of manpower and various expenses in connection with the shooting of Mrs. Viola Liuzzo. Informant has been in protective custody of the Bureau since 4/1/65 and not had opportunity to be gainfully employed to meet various obligations. The Birmingham Office has recommended that the Bureau pay informant's outstanding bills in order to continue the excellent relationship developed. We are presently paying him $16 per day subsistence in lieu of expenses, which figure was decided upon after discussion with the Department. It is not desired to make a large payment at this time which could be construed as a payment to Rowe for his testimony in the upcoming trials. Birmingham previously requested to submit a detailed accounting of Rowe's debts showing their basis, when contracted, and schedule of payments. The information received from the field needs to be further clarified, after which time this matter will be discussed with the Department and its views obtained as to whether or not payment of these debts would be judicious at this time.
