Married Marte on 13 June 1959. Five days later, she left him and moved to British Columbia. He has never obtained a divorce from her, though he considers that they are separated. He remained in Austria until 15 August 1961, when he departed for the U.S.

C. Kavaja worked in the U.S. as a part-time painter for various employers in the Paterson, New Jersey, area for nearly eight months. During November 1962, Kavaja left Paterson for Chicago, where he took a job with the Serbian National Defense Council (SND). His duties included support for the émigré publication “Sloboda” and acting as custodian and watchman for the building. He said a watchman was necessary because the council considers the Yugoslav Consulate in Chicago to be an enemy. As part of his salary, Kavaja was provided furnished quarters in the building. Kavaja remained with the SND until December 1963. For the next three months, he supported himself by taking odd jobs: painting…

D. In March 1964, Kavaja drove with a friend to California. After their arrival in the Los Angeles area, they were arrested for possession of a .45-caliber automatic pistol, which Kavaja had left on the back seat of the automobile. The Los Angeles police detained Kavaja for twenty days. A local businessman who interpreted at the hearing for Kavaja indicated that Kavaja was “crazy and a loudmouth,” who was intent on killing Castro. After his release from jail, he returned to Chicago, and then to Paterson to work on obtaining his citizenship.

E. In October 1964, he returned to Chicago. Sometime before the summer of 1966, his live-in (married) girlfriend gave birth to a daughter in Paterson. In June 1977, Yugoslav Consulate General consular officer Tomislav Djordjevic, considered to be an SDB officer based in New York, learned from the Chicago Consulate that Kavaja and his group of radicals might become active, and as a result was keeping close watch on them. In November 1977, New York Consulate official Petar G. Bozinovic, also considered to be SDB, was collecting information on Kavaja and mentioned that he had been advised that Kavaja was instructing émigrés on how to make bombs. On 4 August 1979, at a meeting of Yugoslav officials at the New York Consulate General, Kavaja was a topic of discussion. Djordjevic, his successor (and SDB officer) Njegoslav Panteleic, consular officer Nino Kopac, Osman Gasi, and Consul General Veselin Veskovic discussed active anti-regime émigrés in the area. They indicated that Kavaja had recently hijacked an airplane outside Chicago to New York City, and then to Shannon, Ireland, where he surrendered to the Irish authorities. During this meeting, they agreed that Kavaja, who was at the time in a U.S. prison, deserved to be punished. Djordjevic displayed a Serbo-Croatian report on Kavaja entitled “Who Are the Terrorists—SOPO—End of One Conspiracy.”

F. One source who traveled to Yugoslavia in April 1981 reported he was interviewed by the SDB. He was asked, among other things, to
