SF 100-46832

The January 1968 issue of “Ramparts” magazine contains an article entitled “Oil and the Arabs (The Nasser Thesis: Part 2).” This article states, “Researchers for this article and Part I (‘Ramparts,’ November 1967) include Bob Avakian, Jim Hawley, David Kolodney, and John Spitzer.”

The article states the thesis that the Middle East is “of paramount strategic importance to this country” because the Persian Gulf produces 27% of the world’s petroleum and has proved global reserves of 60%. In addition, the Mideast is the trade crossroads between Asia and Europe, an important cultural bridge between Africa and Asia, and the center of the Islamic world.

The article explains that 27% of the oil used throughout the world comes from the Middle East and, since oil is indispensable to industrial and military potential, it is no wonder that continued control of this resource is a major focus of the Western powers. It adds that if control of this oil is important to the West, it is absolutely critical to the Arabs, since it is the only source of the cash needed to break out of the cycle of underdevelopment and poverty in which their countries are trapped. It pointed out that the profits from the oil go to the “wrong” states, those with the least population, 12% of the Arab population, and therefore the least need. The article stated the Arabs could repay the total investment of Western powers of $5 billion in two years with the oil removed from Arab wells, except for the fact that Western countries are in a position to force the Arabs to deal with them or to have no market whatever for this oil. The article cited how Iranian Prime Minister Mossadegh (Mossadegh) nationalized his country’s oil production May 1, 1951, and the U.S. proceeded to crush him so totally that the example has served as a chilling model for other would-be nationalists—no major oil-producing country in the Mideast has dared to repeat Mossadegh’s (Mossadegh’s) attempt. The Western powers were said to have accomplished this by imposing a total boycott of Iranian oil.

The article explained that the Baghdad Pact was an integral part of a global containment policy which was put into effect by the U.S. in the early 1950s, but Nasser refused to align himself with it. Nasser was said to be a threat to the Western powers by being consciously and arrogantly expansionist.
