:eph B. Smith

Box 323 B, Route 2  
Gardners, Pa.

C. Graduate Training (cont.)

2. University of Pennsylvania, 1948–51.

a. At Pennsylvania I have taken courses primarily in American history.

b. I received a master's degree, February 1950.

c. I have completed course work for my Ph.D. I expect soon to take my doctoral examination.

d. I have taken several courses in foreign area study: Latin American History; The U.S. and Latin America; Latin American Parties and Politics; British Foreign Policy 1919–1939.

e. In addition to the above, I have taken course work in U.S. foreign policy, 1990 to date.

II. Research and Publication

A. See pages 2 and 3, Work Project 1.

B. Work Project 2.

1. Sponsored by Dickinson College.

2. Scope: To investigate the relation of Dickinson College to the frontier community in which it was established in 1783.

3. I was the sole researcher.

4. Principal sources were the large letter collection, Dickinson College Library; church records at Carlisle and Philadelphia, Presbyterian Historical Society; early Carlisle newspapers, American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Massachusetts; contemporary writings; and local histories.

5. This study was made from October 1947 until June 1948.

6. Methods were historical.

7. Findings and Conclusions

a. Dickinson College, founded in 1783, had numerous problems incident to the establishment of any such institution, but intensified by the hostility of frontier society; for example, financial, disciplinary, and recruitment problems.

b. Frontier society rejects higher education as unnecessary and even hostile to its social goals.

c. Under-developed areas need so-called practical education first.

8. The material was used in the publication of the first volume of materials on early America published by the college under the title “Bulwark of Liberty,” June 1950. Also published in part as “A Frontier Experiment in Higher Education,” Pennsylvania History, Pennsylvania Historical Association, January 1949.

9. Two persons associated with this project: Whitfield J. Bell, Dickinson College, Carlisle, Pa.; Ray Morris, Dickinson College, Carlisle, Pa.

10. I was solely responsible for methods, procedure, and writing.

11. The project was promoted by the college as noted in paragraph 1.
