Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position based on specific relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance, give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

During the four months Woods has been under my supervision he has demonstrated very real supervisory ability and a talent for getting maximum performance from a small staff while handling an increasingly large volume of work. He has also shown his ability to cut the costs of his operation.

Woods not only runs a most efficient Registry but is also constantly seeking ways to improve and streamline its operation. He is a man who takes such interest in his job that his ideas and plans for improvement are carefully worked out and sound.

Though I have observed his work for only four months, I believe his overall performance is “Strong” and close to “Outstanding.” He has been recommended for promotion. He deserves it.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 27 October 1965. Signature of employee: /s/ James S. Woods.

By supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 27 October 1965. Official title of supervisor: Cpa Officer. Type or printed name and signature: /s/ Kenneth P. Miller.

By reviewing official.

Comments of reviewing official.

I agree with his supervisor that Subject is unusually competent in his field and fully deserving of a “Strong” rating. Subject displays unfloying enthusiasm for his job and constantly tries to improve his operation. He has displayed a high degree of imagination and inventiveness in making changes in our overall CRR set-up. He very definitely deserves promotion.

Date: 2 November 1965. Official title of reviewing official: DCOS. Type or printed name and signature: /s/ Horace L. Feldman.
