Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 059198. Section A—General. Name: Kent William W. Date of birth: 05/09/29. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13. SD: D. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/DO/Wash Base. Current station: Washington, D.C. Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Annual. Reporting period: 1 August–31 December 1967.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

D—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise.

Specific duty No. 1: To fully establish himself within the Washington area under a viable commercial cover and to take the necessary initial steps to exploit his position operationally as a Base support officer. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: To maintain operational contact with agents and targets of operational interest to WH Division as assigned. Rating letter: B.

Specific duty No. 3: To provide operational entre into a large number of local religious, civic and academic groups which may become of greater operational interest to the Base in the future. Rating letter: P.
