Federal Bureau of Investigation

Date: August 23, 1973.

On August 22, 1971, at approximately 4:32 a.m., SA Terrence P. Neist and SA Lawrence Karl York went to the door of the residence located at 21 North Fourth Street, Camden, N.J. SA Neist displayed his credentials to the individual who came to the door. This man was later identified as Bill L. Billman. SA Neist announced that he and the others were Special Agents of the FBI and that they were there to execute arrest warrants.

SA James J. Finley and SA Richard J. Bernes, followed by SA Terrence P. Neist and SA Lawrence Karl York, then entered the residence through the open front door. Immediately, SA Finley and SA Bernes entered the front living room located at the right of the hallway on the first floor and observed John Peter Grady lying on the floor at the west end of the room, near a couch. Grady was wearing a white T-shirt and dark blue trousers and had no shoes or socks.

SA Finley immediately identified himself to Grady as a Special Agent of the FBI and informed Grady that he was under arrest for a violation of Federal law. SA Finley and SA Bernes then pulled Grady to his feet and searched him for weapons. He was then handcuffed by SA Neist and removed to a Bureau automobile parked directly in front of 21 North Fourth Street, Camden, N.J.

After Grady was placed in the rear seat of the car, he was advised of the identities of SA Lawrence Karl York and SA Terrence P. Neist and was again informed by SA York that he was under arrest. SA York advised Grady that he was being charged with conspiracy and was being arrested based on a warrant issued by U.S. Magistrate Charles Rudd, Camden, N.J. Grady’s shoes were then brought to him. He was transported to the U.S. Post Office and Courthouse, 401 Market Street, Camden, N.J. During the ride to the courthouse, Grady complained that his handcuffs were extremely tight. Upon arrival at the courthouse, the handcuffs were loosened somewhat. During the ride to the U.S. Post Office and Courthouse, Grady made the statement, “I’m JPG.” Upon arrival at the U.S. Post Office and

August 22, 1971. Camden, N.J.

File: Philadelphia 52-7765 STN

SA Richard J. Bernes, James J. Finley, Terrence P. Neist, Mason P. Smith, and Lawrence Karl York

By: JXY/10V/153

Date dictated: August 23, 1973

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is located to your agency; its content cannot be distributed outside your agency.
