9. Use of informant by Department—filing correspondence. From time to time, Department expresses interest in using a particular informant for testifying when he becomes available as a witness. Place copies of all correspondence of this type in informant's file. Occasionally, such correspondence may be voluminous and apply to more than one informant. In those cases, summarize information concerning each informant and place the summary in the appropriate file.

10. Form FD-238. Form FD-238, printed on pink paper, is used in security informant and potential security informant files as a table of contents or index to show where in the file particular data can be found. This form is to be kept as the top document in the informant file and is not to be serialized. If a particular section of the form is not applicable, note that thereon.

11. Bulky material submitted by informant. Where an informant or source submits bulky material other than a statement and the same pertains to a specific investigative matter, the bulky material may be filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of Form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum. File the original Form FD-306 or channelizing memorandum in the subfile of the informant or source and note thereon the file and serial number where the bulky material is located.

L. Payments to informants

1. No gifts to informants

a. Gifts should not be given to informants.

b. The relationship between agents and informants shall be maintained on a businesslike basis.

c. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, representatives of companies, private industries, or insurance companies and request assistance regarding payments of money, gifts, or products of such companies to informants.

2. SAC authority

a. When deemed necessary and expedient to expend money to develop an individual as an informant to obtain information concerning security matters which is not otherwise obtainable, or to advance expense money to obtain such information, SAC may approve payments up to $400 and totaling not more than $400 on a c.o.d. basis, regardless of the number of payments. This applies only to individuals who have never been regularly paid for services or expenses on Bureau authorization.

b. An individual who is paid on SAC authority should not be described in correspondence as an informant or source who is being paid on a “regular basis” or on “Bureau authorization.”

c. A blue slip reclaiming payments authorized by SAC must clearly and accurately explain the circumstances and summarize the information obtained so the Bureau will be in a position to pass intelligently on such matters.

d. Prior Bureau authority must be obtained to make any additional payment to an individual who has received payments totaling $400. Once an individual has been paid $400 and it appears he will furnish information on a regular basis, a recommendation should be made to the Bureau to pay him on a “regular basis.”

e. All newly developed security informants are to be paid under SAC authority for the first six months unless unusual circumstances exist. If additional funds under SAC authority are necessary during this period, submit a request accompanied by detailed justification of past expenditures.

3. Payments on a regular basis—Bureau authority

a. To pay anyone on a regular basis, obtain specific Bureau authorization.

b. In requesting this authorization, use Form FD-401:

(1) Membership list. List current membership and position held in any subversive group. If the position identifies the informant, submit separately by secure teletype (nitel).

(2) Amount paid for services and expenses. List by the month or week. The initial justification letter should set forth the amount, if any, ever paid under SAC authority.

(3) Number of activities and persons on whom coverage is provided. List the number and type of meetings attended and other activities, and the number of persons on whom the informant furnishes coverage and their importance.
