Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 059198.

Section A—General. Name: Kent, William. Date of birth: 9 May 29. Sex: M. Grade: GS-12. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP WH 5. Type of report: Reassignment supervisor. Reporting period: 18 May 62–15 Nov 62.

Section B—Performance Evaluation. W—Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C. A—Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence. P—Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner. S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency. O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Continuing analysis and evaluation of CA projects—as many as ten, including two major projects, at one time. Rating: A.

Specific duty No. 2: Preparation of correspondence (cables, dispatches and memoranda) on CA projects under his responsibility. Rating: P.

Specific duty No. 3: Liaison with CA staff components (WH and DD/P) on matters concerning projects under his responsibility and on miscellaneous Branch CA matters. Rating: S.

Specific duty No. 4.
