(6) After the informant authenticates his statement, the contacting Agent should prepare a cover sheet, Form FD-306, which should be stapled to it. Thereafter, the statement should be handled as a written one in accordance with instructions set out in 2, a, (10), and (11).

(7) Oral information furnished by the informant purely of lead value should be incorporated in an office memorandum by the Agent and should not be initialed by the informant, exhibited to him, or treated as evidence.

3. Transmission of Information

a. Statements should be personally delivered to the contacting Agent by informants whenever possible. Careful consideration should be given to the full security of all such personal contacts.

b. They should never be mailed to a field office or resident agency.

c. If they cannot be obtained personally by the contacting Agent, obtain confidential post office boxes for their receipt.

d. Confidential post office boxes should be obtained under fictitious names and not under the names of persons who may be listed in the post office directory.

e. More than one informant may send statements to a specific post office box, but consideration should be given to obtaining post office boxes in different post office stations to prevent suspicion on the part of post office employees.

f. The envelope enclosing the statement should have the return address of another confidential post office box obtained under a fictitious name in the same manner as in d.

g. Statements should be collected at post office boxes regularly, but the time of pickup should be varied. Work out a system of rotation whereby the same Agent or Agents will not appear at the same post office box for any extended period of time.

h. When an informant receives information of vital and immediate interest to the Bureau, he should furnish it as promptly as possible to the contacting Agent or office by the most appropriate means of communication. The office should take any necessary action without delay.

4. Handling of Lead Information

a. All lead information obtained from an informant must be run out to a logical conclusion.

b. If there is only a partial name of an individual or meager descriptive data, and if there is sufficient data available to do so, files should be opened and assigned to effect an identification and to take any necessary action.

c. If there is insufficient information to warrant opening a case, a tickler card should be prepared to follow up with the informant and take other logical steps in an effort to obtain additional identifying data concerning the individual. Tickler cards should be restricted to information which would warrant investigation if an identity is established. This will eliminate inconsequential items, but at the same time definite steps must be taken to run out affirmative information. If no identification is made after reasonable effort, prepare a memorandum for the informant's subfile. If an identification is made, a file should be opened and any necessary action taken in connection therewith.

5. Handling Documentary Material Furnished by Informants

a. Pamphlets and similar documentary material furnished by informants should have the informant's code name placed thereon.

b. The informant should affix the date he received the material. If the informant cannot recall the date of receipt, the date he furnished the material should be affixed.

c. No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, date received, permanent symbol number of informant, file numbers, indexing symbols, etc., should be placed on documentary material by Agents or clerical personnel.
