Describe Employment Experience on This Form.

A résumé is not a substitute for this form and will not be made a part of the application if more than 2 pages.

Description of work: Directed contract and licensing activities between Co. and its agents in 12 western states. Developed new filing and record keeping systems; wrote department manual. Supervised 5. Reason for leaving: moved from San Bruno to Moraga (approximately 35 miles from office).

Description of work: Handled all correspondence for President/owner. Responsible for distribution of new products and product information to national marketing staff. Reviewed material submitted for publication consideration. Reason for leaving: Prepared legal documents and correspondence for senior partner.

Description of work: Moved from Utah to California. Reason for leaving: Responsible for ordering all office supplies used by staff of 22.

Description of work: Attorney General Phil L. Hansen. Reason for leaving: End of Mr. Hansen’s term of office.

Description of work: Office of the Attorney General. Reason for leaving: Assigned primarily to criminal division for preparation of pleadings, briefs and correspondence. Also substituted for receptionist and on telephone desk.

(Number, Street, City, State, and ZIP Code).

List three persons who are not related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which you are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Items 29 and 30.

Full name: Byron L. Fisher, Esq. Present business or home address: Fabian & Clendenin (see 3. above). Business or occupation: Attorney.

Full name: David Hinds. Present business or home address: 763 Sixth Ave., Redwood City, CA 94163. Business or occupation: Publishing.

Full name: Robert L. Hartesty. Present business or home address: 601 Colorado Street, Austin, TX 78701. Business or occupation: Associate Deputy Chancellor, University of Texas, Austin.

Certification. Signature (sign in ink). Date signed.

I certify that all of the statements made in this form and in any attachment are true, complete, and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief, and are made in good faith.
