Training Evaluation

Administrative Support Course #9

Section I: Identifying Information. Name: Woods, James S. Sex: M. Dates of course: 10–28 May 1954. No. of students: 1st week—49; 2nd and 3rd weeks—41. Date of birth: 21 February 1928. For date: 21 April 1952. Grade or rank: OS-5. Office: FE/FI. Projected assignment or present position: Registry Analyst.

Section II: Objectives. The objectives of this course are to provide the student with (1) an understanding of the interrelationships between operating functions and administrative support functions; (2) an understanding of some of the basic principles and techniques of Agency operations and the organization and functions of the various administrative components; (3) a knowledge of procedures, regulations, and problem-solving skills to address problems in Finance, Administration, and other areas of administrative support.

Section III: Specific Characteristics of the Course. One week of the course is devoted to learning in the area described in category 1 on review of this page. The material in categories 2 and 3 is presented both by lecture and by practical exercises during the running two weeks of the course. Categories 4 through 9 are concerned with the application of knowledge of Agency organization, structure, procedures, and regulations in practical situations.

Section IV: Student Conduct. All materials and equipment in the course shall be used in accordance with the policies and regulations for education, experience, etc. These policies are defined as follows:

Excellent: The student indicated exceptional ability or proficiency in meeting this goal or objective, with no demonstrated unmitigated absence of the material presented.

Satisfactory: The student met this objective in a competent and effective manner; he demonstrated a good grasp and understanding of the material presented.

Unsatisfactory: The student did not achieve this goal or objective; the student's performance indicated a serious lack of knowledge concerning the material presented.
