Bobby Rush

Escapes Being Murdered

The dirty racist dogs that murdered Fred Hampton (Fred Ham-) and Mark Clark tried to murder our Deputy Sheriff of Defense, Bobby Rush. Murdering Fred Clark was not enough blood spilt, so less than four hours after they killed Fred in his sleep and dragged him out of the cold blood; those treacherous men are still on Bobby Rush's crib in an

Bobby Rush

The pigs have no respect for our people. Having tried in murdering our Deputy Minister of Delay they threw drugs into his apartment and then charged him with possession of narcotics.

What kind of society is this where the victim suffers like a criminal; where a man is murdered and then charged with attempted murder, aggravated battery: this fascist capitalist system has to be brought to its knees. We, Black people, will never be free in this society that is committing vicious racial genocide.

The other side of murdering Michael and John Soto is to commit back-to-back murders with Lton and Bobby Rush. When will we learn that our capitalists (Nixon, Agnew, LBJ, Mitchell, Ten, and Daley) are bent on destroying black men? When will you admit that you are more a slave than you were in 1619 (in 1619 they had shotguns, 357 magnums, helicopters, tanks and canine dogs)? When will you realize that an unarmed people are subject to slavery (or to be murdered) at every moment?

The resist dog cop, the avaricious businessman, the demagogic lying politi-

Along with "Doc" worked to establish a Free People's Medical Clinic. Fred took his valuable time to try to teach each and every member of the Black Panther Party and the masses what is to be done, and the proper road towards liberation, freedom, and strategic means of resisting the power structure.

Fred taught us so much and gave us everything, including his life, so that someday we will have the power to determine our own destiny and everything in our Ten Point Program, our major political objective, and love and respect for all people will become a reality.

All Power to the People

Our Revolutionary Department

Minister of Health Ronald 'Doc' Satchhell
