Samuel Adason Jaffe

(On May 14, 1969, Jaffe advised that recently he had had the Yarochevskiys to his residence for lunch. Present also were an American correspondent and the latter's wife.)

On February 25, 1971, Jaffe stated he has had no further contacts with Yarochevskaya, and has seen Yarochevskiy only once since he had them to his residence for lunch in May of 1969. Jaffe said he had seen Yarochevskiy in attendance at an anti-Vietnam war demonstration in Washington, D. C., in 1969, date unrecalled. Yarochevskiy was walking alone and carrying a camera, and it was not until he was right on top of the Soviet did Jaffe realize his identity. They exchanged only greetings. Yarochevskiy told Jaffe that they must get together sometime.

Jaffe stated he had never known Yarochevskiy prior to their meeting at the Hungarian Embassy reception on April 17, 1969. He had known Yarochevskaya previously, but only as one of a number of individuals whose services as translators, chauffeurs or house maids were made available to foreign correspondents assigned to Moscow by a Soviet government agency which Jaffe knew as “UPDK.” It is Jaffe’s impression now that Yarochevskaya had been assigned by “UPDK,” as a translator, to Lares Bruger (phonetic), a Swedish national and a correspondent for a Swedish newspaper, probably in 1965.

Jaffe recalled that both he and Bruger (phonetic) left Moscow in 1965. Jaffe now has the impression that Yarochevskaya was not married when he knew her in 1965. Jaffe did not know her socially. He did not know her by her maiden name. He recognized her at the Hungarian Embassy reception in 1969 but only after Yarochevskaya had refreshed his memory by recalling Moscow.

Jaffe said he believes that the “UPDK” was controlled by the KGB (Ministry of State Security); however, all of the persons employed by “UPDK” were not necessarily connected with Soviet intelligence. Jaffe stated he has no information that Yarochevskaya is, or was, connected with Soviet intelligence.
