Vice-Intelligence Division  
Montgomery County Police Department

Continuing Investigations Reports

Subject/Case Reference: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael

Date observations/investigation conducted/expenses

In Brooklyn for possibly writing a book; however, it was an error, as the numbers she possessed were relative to the lot and number of pairs of pants she boxed in a garret house where she worked. Mrs. Knohl further stated that she brought her down from Brooklyn and got her an apartment in Rockville. The Maryland telephone directory lists one Jennie Saviano, 199 Rollins Ave., Rockville, Md., 770-6784; and it is noted that she is the only Saviano in the book.

At approximately 1930 hours, David P. Knohl called the writer, having returned home; however, he could not furnish any information. Knohl did say that this was a double shock for Mr. Piccerelli, as he buried his wife two weeks ago.

Listing obtained on D.C. dealer tag D 1546 to National Auto Brokers Wholesale, Inc., rear of 5102 Georgia Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. (202) 723-4100 and (202) 291-6400.

Writer contacted MSP Trooper Burns regarding the three classic cars reported stolen by CARRAFA from 07-22-76 to 07-23-76, and he stated that CARRAFA refused a polygraph three times; CARRAFA told him that the reason was that he was into other things. Burns feels that the theft of these vehicles was staged by CARRAFA, as he showed Burns one point of entry and a United States Fidelity & Guarantee insurance adjustor another point of entry. Burns also related that there were no tire marks in the dirt road that led to Gino's Classic Cars garage. The USF & G adjustor is Sharon Kohler, (301) 547-3569.

Burns noted that a vacationing Pennsylvania police officer, on 07-21-76, two days before the theft, observed a blue GMC tractor with a yellow trailer operated by two Black males at the Union 76 Truck Stop in Colesville, Pa. The truck was being followed by a Black male in a maroon Rolls-Royce. The yellow trailer was loaded with six classic cars: a white-over-black Cadillac, a Mercedes, what appeared to be a Rolls-Royce but could have been the Packard, and three other cars.

Lastly, Burns related that one Investigator Jones, Maryland Motor Vehicle Administration, assisted CARRAFA in going into business. Burns and Jones (Hones) inspected Gino's numerous times and found violations such as unnotarized titles, but Jones took no enforcement action.
