Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz

299 Park Avenue  
New York, N.Y. 10017

Martin Lipton  
Herbert M. Wachtell  
Leonard M. Rosen  
George A. Katz  
Bernard Mindich  
Theodore Gewertz  
Bernard W. Nussbaum  
Bertram M. Kantor  
William C. Sterling, Jr.  
Richard D. Katcher  
James H. Fogelson  
Douglas S. Liebhafsky  
Peter D. McKenna  
Laurence D. Cherkis  
Steven M. Barna  
Charles T. Mederrick  
Lawrence Lederman  
Chaim J. Fortgang  
Michael W. Schwartz  
Allan A. Martin  
Denis F. Cronin  
Erica H. Steinberger  
Harold S. Handelsman  
H. Neil Broder  
Stanley M. Gorinson  
Alan D. Handler  
Peter C. Hein  
Harold S. Novikoff  
Marc H. Rosenbaum

October 29, 1976

Richard A. Sprague, Esq.  
David Berger, P.A.  
Attorneys at Law  
1622 Locust Street  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103

Dear Mr. Sprague:

I understand that Sari Mordana is applying for a position on the legal staff which you are gathering as Special Counsel to the select congressional committee which will be investigating the assassinations of Martin Luther King, Jr. and John F. Kennedy. This letter is being written to recommend Miss Mordana for such a position.

I am a member of the adjunct faculty at Columbia Law School. Each spring I teach a seminar on trial practice and, this year, Miss Mordana was one of the 18 students in my class. The seminar requires substantial participation by each student in simulated courtroom events and in the critiques which follow. As a result, I believe I am able to make an informed judgment respecting Miss Mordana's ability and personality. I found her extremely bright and hard-working. But just as important I found that she had an intangible quality which unfortunately few law students possess—a spark which ignites when she is working on a project she enjoys. This facet of her personality made her a very effective advocate. She could marshal facts and present them in a manner which attracted attention and was convincing.

Having recently been part of a congressional inquiry myself, as an associate of John Doar, I recognize the difficulties involved in the task you are undertaking and the
