Directions: Oral drafting; giving lectures; conducting seminars; writing technical reports; conducting external liaison; typing; taking dictation; supervising; has and uses area knowledge; develops new programs; analyzes industrial reports; manages files; operates radio; coordinates with other offices; writes regulations; prepares correspondence; conducts intercommunications; prepares summaries; translates Greek; distributing sources; keeps doors; drives truck; maintains air conditioning; evaluates significance of data.

For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if the supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation in the case of a radio operator.

Descriptive rating number: 1—Incompetent in the performance of this duty. 2—Barely adequate in the performance of this duty. 3—Performs this duty acceptably. 4—Performs this duty in a competent manner that makes him a distinct asset on his job. 7—Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty. 8—Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs.

Specific duty No. 1: Acting Chief of Branch. Rating number: 6.

Specific duty No. 2: Has and uses area knowledge. Rating number: 6.

Specific duty No. 3: Coordinates with other offices. Rating number: 6.

Specific duty No. 4: Conducting external liaison. Rating number: 0.

Section D. Suitability for current job in organization.

Directions: Take into account here everything you know about the individual—productivity, conduct on the job, pertinent personal characteristics or habits, special defects or talents, and how he fits in with your group, etc. Consider his work with others doing similar work at about the same level.

1. Definitely unsuitable—I must be able to do it separated.

2. Of doubt, agittism, ...do not willing to be accepted if I am wrong or I am wrong at all.

3. A generally acceptable employee...shows average but with no real talents/no sufficiently outstanding ability to do the job necessary separation.

4. Of the same suitability as most people I know.
