Dispatch.

To: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division. Info: Chief of Station, WH/Miami. From: Chief of Station, Mexico City.

Subject: D Target Study: Jesus CRUZ Gonzalez.

Action Required—References. References: HMMA-38920, 25 May 1970, Previous Target Study. HMMA-39753, November 1970, Details of Cuba Month. UFAA-2430, 22 October 1970, and related correspondence concerning Miami Station contact with CRUZ's relatives in Miami.

1. Forwarded under separate cover is the updated Target Study on Jesus CRUZ Gonzalez, the Cuban Press Attaché in Mexico, and his wife, Mercedes MARTINEZ Moreno, Secretary to the Ambassador and Chargé. As is clear from the attached study and the log of activities of CRUZ during October 1970, CRUZ is extremely busy, has many contacts, and is probably one of the more accessible members of the Cuban Embassy. On the other hand, he is so busy with his overt activities working with press matters, and handling the Cuban Embassy side of Prensa Latina, that the Station does not believe he has practically any time free for intelligence assignments. Since the arrival of the Cultural Attaché in January 1970, CRUZ has dropped all cultural activities. He no longer handles the Mexican-Cuban Cultural Institute. He is on the phone with or visiting the Prensa Latina offices several times each day. He arranges for subscriptions to publications, including magazines and newspapers, through Prensa Latina from the United States and Latin American countries, and he orders books from various bookstores in Mexico City. He also handles the press material, including news film, coming to Mexico via commercial flights from the Prensa Latina representative in Peru. He orders photographic and other related supplies in Mexico and New York, and handles visas for newsmen who wish to travel to Cuba. Mercedes does a lot to help CRUZ, as he does not have his own secretary. As can be seen from the attached log, twice he dictated a cable over the phone for her to type for his signature. It is believed that when she returns in the afternoon to the Embassy with CRUZ it is to help him.

Continued.

Attachment: Target Study under separate cover.

Distribution: Original and 1 to Chief, WHD. 1 to COS, WH/Miami.
