MHIRONY. This proprietary was established for the use of the insurance complex, but it was never activated. The corporate shell was sold in 1974 to the unwitting attorneys who served as resident agents. No agreement was made with the purchaser for the continued use of the entity, and, to date, no such use has been made of the entity.

WUEMBARK/WUHALFIN. This air proprietary was merged with another air proprietary (ZRCLIFF) in 1968.

WUSTAKE/WUHOBBY. This air proprietary was sold to the businessman who managed the proprietary during the period of Agency ownership on the condition that the Agency would buy back the proprietary if the contract which sustained the proprietary was not renewed by USAID. The USAID contract was not renewed, and the businessman dissolved the entity on behalf of the Agency in 1968.

WUSAXA/WUBLUSEE. This air proprietary was disposed of by transferring all assets to another air proprietary and turning over the corporate shell to two unwitting foreign national nominees. No agreement with the nominees for the purchase of goods or services subsequent to the turnover was negotiated or implied, and, to date, no use has been made of the entity by the Agency.

MOMARRON. This proprietary was established in the Far East by two foreign agents of the Agency to provide support services for Agency-sponsored air operations. The company failed, at least partly due to embezzlement by the two agents, and was liquidated apparently in late 1962 or early 1963. The Agency station in the country involved continued to maintain a covert relationship with the two agents who were politically significant for some time after the liquidation. The relationship was non-proprietary.

MULAZY. This proprietary was involved in support of air activities for a large Agency paramilitary program in Africa. At such time as the program was concluded, all assets were removed from the company, and the corporate shell was given to the attorney who established the entity in lieu of paying his prospective fee for dissolving the corporation.
