Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files—Volumes I–XVIII

May 1, 1978

Volume XII—January 1964–February 1964

1. Intelligence Information Cable, 4 January 1964. Information from Carlos Hernandez Hernandez, an executive member of the Brigade 2506 Veterans Association, said the Brigade rejected a proposed alliance with JURE on December 7, 1963. The Brigade is opposed to Artime, but more opposed to Ray.

2. Identification provided by CIA for Ray in his attempt to infiltrate Cuba. Request made 6 January 1964. Ray to use identity of Juan Cardenas Mendez.

3. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 8 January 1964, Dir Cite WAVE 0106.

AMOT-84 said he learned from newspaperman Abelardo (Garcia) Berry that Ray had met in Paris with Carlos Franqui Mesa to propose that Franqui join Ray’s organization, that is, sector of “Betrayed Revolution.” Garcia believes that in order to obtain Franqui’s defection, Ray told him about alleged plans of the U.S. to overthrow Castro, in which Ray was to play a prominent part. Garcia further believes that Franqui’s “falling into disgrace” in Cuba is a trick of Castro and Franqui.

4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 8 January 1964, states that Governor Munoz Marin, Puerto Rico, pledged to give Ray double any amount Ray raised on a bond sale by JURE to buy guns. JURE has a large quantity of arms in Puerto Rico under the protection of the Governor.

5. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 14 January 1964. Cisneros said JURE has a military training base in Costa Rica under the command of Julio Cesar Alonso, military chief of JURE. All JURE boats are now at the Costa Rican base, as are arms that had been in Puerto Rico. He said JURE leaders do not plan to work in the Miami area or anywhere else in the U.S. because they are afraid CIA will seize their military equipment.

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 16 January 1964, reported that Julio Cesar Alonso was replaced as chief of the Costa Rican military base of JURE because of his failure to go on a scheduled operation. Check to see if this was the aborted mission of 25 November 1963.

WAVE, dated 30 January 1964, reported Sanchez and Rogelio Cisneros. Cisneros said FBI and JURE arms and explosives were cached at Cajon de Id. The cache was discovered by a fisherman whose boat found and searched it, but the arms were not retained as they were thrown overboard. The Governor of Puerto Rico called newspapers and suggested Castro had cached the arms in order to overthrow this and to sidetrack FBI and INS investigations, and Ray’s activities would be revealed. Cisneros said the arms were in Puerto Rico and registered in Panama in the name of a person close to the Governor of Puerto Rico and a bitter enemy of CIA. The person in Puerto Rico was trusted by JURE, to which Cisneros replied that he was a nationalist and enemy of U.S. imperialist politics of CIA.
