Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for further training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost effectiveness in the use of personnel, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If two spaces are needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject has been assigned to the Indonesia Desk since mid-October 1966; consequently, evaluation of performance of specific duties at this point would not be based upon representative evidence.

During the very brief interval Subject has been with the desk, he has shown several consistent qualities that deserve noting. Assigned the Communist Party operations sector, he applied himself to background reading, files research, and organizing his materials, with commendable energy. He has accepted a variety of spot assignments requiring timely response, shown considerable initiative in locating the necessary facts, and met the required deadlines without undue assistance or observation. He shows every evidence of absorption in his assigned field. A little more experience with the country, Headquarters procedures, and local conventions should make him a strong member of the desk.

Certification and Comments. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 15 December 1966. Signature of employee: Jerome Fox. C.S. Fox Jr.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. By Supervisor. PAPEO or printed name and signature.

Months employee has been under my supervision: Oct–Dec 1966.

Official title of supervisor: CFE/PMI/I. David M. Richardson.

Date: 15 Dec 1966.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: Concur.

Date: 20 December 1966. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, FF/PMH. PAPEO or printed name and signature: Eisner H. McVoy.
