Pentagon Telecommunications Center.

OTTCZOVW RUEAUSA4921 2541633. Immediate. O P 111630Z SEP 82.

And locating source.

Classified by INSCOM PAM 380-6. Review on 11 SEP 92.

Final section of 02.

9. After White's near failure at ROTC Advanced Camp, he was recycled at Airborne School for failing the PT test. However, he recovered and completed the course. When he returned to KMSC in September 1981, he was deeply upset upon learning that he was only a cadet sergeant first class and not an officer. White was in source's company; source was a cadet major. On one occasion, during leadership lab, source corrected White, who was improperly executing the high and low crawls. White reacted indignantly at first, but after source explained what he did wrong, White adjusted and continued to perform. Also in September 1981, another cadet (NFI) took one of White's books from his room. Violently angry, White draped toilet paper on the cadet's dormitory door and set it on fire. Source caught White in the act of setting the blaze and laughing about it. Merlino verbally censured White and threatened to get him dismissed from KMSC. Shortly thereafter, White advised that he wanted to leave school. He was counseled by Colonel Johnny Parker, school commandant. Parker asked source for his recommendation. Source sympathized with White but could not recommend him for a commission in the U.S. Army because of his apparent immaturity.

10. Around 26 September 1981, before White left KMSC, he told source he was leaving the school. White said he did not want to be an officer because he was “fed up with the bullshit and the ass-kissing.” He added that he was going to enlist in the Army and become “the best damn NCO he could be.” By his comments and his tone of voice during this and other conversations, White indicated that he wasn't getting what he deserved from society. Source wished him luck and never saw or heard from him again.

11. Source was not totally surprised when he read of White's defection to North Korea. It seemed to fit in with his personality. Source guessed that White's action resulted from the culmination of his disappointments. White probably became disillusioned with the Army or his unit and had probably entertained thoughts about defecting for some time. However, it was most likely one particular incident that prompted him to take action. Where once White was a failure in U.S. society, he gained notoriety and an international audience through his defection. Source believed that the text of the remarks attributed to White by the government of North Korea sounded like White's words and manner of speech, and could very well have been authored by White. At least they paralleled White's idealistic but naive socio-political views.

12. Other sources from KMSC who knew White better or who could contribute additional information included: Colonel Johnny Parker (telephone: 816.
