Samuel Adason Jaffe.

Jaffe stated that "Slava" might have thought that he (Jaffe) was "Slava's" agent. He continued: "Little things came out of 'Slava', but I never knew exactly what he did. I do know I would tell him what I would think, which is not a secret." Jaffe indicated he never told "Slava" or any other Soviet connected with Soviet Intelligence anything other than his own observations and opinions and denied furnishing any information from any Government documents. He also emphatically denied that KGB had made any arrangements for meeting him after he left Moscow or that there had been any such meetings since he left Moscow. He said nobody had followed up "Slava's" contacts with him.

In response to a specific question, Jaffe stated he did not think "Slava" had anything to do with his expulsion from Russia. He continued: "My guess is John Scali, who is very close to CIA," was responsible for the expulsion. Jaffe continued: "John wanted to set me up with CIA. They (CIA) would do things in indirect ways." Jaffe then related an incident in which Scali invited several ABC employees to a party, including an individual introduced to Jaffe as an employee of the Department of Commerce, who expressed very much interest in Jaffe's assignment to Russia. Jaffe later verified that this individual was connected with CIA and he feels it would have been better if the individual had been completely open with him.

Jaffe then stated: "I still believe CIA sent me to Moscow on the (Francis Gary) Powers trial. Prior to the trial, he was approached by a CIA representative in California who indicated he was aware Jaffe would be sent to Moscow by Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS). Jaffe stated he (Jaffe) was not aware of it at that time. Jaffe said he subsequently was told by another CIA representative whom he met while attending meetings of the Council on Foreign Relations that he had been picked to go to Moscow with Barbara Powers and help Marvin Kalb, CBS correspondent, cover the trial. On the eve of his departure, a CIA representative who claimed he was a psychiatrist gave Jaffe background material on spy trials and said 'they were very much interested in determining if Powers is brainwashed.'" Jaffe related that Barbara Powers developed a friendship with him and constantly sought his company and advice and expressed a strong dislike for CIA personnel accompanying them. Jaffe, at the insistence of Mrs. Powers, wrote a letter to the President of the Soviet Union appealing for clemency for Powers. Jaffe continued: "There was nothing physical between us. We went downtown (in Moscow) and went to the KGB building (at the request of Mrs. Powers, who insisted on seeing the building). This was the first time she cried. Then we went back. The next morning was the trial. The next thing I know I am sitting down in the VIP section. They wrote that I was a member of the family. The game (with CIA) has been going on for a long time."
