Section 107. Internal security informants and confidential sources; and foreign counterintelligence assets.

a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce receipts in evidence, they will not relate to other documents or files.

b. Receipts should clearly show:

(1) Date on which payment was made.

(2) Period for which made when informant is paid on period basis.

(3) Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for services or expenses where pertinent.

(4) Name of Agent making payment.

(5) Signature of person receiving money.

c. Receipts are not to be witnessed by another Agent.

d. If necessary to make corrections on receipts, they must be initialed by informant and not by Agent.

e. When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses to Bureau, staple them directly to blue slip, leaving margin of one to one and one-half inches at top to avoid contact with Acco fastener punch. Place staples so that date or other data appearing on receipt will not be mutilated and all information on receipt can be easily read without detaching it from blue slip.

6. Income tax returns.

a. Advise informants who receive compensation for their services to the Bureau that such compensation must be reported as income when filing a Federal income tax form, and, where appropriate, state and local tax forms. Informants must be periodically advised of the above and complete details of any reported problem an informant has encountered with the taxing authorities are to be expeditiously furnished the Bureau.

b. Bureau income should be set forth on Federal income tax return, form 1040, as income received from other sources for personal services rendered through a private enterprise or similar general term applicable to informant's position and station in life.

c. If informant is self-employed and files schedule C as self-employed individual, it may be possible to include his Bureau income with his self-employed income from other sources without revealing connection with Bureau.

d. If informant cannot report payments received from Bureau for services without jeopardizing his security as informant, such payments will
