WFO 105-52614

Scali advised that George Watson, an ABC News correspondent, was scheduled to begin an assignment in Moscow, USSR, 11/1/85. He said that in connection with this forthcoming assignment, Watson had some contact with the Soviet Embassy and had met Bobrakov a couple of times. He said that Bobrakov indicated to Watson that he was interested in meeting some other member of the ABC staff, and, in particular, was interested in meeting Scali. Consequently, Scali, Watson, and Bobrakov met for lunch at Paul Young's Restaurant, Washington, D.C., on 9/21/85. Scali said that for the first ten minutes or so Bobrakov directed his conversation to Watson, whom he had met before and who was scheduled to go to Moscow.

Thereafter, Bobrakov engaged in conversation with Scali. Scali said that, aside from the points mentioned in the enclosed LIM concerning NLF and the danger of Germany's obtaining nuclear weapons, Bobrakov seemed merely to be scouting him or sizing him up during the lunch. Scali could not detect any effort on Bobrakov's part to seek any particular type of information. Scali said he pointed out to Bobrakov the unusual situation in which the United States and the Soviet Union find themselves on the same side at the U.N. Security Council, endeavoring to keep the peace. Scali pointed out to Bobrakov that this seems to him to be a rather historic moment. Scali thought Bobrakov might pursue this matter further and enter into a discussion of Red China, but he did not do so.

In their discussion of Bobrakov's wife's paintings, Scali suggested to Bobrakov that his wife might stage a show of her own in which she would exhibit those paintings by a Soviet artist painting in the U.S. Bobrakov replied that his wife might do so and suggested that possibly Scali should see some of his wife's paintings. Scali told Bobrakov he would be very happy to see them.

In discussing Bobrakov's lack of humor, Scali mentioned that at Paul Young's, where they were having lunch, there are bulletins of stock market quotations on each table, and Scali made a jocular remark to Bobrakov to the effect that this had been arranged in Bobrakov's honor. Bobrakov
