DA Seeking Copies of “CIA” Letter by Novel

Dist. Atty. Jim Garrison to Bay asked for copies of a letter purportedly directed to the Central Intelligence Agency by elusive (ingilusive) witness Gordon Novel.

The letter, which Novel (Novell)’s lawyer said was written by his client, came into the possession of the States Item. It was reported to have been found in Novel (Novell)’s former apartment in the French Quarter. It apparently was written before Novel (Novell)’s departure from New Orleans, after he was subpoenaed to testify in Garrison’s Kennedy death plot investigation.

Novel (Novell), wanted both as a material witness and on charges of conspiracy to burn or enlarge a munitions dump at Houma, La. (Houmat, la.), was free on $10,000 bond in Columbus, Ohio, awaiting an extradition hearing.

A copy and transcript of the penciled draft were given to Steven Plotkin, Novel (Novell)’s New Orleans attorney, early this week. Yesterday, Plotkin said his client worked for the Central Intelligence Agency here during 1961.

Plotkin said Novel (Novell) wrote the draft and added that everything, so far as Novel (Novell) is concerned, is actually the truth.

But Novel (Novell) appeared to confirm this lawyer later yesterday when he said the letter was a “final trap” for Garrison.

“Mr. Garrison has finally fallen into the last trap. I thought his fine Cajun gumshoes were going to miss it. Under the rug, has it?…”

Garrison says that Latin America has employed in [CIN] announced anti-Castro people who are friends of Castro on the staff. A statement that Novel (Novell) and his staff are not “by the kitchen sink or bathroom.” Nothing about the letter in yesterday’s Final Edition of the States Item to give his office copies. He would not comment further.

The statement that Novel (Novell) worked for the CIA here confirmed a part of the witnesses’ government activities published first in the States Item on April 2.

Garrison has charged the CIA with embezzling in a number of accounts following the Kennedy assassination plan during the Watergate Commission session into White House administration.

The Watergate Commission concluded that Kennedy was slain by a Communist-oriented, gas-leakish youth, Lee Harvey Oswald, who said it could find the evidence that Oswald was behind any crime.

Garrison has said that Latin America has employed in [CIN] announced anti-Castro people who are friends of Castro out of some order. An abrupt end to their summit by the U.S., Washington, D.C., White House and Moscow news agencies.

Plotkin said he is sure he meant “the Bay of Pigs invasion and certainly nothing to do with the assassination of President Kennedy.”

Sunning (Sunell) told police last night that he was several times struck by a sudden sniper in Nashville, Tenn. He said he was wounded by flying glass. A Nashville radio-TV newscaster was with him and told the same story.

In one less-draft which Plotkin (Pluttolin) and Novel (Novell) wrote, the 25-year-old former bar owner said, “It was the best of just that, just that was,” and specified a date in March.

The letter says the writer had received one submission to Plotkin (Pluttolin) at the Garrison probe but has since made an effort to avoid it, adding that attorneys have informed him neither additions nor cuts from any document should be issued.

Plotkin (Pluttolin), now Weis, said the writer said he would have to reveal “upsecret activities” of an organization. He believes in a Double Chief detail of Miami.

New Orleans Times-Item.
