Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping them in proper perspective; their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Monique's performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject has been under the direct guidance and supervision of this rating officer for the nine-month period covered by this report.

Subject is well grounded in the knowledge and application of Covert Action tradecraft techniques and he has amply demonstrated an ability for creative thinking. He is both imaginative and resourceful and he uses his extensive knowledge of the internal political scene and his fluency in Spanish to the best operational advantage. He has initiative and he is persistent in carrying things through to a conclusion. He has an excellent facility for written communication. His operational and positive reports are clear, concise and well presented. He requires a minimum of guidance and direction. He responds very well to supervision and he accepts comments, suggestions and criticism in the constructive light in which they are presented. As a supervisor he has been able to obtain satisfactory results.

Subject's only weakness is that he tends to be less cost conscious than is desirable and unless his activities are circumscribed he is apt to allow his fertile mind and enthusiasm to get out of hand.

Summed up, Subject is a highly professional and experienced officer who has all of the necessary operational and intellectual abilities to meet the requirements of the job.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have been Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 26 April 1966. Signature of employee (F): /s/

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: Nine.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 26 April 1966. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: Michael Tanes /s/

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

I would have rated Subject officer approximately the same. In the past eight months that I have observed him in action, he has demonstrated an ability to get things done in a professional manner.
