The headlines in American newspapers have for years told of Army surveillance of civilians, U.S. spy planes being shot down over other countries, attempted coups and intrigue initiated by the CIA, and restrained FBI wiretapping. We all know that Big Brother is watching, but no one in our government has taken the time to explain who is being spied upon, and why we are being watched. Too often, we American citizens don't even know who Big Brother is.

In 1955, President Eisenhower accepted the report of the Hoover Commission on U.S. Intelligence. Among other recommendations, the Commission emphasized the need for two “watchdog” committees on intelligence within the executive and legislative branches of government. Although a Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board (FIAB) was established to serve the President, Congress by an overwhelming majority has refused to establish a committee within the legislative branch. Now, in the midst of the Watergate scandals, there is some movement within Congress to establish committees on the separate intelligence agencies. The result will be divided oversight with no assurance that Congress will be able to stop illegal and unjustified spending. With Congress abrogating its responsibilities, there is no agency in government, directly responsible to the public, monitoring the United States Intelligence Community.

Now former intelligence workers and concerned citizens have formed a national association to provide the vital information an aware public needs to know about government operations. The Committee for Action/Research on the Intelligence Community (CARIC) is an independent “watchdog” on the government spy apparatus. CARIC, sponsored entirely by donations from American citizens, serves as an alternative source of analysis and information on the practices, organization, and objectives of U.S. Intelligence. What clandestine operations are being carried out in the name of America? Is the CIA preparing to entangle us in another war similar to the Indochina War? Is that information going into Federal, State, local, and private data banks on innocent American citizens? Is the FBI becoming a “secret police force?” Whose phones are tapped in America? These are some of the questions CARIC is answering.

CARIC knows that all conscientious Americans are closely watching events that have unfolded since the arrests made at the Watergate building. We share the hope of most Americans that the illegal espionage practices that have now been exposed will no longer be a part of American political life. However, the dismantling of one espionage act is not enough to guard against future espionage. It is essential that loyalty to one group of politicians does not insure that this abuse.

Who knows what future political espionage will occur under the guise of so-called “national security” or loyalty to an administration? Only time will tell, but through diligence and your help CARIC will anticipate and bring to your attention situations within the government that are likely to produce a new “Watergate.”

Although CARIC does believe that a massive government spy apparatus is at work in the world, we hope to dispel some of the paranoia citizens naturally feel when there is talk of spies and wiretaps. We know that the FBI does not have agents behind every tree, but there are agents in every major community in this country who have spied on innocent private and public citizens. Only a full and undisguised look into this hidden world can displace unwarranted fears, and guide the public effort to end this illegal and unjustified espionage. The secrecy with which the government surrounds itself must end.

CARIC knows that tens of thousands of American citizens from all walks of life were mobilized over the past decade to help bring an end to the government's war in Indochina — a war that has taken new forms under the direction of U.S. Intelligence agencies. CARIC hopes that these same concerned citizens will continue to oppose the policies of our government which bring this new form of covert war and the Watergate scandals. It is now time for thousands of Americans to mobilize to stop the spying as we stopped the dying. Please join us in our effort.

The Committee for Action/Research on the Intelligence Community (CARIC)

Intelligence Report

CARIC Organization

CARIC is organized to reflect the operating procedures of a typical intelligence organization. Our research process involves collecting information from a wide variety of sources both public and private. Our analysis is the collective product of CARIC participants and eliminates any compartmentalization of knowledge. The information and our analysis is then disseminated through CARIC publications and separate works by CARIC participants. In addition, CARIC provides information to other journalists and qualified researchers.

Intelligence Documentation Center (IDC)

CARIC is continuously collecting information on intelligence from a variety of sources including official government publications and documents, previous investigations, public accounts, and interviews conducted with hundreds of former intelligence and police agents. The information forms the database of the Intelligence Documentation Center maintained by CARIC. The IDC is a library of information on U.S. Intelligence available upon request to journalists, qualified researchers, and members of CARIC.

Speakers Bureau
