Tuesday.

We do not know what was said, but from a source whom we have no reason to doubt (an ex-friend of Kelly's who deserted Kelly and came to us to warn us of Max and the situation with the French), we learned that for a sum amounting to 16,000,000 drachmae, Kelly had agreed to give the French the names of all the American staff involved in plans to infiltrate Bulgaria, plus information on Radio Parachutin Gorianin. Kelly was immediately picked up by the Greek Alien Directorate, acting upon orders from Henry McLean.

4. Reaction of Others to Kelly

(a) The Senior Representative of OPC in Athens, September 1951

“Kelly was a notoriously insecure, disreputable, opportunist individual over whom control, other than physical, was next to impossible to exercise. He had a positive genius for trouble-making intrigue, rare even in this part of the world; his continued presence in Greece would have rendered impossible any oiling of the stormy Bulgarian refugee waters here. Kelly was tied in even more closely than other Bulgarian agents with the Embassy here, and could be counted on to use that fact, as well as knowledge in the Bulgarian colony, to his own advantage and to the disadvantage of the best interests of U.S. government policy.”

(b) Chief of Station, OPC in Athens, May 1951

“Kelly, unfortunately, is of an essentially irresponsible Irish nature. Moreover, in his stupidity, he conceives all others to be equally stupid. Early in our relations with Kelly, we foresaw the need to curb Kelly or to eliminate him from our operations. Since, however, he was still necessary to us, we tried to use him, restraining him and teaching him the while. Kelly, unfortunately, did not learn—he got worse. He ‘borrowed’ and stole money from many sources. He lied to many people, including us, and he developed an infantile megalomania in which he persisted in considering himself the forthcoming Minister-President of Bulgaria. Things took a serious turn when Kelly's committee, men he himself had chosen, came to us behind his back complaining about him. This became more serious when Kelly's closest friend deserted Kelly and came to us apparently in an honest desire to safeguard America and the struggle against Communism from further involvement with a character as shady as Kelly. Since that time we have constantly examined more closely into the Kelly affair and have found more lies, more secret agreements, more stolen funds. We have enough proof of untrustworthiness to have a complete case against Kelly. We cannot continue with Kelly. He is finished.”

5. Kelly's Relation with his Wife

6 DEC 1961 (a) From Chief of Station, Panama: “...it was learned through interrogation that Kelly has no particular concern or love for his wife.”

7 NOV 1961 (b) From a letter written by Kelly (Kellý) to his wife: “...I think of you daily and know in detail how you are getting along. I believe you understand this both by the money and by all that you are receiving, when you want it. It is I that arranged all that.”

(c)
