The following information is an order and will be carried out immediately:

All power to the people, comrades.

Because of the necessity to intensify the struggle here in the state of Michigan, it is necessary to intensify our knowledge of struggle, and to tighten up our ideology, which is our first step towards being truly a match for a hundred.

Our chairman is facing the electric chair. Eldridge, our Minister of Information, is still in exile. The life of our beloved Minister of Defense, Huey P. Newton, is in constant danger of assassination. Some 30 members of our party have already been murdered, and countless of our comrades are imprisoned. All this is reality, and yet some of us are still very slipshod in our work.

Because of the level of struggle in which we are now engaged—the beginning phases of actual armed struggle—it has become necessary to condense this training and to develop into a vanguard soldier.

Outlines of training programs will be given to each member and community worker. At the completion of these training programs, tests will be given to determine just what level a comrade will work.

The first six weeks of training will establish whether or not one will become a member of the National Committees to Combat Fascism.

The second six weeks will establish those to be put in charge of leadership positions and those who will be in charge of information centers throughout the state of Michigan.

Community workers are all those who cannot function full time and all those who can and do function full time, but have not completed their first six weeks of training. Those who primarily sell newspapers, pass out leaflets, etc.

Members of N.C.C.F. are those who function full time and have passed their six weeks training program, who sell newspapers and work in assigned areas under those who coordinate programs and activities.

Those working as organizers in charge of offices, programs, etc., are those who will complete phase two of their training course. These people will be looked upon as the driving force of the National Committees. These people will organize various areas in the state of Michigan.

Those in phase two will not drink hard alcohol such as wine and whiskey, or smoke.

It will be permissible to drink beer at this time.

Phase three will not be given, but members of the B.P.P. will be recruited from its ranks.

I wish you all success in our struggle to truly be a match for a hundred.

Right on, comrades.

Michael D.
