As it referred to, it has reported that it had as members of the Mangano were two of the families, both leaders of families in the heads of the New and jurisdiction over 40 members of the State, that Trafficante's is being divided with.

A factual source confirms Antonio Diecide made a house for Vincent year to spend two or three important members at Trafficante never on the national board. The members shared in percentage was?

Influence of each of coincidence that in at least the early 1950s, Trafficante, Jr., then Senator Albert Anastasia prepared summaries of all, a commentary of information may be given. Police units to whom these summaries and through them, and exhibit 4, have referred may be.

These are summations that are on the chart business, their crimes.

(The documents referred to were marked “Exhibit No. 48” for reference and may be found in the files of the subcommittee.)

The CHAIRMAN. You make reference to another exhibit. What is it?

Mr. O'DONNELL. Will you explain the other exhibit? Go into a little detail as to the various murders that you have on your exhibit 4, which will be a different exhibit in our hearings.

The CHAIRMAN. Let the Chair get this straight first.

The summary that he referred to has been made Exhibit 48.

That is what you referred to as “our Exhibit 3a”?

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. Then you say “through them and Exhibit 4.” What is Exhibit 4, your Exhibit 4?

Mr. BROWN. Exhibit 4 is a brief summation on each of the subjects.

The CHAIRMAN. What is your Exhibit 3?

Mr. BROWN. They are arrest records of each of the individuals.

The CHAIRMAN. Very well.

Exhibit 48 is the arrest records.

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. Your Exhibit 4 is a brief summary of each person on the chart?

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. It is of his records and activities?

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. It may be received as Exhibit No. 49 for reference. (The document referred to was marked “Exhibit No. 49” for reference and may be found in the files of the subcommittee.)

The CHAIRMAN. Now the record is straight.

You may proceed.

Mr. BROWN. Our department has always found it a most difficult task to obtain evidence sufficient for successful prosecution of Mafia members, because the witnesses who might offer such evidence have always been reluctant to do so. The paramount reason, of course, is their fear of Mafia reprisals, since it is common knowledge in Tampa that the Mafia does not hesitate to use murder for such reprisals and the relative infrequency with which such professional murders are successfully prosecuted.

We have categorized certain homicides in the Tampa area, from 1928 to the present, as “gangland slayings.” An examination of the circumstances of some of these murders emphasizes how the Mafia uses murder to discipline its membership, to revenge itself against violators of its code and to otherwise eliminate opposition to its criminal activities and goals. Of the 23 homicides on the list, only 1 has been solved. A ratio of less than 5 percent of solution—and that particular murder was cleared up because it apparently resulted from an argument, although it is possible that the slayer deliberately provoked the argument. It was not, therefore, a typical gangland slaying, although the killer and the victim were both underworld figures.

In startling contrast to the number of unsolved gangland slayings, an examination of all other Tampa homicides from 1958 through 1962 shows that we have had 145 murders and that only 4 are presently unsolved, a solution ratio of better than 97 percent. From 1960 through 1962, all 83 homicides in our city were solved.
