Letters Deviating Path

Letter by Novel Adds to Mystery

A letter written by fugitive witness Gordon Novel added new clues and takes a twist today to the Kennedy assassination probe.

Attorney Steven Plotkin said Novel actually wrote the communication. Further, he told his client was working for the Central Intelligence Agency there in 1961.

Novel called the letter a “trap” set for Dist. Attorney Garrison, who is attempting to bring Novel back to New Orleans for questioning.

Whatever the authenticity of the document, the circumstances of its discovery read like a chapter in a whodunit.

The letter came into the hands of States-Item reporter Jake May. This is how it happened:

“The letter turned up when two girls were doing their spring housecleaning. It was well hidden in the fugitive witness’s French Quarter apartment.”

Too well hidden, in fact, that a team of Federal Bureau of Investigation agents and officers from Garrison’s investigative squad noticed it when they searched the rooms after Novel left town in March.

The girls, who rented the Novel apartment after his departure, found it during a thorough housecleaning and refurbishing operation.

One of them turned it over to her boyfriend. He, in turn, showed it to his professor at a New Orleans university.

The professor is a friend of May’s.

The letter was addressed to a Mr. Weiss and probably was written in late January or early February of this year, judging by the time sequence. It describes:

When a copy was sent to him, Plotkin reviewed its contents, spoke to his client and told the States-Item. Novel had drafted the letter:

He said, “Everything in the letter as far as Novel is concerned is actually the truth.”

The contents of the missive are compounded of cryptic references, code names and a plea for Weiss to get Novel “out of this mess” by an unspecified date in March of 1967.

The letter appears to be a draft which later might be recopied or typed. There is no indication it was ever mailed, however, and Plotkin said he does not know whether the draft was sent “to the addressee.”

Probably, Weiss is connected with the CIA.

Novel departed New Orleans about mid-March after receiving a subpoena to testify in Garrison’s Kennedy death plot investigation. He went to McLean, Va., the headquarters of the CIA.

He was met there by a former official of the Justice Department, who now works for one of the radio-television networks.

The 29-year-old former bar owner took a lie detector test at McLean and ducked under cover for another few days, a time when he was reported to be in Montreal.

His next appearance was at Gahanna, Ohio, a Columbus suburb where he was arrested April 1 on a warrant from Garrison, who charged him with conspiracy to murder a numismatist dump at Houma in 1961.

An independent handwriting expert says the letter is in Novel’s handwriting. The expert, Gilbert Fortier of New Orleans, compared the penciled letter with other samples of Novel’s writing and printing.

“It is my conclusion that the same person who wrote the handwriting specimens also wrote the draft to Mr. Weiss,” Fortier asserted.

He said he checked especially for the possibility the letter might be a forgery but concluded it was not probable.

“It was written too easily and too freely to have been forged,” Fortier said.

The letter to Weiss begins:

“This letter is to inform you that District (Attorney) Jim Garrison has subpoenaed myself and an associate to testify before his Grand Jury on matters which may be classified TOP SECRET. Actions of Individuals connected with DOUBLE-CHECK CORPORATION ‘M’ Miami in that quarter of 1961.”

(The “authoritative book, ‘The Invisible Government,’” identified Double-Chck (Double-Check) Corp.)

Bureau unaware of Double-Chck (Double-Check) association in this matter. Our attorneys and others are in possession of complete sealed files containing all information concerning matters.

“In event of our sudden departure, either incidental or otherwise, they are instructed to simultaneously reissue same for public scrutiny in different areas.

“Appropriate counter action relative to Garrison’s inquisition concerning us may best be handled through military channels vis (a) vis D.I.A. man. Garrison is presently colonel in Louisiana Army National Guard and has ready reserve status. Contact may be had through our attorneys of record, Plotkin, Alvarez, Sapir.”

Plotkin confirmed that he—

New Orleans States-News

26 May 1967
