Fitness Report. Employer serial number: 117974.

Section A: General. Name: Fox, Jerome. Date: 21 August 1959. Year of birth: 1928. Service designation: IR. Official position title: IO (Factory Markings). Career staff status: Not eligible; XX member; deferred; pending; declined; denied. Type of report: Initial; annual; reassignment/supervisor; reassignment/employee. Date report due in O.P.: 31 October 1959. Reporting period: 13 March 1958–30 September 1959. Special: Specify.

Section B: Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

1 — Unsatisfactory. 2 — Barely adequate. 3 — Acceptable. 4 — Competent. 5 — Excellent. 6 — Superior. 7 — Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1. Rating No. 3. Prepares written reports on results of analysis. Directs and participates in field exploitation.

Specific duty No. 2. Rating No. 4. Derives significant intelligence from factory markings data. Organizes raw data into analytic file.

Specific duty No. 3. Rating No. 4. Supervises junior analyst.

Specific duty No. 6.

Section C: Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1 — Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements. 2 — Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in
