Oc-62. Op-403D/jur. 16 March 1960. Via: Op-005.

U.S. Action in Cuba (J)

1. The recommendations contained in the paper on “U.S. Actions in Cuba” were intended originally to provide the broad outline for a carefully laid out program for causing the Castro regime to be replaced by a friendly government. It was intended that State would logically control and coordinate all aspects and provide the guidance as to the specific actions required of the other departments of the government. The paper was not interpreted in this manner by those who received it and the search appears now to be for specific actions which can be used to accomplish the end desired.

2. The following are offered as possible specific actions which can be taken in support of our position on Cuba. You might desire to have 00 inject these items into the CSC meeting, 16 March.

a. IAOB — Chairman, or the Chief of the U.S. Delegation, attempt to have a delegation other than U.S. introduce a motion for the Board to consider the gap in hemispheric defense resulting from the Cuban situation or for the Board to recommend that the OAS study the influence of Communism in Cuba.

b. Commercial — Oil companies are not being paid by Cuba. State could request the oil companies to point out to the governments who produce the oil the effects on their economies of the loss of the Cuban market.

c. Schools and War Colleges — The Services could include in courses for foreign officers the effect on hemisphere defense of the establishment of a Communist dictatorship in Cuba.

d. Commercial — Do Latin Americans hold stock in the expropriated properties in Cuba? If so, State could request the companies concerned to include in their dividend mailings information pointing out the effect on the companies’ earnings and the stockholders’ dividends of expropriation of property without compensation and, for the oil companies, non-payment for oil delivered.

e. State, in conjunction with CIA, publish a weekly or bi-weekly letter documenting the actions of the Castro Government for the previous period. Included would be:

(1) Violations of human rights.

(2) Communist trends and actions.

(3) Dictatorial and undemocratic actions.
