It is noted Special Agents of the FBI mentioned above are possibly identical to SAS Burl E. Cloninger and Charles F. Moffett, who have worked Ku Klux Klan matters in the Trenton, New Jersey, area.

Frankhouser stated he accompanied Drager and they walked to the vicinity of 3rd and Walnut Streets, Reading, Pennsylvania, where a relatively new car was parked. Drager opened the trunk, and Frankhouser observed numerous handguns and rifles and believed there were explosives in the trunk. Frankhouser could not furnish further description of this vehicle. Drager showed Frankhouser the weapons to show them “we mean business.”

Frankhouser then stated that Drager indicated he had a “caper” planned that would mean $100,000.00. Drager did not further discuss the caper. Frankhouser concluded on his own that the “caper” was possibly a bank robbery. Frankhouser denied any specific knowledge regarding any bank robberies on Drager’s part.

Frankhouser stated he was contacted by Drager via telephone call on one occasion subsequent to the June 7, 1974, meeting. At this time, Drager indicated two of his men had been arrested and the “caper” was delayed. This contact was about two days prior to Drager’s arrest in New Jersey.

It is noted the New Jersey State Police made available a Xerox copy of a parking ticket in the recovered 1973 Pinto, stolen by Drager on March 11, 1974, indicating he was ticketed on June 6, 1974, at 1:41 p.m., in the vicinity of 4th Street, Reading, Pennsylvania. Ticket number 18025 thus verified that Drager was in the Reading area on or about the date Drager and Frankhouser had their clandestine meeting.

On June 14, 1974, Detective John Reynolds, New Jersey State Police, West Trenton, New Jersey, advised that William Eric Carroll and James Keith were arrested by the New Jersey State Police at Bordentown, New Jersey, when they were noticed to have illegally passed a stopped school bus on Route 206, at Columbus, New Jersey, and it was subsequently determined their vehicle was a stolen motor vehicle.

Carroll, when stopped, produced a driver’s license for a William R. Jenkins, 364 South Olden Avenue, Trenton, New Jersey. The arresting officer observed several other documents which appeared to be driver’s licenses in the wallet of Carroll, thusly arousing his investigative curiosity. The officer further noted a carbine protruding from a cardboard carton in Carroll’s vehicle. The Vehicle Identification
