exercised by the Agency and, finally, the availability of meaningful accounting data within the instrumentality. In this light, fixed, pro forma accounting requirements are not sought; rather, each case will be approached individually through the fiscal annex with a view to establishing accounting requirements that will assure that use of Agency funds is controlled and adequately documented to a degree consistent with the nature of the instrumentality and its relationship with the Agency. A fiscal annex is required for all noncontrolled subsidies.

b. Accounting Principles

The purpose of the fiscal annex is to document the particular fiscal realities of an individual noncontrolled subsidy (HR 230-8c(2)(c)(2)). The fiscal annex may authorize appropriate deviation from normal Agency accounting requirements. It should establish funding arrangements, specific accounting controls, financial reporting requirements, and writeoff provisions consistent both with the fiscal realities and with the Agency's responsibilities for proper use of funds. Accounting control should be established through the use of Agency advance accounts, intransit accounts, and memorandum accounts to follow the flow of funds from the case officer to the ultimate recipient.

c. Financial Statements

Provision should be made in the fiscal annex for financial statements to be used as the final element of accounting control through use of Agency memorandum accounts:

1. when financial statements are the normal practice of an instrumentality;

2. when they are available to the Agency within the operational relationship; and

3. when the Agency contribution is identifiable therein.

d. Use of Certification as Evidence of Fulfillment of the Purposes for Which Funds Were Advanced

When meaningful financial statements are not available and the nature of the operation is such that insistence upon financial statements is inadvisable, it is considered appropriate and consistent with Agency practice to provide for documentation of "services rendered" in the form of a certification signed by an appropriate case officer and approved by the designated Agency approving officer for the project concerned. Such certification executed on requests for advance subsequent to the initial advance should read substantially as follows:

Revised: 29 October 1974
