Review of Manuel Ray files  
Volume IV of XVIII

Field Information Report

Subject: Background, Character and Economic Concepts of Manuel Ray Rivero

Date: 16 March 1961

Sources: Dr. Oscar Salas Marrero (paragraphs 1–11), who knew Ray in Cuba; Dr. Jose Alvarez Diaz, former Minister of Finance under Prio (paragraph 12); Dr. Jorge Beruff, former president of Banco de Desarrollo Economico de Cuba (paragraph 13).

Note: Cover note penciled comment: “The content is so biased and mixed with untruth that it would be a disservice to the intelligence community to disseminate it.”

Synopsis of paragraphs 1–11: Dr. Salas says that during his childhood Ray was a Protestant but today is completely atheistic. He said Ray organized the MRC against Batista and shortly after Batista’s fall, the MRC and 26th of July Movement fused into one. As soon as Castro came into power, control of the organization was given to the Communists. He tells of Ray’s association with Castro and that Ray did not resign his position when his own brother was renounced by Castro. He stated that Ray’s rupture with Fidel was due to the fact that Ray opposed the idea of shooting Hubert Matos as a traitor. Ray resigned his post but said publicly that he approved and supported the Castro regime without any mental reservations. He says that in Cuban clandestine circles Ray is regarded as boastful, ostentatious, and deceitful. Intimate friends of Ray feel that he is a man of antidemocratic procedures and does not like to take advice, even from members of his own movement.

Synopsis of paragraph 12: Dr. Alvarez said Ray was in favor of maintaining relations with the USSR and not making the Communist Party illegal. Although Ray withdrew all these statements when threatened with press coverage, Alvarez thinks they are representative of Ray’s thinking and that Ray would try to put these ideas into practice if he ever came to power. Alvarez (Alverez) also mentioned Ray’s thinking on nationalization of public services, socialized medicine, nationalization of banks, and so forth.

Synopsis of paragraph 13: Dr. Beruff said Ray was well-intentioned with no Communist tendencies. He cited a meeting at which the basic points of the MRP platform were discussed and said that since Ray was in disagreement with the others on most of the points, Dr. Felipe Pazos acted as chairman of the meeting and Ray argued his case as a simple member of the group. Out of this meeting came a declaration of 14 points, including the nationalization of the banks and public utilities.

On 9 March, Ray said that the ideas attributed to him in paragraph 12 were not true and were part of a “campaign against him by Mr. Pawley of the Miami City Transit Company.”
