QKFEARFUL

This foundation type proprietary provided support to a bona fide international organization interested in international legal matters. At the time the Agency withdrew its support for the activity in 1969, the assets of the proprietary plus termination funding were turned over to the witting Board of Directors. The organization, now under a new name, continues to exist without Agency support.

WSFLUFFER

This foundation type proprietary provided funds to a bona fide foundation involved with the development of international cooperatives. At the time the Agency withdrew its support from the cooperative program, the entity was dissolved; however, it had been anticipated that the entity would be the recipient of funds resulting from the sale of a proprietary lending institution in Europe. The bona fide foundation, which was part of the funding channel for the European bank, was allowed to retain the proceeds of the sale when WSFLUFFER was dissolved. See the write-up under DEINHAUL for more details of the sale of the European bank.

DTPILLAR

This foundation type proprietary supported individuals and organizations of interest to the Agency in the Far East. At the time the Agency withdrew its support for the activity in 1967, the assets of the organization, with a substantial termination payment, were turned over to the witting Board of Directors of the entity. The entity has continued its work without Agency support.

DTLAMPREY

This foundation type proprietary supported an international organization concerned with individuals in the teaching profession. At the time the Agency withdrew its support from the international organization, the proprietary was dissolved after making one last termination grant to the international organization. The international entity has continued without Agency support.

QKOPERA/DTGODOWN

This foundation type proprietary supported individuals and international organizations involved with cultural matters. To give the entity substance and provide funds for day-to-day administration, the Agency started the organization with a substantial grant which was invested in
