f. Copies

Furnish 5 copies of reports and LHMs except where instructed otherwise in individual cases.

g. Closing of case

If it is determined that the subject organization is not currently engaged in subversive activities, submit pertinent facts in the closing report.

C. Investigation of Individuals

1. General Policy

a. Purpose

To develop evidence of any violations of the statutes enumerated in A. 1. above and keep the Department and other agencies and officials of the Executive Branch advised of information developed which pertains to their areas of responsibility and interest.

b. Individuals to Be Investigated

Investigations should be conducted to fully identify and determine the activities and affiliations of persons who:

(1) Are reported to be engaged in activities which may result in a violation of statutes enumerated in A. 1. above.

(2) This includes individuals who are current active members of subversive organizations or movements.

(3) Where formal membership in a subversive movement does not exist, it includes individuals who are actively supporting the subversive goals of the movement.

Priority investigative attention should be given to individuals who are known or suspected of being involved in subversive activities which are of a clandestine, underground, or violent nature.

c. Limitations on Investigations

All investigations conducted should avoid nebulous or sweeping inquiries which are not relevant to objectives. Under no circumstances should an investigation be conducted of any individual merely on the basis that such individual supports unpopular causes or opposes Government policies.

d. Investigations Requiring FBIHQ Approval

Obtain FBIHQ approval for investigation of:

(1) U.S. Government employees.

(2) Officials or employees of the United Nations or other public international organizations of a governmental or quasi-governmental nature.

(3) Officials or employees of foreign diplomatic establishments or governments, or foreign exchange participants (representatives of foreign countries who are in the U.S. as part of an official exchange program).

(4) Faculty members of institutions of learning.

FBIHQ approval is not required for investigation of student or nonacademic employees of institutions of learning in the absence of unusual circumstances. If during a pending investigation it is discovered that the subject fits one of the above categories, suspend active investigation and advise FBIHQ with recommendation as to further action.

e. Members of United States Armed Forces

No investigation should be conducted of active or retired members of United States military forces. If it is determined that a subject fits in this category, terminate investigation and promptly furnish pertinent data to the appropriate counterintelligence branch of the United States armed forces. Advise FBIHQ in form suitable for dissemination.

10-15-73
