RE: Demonstrations Protesting United States Policy in Vietnam; Washington, D.C., January 15, 1968

The first source went on to state the Seattle delegation went to Room 132-A, Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D.C., early Sunday evening, January 14, 1968, where a Steering Committee for the demonstration the following day was meeting. Among those present were Mary Clarke, Los Angeles, California; Judith Morse Eaton of Connecticut; and Eleanor French of New York, who did not give any sign of being related to Helen French of the Seattle group. Lonnie Healy inquired several times about other Seattle people who might have arrived separately. She also questioned the absence of Negroes on the committee and sought to have a resolution adopted on American Indians. In connection with the Indian matter, she distributed a leaflet, a reproduction of which is set out at the end of this memorandum.

C. P. Rader  
C. P. Member  
C. P. Miner

Later Marjorie Rader, Emelia Cassidy, Linda Corr (Negro), and Zefra Studamire (Negro) arrived at the Shoreham Hotel. The source did not know Zefra's last name, but it is given later in this memorandum by another source. These four indicated they were being housed at Donna Allen's home in Washington, D.C. Rader joined Healy in questioning the lack of representation on the Steering Committee of representatives from minority groups.

Marjorie Rader and Emelia Cassidy were reported by a fifth source in January 1968 as being CP members at Tacoma, Washington, and Zefra Studamire was described as a 16-year-old Negro girl who has been active in the Young Political Explorers League (YPEL) (see appendix) at Tacoma.

Linda Corr was reported by the second source as being a CP member at Seattle as of January 1968.

Following the Steering Committee meeting, the group went to dinner. The Seattle delegates met a Mrs. Dunlap from Pasadena, California, and a Mari Beardsley from Encino, California. Dunlap said she had been working on a signature campaign for the Peace and Freedom Party of California, which was not further described. Beardsley said she works in an
