ST 157-4275

Stated that all sectors of the news media are controlled by Jews and that they directly control all newspaper publications either by direct ownership or by controlling the advertising that newspapers need for their survival. In addition, he pointed out that the three major radio-television networks are all headed by Jewish individuals and as such they are able to direct public broadcasting to benefit their own views and the views of the Jewish segment of our society. DD/Cut further stated that this great influence exerted by Jews in this country will eventually lead to the degeneration of our society unless their activities are stopped by actions from the right wing.

DRAGER stated that as a result of his travels throughout the country he has coordinated activities between the various right-wing groups to such a degree that all that is needed for them to act in unison would be the right conditions to exist in this country. He feels that his activities are currently peaceful in nature and that he is determined to work within the present political system for change, but if conditions should become too oppressive toward the average white citizenry in this country, then a time for action will be at hand and if a violent revolution is necessary to bring about change, it will be used. When it is time for action DRAGER predicted a unification of all the right-wing organizations in this country for the good of the common man.

DRAGER admitted that he confines his activities and travels to the area east of the Mississippi River and that he feels that the West is organized enough. He did admit to having spoken in the past in Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey, Toledo and Columbus, Ohio, and Chicago. He again declined to comment further regarding his activities or individuals he may have been in contact with during his travels since leaving New Jersey.

DRAGER refused to comment on any aliases he may use or upon the various identifications found in his possession at the time of his arrival in the states of DELAYS DRAH RITEVAN WARD JOSEPH HARVEY, DIRECTOR P. MULDOO, JOHN VILLARD CLOUGH, NICKY DIX WALPOLE, and WILLIAM DRESSIER CONNELLY.

The following information concerning DRAGER was obtained through interview and observation:
