Document in the pertinent informant file and is not to be serialized. If a particular section of this form is not applicable, such should be noted thereon. If it later becomes applicable, the serial number can be noted at that time.

12. Bulky material submitted by informant

Where informant or source submits bulky material other than a statement and same pertains to a specific investigative matter, bulky material may be filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of executed form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items set forth on form FD-306. In such a case, the original form FD-306 or channelizing memorandum should be filed in the subfile of the informant or source and the file and serial number where the bulky material is located should be noted thereon.

N. Payments to informants and handling money received

1. No gifts to informants

a. Gifts should not be given to informants since such actions might be misconstrued.

b. Relationship between Agents and informants shall be maintained on a businesslike basis.

c. Expenditures for gifts to informants will not be approved as blue slip items.

d. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, representatives of companies, private industries, or insurance companies and request assistance regarding payments of money, gifts, or products of such companies to informants.

2. SAC authority to pay informants

a. In specific instances in which it is necessary and expedient to expend money to obtain information concerning matters or persons under investigation, which is not otherwise obtainable, or to advance expense money to enable an individual to obtain such information, SAC may approve payments of amounts up to $200 and totaling not more than $200 on a c.o.d. basis regardless of the number of payments. This applies only to individuals who have never been regularly paid for services or expenses on Bureau authorization. In other words, once an individual has been paid on Bureau authorization, regardless of the amount, this authority of the SAC may not be utilized.

b. Individual who is paid on SAC authority should not be described in correspondence as an informant or source who is being paid on a “regular basis” or on “Bureau authorization.”

c. The blue slip reclaiming any of these payments authorized by the SAC must clearly and accurately explain the circumstances and summarize the information obtained so the Bureau will be in a position to pass intelligently such blue slips for payment.

d. Prior Bureau authority must be obtained to make any additional payment to an individual who has received payments totaling $200.

3. Payments on continuing basis—Bureau authority

a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authorization.

b. In requesting this authorization, a justification must be set forth containing the following items and using the subheadings shown. (In espionage and foreign nationality matters, use subheadings where applicable.)

(1) Recommendation

Use following wording as nearly as possible:

“I recommend that authority be granted to continue (increase, decrease) payments to the above informant up to ___ (amount) per ___ (month, week) for services, plus up to ___ (amount) per ___ (month, week) for expenses actually incurred for a period of ___ months, effective ___ (date).”

3-13-61
