7. Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties.

Directions:

a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties.

b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.

c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty if no rate is assigned for those who supervise a secretary only.

d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.

e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are: oral briefing; giving lectures; conducting seminars; writing technical reports; conducting extended liaison; typing; taking dictation; supervising; knows and uses area knowledge; develops new programs; analyzes industrial reports; manages files; operates radio; coordinates with other offices; writes regulations; prepares correspondence; conducts interrogations; prepares summaries; translates German; debriefing sources; keeps doors; drives truck; maintains air conditioning; evaluates significance of data.

g. For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

Descriptive Rating Number:

i. Incompetent in the performance of this duty.
ii. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty.
iii. Performs this duty acceptably.
iv. Performs this duty in a competent manner.
v. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.
vi. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs.
vii. Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Specific Duty No. 1: As case officer directs and manages two well-established FP ops. Rating number: 5.

Specific Duty No. 4: Acts as Deputy Chief PP.
