Office Memorandum, United States Government

To: A. H. Belmont  
From: S. B. Donahoe  
Subject: Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of Friendly Foreign Nations  
Date: 5/16/58

We have a program to develop sources in diplomatic establishments of friendly countries which has worked without a hitch until recent weeks when J. P. McDonnell of the State Department first declined clearance for an interview with two individuals at the Embassy of Pakistan and later declined clearance for interviews with individuals at the German and Turkish Embassies—all declinations being based primarily on the fact that these countries are friendly and if the interview were reported to the Embassy it could strain relations. We have notified the field to discontinue efforts to develop sources at these Embassies as a result.

Sound counterintelligence coverage requires sources to produce not only investigative data but also intelligence data of value to us and other agencies in guiding policy and making decisions. The Bureau is expected to produce intelligence data and we can anticipate criticism as well as operational moves by other agencies to fill the vacuum if our operations do not produce necessary data. Sound source programs are based on long-range planning and require forward thinking to get results. Scrambling for sources in reaction to problems is too late and ineffective.

A vital part of our coverage of friendly nations is the continuing development of informants and sources (persons) in diplomatic establishments in the United States. This is a recognized intelligence technique and is aimed at all countries where the need for data exists, with emphasis on “trouble spot” countries that tend to drift toward, or are targets of, the Soviet Bloc and those countries involved in situations with international ramifications. This program has paid off in sound benefits and existing sources represent effective outposts for gathering data in the event of an emergency as well as for investigative purposes.

The program is generally aimed at American employees and has been tightly controlled, as evidenced by the lack of repercussions from approaches. We first obtain State Department clearance to investigate the prospect without revealing the purpose. We then conduct an extensive background investigation of the prospect. If this reveals that the potential is good and the risk element negligible, we secure State clearance for an interview. The first interview is conducted to assess potential and responsiveness.
