Intelligence that a low-ranking Austrian diplomat serving as their informant in Budapest had also been recruited by us and was reporting to us. I refused to carry out this order and offered my resignation. To me, it was dishonorable to betray a young agent who had accepted our recruitment and put faith in our promise of secrecy. To my mind, an agency without principles cannot survive and indeed should not survive. Tom Karamissinis, perhaps one of the last honorable men to serve with us in high position, fired a strong cable back and the shameful order was retracted.

9. I have invested about $50,000 in my apartment, in key money and improvements. If I leave, I will lose all or most of this. Our last move to Vienna cost me about $15,000 in sea freight and insurance. I will never get on my knees and ask to be made whole if you expose me, but I may report to the courts. I am a retired member of the Virginia Bar.

10. Let me regale you with an example of how the historians' mindless drive to know everything can lead to a proud country's disgracing itself. During WWII, when we were interrogating German POWs, we promised them no one would ever learn they had “spilled their guts,” and we all believed we were being honest. But almost 25 years after WWII, the British declassified all the ADI(K) reports (that's what they were called, and even the “room conversations,” transcripts of the conversations POWs had in their rooms, even including the extremely valuable speeches made by high-ranking Luftwaffe officers to their high-ranking fellow POWs at “Cockfosters” Mansion. Newcomers were visited by the old hands for a month to make sure they weren't stool pigeons, before they were given the privilege of addressing their fellow officers on some important aspect of the war. The excellent British mikes picked it all up.

In recent years, at least one Luftwaffe veteran association, that of J.G.2, the Richthofen Geschwader, sent people to London to get copies of the interrogation reports of their pilots. They did it chronologically and were so shocked at the vast amount of vital data revealed by their buddies that, in acute revulsion, they stopped looking. I assumed then that “everyone” had “talked,” which is true.

11. I am 75 years old, partly paralyzed on my left side from a stroke in Dec. 1993. I was nearly fully rehabilitated when, in May 1994, I was hit by constant muscle spasms all up and down my left side. This rather rare condition, basically a sudden super-human tightening of all the muscles, with after effects lasting until the next spasm, has made it increasingly difficult for me to stand up, walk, or even sit up for very long. In a few days, when all the many medicines are here, I will begin a 20-week homeopathic cure for the spasms under Dr. Schramm, a leading specialist here. I can't very well leave for 20 weeks.

You will be contacted momentarily by one of my attorneys. I will also be in touch with my congressman and senators.
