Talk About Spain Continued

Other authentic sites. The producer went on to explain, “I plan to bring all the ‘Gods’ together to make this movie.” He named such box office ‘draws’ as Victor Mature to play the role of Zeus; Kirk Douglas as Adonis; Tony Curtis as Apollo; Peter Ustinov as Dionysus; and Jean Simmons as Athena. According to the producer, there are many candidates for the role of Aphrodite (Venus), but as yet she has not been named. “I’m using the largest cast ever,” Dimitroff told us, “at Olympia alone there will be 30,000 extras and there are 65 starring roles.” A 4-hour-long epic, the cost of making it is estimated at twenty million dollars and shooting is expected to take a full year, starting in June—Greek Gods willing!

Costa del Sol

Congresses in Winter. Congresses, like birds, tend to come south in winter. Our sunny Coast—six average hours of sunshine a day from November to April—is becoming their favorite winter ground, so much so that a huge congress hall is now planned.

Following the fashion to pick sunny climes for winter work, the executive committee of the International Union of Architects have just spent six days at Hotel Pez Espada, fixing the agenda for their big annual congress in July. The summer congress, of course, will be held up north, in Paris. Flags were hoisted outside Málaga Airport and the hotel for each of the 22 nationalities attending, including the “hammer and sickle” for the Moscow delegate. The seven three-hour sessions, presided over by Sir Robert Matthew, were spent sifting subjects to be discussed at the Paris congress. An interpreter sent along by the local tourist office withered under the crossfire of languages, so an urgent call went out to Fuengirola for Lana, wife of ex-Soviet painter Sacha Loutikoff, who speaks five languages including Russian.

Delegates took a day off for some sunshine and an extensive tour of the Coast. They mostly agreed that the Coast has some fine buildings, but sadly lacks a master plan. The Russian, Guergul Orlov, said he was particularly impressed by Marbella’s Ciudad Residencial, the State holiday resort for workers. Local Spanish reporters eager for an interview found the Russian rather untalkative, though he did confess he liked Flamenco. The delegates rounded off the busy week with a dinner gala in the hotel, and left Saturday.

Gibralfaro Castle—A Tourist Center?

The ruined ninth-century castle on Gibralfaro, the pine-covered hill overlooking Málaga, is probably going to be urbanized as a tourist center. It has been suggested that an auditorium, with rooms for gatherings like international congresses, be built within the castle walls. The idea was put to Málaga’s Mayor, Sr. Rafael Botes, by the Under Secretary of Tourism, Sr. García Rodriguez-Acosta, during his short visit here last week. He said Gibralfaro’s beautiful position and views should be utilized more. The Mayor later took a bird’s-eye view of the site from the helicopter of the visiting American flagship, USS Springfield. Gibralfaro is a great favorite with everyone. Tourists climb it to explore the castle, gasp at the breathtaking views of the town and harbor, and eat at the State restaurant built just below the castle walls. The hill also overlooks the bullring and hundreds of malagueños climb it to take a free peek at corridas.

Winter Course for Foreigners. Below Gibralfaro’s battlements, just a spear’s throw away, lies the comparatively new Casa de Cultura where, on Friday last week, the Mayor opened the 18th Winter Course for Foreigners. More than 100 students have come from many countries for this extensive two-month course in Spanish language and culture, which happens to coincide with Málaga’s equally famous Winter Sports Festival. Students are lodged with local families and most days attend lectures by university professors, go on excursions, and take part in all sorts of social and cultural events.

Tied in with this year’s course is a three-week exhibition of paintings by five well-known southern artists with strong local connexions. They are Alberka, Barbadillo, Brinkmann, Hernandez, and Prinado. Gabriel Alberka, 30, lives in Torremolinos and has.

ADLER  
HAIR TREATMENT CENTER  
(under medical direction)

MADRID: Torre de Madrid 8.º 9 — Tel: 2 41 44 75

BARCELONA: Vía Layetana, 180 — Tel. 2 27 05 74
