Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to determine the reason he is being considered for future personnel actions.

Mr. Smith has demonstrated both competence and versatility since his assignment to CA/PROP. With no prior experience in the area, he was assigned to WH affairs and has quickly developed both a surprising knowledge of the problem of that volatile group of countries and an excellent rapport with members of the Division, which, on several occasions, has indicated a strong interest in securing his services when his release from the staff can be arranged. Assignments are completed with dispatch and in good order.

The rating of 3 with regard to the proposed campaign on Neutralism-Nationalism reflects only that we have not yet got underway in this admittedly difficult and controversial field. The sum of research which Mr. Smith has done in this field leads him to the present conclusion, in which undersigned concurs, that unlike most of our other campaigns this will have to be conducted on a selected country basis and differently tailored for each.

During the absence of the rating official Mr. Smith has acted as Branch Chief.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, and D of this Report.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employees, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 40 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify).

Date: 23 January 1961.

Official title of supervisor: CA/PROP/C/Guidance Branch. W.H. Carpenter.

Typed or printed name and signature.

By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date.

Official title of reviewing official: CA/C/PROP.

Typed or printed name and signature: Henry C. Sutton.
