MHFNO 92-7827323

SENSIND:

Could be reached regarding joint actions and mutual legal commitments. Although monetary compensation is implied, LWOPUS does not mention any specific sum; rather, he suggests that he is willing to enter into some sort of contractual agreement. This is compatible with what the FIVA group appears to be attempting. The FIVA group states in no uncertain terms that they need money.

C. In each case there appears to be a large volume of material. LWOPUS stated that up to now he has prepared seven folders on fourteen countries and foresees writing 22-25 small books or episodes on different countries. The FIVA group also implies that a large volume of material exists. LWOPUS claims that his writings were based only on documentary sources. The FIVA group makes no such claim, but implies that their material is from personal knowledge.

D. Based upon the geographic diversity of the material and the time span it encompasses, we suspect the LWOPUS manuscript might be a joint effort. If it is not a joint effort, collection must have been going on for a long time by someone with excellent access to archival material. The FIVA group is a common effort of at least four (and probably more) retired KGB officers.

E. LWOPUS noted that he is concerned for his safety and that of his family. His failure to show at the Embassy in Vilnius during the window might be the result of his concern. Ambassador Johnson stated that he had already alerted the Embassy, including the Lithuanian FSN in his office, that they should be alert for the return of the LWOPUS messenger. If LWOPUS became aware that the Lithuanian employee had been told to watch for the messenger, he may have elected not to return. In such case, assuming that Yurasov is connected with the FIVA group, their offer to the Hollywood firm may be an alternate plan.

F. In each case, the material presented would have appeal for the group to which it is offered, i.e., the offer to us of intelligence-related snippets regarding in-place agents versus the offer to the entertainment industry of the more spectacular cases that would appeal to a mass audience.

G. The name of Yazkov (true name Anatoliy Yakovlev) is similar to Yurasov. Although it is certainly not true in every case, the former Soviets frequently used cover names similar to or which had the same first letter as their own name.

H. LWOPUS is obviously hedging his bets. He also mentioned that he had made two previous unsuccessful attempts.
