Federal Bureau of Investigation  
United States Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20537

Applicant

1. Loop

To get a classifiable fingerprint:

1. Use the black ink.

2. Dilute the ink solely on the slab.

3. Do not use for identification.

4. Pull the lines forward to the ball, and allow room for fingers to slip.

5. If possible, record all individuals in correct order.

6. If one impression is not enough, make it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that end of the lines, and make an inscription to the individual finger block.

7. If two or more impressions are not enough to determine the individual finger, use the best impression, submit the stars that are, be certified with a memo stapled to the card explaining the criteria.

8. Draw in the corresponding points to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that only those impressions that fall into the patterns shown on this card (other patterns occur incorrectly) are not shown here.

2. Whorl

This card for use by:

Deltas

Leave this space blank.

1. Law enforcement agencies in fingerprinting/outgoing applications for law enforcement purposes.

2. Officials of state and local governments for purchase of unclassified licensing information as authorized by activity standards and specifications by the Attorney General of the United States, the state, county, or local government, unless otherwise specifically directed by licensing state authorities.

3. U.S. Customs and immigration inspection with clear arms.

4. Originals of publicly available regular office records.

5. Originals of custodians, e.g., documents or materials of high security or that may be used as evidence, or others.

Instructions:

1. From upon receipt be checked on the approved form by the respondent, and, if applicable, the proposed expert that will perform the work.

2. If the work is to be performed at a distance, use the following three letters to indicate the region, province, or country where the work is to be performed.

3. If the work is to be performed in a foreign country, use the following three letters to indicate the country where the work is to be performed.

4. If the work is to be performed at home, use the following three letters to indicate the state where the work is to be performed.

5. If the work is to be performed abroad, use the following four letters to indicate the location where the work is to be performed.

The lines between center of loop and delta should show...

3. Arch

Notes have been added.

(See lines running between deltas must be clear.)

4. Booklet Number

For documenting Card No. 1975 SP-270.
