SF 100-46832

The “Berkeley Daily Gazette” newspaper, issue of February 23, 1966, carried a news article headlined “Peace Group Slates Scheer.” This article states ROBERT SCHEER, candidate for Congressman, 7th Congressional District, would speak under the sponsorship of the Berkeley Women for Peace on February 24, 1966, at Friends Meeting House, Berkeley. It added that SCHEER, “an outspoken critic of the Johnson Administration policies in Viet Nam, is presently touring South Viet Nam and Cambodia, the latter country at the invitation of Prince SIHANOUK.” It continued by stating, “Foreign Editor of Ramparts, author of ‘Cuba - Tragedy in a Hemisphere’ and ‘How the United States Got Involved in Viet Nam.’ SCHEER is also known for his association with the Center for Study of Democratic Institutions at Santa Barbara.” The article concluded by stating that Women for Peace would vote on endorsing SCHEER’s candidacy at this meeting.

An article appeared in “The Daily Californian,” issue of March 1, 1966, which stated that ROBERT SCHEER would give “an eyewitness report from Southeast Asia” at 8:00 p.m. at the Berkeley Community Theatre, Berkeley, California. The article added, “SCHEER is a candidate for Congress in the 7th Congressional District and an authority on U.S. policy in Vietnam.”

The “Berkeley Daily Gazette” newspaper, issue of March 1, 1966, carried a news article advertising the above speech. It also contained information to the effect that SCHEER’S travels during February, 1966, took him to Cambodia, Thailand and South Vietnam.

“The Daily Californian,” issue of March 4, 1966, carried an article reporting the results of an interview by this newspaper on March 3, 1966, with ROBERT SCHEER, who was scheduled to speak March 4, 1966, on the campus of UC, Berkeley. This article quoted SCHEER as stating that Oakland, California might be the next Watts and explode (into race riots) because of the “miserable conditions which have persisted there for the last 25 years.” The article
