to land at Recife, Brazil, en route to Havana, and may have picked up some passengers.

8. Controlled sources who have undergone guerrilla training, and a comparison of inbound and outbound travelers identified by travel controls make it clear that at least in the case of guerrilla trainees one leg of the travel is often by way of bloc countries and Western Europe. We know of Latin Americans given Cuban training who appear on no travel controls, suggesting that travel in both directions was either by way of the bloc or completely surreptitious.

9. A center providing funds and forged passports for travel to Cuba is known to exist in Montevideo, Uruguay. The Cubans are known to provide forged passports for some of the returning trainees. One group of Argentines returning through Prague and Western Europe was furnished with both Cuban and Ecuadorean passports, to be surrendered in Montevideo prior to re-entering Argentina.

C. Numbers of Trainees

1. Our estimate that 1,500 to 2,000 Latin Americans have received subversive training in Cuba is derived from a combination of travel information, debriefing of controlled sources who have taken training, penetrations of sponsoring organizations, and in a few cases from the records of cooperating Latin American security services.

2. Monitoring of travel into Cuba gives some indication of how many have stayed long enough to receive training, but does not permit differentiation between military training and political indoctrination. We cannot establish a hard total or be certain about length of visit because of travel via the bloc. Forged documentation obscures an accurate nationality breakdown of the travelers.

3. The hardest figures on guerrilla trainees by nationality are obtained from established and reliable sources who have access to such information through sponsoring organizations and in a number of cases have themselves taken such training in Cuba. We do not, however, have enough such sources to provide independently a comprehensive total of Latin America. Only a few of the local Latin American security services have adequate assets for contributing such information.
