which now is in its Fifth Edition and its thirty-sixth year of publication), I have a keen sense of the methods and needs of researchers.

2. What do you consider to be your primary responsibilities and priorities as an ARRB member?

My first responsibility is to help establish the determination of the Board to fulfill the purpose of the legislation creating it. The second is to help oversee the orderly and complete gathering of the documents from the respective agencies holding them.

The first priority is to help structure the Board so that the work can proceed expeditiously and efficiently. The second priority is to obtain the services of a knowledgeable and energetic Executive Director as soon as possible.

3. How do you envision your relationship and responsibilities—as an ARRB member—to (a) the President, (b) the Congress, and (c) other executive branch agencies?

(a) To the President: I will aim to the best of my ability to meet the high expectations that President Bush enunciated upon signing the Act creating the Board: to help burnish the reputation of the United States Government for trustworthiness. I will be responsive to inquiries and suggestions that may emanate from the White House, while keeping in mind that the Board’s own integrity is the highest desideratum.

(b) To the Congress: I will aim to fulfill the purpose of the legislation creating the Board. I will always be acutely aware of the keen interest and concern that the Congress has expressed from the beginning in the assassination itself and in the attendant issues that understanding it has generated both on Capitol Hill and in the country at large. I will be responsive to inquiries and suggestions that may emanate from the Congress, while keeping in mind that the Board’s own integrity is the highest desideratum.

(c) To other executive branch agencies: I will be responsible to the special concerns that assembling the pertinent documents may create. Still, I feel obliged to keep firmly in mind that the Board’s mission is the highest desideratum.

4. How do you view the job of ARRB Executive Director? What role do you anticipate playing in the selection of ARRB Executive Director and staff?

The Executive Director is central to the success of the Board’s mission. He or she must be a person of judgment,
