(2) Residence and employment (If no change since last justification letter, merely state “no change.”)

(3) Current membership and position held in subversive organizations.

(4) Summary of information furnished and/or services rendered during pertinent period. Information and/or services available only from the informant must be specifically identified. If there is none, a statement to that effect should be set out.

(5) Amount paid for services and expenses by month. The initial justification letter should set forth the amount, if any, ever paid under SAC authority.

(6) Type and number of meetings attended and other activity.

(7) Number of written and oral statements submitted. List separately.

(8) Information furnished of unusual value.

(9) Approximate number of persons on whom the informant furnished coverage and their importance.

(10) Steps being taken to advance the informant.

(11) Stability and reliability. Set forth personal weaknesses, domestic difficulties, indications of untrustworthiness or unreliability, or other similar problems presented by the informant, and steps being taken to prevent such situations from later becoming a source of embarrassment to the Bureau.

(12) Indoctrination against disclosure. State whether every opportunity has been taken to properly indoctrinate the informant against making any disclosure of his relationship with the Bureau through any media.

(13) All necessary action taken on information furnished.

(14) Miscellaneous. Any other matters concerning the informant’s operation which should be brought to the Bureau’s attention.

Where applicable, substitute potential informant, confidential source, panel source, or source of information for the word “informant.”

c. When payment to an informant has been authorized for a definite period of time, advise the Bureau at least two weeks in advance of the expiration of the period for which payment has been authorized as to whether the services of the informant are to be continued.

d. Every six months a letter of justification should be submitted to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments. Follow the form in subsection 3b.

e. Letters requesting authority to continue, increase, or decrease payments to an informant should be submitted in duplicate, except that the copy should consist only of the first page of the letter. When payments as requested by the field are approved, the single-page copy will be stamped “Approved” at the Bureau and returned. If the recommendation is not approved, correspondence will be prepared and transmitted to the field.

f. In order for this system to function properly, payment letters must be explicit.

g. When payments are authorized by the Bureau, it is the responsibility of each SAC definitely to assure himself that full value is being received.

h. Discontinuance of payments. If at any time it appears the information being produced by the informant is not commensurate with the payments being made to him, the payments should be immediately discontinued or adjusted accordingly and the Bureau promptly advised.

i. Extraordinary expenses. In connection with the operation of paid informants, if any extraordinary expenses are anticipated for which approval has not been given, obtain specific Bureau authority.
