Name of subject or title of incident.

4. Report of findings.

(C) On 1 February 1972, Phillip W. May, PFC, 444-48-5481, Custodial Agent, C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln (LC8424), Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), APO New York 09078, was interviewed at his place of duty concerning an incident of possible counter-intelligence interest, and stated substantially as follows:

(C) About two or three weeks ago, Source was approached by a man who identified himself as John the Dee Jay in the Stadtschaenke Bar, Datteln. John said that he was the disc jockey at the Lord Nelson, another bar in Datteln. With Source at the Stadtschaenke were John Stelpflug, John Lukasik, and Terry Drivis (phonetic). John the Dee Jay made a general nuisance of himself. He talked about security at the site and gave verbally a list of telephone numbers he claimed were security information telephone numbers in Heidelberg (Heidleberg) (MV7773), FRG, and other cities in FRG. Source was unable to recall any of the telephone numbers John the Dee Jay mentioned. John asked Source who the security sergeant of the unit was. He also asked about persons who had been formerly assigned to the unit. Source was not familiar with any of the names mentioned, as Source had been at the unit only a short time. John talked about how, if he was a spy, he would get information from people. Source felt that John the Dee Jay was trying to make him and the others nervous. John spoke fluent English and German and claimed that he could speak Russian. Source described John as follows:

Height: Six feet to six feet one inch. Weight: 200–210 pounds. Age: 27–28 years old. Build: Solid. Dress: Wore furry coat and shoes, possibly camel hair.

Source had not met John the Dee Jay before and had not seen or had contact with him since, and gave negative responses to all questions posed by him.

REGDATE: 2 SEP 94. ON: 2 SEP 94. BY CERT#: 1T01/P0. AUTH Para 1-000 DOD 5200.1R.

5. Typed name and organization of special agent: Heinz E. Ickert, 66th MI Group.

6. Signature of special agent: Hans E. Debert.
