Fitness Report. General Information. Section A.

Employee number: 017974. Name: Fox, Jerome. Date of birth: 7 October 1927. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13 D.

Official position title: Operations Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment, current station: DDO/LA/JK/X Hqs. Code: HQS OP.

Type of appointment: X Career. Reassignment of special.

Reporting period: February–July 1974. Date report due in O.P. supervisor.

Qualifications Update.

If Qualifications Update Form is being submitted with changes, and is attached to this report, place the word “YES” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “NO” in the box at right.

Section C. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in the category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from commuting to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some areas. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be documented.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desirable results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional that it relates to requirements of the work and is in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work at no warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to the level of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider Chief of Staff’s evaluation of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise. Indicate number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: See Section C. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 2. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 3. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 4. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 5. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 6. Rating letter.

Overall Performance.
