Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

During the rating period Mr. Kent continued to direct in a highly effective manner the large-scale covert action program carried out by the Branch against the Chilean target, including political action operations, propaganda, economic warfare, black operations and a militant action group. Mr. Kent is uniquely qualified for his present job since he combines an active and imaginative mind with a background of twenty years of operational experience in the Latin American area. He also possesses an unusual degree of fluency in the Spanish language.

In addition to directing the Branch's overall covert action program, Mr. Kent personally handled the majority of the propaganda effort conducted by the Branch. He turned in a very strong performance in originating and coordinating propaganda guidances on the Chilean situation for use in the Western Hemisphere as well as other areas such as Europe. He showed a real flair for spotting propaganda vulnerabilities and then coming up with fresh ideas for the exploitation of these vulnerabilities. He particularly excelled in staying on top of fast breaking situations requiring a steady flow of propaganda guidance.

Mr. Kent also conceived and executed the second phase of an effective propaganda operation in the economic field which is designed ...continued...

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 21 January 1972. Signature of employee: William M. Kent.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 4 months. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 21 January 1972. Official title of supervisor: DC/WH/6. Typed or printed name and signature: A. D. Wedemeyer.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

There is little that I can add to this performance rating and narrative comments. I agree with the rating officer's judgment. Mr. Kent is a self-starter with a very imaginative mind. I have closely observed his work on an effective propaganda operation in the economic field and found it highly successful and effective. His tenure as Acting Deputy Branch Chief left nothing to be desired. I was also personally associated with him at the hemisphere-wide publishers' meeting in late 1971. His professional conduct and good judgment during this meeting undoubtedly was ...continued...

Date: 24 Jan 1972. Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/6. Typed or printed name and signature: Earl J. Williamson.
