Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Bringing to proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Most of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost controls in the use of personal space, equipment and funds must be commented on. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Fox is a bright, energetic and capable officer. At the same time, he is professionally sound in his judgment. He is thorough in reviewing and evaluating his programs and has a superior knowledge of his subject matter. He is cost conscious.

During the past year, he has handled a very large workload. While his general performance has been exemplary, there have been, at times, inordinate delays in completing a proportion of his written work, accounting, etc. Mr. Fox has been cautioned about this occasionally erratic performance, and it is expected that he will show marked improvement.

This officer is scheduled for assignment to the Philippines in mid-1969. His operational work in HQS in handling visiting unilateral and liaison assets, as well as local developmentals, argue well for a fine performance in the field. He is an extremely personable individual, who, while intense, does very well in social situations. He is a self-starter who needs little guidance. These factors should stand him in good stead.

In spite of occasional delays noted above, Mr. Fox was a very strong asset for the Philippine Desk during the past year. He remains a most capable officer with considerable potential career development.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: Se Dec. 1968. Signature of employee: Jerome Fox.

Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Official title of supervisor: CPE/PMI/P. Typed or printed name and signature: Laurent St. Georges.

By reviewing official.

Comments of reviewing official: I believe the foregoing evaluation sums up the situation very well. Mr. Fox is an aggressive, capable, and experienced officer.

Date: 2 January 1969. Official title of reviewing official: DC/FF/PMI. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert F. Thompson.
