9. Preference for next assignment (continued).

C. Indicate your preference for next assignment by inserting numbers 1, 2, and 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in the boxes below.

Be assigned to headquarters for a tour of duty. With respect to possible assignment in headquarters, indicate choice of component: 1st choice: WE; 2nd choice: VII; 3rd choice: —.

Be assigned to another field station. With respect to possible reassignment to another field station, indicate choice of geographic area or specific station, based on qualifications: 1st choice: Hague; 2nd choice: Copenhagen; 3rd choice: Mexico City.

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments? Indicate number of work days: 45.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents who will be travelling or moving with you: wife and two sons, ages (at time of contemplated travel—June 1964) 15 and 13.

11A. Indicate any change in your personal or family situation which should be considered in determining your next assignment: None—except schooling facilities for children.

12. Signature: complete item no. B-1, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form.

To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training.

14. Signature: complete item no. B-2, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form.

To be completed by appropriate career service officer or personnel officer at headquarters.

15. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the component to which he is currently assigned, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training.

Recommend approval of extension to June 1964. A recommendation regarding a second tour or other assignment will be forwarded to the Panel at a later date.

16. Name of career service officer or personnel officer: George K. Mogannam. Date: 11 April 1963. Signature: L.H. Snaygallner.

For use of career service.

17. Employee has or has not been notified of planned reassignment.

18. Reference. Dispatch No. Cable No.

19. Typed or printed name.

20. Signature.

21. Title.

22. Date.

23. Comments.

Do not complete each portion of the form if applicable.
