MHFNO: 95-2326398

2. Living since retirement in Austria from 1971 to 1980 and from 1983 to the present, I have achieved high positions in Vienna's musical bodies, board of directors of the Johann Strauss Society and vice president of the Vienna Men's Singing Society, and I am personally known to several recent Austrian presidents, many reporters and radio figures. I suffered a disabling stroke in December 1993 and my wife and I, both 75, can continue to exist here because our 2000 sq. ft. apartment is within walking distance of 2 post offices, several small supermarkets, my family physician, our dentist, my urologist, and an eye doctor and optician. We are within wheelchair distance of the concert halls and the opera. Where can you duplicate this for me?

3. During my active career in Vienna around 1959 I interrogated and broke an intelligence swindler who had been a Nazi assassin. I promised him secrecy if he confessed, but the US Army put out a "burn notice" on him, forcing him to move to Germany. I am sure he would love to find me and shoot me.

4. Vienna is full of Islamic terrorists. There have been several assassinations, even of a city councilman, by them in recent years. Under Austrian law, I, as a foreigner, cannot even get a pistol license. You must know about the kidnapping and killing of our colleagues around the world.

4. I have twice testified before House and Senate committees about the Kennedy assassination. Their full reports simply called me the "desk officer" and that has seemed to satisfy everyone. Needless to say, if you do expose my name, I will not ever talk to any journalists or so-called historians.

5. If my name is exposed, I will obviously have to leave Vienna, with the whole house full of furniture, pictures, library, clothing, etc. which I packed and paid to have moved over here in 1983. Because of my stroke, I will be unable to do any packing and the move will be very expensive. Where can I resettle in a 2000 sq. ft. apartment so conveniently located?

6. My wife and I love living here for many reasons, and leaving would be a cruel and needless fate.

7. I regard this law as dishonorable and unworthy of the United States of America. If you decide against me, I want to appear before the board and even the President, whom I happen to admire. I will pay my own way back to do so. I served in WWII and never spared myself; in the outfit I worked hard, was fearless in dealing with my superiors (Cord Meyer and Dick Helms can testify to that) and my adversaries. I wouldn't even think of threatening to expose things to pressure you. I will be employing an attorney or two, familiar with our affairs, to represent me. I will not deny that I consider you and everyone else implementing this law to be engaging in dishonorable conduct, unworthy of our government service.

8. In the late 1960s while serving in Vienna under Tom Karamissinis, I was ordered by HQ to reveal to Austrian military.
