Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 017974.

Section A. General. Name: Fox (Lee) Jerome J. Date of birth: 8 October 1928. Sex: M. Grade: GS-12. SD: D. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/Division/Directorate of assignment: DDP/FE/VNC/VN. Current station: Headquarters. Type of appointment: Annual. Period: 1st March–31st January 1964. Date report due in O.P.: January 1964. Reported period: April–31 January 1964.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific duties: List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Assembles available information on North Vietnam, and its diplomatic establishments abroad. Rating letters: S; P.

Specific duty No. 2: Acts as ZRGRAIL officer for Vietnam Desk. Rating letters: P; P.

Specific duty No. 3: Aids in giving operational support to denied areas ops program run by Saigon Station. Rating letters: P; S.
