MHFNO: 98-0651289. SENSIND: RYBAT.

At Concorde nightclub (0030-0330). Subject paid for drinks. His spouse may return to Addis circa early May. Subject said he was distancing himself from Egyptian businessman Safah (phonetic) and added, “Before I leave Addis, I have a lot to tell you. I'll tell you when the story is finished. A lot goes on here.” Subject mentioned Israeli trade fair at Sheraton Hotel 25-26 February (the Egyptian economic counselor was invited). Regarding Rami Hatan, subject said he was aware Hatan was single, lived in Bole area, was a first-tour officer. The Russian delegation (para 3) was here for Ethiopian tank (T-55) refurbishment; recent Israeli delegation was here to bid on T-55 and aircraft refurbishment (corroborated by 2/00/1607-98, 191934Z February 98; and 2/00/1584-98, 191609Z February 98). Six Oromo oppositionists were extradited from Djibouti to Ethiopia. Foreign Minister Moussa is visiting Addis the week of 23 February; he is a womanizer and may visit Concorde nightclub. He has three bodyguards, but they are not “professionals.” Subject paid equivalent US$60 to blood test local girlfriend Helen, “She's all right.” Regarding salary, subject is paid “pretty well” and works hard to “earn the pay.” Upon parting, subject said, “Sleep well, I won't say have nice dreams because we (i.e., intel officers) do not have nice dreams.”

6. 20 February: Late dinner with subject at Lion Club, then Concorde nightclub. Two businessmen (a Saudi named Salah LNU who departs Addis the week of 23 February, and a Jordanian named Mahmoud LNU, both Concorde regulars) joined subject and C/O. Businessmen spoke of exporting Ethiopian cattle to Saudi Arabia, and also spoke of horses and camels. Subject's embassy office is being remodeled by an Ethiopian interior designer; a subordinate watches the designer at all times. Subject will have C/O over to the office once it is finished. Subject will be busy the week of 23 February due to visit of Moussa.

7. 21 February: C/O visited subject's home and office (which was being painted; had only chairs and a bookcase; Mahmoud LNU, an Egyptian, supervised Ethiopian painter). In subject's living room were mementos from the U.S. Marine Corps Ball (American flag place settings, champagne flutes). FCSTANDARD chiefs posted abroad have use of a government vehicle, as does subject. C/O apologized for not phoning; subject replied C/O could call at his home anytime, unannounced. He understood C/O's aversion to phones, and added Ethiopians tap diplomats' office and home phones. During conversation with C/O, subject turned on tape player for sound masking and explained his home had not yet been tested for bugs (a simple test is to turn off all appliances and check electric meter; there is also a more sophisticated test). Subject phoned spouse in Cairo and had C/O spe
