Re: Proposed Demonstrations, Washington, D.C. and San Francisco, California, November 20, 1971, for abortion law repeal sponsored by Women's National Abortion Action Coalition (WONAAC).

A daily newspaper of general circulation in the Cleveland, Ohio, area related that the Cleveland Student Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam (SMC) had held its first meeting on September 13, 1970, since summer recess to plan statewide anti-war activities for the fall. The above article reported that Laurie Perkus, age 21, had been appointed a full-time committee staff member of the Cleveland SMC.

Student Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam

The Student Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam (SMC) is controlled by the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) and its youth affiliate, Young Socialist Alliance. SMC initiates and supports public demonstrations against the war in Southeast Asia.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

On October 19, 1971, an article entitled “Women Strive for Abortion Reform” appeared in “The Caldron,” a student newspaper circulated on the Cleveland State University (CSU) campus, Cleveland, Ohio. It related that a Women's Educational Conference on Abortion Law Repeal was scheduled for October 23, 1971, at Case Western Reserve University (CWRU), Cleveland, Ohio, and that speakers included Barbara Robb, the attorney for the Michigan Women's Abortion Youth and a national coordinator of the Women's National Abortion Action Coalition (WONAAC). The above article characterized both the WONAAC and the Cleveland Abortion Project Coalition as follows:

“One way that women are engaged in a coordinated national campaign is through the Women's National Abortion Action Coalition (WONAAC), with which the Cleveland Abortion Project Coalition is affiliated. WONAAC was formed at a National Women's Conference in New York City in mid-July, which was attended by over 1,000 women from 29 states. It was at this conference that the National Abortion Law Repeal Campaign was launched. The women endorsed the aforementioned demands and a coordinated campaign.”
