Section C. Narrative Comments. Office of Performance Review, June 19, 1984. May 6, 1984.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper performance their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject is a hard working, dedicated and efficient officer who has proven by performance that he can accomplish assigned operational tasks in allowable time limits. The period covered by this fitness report represents Subject's initial Agency exposure to those first echelon management responsibilities which are implicit in a branch chief's assignment in a Station that has 313 employees. Subject responded to the challenge of the first echelon supervisory responsibilities in an exemplary manner. Subject managed a branch that had a yearly budget of two million four hundred thousand dollars. These funds were judiciously spent on printed propaganda, white and black radio programs, and on political action operations which were implemented via labor, student and professional groups. Subject has the knack of judiciously blending quality with quantity and in this melding effort, Subject reflected cost consciousness and effectiveness in the use of personnel, space equipment, and funds. Subject has a distinct flair for political action operations and can translate policy directives into meaningful action programs by all of his assets. Subject has the ability to delegate authority and to appropriately fix responsibility with those officers whom he supervises. In the management field, Subject's only discernible weakness is a tendency to be abrupt with subordinates. It is believed that this minor shortcoming will be overcome with the acquisition of added experience in the field of personnel management. On balance therefore, Subject's overall performance as a supervisor and as an intelligence officer warrants an “A”.

Section D. Certification and Comments. Evaluation of “Strong.”

1. By Employee (Continued). I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 15 May 1964. Signature of employee: /s/ (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal).

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 22 months. Date: 15 May 1964. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station, JMWAVE. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Andrew K. REUTEMAN (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.).

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Although I have had few chances to personally observe work, I concur in the supervisor's comments and rating due to my general impression of capabilities and performance of duty received in occasional meetings extending over a number of years. Date: 1 June 1964. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, WH (SA). Typed or printed name and signature: Bruce B. Cheever.
