Fitness Report (Part I) Performance

Instructions

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item B of Section A below.

Section A. General

Name: Kent, William M.

Office/Division/Branch of assignment: D/P/W/III.

Grade: GS-11. Date report due in OP: 5 July 1957.

Type of report: Reassignment—supervisor; annual reassignment—employee.

Period covered by this report: 27 Dec 56–17 Mar 57.

Section B. Certification

For the rated, this report is/has not been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why it was not shown. (C.A. warning letter.)

Subject out of country an extended time at time report prepared. (C.A. warning letter.)

Check appropriate statements:

This report reflects my own opinions of this individual.

This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors.

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that we know where we stand.

If individual is rated “IN” CI or D, CA warning letter was sent to him and a copy attached to this report.

I cannot certify that the rated individual knows how to evaluate his job performance because (specify):

This date: 19 June, 1957. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: Hans B. Nolland. Supervisor’s official title: O/W/III/Outs.

For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

Date: 3 Jul 1957.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in
