WTC/Memorandum for the Record.

Event: Staff briefing. Place: H-405 Capitol. For: HPSCI. Subject: JFK assassination documents. Date: 04/10/96. Time: 1030. Status: Complete. Key: C/96-05677.

Staff: Barton, Christopher (HPSCI); DuPart, Louis H. (HPSCI); Eberwein, Catherine D. (HPSCI); Healey, Louise Christine (HPSCI); Lowenthal, Mark M. (HPSCI); Ouellette, Susan Mary (HPSCI); Sheehy, Michael William (HPSCI). CIA: Cipriani, Linda (DCI/OGC), role BRFR; Harrelson, Barry (DCI/CSI), role BRFR; Pereira, John (DCI/CSI), role BRFR; Schroeder, Richard (DCI/OCA), role SPRT; Wickham, Fred (DO/IMS), role BRFR.

Executive Summary.

Following a telephone conversation with HPSCI staff in which HRG/CSI noted a number of JFK assassination declassification issues (see OCA C/96-05672 of 27 Mar 96), CSI, DO, and OGC briefed staff on the status of the JFK declassification effort, the 1992 law which established the JFK Assassination Records Review Board and the scope of the Board's authority, and the details of some current declassification issues we have been addressing with the Board. We noted the close working relationship between the Agency and the Board, and said that the Board staff is trying to understand the Agency's equities and perspectives. Some staff expressed concern about the Board's broad powers and authorities under the 1992 law, particularly regarding declassification of intelligence material bearing on identities, sources, and methods.

Additional Information.

1. C/CSI/Historical Review Group Pereira opened by briefly describing the nature of the CIA JFK material. The open-ended "Oswald 201" also includes material gathered after the assassination, and the "sequestered file" is that material that was assembled for the JFK assassination investigations. The material was originally sanitized and released to the National Archives in 1993. We are now reviewing the 227,000 pages and attempting to justify the material we withheld. Some seventy percent of the released material contains redactions, although later in the briefing we noted that as our experience has grown the redaction standards have evolved and now most material (up to eighty percent) is being released whole. Some 25 senior annuitants, working closely with a DO team led by Wickham, have been performing the initial review. Pereira pointed out that we are not only reviewing the assassination records, but those records bearing on the House Assassinations Committee's investigation of the assassination. Pereira identified the five academic historians who make up the Board, and said they are supported by 30 full-time Board staffers headed by former Berlin Documentation Center chief David Marwell.
