(Miscellaneous) During my tour of duty, 0800 hours 12 November 1969 through 0800 hours 13 November 1969, as Duty Agent (DA), 108th Military Intelligence Group, Region I, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, New York (MIGP), the following information was received telephonically from an anonymous male caller, who stated substantially as follows:

At 2105 hours the call was received and the unidentified male stated that an active duty U.S. Army enlistedman, Pvt. Victor L. Trinkala, US 527-87-228, DD Form 2-A card number D-323-485, issuing officer Lt. James Kraft (phonetic), Field Artillery, left New York City four or five days prior to 12 November 1969 en route to Oakland Army Terminal, Oakland, California, for shipment to the Republic of Vietnam. Trinkala completed his basic combat training at Fort Jackson, Columbia, South Carolina, and his advanced individual training at Fort Polk, Louisiana. He was in New York City on his authorized travel time to Oakland Terminal.

While in New York City, unknowingly, he was contacted by a “Soviet Agent.” Since the “Soviet Agent” contacted Trinkala and found him to be a conscientious objector (CO) en route to Vietnam, he, the “Soviet Agent,” plans to use this as a propaganda pitch against the U.S., the reason being that since Trinkala is a known CO by the Army, the Army is still sending him to Vietnam and will make him serve in a combat zone against his will.

The caller stated that he was a former U.S. Army captain, special agent in the Counterintelligence Corps, and that his former credential-badge number was 10-837. He stated that this badge number could be verified through the records at Fort Holabird, Maryland. He called in order for this office to send a “twix” to Oakland Army Terminal and cancel Trinkala’s orders or delay him in Oakland. The caller’s reason for calling and explaining the situation was to prevent U.S. embarrassment.

The caller stated that he planned to travel to Washington, D.C., in the near future to inform the “proper” authorities of the incident concerning Trinkala and the “Soviet Agent.” The caller was released from East Germany approximately one year ago but would not discuss this on the telephone because of security reasons, nor would he discuss any other information concerning Trinkala telephonically. He refused to release his identity because he was a civilian and did not want to get involved with an Army matter.

Agent’s notes: The caller seemed to be very knowledgeable of the Army and knew many Army terms. He was very relaxed and cooperative when he was asked questions but refused to come to this office to discuss the incident on 12 November 1969 or at a future date. He conversed with the undersigned for approximately thirty minutes and kept putting additional coins in the public pay telephone. He had no outstanding speech characteristics.

Typed name and organization of special agent: Mario J. Maltese — 108th MI Gp, Region I.

Name of subject or title of incident: Trinkala, Victor L. DPOB: Unknown. Pvt., US 527-87-228. Date submitted: 14 November 1969. Control symbol or file number. Report of findings.
