United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: Legal Counsel

Subject: Issue Paper on Intelligence Files and Privacy

Date: May 12, 1975

The Executive Committee of the Ad Hoc Co-ordinating Group on Congressional Review of the Intelligence Community identified ten issues likely to grow out of the Select Committee's deliberations. The Executive Committee asked the FBI to prepare a paper on one of these topics, Intelligence Files and Privacy. Specifically, the request was for a brief paper which raises the issues observed by the intelligence agencies when intelligence files and privacy are viewed together without suggesting or recommending how the questions should be resolved.

J. D. Miller drafted an outline which was discussed on April 16, 1975, with representatives of the CIA and Departments of Defense and Treasury. On April 21, this outline was presented by Mr. Hotis to the Executive Committee which received it without comment. Mr. Miller then prepared a rough draft which was discussed at a meeting on April 22, with the representatives of the CIA and Department of Treasury.

Mr. Miller's final draft is attached. It discusses both intelligence files and the concept of privacy in general terms before focusing on the issues which present themselves when an effort is made to establish the proper relationship between the two.

Enclosure

ST 114

May 20, 1975

JDM:lgp

The Swap

A Knoxville Letter to the President of the United States Written January 29, 1975

The Executive Committee of the United States Government, designated as suggestors, has arrived at a critical situation which may nearly end with itself. The composition of this committee, the intentional designation of its members, and the means by which they are selected for assistance, indicate that there is good reason for the specification of the committee as suggestors.

The committee does not believe that any specific action will be needed in order to achieve its goals, but does believe that until a critical situation like this arises, the interests of the United States will be harmed, so that a committee of suggestors is necessary for an effort to fight that harm.

The members of the committee are assuming their responsibilities as suggestors, and will be required to perform their functions with careful observation and thorough discretion. They are required to remain in secret notice of each other's activities and to comply with the ordinances of the committee. Their performance may be reviewed by the committee.

The committee also has authority under certain unterslots to terminate or suspend any member. The committee also has authority under certain unterstoats to redeem or expire any suggestor contract.

The members of the committee are estimally 25 years old, height average, thin build, have brown hair, are 6'3" or under, and have the following personal characteristics: Openness, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Intuition, Extraversion, Conscientiousness, Agreeableness, Openness, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Intuition, Extraversion, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Openness, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Agreeableness, Openness, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, Extraversion, Openness, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, Agreeableness, Openness, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, Extraversion.
