Help For Cuba Spying

By Sandy Smith  
Sun-Times Correspondent

WASHINGTON—A fantastic tale of attempted Cuban espionage involving Chicago gang boss Momo Salvatore (Moe) Giancana and the Central Intelligence Agency was revealed Thursday to The Sun-Times.

It was a weird gangland spy case in which, government officials said, CIA agents contacted Giancana in an effort to obtain Cuban intelligence after the Fidel Castro regime came into power in 1959.

What the CIA accomplished—if anything—by negotiating with the 53-year-old Chicago rackets chief is one of many unexplained mysteries of the matter.

One thing, however, is certain:

several months in late

EXCLUSIVE

Giancana never did any spying at all for the CIA.

Giancana, according to these sources, merely pretended to go along with the CIA in the hope that the Justice Department's drive to put him behind bars might be slowed—or at least affected—by his ruse of co-operation with another government agency.

If this was Giancana's motive, his scheme was a failure. For a probe by the Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation of Giancana's crime syndicate in Chicago led directly to the exposure of the La Cosa Nostra ("our cause") brotherhood and the Commission.

With his connections in Cuba, Giancana declared he would be able to sneak intelligence out of the island for the CIA.

A high government source gave The Sun-Times this account of how Giancana stepped into the role of a government agent:

The CIA made its first contact with Giancana in 1959.

The Chicago gang boss then was embittered because the Commission, in traditional gang bipartisanship, had dollars backing both sides in the Cuban revolt:

The Commission was said to have given financial backing to Castro—only to have him shut down the gambling casinos.

And the former Cuban dictator, Fulgencio Batista, reportedly fled Cuba with millions he received from Commission hoodlums.

In his dickering with the CIA, Giancana reputedly boasted that he had contacted with

Turn to page 2
