Applicant.

1. Loop: The lines between center of loop and delta must show.

2. Whorl: These lines running between delta must be clear.

3. Arch: Ridges have no deltas.

To obtain classifiable fingerprints:

1. Use black printer's ink.
2. Distribute ink evenly on inking slab.
3. Wash and dry fingers thoroughly.
4. Pull fingers from nail to nail, avoiding allowing fingers to slip.
6. Be sure impressions are recorded in correct order.
7. If an amputation or deformity makes it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that effect in the individual finger block.
7. If some physical condition makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be obtained with a memo stapled to the card explaining the circumstances.
8. Examine the completed prints to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that most fingerprints fall into the patterns shown on this card. Other patterns occur infrequently and are not shown here.

This card is for use by:

1. Law enforcement agencies in fingerprinting applicants for law enforcement positions.

2. Officials of state and local governments for public use of employment, licensing, and permits as authorized by state statutes and approved by the Attorney General of the United States. Local and county councils make decisions regarding permanent and temporary employment. State statutes in the following are key issues:

A. U.S. Government: All employees in connection with clearances.

4. Originals grown and chartered debtor bank. The following is listed as a sample or current pattern or of trust debts in general.

2. Obligations, liabilities, and lienships.

1. Unless otherwise specifically agreed through the appeal, both parties are considered equal, and cannot do separately. The first part is under the second part. For the second part is under the first part.

2. Fungus, brush or nail bed or foliage.
3. Firm address.
4. Type of document.
5. Date of interest.
6. Date of payment.
7. Total amount paid or due.
8. Credit or non-credit.
9. Payee or payer.
10. Check or Melbourne?
11. If payment due in five days, if so promised.
12. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
13. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
14. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
15. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
16. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
17. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
18. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
19. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
20. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
21. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
22. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
23. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
24. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
25. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
26. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
27. If payment due in five days, will be due after five days.
28. If payment due
