Section C. Narrative Comments of Personnel.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or expand ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance managed, or any titles, must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Kent has been under my supervision and has occupied his present position of responsibility for propaganda matters for less than four months, but in that time has demonstrated an unusual ability to provide imaginative, timely and useful propaganda guidances for covert field use. He is very sensitive and perceptive to the capabilities and limitations of WHD media operations and exploits their possibilities to the maximum. He has been particularly effective in the exploitation of leads provided by KUTUBE sources as the basis for “black” operations. In this regard he has shown great initiative, imagination and professional ability. Kent regularly makes sound suggestions for increasing the effectiveness and security of WHD media operations, and with more time on the job, and an increased knowledge of specific country operations, he should further improve his ability to assess and review WHD projects.

This officer is admirably suited for his present assignment; he is creative and an industrious worker, producing quickly and with a minimum of supervision; his guidances are well written and easily understood; and he has sole responsibility for his functional duties as part of a small three-man staff team. He has a friendly disposition and gets along well with his co-workers, although he is a person of strong convictions which he does not hesitate to express.

No further training is recommended at this time. His proficiency in Spanish is excellent and he uses that ability regularly in originating media operations, especially “black” operations.

Continued on attached.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 24 February 1964. Signature of employee: William M. Kent.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 4.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 24 Feb 64. Official title of supervisor: Chief, WH/CA. Typed or printed name and signature: Hershel F. Peak.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

The rating in specific duty number one of “outstanding” is very much deserved. Subject is an excellent idea man and writes quickly and to the point.

Official title of reviewing official: WH/COPS. Typed or printed name and signature: W. J. Hood.
