CIA-Mafia Link

(Continued from Page A1)

A Mafia boss who was convicted just before his hookup with the CIA of conspiring to obstruct justice by lying about the 1957 Mafia summit meeting at Apalachin (Apalac in), N.Y.

The newspaper said the other living informant is George Levine, also known as Gracca Lewis, who was described as the overseer and manager of Mafia gambling interests in pre-Castro Cuba. The paper said he is reportedly living in Coral Gables, Fla.

The other two were James Plumeri, identified as a former Mafia hijacker, labor racketeer and garment district strongman, and Salvatore Granello, identified as a Mafia extortionist and gambler.

Plumeri and Granello were victims several years ago of unrelated gangland executions; Walsh wrote:

“Here is the account of CIA-Mafia intrigue as described by Walsh from his unidentified former CIA source:

During the pre-1950 regime of the former Cuban dictator, Fulgencio Batista, casino gambling flourished in the country under the direction and control of the U.S. organized crime underworld.

The Castro revolution routed the mob along with Batista, and the Cuban premier’s Communist government has never allowed the resumption of mob activities there.”

The four former casino bosses “made periodic reports to the CIA until just before the abortive Bay of Pigs invasion.”

Between $45,000 and $50,000 was paid by the four gangsters to informants in Cuba for the information.

“The money came, at least in part, from a $750,000 cache wrapped in oilcloth and buried in the ground by Granello and Levine just before their hasty departure from Cuba during the turbulent days of the Castro takeover.

“It was the rest of this money that Granello, Levine, Bufalino and Plumeri were assured they would be able to recover unhindered if the Castro government was toppled.

“They managed to get word to hoodlums inside Cuba who knew the whereabouts of the money to start buying strategic information. Other Cuban associates of the four gangsters were dispatched to the island from Florida on intelligence-gathering sorties.”

Earlier published reports have said that in preparation for the Bay of Pigs invasion, CIA Director Allen Dulles relied heavily on reports which stressed the unpopularity of the Castro regime and the expectation, never realized, of massive rebellion at the time of a strike.
