Fitness Report.

Section A. Name: Smith (First) Joseph (Middle) P. Operations Officer (Last). General. Date of birth: 16 June 1921. Sex: Male. Grade: OS-13. Service designation: D. Off/Div/Br of assignment: DDP/MH/1. Career staff status. Type of report. Initial: X. Reporting period: From 1 Jan 52–30 Apr 62 to 1 Jan 62–30 Apr 62.

Section B. Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1 — Unsatisfactory. 2 — Barely adequate. 3 — Acceptable. 4 — Competent. 5 — Excellent. 6 — Superior. 7 — Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Provide Hqs support to field installations by reviewing projects and forwarding them for approval, obtaining name traces, clearances, etc. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 2: Have primary responsibility for operational and intelligence correspondence with the field via cable and pouch. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 3: Prepare oral briefings, memoranda, studies, Special Group Papers, and other correspondence for DCI and other senior officials of CIA (CMA) and other USG agencies. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 4: Meet, brief, and debrief non-US Government figures of intelligence and/or operational interest. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 5: Supervise area desk personnel (ops officers, reports officers, JOTs, secretaries). Rating No. 6.

Section C. Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position: performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, consistency, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which must accurately reflect his level of performance.

1. Performance in many instances respects fails to meet requirements. Rating No. 5.

2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
