PART II

SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS

2. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars. Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of individuals and organizations to which identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be sent. Each field office must review annually its mailing list in order to see that no data is sent to firms which have ceased business or have merged with other organizations. A survey should be conducted by agents each year by every office, at the time the field office mailing list is purged, to determine whether additional names of individuals and businesses should be added to the field office mailing list.

a. Addressograph plates are to be prepared at the Bureau upon receipt of a field request. The Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates. The title of the position is used rather than the name of the incumbent.

b. Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on the list, considering:

(1) The quality of assistance the addressee is in a position to give.

(2) The cooperation which has been afforded.

(3) The following must appear on the list: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; Missions Providing Lodging; Bureau of Customs; Postal Service Inspectors; Cooperative Credit Bureaus; Postmasters; Salvation Army; Duly Constituted Law Enforcement Officers; Secret Service; U.S. Marshals; FBINA Graduates; Hotels; Immigration and Naturalization Service.

(4) The following may appear on the list: Automobile Clubs; Navy Shore Patrol; Banks; Oil Company Special Agents; Car Rental Agencies; Parole and Probation Officers; County Attorneys; Plant Quarantine Officers; County Coroners; Protective Associations; Credit Companies; Race Tracks; Detective Agencies; Savings and Loan Associations; Enlistment Officers, U.S. Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps; Recruiting Officers; Employment Service; State Employment Offices; Fire Departments; State Hospitals for Insane; Forest Service; Steamship Companies; Gunsmiths; Telegraph Companies; Insurance Companies; U.S. Attorneys; Movie Studios; U.S. Magistrates.

c. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. Should a compelling reason exist for distribution of an identification order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for such distribution.

d. Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels.

e. Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on identification order fugitives who are veterans. The office of origin has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribution to VA installations in such cases.

2-27-73
