5. Recommendation for and preparation of ADEX cards

a. When potential dangerousness of subject has been established, office of origin is to prepare recommendation to Bureau on FD-122, in triplicate. Forward original and copy to Bureau, and place copy in subject's file. FD-122 has three uses: (1) to recommend subject for ADEX, (2) to submit changes for existing cards, and (3) to recommend subject be deleted from ADEX. Submit abstract when recommending subject for ADEX, or removal from ADEX, but no abstract for changes.

b. When FD-122 is submitted to recommend subject for ADEX, attach additional page or pages setting out succinct summary of facts on which recommendation based. Facts must be in sufficient detail to support recommendation, including justification for designated category.

c. If, at conclusion of investigation, subject is not being recommended for ADEX, closing communication should show reasons.

d. Summary report must be submitted when subject is recommended for ADEX unless one was previously furnished to Bureau. In latter instance, up-to-date report or LHM should be submitted. If case is pending because of outstanding leads, set out additional lead to follow authorization of ADEX card by Bureau. If case would otherwise be closed, place in pending-inactive status with lead to follow approval by Bureau and then close administratively.

e. Do not delay recommendations for ADEX because of absence of background or descriptive data. Submit recommendation with current report and retain in pending status to obtain missing items.

f. Subjects missing or out of country may be recommended for ADEX. FD-122 should include data required for unavailable section.

g. If Bureau approves recommendation, ADEX cards will be prepared. Copy of FD-122 will be returned stamped “ADEX card approved-and prepared, two copies attached. Place description and photograph on reverse side of Geographical card.” These cards should be filed in field office ADEX as outlined below. Place returned copy of FD-122 in subject's main file.

h. When cards are received from Bureau, check data for accuracy. Cards will be complete except for description and photograph, which are maintained on separate card stapled to back of one ADEX card. File this card in geographical section (except unavailable section cards.) Second ADEX card is filed in alphabetical section.

6. Inclusion in Stop Index File

a. Submit FD-122 in triplicate to Bureau when designating Category I ADEX subjects who are extremists for inclusion in Stop Index File.

b. Succinct summary with FD-122 should contain recommendation for inclusion in Stop Index File and appropriate descriptive data.

c. After recommendation approved, the third FD-122 copy will be forwarded to the Voucher-Statistical Section which maintains the Stop Index File for Category I ADEX extremist subjects.

7. Content and appearance of ADEX card

a. Data to appear on face of card

When complete, face of ADEX card should contain following information. If any items are missing, keep case pending to obtain necessary information. Set forth under each item are possible categories in which subject may be classified and code letters for appropriate space on FD-122. These code letters will appear on cards received from Bureau.

(1) Name and aliases

Full and correct name and aliases of subject.

(2) Race

White (Caucasian): W. Negro: N. Chinese: C. Others: O. All others, including Orientals except Chinese, American Indian, etc.

4-13-72
