Country: Cuba/USSR/Latin America. Report No. CS-3/530,898. Subject: 1. Use of Soviet Fishing Boats to Transport Arms to Latin America; 2. Belgian Arms Dealer in Habana. Date distributed: 11 December 1962. No. pages: 1. Date of information: Paragraphs 1 and 2, October 1962; paragraph 3, August 1962. Place and date acquired: Paragraphs 1 and 2, France, Paris, 23 November 1962; paragraph 3, Spain, Madrid, 12 October 1962. References: RD-W-2107; RD-AHQ-01258.

Source: Paragraphs 1 and 2, an official French service; paragraph 3, CC-1197, Cuban refugee (F), a former employee of the Cuban diplomatic service, who visited Santiago de Cuba in August 1962. Appraisal of content: 3.

1. Soviet fishing boats, under cover of fishing Atlantic waters, are transporting contraband arms to Latin American countries. The boats are met outside the territorial waters of those countries, and arms are transferred in small quantities. On board the Soviet boats are only Soviets and a very few Cubans or other Latin Americans who talk with those who pick up the arms. The arms being delivered are of American manufacture, including those obtained during the Batista regime and those taken during the Playa Giron invasion. The Soviet fishing boats also carry propaganda and pamphlets containing military instructions, the same type of material being sent by diplomatic pouch from Mexico.

2. A Belgian in Habana who says he represents a Belgian firm has offered the Cuban Government any type and nationality of arms for payment in dollars. The Belgian has made a similar offer of sale of arms to a representative of an anti-Castro group in Habana.

3. In August 1962 a fisherman in Santiago de Cuba said that on several occasions he had been forced by the Government to use his boat for transporting small groups of men, in civilian clothes, and supplies of arms. He also knew of other fishermen who had been forced to do the same. The men and arms were carried to small islands or transferred to other boats at sea. Such trips sometimes lasted as long as four or five days. The fisherman did not know the purpose or final destination of the men and arms.

Distribution: State, Army, Navy, Air, NSA, OCR, DIA, FBI, Coast Guard, TANX.
