Designation of Beneficiary. Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act of 1951.

Important: Read instructions on back of duplicate before filling in this form.

Information concerning the insured. Name: Fox, Jerome. Date of birth: October 9, 1928.

Department or agency in which employee: Department or agency. Bureau. Division.

I, the employee or annuitant identified above, canceling any and all previous Designations of Beneficiary under the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act heretofore made by me, do now designate the beneficiary or beneficiaries named below to receive any amount of Group Life Insurance and Group Accidental Death Insurance payable at my death. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary will remain in full force and effect, with respect to any amount payable, unless or until canceled by me in writing, or until such time as I become insured in a department or agency other than the above, or until such time as I become insured as a retired employee, in which event this Designation of Beneficiary shall terminate.

Information concerning the beneficiary or beneficiaries. Cancel prior designations.

I hereby direct, unless otherwise indicated above, that, if more than one beneficiary is named, the share of any increased beneficiary who may predecease me shall be distributed equally among the surviving beneficiaries, or entirely to the surviving beneficiary. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary shall be valid if none of the designated beneficiaries is living at the time of my death.

I hereby specifically reserve the right to cancel or change any Designation of Beneficiary at any time without knowledge or consent of the beneficiary.

August 30, 1956.

Signature of insured. Witnesses to signature. A witness is ineligible to receive payment as a beneficiary.

Print or type name and address of insured: Jerome Fox, 4520 Hecarthur Blvd., N.W., Washington 7, D.C. Sarah Pinker, 2727 7 S Department St. Name and title.

Seal. Date. City, State, and ZIP.

This space reserved for receiving agency of order to be filmed if cancelled.

If cancelled in an actual order, both copies to the insurer(s), together with all premiums due and balances outstanding. If non-cancelled as an anniversary, and both copies to the insurer as customer's order, we will be notified and returned. See cover for further instructions.
