United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. A.H. Belmont

From: Mr. S. B. Donahoe

Subject: Intelligent Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries (Semiannual Evaluation)

Date: June 16, 1960

Origin and Purpose:

Program inaugurated 1954 and expanded in 1955 and 1958 to provide for acquisition of positive intelligence and investigative information through three principal phases. First phase concerns receipt of notification from other U.S. agencies of arrival in U.S. of intelligence personnel of friendly governments. Second phase involves maintenance of technical surveillances of official establishments of foreign governments at State Department request. Third phase involves development of live sources within such establishments.

Scope and Cost:

First phase principally involves review of any file references and indexing procedures at Seat of Government at nominal costs. Under second phase, ten technical surveillances are currently being maintained covering official establishments of Cuba, France, Germany, and the United Arab Republic at a total estimated monthly cost of $19,866 (for details see Attachment A). Under third phase involving development of live sources, we presently have 24 actual and 27 potential sources in the establishments of 19 friendly foreign countries (for details see Attachment B). Costs of this phase are principally those arising from field investigations of potential sources and agents' time in handling producing sources. Costs are considered fully justified since sound counterintelligence coverage requires sources which can produce.

Tie-In with Other Programs:

This program supplements and is supplemented by a number of programs which result in intelligence coverage; such as, CODE WORD Intensification Program, and name check program of holders of official and diplomatic visas.

MCT-1

EX 102

Magnitude:

This program has ramifications touching work on any desk handling matters relating to noncommunist countries, depending upon international developments and intelligence requirements of Bureau and State Department.

Enc.: G

65-6313 JUN 30 1960
