United States Government Memorandum

To: W. C. Sullivan

From: W. R. Wannall

Subject:

1 - Mr. Belmont  
1 - Mr. Sullivan  
1 - Mr. Wannall

Date: May 16, 1963

1 - Mr. G.C. Moore  
1 - Mr. D.F.X. Callahan  
1 - Mr. Mossburg

Origin and Purpose

This program was inaugurated in 1954 and was expanded in 1955 and 1958 to provide for the acquisition of positive intelligence data as well as information which would assist FBI investigations through three principal phases: (1) Regular notification from the U.S. intelligence agencies as to arrival in U.S. of intelligence personnel from non-Soviet-bloc countries; (2) Maintenance of technical surveillances of official establishments of selected non-Soviet-bloc countries with approval of State Department; and (3) Development of live sources within such establishments.

Scope and Cost

The first phase consists chiefly of file reviews and indexing at Seat of Government at nominal expenses. Under second phase we are presently operating 25 technical surveillances covering establishments of 13 non-Soviet-bloc countries at total estimated monthly cost of $53,557. These countries are Argentina, Brazil, Cuba, Dominican Republic, France, Guatemala, Haiti, Iraq, Israel, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, and Venezuela. For details of technical surveillance coverage see Attachment A.

Under third phase of program we currently have 35 actual and 31 potential live sources at establishments of 44 non-Soviet-bloc countries approved by State Department as “target” countries. For details see Attachment B. Costs of this phase arise chiefly from field investigations of potential sources and agents' time in handling active sources. These costs are fully justified based on value of data developed.

Tie-in with Other Programs

This program supplements and is supplemented by various other programs aimed at developing intelligence coverage, including Anagram Program, Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in the U.S., and name check programs regarding foreign officials entering U.S.

Encs.

RDC:dmd (3)

65-63113

1 - Mr. Bullings

Enclosure
