Section E.

Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance. Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. Fox is a steady, conscientious worker, and has consistently displayed initiative and thoroughness in his research assignments. His main weakness is in organizing and presenting the results of his work. This weakness is also apparent in his oral presentation of argumentation. Mr. Fox frequently “talks around a point” instead of “hitting the point.” This weakness has influenced the rating given under Section D—“thinks clearly,” and limits his effectiveness as a supervisor. It is hoped that Mr. Fox will overcome this weakness in his forthcoming assignment overseas.

Date. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date. Signature of Employer.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation. Departed on PCS overseas.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employer under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (specify).

Date: 13 August 1959. Official title of supervisor: Chief, FM/EA. Typed or printed name and signature: John H. DuBals.

By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee’s performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

Date: 13 August 1959. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, St./FM. Typed or printed name and signature: James Q. May.
