Office Memorandum, United States Government

To: A. H. Belmont  
From: W. A. Branigan  
Date: 4-21-58

Subject: Bureau Informant 200.

(Bureau Informant 200) is the symbol number designated for information furnished by CIA to the Bureau from its coverage of mail going to and from the USSR. This designation was approved in your memorandum to Mr. Boardman dated 2-6-58. That memo pointed out the willingness of CIA to furnish us any information obtained from this coverage which we felt would be of interest to us. That memo recommended that Liaison effect arrangements with CIA so that we could review information obtained from that coverage.

CIA is furnishing us with certain of the results of the coverage of Soviet mail under the caption “Project Hunter.” Each report received is labeled with a report number, for example, Hunter Report #198.

The reports received are reviewed in the (Sovme) Unit. When the information fails to indicate which Section or Unit would have a logical interest in the report, the names involved will be searched for identifiable information. Then we can locate no such information, a case will be opened if deemed warranted. The objectives of those investigations will be the identification of persons of pro-Soviet sympathies whose dealings with the (Russians) are of a security or intelligence interest, the identification of those individuals who might present logical “hostage” possibilities which could be exploited by the Soviets, and the identification of any (Soviet) individual in the U.S. who has indicated weakness or dissatisfaction, a situation which the Bureau might exploit for defection or double-agent purposes.

Investigations in the field would include a check of office indices and logical sources and informants in order to establish the subject’s background, activities, sympathies, and the strategic character of his employment. This could culminate in recommendations for interview to clarify certain points not established by investigation and to determine whether the present activities of the subject are inimical to the best interests of the U.S., provided available information does not dictate against such interview and provided the interview can be conducted without compromising (Bureau Informant 200).

Information from (Bureau Informant 200) would be forwarded to the field, personal attention SAC, utilizing the following or similar phraseology: “Information has been received from Bureau Informant 200.”

REC’D 11/105-93089-9
