DA SAYS STATE FUNDS PLEDGED IN CRIME PROBE

Elusive Gordon Novel Will Be Granted Immunity

Gov. John J. McKeown's two-pronged investigation into organized crime in Louisiana headed for a weekend lull late Friday with these developments:

—East Baton Rouge District Attorney Sargent Pitcher said that McKeithen has agreed to grant him state funds for the East Baton Rouge Parish Grand Jury probe into crime.

Pitcher said that McKeithen put up $1,500 from his special law enforcement fund to help cover probe expenses.

—Elusive Gordon Novel, who contends he knows all about organized crime and criminality in the state, will be granted immunity by McKeithen and Orleans Parish DA Jim Garrison for a visit to Baton Rouge next week, Pitcher said.

—Life Magazine reporter David L. Chandler has been issued a subpoena to appear before the Orleans Parish Grand Jury at 9 a.m. Wednesday.

—Gov. McKeithen and one of his opponents in the coming gubernatorial race, U.S. Rep. John Rarick, both addressed the Association of Louisiana Electric Cooperatives in Baton Rouge, commenting on the probe of alleged organized crime.

YOUNG RELEASED

—Pitcher said that former McKeithen aide, Aubrey Young, a key figure in his probe, has been released from custody of the Southeast Louisiana State Mental Hospital at Mandeville.

The East Baton Rouge grand jury met most of the day Friday but returned no indictments when it adjourned about 4:30 p.m. until 9:30 a.m. Wednesday.

Pitcher went to Chicago and said he found out many valuable things from the visit concerning organized crime. He said he was going to talk to the grand jury Friday, but grand jury sessions are secret, so the Pitcher information was not available to the press.

Novel, wanted by Garrison and McKeithen in connection with his statements concerning the John F. Kennedy assassination probe of Garrison, told Pitcher he would come back to Louisiana from Columbus, Ohio, if granted immunity from arrest regarding the JFK murder investigation.

Pitcher said Novel will have immunity from arrest while in Louisiana and freedom to return to Columbus, or wherever he wants to go. He said the immunity is limited to arrest on any other charges and does not extend to anything involving his appearance.

Only one person has been indicted as a result of the crime probes in New Orleans and Baton Rouge. That was D'Alton Smith, a former New Orleans electrical contractor who is accused of public bribery in offering $25,000 to Young to arrange a meeting.

Smith posted a $1,500 fugitive bond in Denton, Tex., and is still at large. A bond of $25,000 has been set for him in Baton Rouge on the bribery charge.

The Orleans Parish Grand Jury, which opened a probe into Life Magazine's charges of organized crime in New Orleans, has not returned an indictment.

McKEITHEN SPEAKS

In his talk Friday before the ALEC, McKeithen stated: "I would never betray the confidence the people have placed in me. If your faith in me has been shaken at all, I want you to know you are looking at a man who has never had anything to do with them (racketeers), and I will never have anything to do with them."

He said there is no doubt that calls came from Carlos Marcello, "if not to the governor's office, to the office next door."

Young has claimed he received two such telephone calls, but Life says as many as 60 may have been placed on a particular telephone. The House speaker's office was next door to the governor's office at the time of the alleged calls.

Addressing the group before McKeithen, Rarick charged that the public is being hoodwinked. "We must think and act for ourselves," he added.

If the federal government is actually interested in combating crime, the congressman continued, federal grand juries should be probing crime conditions in Louisiana. He said illicit narcotics traffic, gambling and some interstate prostitution all come under the federal government's jurisdiction.

"The federal government handcuffs our police officers, then accuses us of being the home base of the Cosa Nostra," Rarick concluded.
