INTEL

MHFNO: 96-2899457

SENSIND:

A visa to the U.S. by the U.S. Interests Section. The reported grounds for denial (DENTAL) were that Diaz had not submitted sufficient evidence to justify the visa. Roca was heard to tell Diaz that his request had been undermined by Felix Bonne Carcasses, the CCC leader. Bonne denied this action, saying that he would have had no interest in undermining Diaz.

B. In early 1993, Jorge Gonzalez, a close friend of Roca, informed the CCC leadership that an authoress, identified as Mariana Badell (phonetic), was preparing a biography of Cuban President Fidel Castro and wanted to meet Bonne. The reason for such a meeting in connection with a biography of Castro was not clear, but the meeting took place in Gonzalez' home, and included Badell, Bonne, and Martinez-Amores. The CCC leaders noted that Badell appeared to be uncomfortable during the course of the meeting. She stated that she had had lunch with an official of the Spanish Embassy in Havana, who was assisting her with the biography of Castro by putting her in touch with one Carlos Alberto Montaner in Madrid, who would edit the book. She declined to identify the Spanish official, but described him in such detail that both Bonne and Martinez-Amores recognized him as Jorge de Orueta, a long-time contact of the CCC. When the conversation was relayed to de Orueta by the CCC, he recalled Badell had been introduced to him by Vladimiro Roca's wife. He further recalled the lunch and mention of the book, but declared the Montaner information to be spurious. This sequence of events suggested to CCC security personnel that there was coordination among individuals suspected of being directed by Cuban security.

C. In 1993 a group of dissidents, including Bonne, was invited to the home of Piotr Mikiska (phonetic), First Secretary at the Czech Embassy, to attend a visit from the Czech Vice Chancellor. (Source comment: This kind of contact was anathema to the Cuban government.) The Czech invitation to Bonne was sent three days in advance by word of mouth via Roca. By coincidence, another CCC representative visiting Mikiska within a day or two of when the invitation was relayed to Roca was asked about the invitation to Bonne, as Bonne had not responded to the Czech Embassy. The CCC representative included the query regarding the invitation in his report of the meeting to the CCC, giving Bonne his first notification that there had even been an invitation. Roca finally passed the message to the home of Georgina de las Mercedes Gonzalez Corbo, one of Bonne's chief assistants, two hours prior to the beginning of the function.

D. In mid-1995, Reinaldo Roque Malherbe of CCC reported that Vladimiro Roca's wife was undermining Elizardo Sanchez by passing around stories that he had been withholding organizational funds, intended for the Socialist Current, for his personal use. (Source comment: This rumor campaign may have contributed to Sanchez' reported resignation from the Executive Committee of the Socialist Current.)

E. Reporting on Radio Marti from Miami—around mid-1995 al
