United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. Jenkins

From: D.W. Moore, Jr.

Subject: Clyde A. Tolson, former Associate Director

Date: 5/5/75

The April 28, 1975, issue of “Newsweek” magazine, on page 15 under its “Periscope” section, referred to Mr. Tolson’s death and claimed that two Agents reportedly removed documents from Hoover’s residence, where Tolson had been living. The article, captioned “Hoover’s Secrets,” carried the FBI’s denial of such action and also stated that a friend of Tolson’s said the only Hoover documents Tolson had were old cancelled checks and tax returns. However, the article added that “Newsweek” had reported earlier that some of Hoover’s private dossiers, including information “very, very damaging” to persons in the Nixon White House, were left in Tolson’s custody. “Newsweek” further claimed that a source advised that the materials were carted away in a truck.

Mr. Kelley has asked Messrs. Callahan, Jenkins, Adams, and Moore, “Do you have any idea where such a story got started? Ky.”

My memorandum to you of 4/17/75, captioned as above (copy attached), pointed out that Tony Marro, “Newsweek” reporter, contacted my office that date, advising he had heard from a source to the effect that two Agents were sent to Tolson’s residence the day of his death with a truck and carted away some files, which were subsequently brought to the home of Mr. John P. Mohr, former Assistant to the Director. Upon checking with Mr. Mohr, Marro was advised there was absolutely no truth to the story. It should be noted that Mr. Mohr also advised at that time that most of the furnishings at Mr. Tolson’s home had been removed over the past several months and that there were some associates of the family and Annie, the housekeeper, who had stopped by the house on the day of the death with some empty boxes to help remove additional furnishings.

Enclosure.

1 - Mr. Callahan; 1 - Mr. Moore  
1 - Mr. Jenkins; 1 - Mr. Heim  
1 - Mr. Adams; 1 - Mr. Malmfeldt

JMM:jo

Enclosure 62-116395-153
