6. Character

a. The designation “Security Matter” (SM where appropriate) is to be set out in all instances. Use organizational affiliation where organization with which subject is affiliated is under current or continuing investigation or where a Bureau-approved thumbnail sketch exists.

Examples: Security Matter - C (Communist); Security Matter - SWP (Socialist Workers Party); Security Matter - SMC (Student Mobilization Committee).

b. Every effort is to be made to use a meaningful organizational affiliation or nationalistic tendency designation; however, where this cannot be done, the following designations should be used:

(1) Security Matter - Subversive (Where activity of subject consists primarily of efforts to disrupt or destroy Government operations through violent protest and is in line with espousal or support of philosophy which advocates overthrow of Government by any means possible, including force and violence, and/or a demonstrated propensity for violence to achieve the same objective or to deny others their rights under the Constitution.)

(2) Security Matter - Revolutionary Activities (Where activity of subject is primarily extremist, student and/or communal-existence oriented and relates to violent efforts to disrupt or destroy Government operations in line with espousal or support of a philosophy which advocates overthrow of the Government by any means possible, including force and violence, and/or a demonstrated propensity for violence to achieve the same objective or to deny others their rights under the Constitution.)

7. Status

Carry cases as pending until all active investigation has been conducted. Thereafter, status shall be as follows:

a. Category I: Cases should remain in pending status and report or LHM submitted six months from date of last report or LHM.

b. Category II: Cases should be reopened 45 days prior to six months from date of last verification to meet annual reporting and six-month verification requirements.

c. Category III: Cases should be reopened 45 days prior to one year from date of last annual verification to meet annual reporting and verification requirements.

d. Category IV: Cases in which there have been reports, or LHMs in lieu of reports, or verifications within last year should be reopened 45 days prior to one year from that date to meet annual verification requirements and 45 days prior to two years from that date to meet biennial reporting requirements.

e. Subjects recommended for ADEX

(1) Pending inactive

If all active investigation completed at time FD-122 forwarded to Bureau, set forth lead to follow for ADEX approval.

(2) Closed

After ADEX approved, follow by administrative tickler for periodic report.

f. Subject not being recommended for ADEX

Closed - prior to closing, comply with instructions pertaining to interviews.

8. Content

a. Include following and handle under topical headings (both in reports and LHMs) where appropriate.

(1) Background

(a) Birth data

(b) Citizenship status
