C. Indicate if you think that any single strength or flaw outlines all other considerations: no.

D. Do you feel that he requires close supervision? No. If yes, what?

E. What training do you recommend for this individual? None. Experience in the field is what is needed.

F. Other comments (indicate here general traits, specific habits or characteristics not covered elsewhere in the report but which have a bearing on effective utilization of this person): None.

Section VI. Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under subsections A, B, C, D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

Does not perform duties adequately; he is incompetent.

Barely adequate in performance; although he has had specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.

Performs most of his duties acceptably; occasionally reveals some area of weakness.

Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.

A fine performance; carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well. Selected.

Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equalled by few other persons known to the rater.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other areas? No. If yes, what?

B. Directions: Considering others of this person's grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibility, as normally indicated by promotion?

Has reached the highest grade level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

Is making progress, but needs more time in present grade before promotion to a higher grade can be recommended.

Is ready to take on responsibilities of the next higher grade, but may need training in some areas.

Will probably adjust quickly to the more responsible duties of the next higher grade.

Is already performing at the level of the next higher grade. Selected.

Is an exceptional person who is one of the few who should be considered for rapid advancement.

C. Directions: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and any other indications, give your opinion of this person's attitude toward the organization.

Has an antagonistic attitude toward the Agency and will definitely leave the organization at the first opportunity.

Has strong negative attitude toward organization...inferred by restrictions...regards Agency as a temporary stop until he can get something better.

Tends to have an unfavorable attitude toward the organization...scattered by minor frustrations...will quit if these continue.

His attitude toward the organization is indifferent...has “wait and see” attitude...would leave if someone offered him something better.

Tends to have favorable
