(2) The extent to which its views and policies do not deviate from those of such foreign government or foreign organization; and

(3) The extent to which it receives financial or other aid, directly or indirectly, from or at the direction of such foreign government or foreign organization; and

(4) The extent to which it sends members or representatives to any foreign country for instruction or training in the principles, policies, strategy, or tactics of such world Communist movement; and

(5) The extent to which it reports to such foreign government or foreign organization on or to its representatives; and

(6) The extent to which its principal leaders or a substantial number of its members are subject to or recognize the disciplinary power of such foreign government or foreign organization or its representatives; and

(7) The extent to which, for the purpose of concealing foreign direction, domination, or control, or of expediting or promoting its objectives, (i) it fails to disclose, or resists efforts to obtain information as to, its membership (by keeping membership lists in code, by instructing members to refuse to acknowledge membership, or by any other method); (ii) its members refuse to acknowledge membership therein; (iii) it fails to disclose, or resists efforts to obtain information as to, records other than membership lists; (iv) it meets are secret; and (v) it otherwise operates on a secret basis; and

(8) The extent to which its principal leaders or a substantial number of its members consider the allegiance they owe to the United States as subordinate to their obligations to such foreign government or foreign organization.

e. [Deleted]

f. [Deleted]

g. [Deleted]

h. [Deleted]

2. Communist front organizations

a. Definition—Title 50, USC, § 782

The term “Communist-front organization” means any organization in the United States (other than a Communist-action organization defined above) “which (A) is substantially directed, dominated, or controlled by a Communist-action organization, or (B) is substantially directed, dominated, or controlled by one or more members of a Communist-action organization, and (C) is primarily operated for the purpose of giving aid and support to Communist-action organization, a Communist foreign government, or the world Communist movement, referred to in section 781 of this title.”

b. [Deleted]

c. [Deleted]

d. Factors to be considered by the Subversive Activities Control Board in determining whether an organization is a Communist front organization (Title 50, USC, § 792(f))

(1) The extent to which persons who are active in its management, direction, or supervision, whether or not holding office therein, are active in the management, direction, or supervision of, or as representatives or members of, any Communist-action organization, Communist foreign government, or the world Communist movement referred to in section 781 of this title; and

(2) The extent to which its support, financial or otherwise, is derived from any Communist-action organization, Communist foreign government, or the world Communist movement, referred to in section 781 of this title; and

(3) The extent to which its funds, resources, or personnel are used to further or promote the objectives of any Communist-action organization, Communist foreign government, or the world Communist movement referred to in section 781 of this title; and
