look like a heart attack or by natural causes. Rosselli contacted a little Cuban whose relative was a chef for Castro. At this time, Cubans could still travel between Florida and Cuba. It was agreed that the CIA would manufacture the poison capsule. It would be turned over to O'Connell, to Maheu, to Rosselli, and from Rosselli to the Cubans. Maheu brought the capsule to Florida, to the Fontainebleau Hotel. The Cubans came up to the room. Maheu opened his briefcase, with Rosselli and the Cubans present, and gave them the capsule, plus $10,000. The money had come from the CIA and was considered partial payment for the job of assassinating Castro. At this meeting, Maheu described the method of using these capsules, making sure the Cubans understood they could not be put in food that was boiled, along with other aspects of using these pills. There was no discussion with the Cubans at this meeting about $250,000. That figure was used by Maheu after his first meeting with the Cubans, describing what the CIA might put up to help the families of men injured or killed in this attempted assassination. Rosselli thinks that the meeting with the money and capsules was after the election. The number one Cuban contact that Rosselli had would, from time to time, make requests of Rosselli to be relayed to the CIA for equipment. The CIA did provide, for instance, a short-wave radio, which was supposed to be used by the Cubans in Florida to contact Cubans in Cuba about the success or failure of the poison-pill mission. Rosselli was sure that the pills were sent to Cuba, but he received no explanation as to what happened.

Another project was for the Cubans to receive plastic explosives from the CIA and give them to frogmen on their side, who in turn would place them on ships in Havana harbor and blow them up. The CIA refused to do this because of the ease with which plastic explosives could be traced back to government agencies such as the CIA. Maheu did discuss the use of cigars that would make Castro's hair drop off and, according to Rosselli, cause him to lose his ability to govern the country. Another proposal was that there be a booby-trapped desk. Each of these latter two projects was proposed by Cuban refugees who said they had people in positions vis-à-vis Castro who could achieve the assassination.

Prior to the Bay of Pigs, there was no discussion of guns. Rosselli claimed to have a better idea than Maheu, namely that with far fewer men than were involved in the Bay of Pigs, perhaps a hundred, they could land in Cuba and do the job successfully. Rosselli's Cuban contact at the time was traveling to New York and New Orleans for meetings. Rosselli was not sure what the meetings were about but said that they were related to the overthrow of Castro. Another proposal put forward was to purchase a speedboat and use some type of exploding seashell to kill Castro.

The night before the Bay of Pigs, Rosselli went to his number one Cuban's house and spoke with him. The Cuban contact said, “See you in Havana.” Rosselli expressed serious reservations about the possibility of success for the operation. Rosselli left Florida right after the Bay of Pigs. His total time on this particular attempt at assassination in Florida was three or four months.

Rosselli felt sorry for “the poor bastards left on the beach.” He felt indirectly responsible for having encouraged many of them to participate in the operation. He went home and stayed in Las Vegas and Los Angeles for a while. A few weeks after the Bay of Pigs, Rosselli was contacted by Maheu or O'Connell; he was not sure which. He did meet with Jim O'Connell in Florida a few weeks later. They had arranged to have rooms at the Airport Hotel. Rosselli was not sure what name he registered under, but at this meeting in Florida he met a new CIA man named Harvey. The first time he met Harvey, Rosselli was told.
