201-798301

Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II—Operational Information.

Instructions to Case Officer

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to III, subject.

2. Normally, Headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless the requester furnishes answers to all questions in PRQ Parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of PR 10-215, paragraphs 6a, g, 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in PR 10-215.

3. Three (3) completed copies of PRQ Part I (including a copy in the subject's folder) and two (2) completed copies of this form must be sent to Headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to Headquarters in PRQ format in two (2) copies.

5. Fill in all items if information is obtainable. If an item is not applicable, write “NA.” If additional space is required for an item, use the reverse side of the page tied to the appropriate item number.

1. Cryptogram: ETERNALLY A/A.

2. Pseudonym.

Section I—Contact and Development

1. Indicate when, where, by, and by whom subject was first contacted or developed.

A reply to a question must meet one or more of the following criteria, as determined by the person making the determination:

- The mention of an individual must be related to the matter being discussed.
- The mention of an individual must be relevant to the discussion.
- The mention of an individual must be current (i.e., within the past three months).
- The mention of an individual must be based upon a direct observation of that individual's behavior or actions.
- The mention of an individual must be based upon a written communication from the person making the determination.

Subject could also be turned over to another agency or organization, provided it is clear to the receiving agency or organization who has rights and who would have responsibility for handling the subject.

1. Indicate whether subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

Subject could also be turned over to another agency or organization, provided it is clear to the receiving agency or organization who has rights.
