with Atomic Energy Commission (AEC). Dissemination to AEC is made only at Bureau.

Disseminate copies of reports for Marine Corps locally to Naval Investigative Service Office (NISO). Dissemination to Defense Atomic Support Agency, Research and Development Board, and Maritime Administration is made only at Bureau.

d. Status of Cases

After all investigation is conducted, place in pending-inactive status. Make case pending-active 45 days before report due and check with armed services representative at key facility or with other reliable sources to determine whether subject has access to classified or restricted material.

e. Reports

See Manual of Rules and Regulations, Part II, Section 4D, Item 2a(6), and Section 4M, Item 4, for instructions concerning synopsis and classification of reports in key facility cases. Synopsis must set forth subject's employment, specifying that subject works at key facility, and state whether subject has access to classified or restricted material.

15. Correlation of Other Investigations with ADEX

Individuals investigated by Bureau under any classification against whom subversive information is developed must be considered for ADEX. This includes espionage, foreign intelligence, applicant-type, and Security of Government Employees (SGE) investigations. When an individual previously investigated under SGE classification is an ADEX subject and is still employed by the Federal Government or is being considered for Federal employment, use the dual character of “Security of Government Employees” and the character of the security case in reports to ensure proper routing. Use standards prevailing for SGE reports. Disseminate as any other security report. If other agencies locally request reports of SGE investigation, advise them to direct the request to their headquarters for referral to Bureau.

G. Reports on Individuals

1. General

Cases of all ADEX subjects must be reopened for preparation of reports or LHMs following the schedule below. LHM is permissible when information to be reported is brief and consists of no more than five pages. LHM should include appropriate main and subheadings where applicable. In connection with Categories III and IV only, if there is no additional information to report since the last submission, FD-400 should be used in lieu of LHM.

Critically analyze each case in light of ADEX criteria each time it is reopened and brought up to date.

2. Schedule of Submission of Reports or LHMs

In all cases, initial submission should be a summary report, but subsequent information may be furnished by LHM, if appropriate.

a. Category I — semiannually

b. Category II — annually

c. Category III — annually

d. Category IV — biennially

3. Origin

Office covering territory in which subject's subversive activities occur.

4. Classification

a. 100 — for individuals affiliated with revolutionary or communist organizations or fronts.

b. 105 — for members of Puerto Rican nationalist groups or others having foreign nationalistic tendencies.

5. Title

Carry only one subject in the title of each report. Submit separate reports for each subject regardless of relationship; i.e., husband and wife, father and son, etc.

4-13-72
