3. It seems that Captain Despain wants to break up the Intelligence Service of the Frente due to lack of funds, says Dr. F'dez. However, having tried to find out whether this Captain Despain was Ernest, we were not sure. Having been introduced upon our second visit last Friday at 9:30 a.m. (the first visit was two days previously at 9:30 a.m.), we were presented to Ernesto Despain, the person we had been looking for due to his relations with Ceferino Alvarez (Coferino Alvarez) (G-2) and Josefina Socarras (Ceferino's girlfriend, whom I have been working with for some time now).

We started to get places, with full cooperation, the first time there as we spoke only to Dr. F'dez. The second time, with Despain present, we felt that we should not go into many details. Dr. F'dez told us that Despain was planning on sending him with a delegation to Puerto Rico. I feel, as well as Frank, that this Dr. F'dez (around 60 years old) is a person who could very well organize his office to be of very valuable service against Castro and his Communists here in the States, as well as in Latin America, where they already have their own agents operating.

It is felt that Despain is trying to get Dr. F'dez out of the way because he recognizes the importance of the planned Intelligence Service of the Frente through F'dez, etc., which could produce a very strong arm against Castro. Dr. F'dez says that they are now working on the ABC form as used against a former president of Cuba known as Machado. Enclosed is an idea of how this group functions and is placed into many walks of life of importance to this cause. Their work is mainly of Intelligence Service and in a form of cooperating with the U.S. Government in all ways possible without trying to get monies, if possible, to function.

It is presently trying to get donations of $300.00 to keep its office going for a month. Upstairs in the same building, they have radio operations (very well experienced), continuously monitoring all phases of importance in Cuba (sugar mills, etc.). Frank asked Despain if the file he had in his hands was for us. Despain was caught a little off balance as he became somewhat unnerved, but soon rallied and opened the file, showing data on boats, but taking great pains to keep us from seeing the contents. I did not want to press the point and arouse any suspicion. Dr. F'dez introduced me as Joe Anderson, an FBI man. I had formerly cautioned him against referring to me as anything special, which he
