Memorandum to Mr. Cale

Re: Harold Frank Reis

In 1942 Reis was classified by his draft board as 3-A because of the dependency of his mother. His draft file contained an affidavit by a physician, who was a relative, to the effect that due to a congenital heart disease Reis should not engage in any strenuous physical effort. Several persons interviewed in 1942 said Reis was in good health and engaged in sports. Reis told another individual he was perfectly healthy. Reis never served in the Armed Forces and on 8/22/42, after a physical examination at an induction center, Reis was found physically disqualified for military service by reason of chronic, valvular heart disease, rheumatic, and was classified 4-F.

Two of the individuals listed by Reis as references in 1942 were members of the National Lawyers Guild which has been cited as a communist front.

Reis registered a preference for the American Labor Party in 1937, 1938 and 1940, while a resident of the Bronx in New York City. Although the communists put forth efforts to capture the entire American Labor Party throughout New York State they succeeded in capturing only the Manhattan and Brooklyn sections of the party.

Other references to Reis in Burke News: On a press release of the Department announcing Reis's appointment as First Assistant in the Office of Legal Counsel the Director noted that Reis was the individual who selected Department representatives to accompany him (Reis) to a State Department conference in Puerto Rico ignoring the FBI. Reis was designated by the Attorney General in February, 1965, to serve as his alternate on the Presidents Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity and as his alternate on the Presidents Council on Equal Opportunity. The Director noted concerning this designation of Reis to "watch this carefully as Reis is inclined to throw his weight around. H." On a background memorandum regarding Reis dated 6/21/65 the Director noted that Reis was "another foul ball. H."

A highly confidential source advised, on 6/22/65 that Harry Wachtel, Executive Vice President of the Gandhi Society for Human Rights which furnishes legal assistance in certain civil rights cases, told Reverend Andrew Young, Executive Assistant to the President of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, that he was to meet with Harold Reis who was described as "our best friend up there." This information was not approved for dissemination to the Department and has not previously been disseminated.

In a memorandum 10/10/65 to the Acting Attorney General, which was read by him but not retained by the Department, his attention was brought to the procedures being followed in connection with requests made by the Bureau for approval by him of technical surveillance commonly known as wire taps. In this memorandum it was
