Department of Health, Education, and Welfare  
Social Security Administration

Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors Insurance

Application for Survivors Insurance Benefits.

All items on this form requiring an answer must be answered or marked “Unknown.”

Notice.—Whoever (a) makes or causes to be made any false statement or representation of a material fact for use in determining the right to or the amount of any benefit, or, in determining an individual's disability, under Title II of the Social Security Act, or (b) who, having received a payment for the use and benefit of another person, knowingly and willfully uses such payment for other than the person for whom it is received, is subject, under the Social Security Act, to a fine of not more than $1,000 or 1 year's imprisonment, or both.

Name of deceased wage earner or self-employed person: Lee Harvey Oswald. Social security account number: 433-54-3937.

I, Marina M. Oswald, hereby apply for all insurance benefits payable to me under Title II of the Social Security Act, as amended, and to the children listed in item 14 below.

1. When was the deceased born? Month / Day / Year.

2. In what State or foreign country did the deceased have his fixed, permanent home when he died?

3. (a) Did the deceased ever serve in military or naval service of the United States? If “Yes,” answer (b).

(b) Was the deceased in active service after September 7, 1939, and before January 1, 1957? If “Yes,” answer (c) and (d).

(c) Give dates of service during the period specified in (b) above: 10/24/56–9/11/59.

(d) Has anyone, including the deceased, received, or does anyone expect to receive, from any Federal agency other than the Social Security Administration, a benefit based on the employment, military service, disability, or death of the deceased?

If “Yes,” name such person(s). List all such agencies.

4. Did the deceased work in the railroad industry at any time on or after January 1, 1937?

5. Give the names and addresses of the deceased's employers during the 12 months before his death; if the deceased worked in agricultural employment, give this information for the year of death and the year before. If self-employed, write “Self-employed.”

Employer: Naggers-Chiles Stovall, 522 Browder, Dallas. Work began: October 1962. Work ended: April 1963.

Employer: A.m.B.Raily Co. Inc., 640 Magazine, New Orleans, Louisiana. Work began: May 1963. Work ended: July 1963.

6. If the deceased was self-employed last year or the year before, give the year, kind of trade or business, and amount of net earnings. Less than $400 or $400 or more.

7. About how much did the deceased earn from employment and self-employment during the year in which he died?

8. Give the following information about each marriage of the deceased, including his marriage to you.

Date and place of marriage: 4/30/61. City: Mark, Belo Russia. To whom married: Maria N. Proosakova. How marriage ended: Lid death. Marriage ended: 11/24/63, Dallas, Texas.
