Free Breakfasts for Children

Last week the demagogue boulevard press carried an article which stated that the Black Panther Party in the City of Chicago was no longer feeding hungry school children. The article also stated that the Party was using the breakfast money and food for their own personal use. This is totally incorrect. The Black Panther Party refuses to accept the ideology of this suppurating pig power structure which stunts all of its population and uses food funds to send their astrologers to the moon for the purpose of heightening exultation.

The people and the Black Panther Party say there's something terribly wrong when Daley's stockmarket pigs have nothing more to do than sit in front of our breakfast centers and spy on and intimidate the hungry school children, who attend our centers by the hundreds each morning.

Not only do the Breakfast Centers provide free breakfasts but they also serve as a place where children receive royal luncheon culture, education and also imitate the first aid treatment. We believe anything the people want and need can be gained through revolutionary struggle and until the people realize this we will continue to light the oppressive lead that this pig power structure has placed on the people.

On the Black Panther Party's breakfast for Children Program will continue in pressurized communities as long as the Negroes and it necessary. And we say to the pigs who follow in the pig pen cars in front of the Breakfast Center: our office and credits, Howare'? The beat of the people is much too fast, so go back home where you belong. Watch out pigs, it's a people's thing!

All Power to the People

Free All Political Prisoners

Stated Herewithina:

Free Health Care

The Black Panther Party is establishing a Free People's Medical Clinic to satisfy the medical needs of our community. We understand that capitalistic America will never provide adequate medical service, so the Black Panther Party has moved to establish another community program in which all oppressed people can be involved.

Technical assistance, supplies, and donations can be brought to the office of the Illinois Chapter of the Black Panther Party, 2350 West Madison Street. For further information, call 243-8276.

All Power to the People

Subscription Form. Support Your Newspaper—Subscribe Today! Enter your subscription address: National; Foreign. 3 months (13 issues): National $7.50; Foreign $3.00. 6 months (24 issues): National $3.00; Foreign $6.00. 1 year (52 issues): National $7.50; Foreign $9.00. Name. Address. City. State. ZIP Code. Please find my name in the telephone directory. If not, please direct me to... I am a person of color. I am an advocate for racial equality. I do not support slavery.
