Shall notify every member of the Committee of the time and place of the meeting and shall give reasonable notice which, except in extraordinary circumstances, shall be at least 24 hours in advance of any meeting held in Washington, D.C. and at least 48 hours in the case of any meeting held outside Washington, D.C.

1.5 If a majority of the members of the Committee have made a request in writing to the Chairman to call a meeting of the Committee and the Chairman fails to call such a meeting within seven calendar days thereafter, including the day on which the written notice is submitted, such majority may call a meeting by filing a written notice with the Clerk of the Committee who shall promptly notify each member of the Committee in writing of the date and time of the meeting.

Rule 2. Meeting Procedures

2.1 Meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public except when otherwise directed by the Chairman or majority vote of members present.

2.2 It shall be the duty of the staff director to keep or cause to be kept a record of all Committee proceedings.

2.3 The Chairman of the Committee, or if the Chairman is not present the Vice Chairman, shall preside over all meetings. In the absence of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman at any meeting, if a majority member is present, the ranking minority member present shall preside.

2.4 Except as otherwise provided in these Rules, decisions of the Committee shall be by majority vote of the members present and voting. A quorum for the transaction of Committee business, including the conduct of Executive sessions, shall consist of six Committee members except that, for the purpose of hearing witnesses, taking sworn testimony, and receiving evidence under oath, a quorum may consist of one Senator.

2.5 A vote by any member of the Committee with respect to any measure or matter being considered by the Committee may be cast by proxy if the proxy authorization (1) is in writing to the Chairman or Vice Chairman; (2) designates the member of the Committee who is to exercise the proxy; and (3) is limited to a specific measure or matter and any amendments pertaining thereto. Proxies shall not be considered for the establishment of a quorum.

Rule 3. Broadcasting, Television, and Photography

Any Committee meeting which is open to the public may, subject to Rule 6.7, be covered, in whole or in part, by television, radio, still photography or other media coverage, if the Chairman authorizes such coverage. When coverage by any such media is authorized it must be conducted in an orderly and unobtrusive manner, and the Chairman may for good cause terminate such media coverage in whole or in part, or take such other action as the circumstances may warrant.

Rule 4. Investigations

No investigation shall be initiated by the Committee unless a majority of the members of the Committee has specifically authorized such investigation, but any member of the Committee shall be entitled to pursue any inquiry individually unless specifically prohibited by a majority vote of the members of the Committee. Authorized investigations or inquiries may be conducted by members of the Committee and/or by designated staff members.

Rule 5. Subpoenas

Subpoenas for attendance of witnesses or the production of memoranda, documents, records, or any other material may be issued by the Chairman, or any other member designated by him after consultation with the Vice Chairman, and may be served by any person designated by the Chairman or member. Each subpoena shall contain a copy of Senate Resolution 21, 94th Congress, 1st Session.

Rule 6. Procedures Related to the Taking of Testimony

6.1 Notice.—Witnesses required to appear before the Committee shall be given reasonable notice and all witnesses shall be furnished a copy of these Rules.

6.2 Oath or Affirmation.—Testimony of witnesses shall be given under oath or affirmation which may be administered by any member of the Committee.

6.3 Interrogation.—Committee interrogation shall be conducted by members of the Committee and such staff personnel as is authorized by the Chairman, the Vice Chairman, or the presiding member.

6.4 Counsel for the Witness.—(a) Any witness may be accompanied by counsel. A witness who is unable to obtain counsel may inform the Committee of such fact, and if consistent with the notice given under Section 6.1 hereof, at least 24 hours prior to his appearance before the Committee, the Committee shall then endeavor to obtain voluntary counsel for the witness.
