BRIGADE FORMED TO CONFRONT CONGRESS

Helena, Montana

November 27, 1967

To all American Women:

I am proud of the fact that my first vote cast in Congress was a vote against war. It was the first opportunity for a woman to vote, because I was the first woman to be elected to Congress.

I believed then, as I do today, that women are the ones that must be concerned with the needs and development of the human race. I have always fought for the dignity of all human beings—for those of the present as well as those of future generations.

I will continue to struggle as long as I live. I hope all women will respond to the following call and join me in Washington on January 8, 1968, the opening day of Congress.

Jeannette Rankin

A CALL TO ALL AMERICAN WOMEN who are outraged by the ruthless slaughter in Vietnam and the persistent neglect of human needs at home TO COME TO WASHINGTON ON JANUARY 8

AMERICAN WOMEN represent 51% of the voting population of our country. AMERICAN WOMEN have the power to achieve peace and a decent life for every American. This is woman power!

Demonstrate it to the Congress of the United States! Come to Washington on January 8 as Congress opens in joint session. Support Jeannette Rankin as she leads a representative delegation of American women to the Capitol to demand that:

* Congress, as its first order of business, resolve to end the war in Vietnam and immediately arrange for the withdrawal of all American troops.

* Congress use its power to make reparations for the ravaged land we leave behind in Vietnam.

* Congress listen to what the American people are saying and refuse the insatiable demands of the military-industrial complex.

WOMEN OF AMERICA, our power is unlimited. On January 8, American women will:

* PETITION the United States Congress

* CONVENE a Congress of American Women that afternoon to develop programs to meet the crisis in America—programs which will express our political power, reason and conscience.

For further information about the Brigade, contact your nearest WSP group or write to the Jeannette Rankin Brigade, 133 W. 72 St., N.Y. 10023
