The Secret Army Organization is a national organization of passive Americans who are preparing themselves as a last line of defense against communism. To exemplify the necessity of such an organization, we quote the 1960 Annual Report of the Committee on Un-American Activities as follows:

“Events of the past year have provided convincing evidence that the American people cannot rely completely on this country's armed forces to protect themselves from communist domination and slavery. This is not because our military forces lack the power or the will to defend this country, but rather because the nature of the attacks being made on the United States by its major and only significant enemy are so designed as to render conventional military forces as ineffective as possible for defense purposes.”

Starting from nothing 50 years ago, communism now rigidly controls one-third of the human race and has subverted to varying degrees the remaining two-thirds. In the past 20 years the communists have conquered 20 sovereign nations, one by armed conquest and 13 by internal subversion or negotiation.

There is not one of these countries in which the communists rule by the consent of the people. Everywhere they must perpetuate themselves by terror. They remain in power only through the use of the most brutal police state tactics.

The communists consider their party workers not simply as an accessory to armed conquest but as the actual spearhead of any invasion into new territory. From this point of view the United States was “invaded” by Soviet troops more than 30 years ago. It has been authoritatively estimated that the communists now have an army of 500,000 combatants already landed on American shores and already working by the most insidious means to destroy our American way of life.

The cold war is very real. It must be fought and won. The only alternative is to lose, and to lose means that future Americans for generations to come must live in terror and in slavery. Appeasement is futile. We cannot bargain with moral barbarians whenever we have and never will know the meaning of honesty.

Communism must be defeated, not merely resisted. We must rid our country of traitors and fellow travelers. We must embark on a massive offensive, turning every communist trick—from propaganda to infiltration—against our mortal enemy. This is the one and only way to win the struggle for survival.

Send 20¢ in coin or stamps for full information on the Secret Army Organization programs and membership application to: S. A. O., P. O. Box 5791, San Diego, California 92105.
