Section IX. Qualifications for Other Operations.

1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications possessed by subject which could conceivably be of value for other operations. Subject is to be evaluated on a scale of 1–3 (where 1 is best and 3 is worst). The评分是根据以下因素进行评价: 判决由3位评估者完成。

Section X. Commitments.

1. If it is proposed to pay subject a regular salary, indicate the weekly amount. If payment to be made in exchange for commodities, subsidy or other method, specify and give details.

Subject has been paid on a bi-weekly basis to the tune of $3000. This payment is in addition to any other payment due from subject to him or her.

2. Explain any promises, otherwise not covered herein, made to subject. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation of subject and family.)

One. Subject is interested in traveling and Ronin has employed him to act as an interpreter that he can be able to arrange interesting trips for subjects if they lose development abroad. To ensure such travel is provided for.

3. Indicate other investigative measures taken to verify biographical information furnished by subject.

4. Date approval obtained.

5. Evaluate subject's character, reliability and security, citing evidence where possible.

6. Explain any situation or incident in which subject may have been involved—which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security viewpoint.

Section XII. Subject's Personal Habits.

1. Use of liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours.

Subject will not drink alcohol, use drugs, or participate in gambling activities while on assignment.

2. Use of cigarettes.

Subject may smoke one cigarette a day on assignment but must do so in private and away from others. Smoking is not allowed in quarters where smoking is prohibited.

3. Use of tobacco.

Subject may smoke tobacco at home, on leave, or on assignment but must do so in private and away from others.

4. Use of medications.

Subject may use any medications prescribed by his or her Medical Officer in connection with his or her duties. No additional medications are to be taken without the approval of his or her Medical Officer.
