Paul Narjo Marillott. Jal. Comd: 5 Jun 19, OK. LA Col., 513-10 4326PK. R.A.: AFB, FL. Richard H. Graham. 16–21 October 1969. Customs violations. MIG, C7D18-1, 29 October 1969. BOX, OSH District 50, 9 October 69.

Bangert, Office of Secretary of Defense/Advance Research Projects Agency (OSD/ARPA), advised he was introduced to Werbell during January 1969 by Col. Patterson, Rep. Dir., RDC-7, who informed him Werbell represented SIONICS Corp. and the purpose of his visit was to show special weapons. Werbell produced travel orders approved by American Embassy in Saigon and authorized by Counselor for Administration, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok. Orders specified travel by U.S. military aircraft between Bangkok and Saigon, with small arms and automatic weapons to accompany him. During January 1969, Young, Battelle Memorial Institute Laboratory Support Ngr., advised a box containing weapons was received via military aircraft, shipped by U.S. Embassy, Saigon, to Bangkok, marked for attention of Werbell, SIONICS. Bangert advised Patterson suggested in a memorandum that weapons in question should be shipped by military air to Eglin AFB, FL, marked for attention of subject. Weapons were subsequently shipped by Young per instruction of Patterson. A second box of weapons, referenced in a memorandum signed by SMSgt Thompson, Chief, Resources Ngt Div, reflected verbal instructions from Patterson to ship box to subject in some manner as first shipment. Thorne, Counselor for Administration, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, advised Ackerman, former Counselor, apparently furnished U.S. Embassy Funding Citation for endorsement of Werbell’s travel orders. Ackerman is presently attending Stanford University. Wong, Budget and Fiscal Officer, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, furnished copies of travel orders issued to Werbell and opined that Dobbs (NFI) accompanied Werbell during travel to Saigon.

OSI District 7, Commander, Eglin AFB—Action—2, with attachment. OSI District 19, with attachment. Dep Dir OSI (PACAF), with attachment. George W. Blank, La Col, USAF, Commander 1429. Approved by CSM. Date: 11-12-83.
