Assassination Tapes

The official state of Maryland from 1890 to 1975.

Ed hard stress on the PSE. Unfortunately, the nature of the wound.

The interview with Captain Humes was informative. Just before the interview, Humes had re-examined the autopsy photographs and X-rays, and he discussed them at length on the CBS tapes. The diagrams drawn during the autopsy had not been intended to precisely document the location of the wounds. However, he now produced a sketch which he did represent these locations accurately.

The interviewer asked, “Your re-examination of the photographs verify that the wounds were as shown here?”

“Yes, sir,” he replied. No stress.

“Were there any wounds other than one at the base of the neck and one up in the …?”

“No, sir, there were not.” Moderate stress, not enough to suggest deception.

“Is there any doubt that the wound at the back of the President’s head was an entrance wound?”

“There is absolutely no doubt.” Again, stress but again moderate.

“Taken together, how many wounds were there?”

“There were two wounds of entrance and two of exit.” At this point the stress became hard.

“Where were the entry wounds located?”

“Posteriorly, one low in the right occipital scalp, and one in the base of the neck on the right.” Hard stress again.

“And could he be absolutely certain that what he thought was an entry wound was, in fact, an entry wound?”

“Yes, indeed we can.” Hard stress.

The interview with Humes was one of the longest and most detailed on the CBS tapes, and I charted most of it with the PSE. It was clear to me that he believed much of what he was saying, but the frequent flickers of moderate stress and the occasional instances of hard stress suggested that he was not nearly as confident of his testimony as he claimed to be. As Dr. Perry had pointed out, sometimes it’s not easy to tell an entry wound from an exit wound.

The interviewer asked him one good “bottleneck” question:

“Do you have any different conclusion, different ideas, any different thoughts after seeing the autopsy photographs than you had at that time?”

Replied Captain Humes, “We think they bear up very well, and very closely, with our testimony before the Warren Commission.”

The stress was hard.

Specter, one of the Warren Commission’s principal investigators, also spoke on the tapes. He said that the case against Oswald fitted together very well, and that nowhere could one find among actual criminals the charge that the Commission had been formed to whitewash the facts.

The PSE said he was telling the truth.

John McCloy, a member of the Warren Commission, said much the same thing, and added that he had seen no credible evidence to contradict the findings of the Commission. The PSE backed him up on this, but it failed to do so when, speaking of the Warren Report, he said, “There was nothing fraudulent about it.” Here the PSE showed hard stress.

If Specter and McCloy were as confident as the PSE shows them to be in the truthfulness of the Warren Report, what could be fraudulent about it? Perhaps the snipping off of a few loose ends, the suppression of a few pieces of inconvenient evidence which conflicted with a version of events they believed to be essentially true.

The one man who could be expected to have the most informed opinion regarding the work of the Warren Commission is former Chief Justice Earl Warren himself. He had declined to be interviewed on the CBS program in 1967, but he did appear on television in May 1972, in an interview:

“We found no evidence of any kind that there was any conspiracy.”

There was very hard stress on “no evidence.”

This was part of a series called The Brandeis Television Recollections. Bob Smith of the Committee provided me with the tape.

The interview was an hour long, but the Kennedy assassination and the Warren Commission came up only once. The interviewer, Abram Sachar, Chancellor of Brandeis University, was friendly and deferential. I charted some of Warren’s remarks unrelated to the assassination and found that he was generally unstressed. Sachar raised the subject of the Commission obliquely, and Warren volunteered several rather lengthy statements about it.

Warren said that immediately after the assassination there were two theories: one that Khrushchev and Castro were behind the killing, the other that a group of right-wing Texas oilmen were responsible. He said:

“We explored both of those theories for ten months and found no evidence that either of them was involved in it.”
