A Wednesday and the whole thing...

FS: So what happened?

ML: Fell through. Al said he had to give them back to the underworlds, to his source. So he took them back and then Oleg, you know, I had to talk my way out of it. It was just one of the flubs. But anyway, after I left, my husband Oleg kept asking for me, kept coming directly to the apartment and saying, “Louis, I don’t believe you two split, you two go, she left. I don’t believe it.” And my husband said, “Yes, she did leave. It’s her own problems, Oleg, you know, forget about it.” And he said, “No, it’s not possible. You must stay together. You must stay together.” Anyway, he kept coming, about four times and asking my husband, until my husband made a joke of it and said, “Oleg wants to see you. I mean, he’s made it damn plain that he wants to see you. In other words, if you’re finished, I’ll take over. Where is she living?” My husband tells him I’m living on 88th Street. Now I talked to my husband and I said, “What did you do that for? Tell him I’m living on 88th Street? You know, because I know he wants to go out with me. You can feel it, I can feel it, the, you know?” So I call up. Uncle Al, meantime, is transferred to Newark. I get another case agent. Louis gets a case agent for the building and he works alone, without me. The other agent is John Kotter.

FS: With the FBI?

ML: FBI, 69th Street. I call up John Kotter. I said, “John, I hear you’re taking Al’s place,” and I meet him. Drop things, start things, drop things, different assignments, then we get to Oleg. I said, “Look, Oleg is bothering Louis. He wants to go out with me.” And John Kotter says, “Beautiful, that is a beautiful setup. Let’s call him up.” I said, “Hey, wait a minute. Either do this sophisticated, all right? First I’ll send him a Christmas card and sign it Ilonka Marischa, you know? I’ll put my phone number on the bottom, something, you know? Or I’ll happen to be there when he’s going into the building, or I’ll bump into him.” I said, “You don’t just call him up. You know that’s going to be like a setup because I’ve been avoiding him.” So, anyway, he tells, he outlines the whole thing. I said, “What have you got planned, John?” And he says, “Do you—”

FS: That’s the idea.
