Field Fitness Report. Certified.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff, and

2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the field administrative or personnel officer: Conduct current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters.

To the field supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as referred by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he can be relied upon as an A.B.W. 6/24/55.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is to be applicable to an individual being deemed. Reviewed by FUD - R.H.K. & B.M.

Section I.

Leave blank. For headquarters use only. Date of birth: 25 Feb 1928. Ser.: M. Service designation: SD-D. Name: James S. Woods. Grade: GS-5. Station designation (current): Korea Mission Headquarters. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 1 November 1954 - 14 April 1955.

Section II (to be completed by field supervisor).

Current position: 0136.52. Date assumed responsibility for position: 25 September 1955. Intelligence Analyst - CE.

State the specific assignments or tasks which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency).

Subject is an intelligence analyst in the Personality
