Section C. Narrative Comments.

This officer to some extent has been a victim of his assignment. His undergraduate training in Latin American affairs was thorough and extensive. His employment with RVROCK for the next 16 years was Latin-oriented. His Spanish language is rated “native”. Yet during the period under review he was diverted from Latin-American affairs toward a variety of higher priority targets. This re-orientation was not uniformly successful, and should not be continued, because Subject seems to have no natural interest in foreign nationals (with the apparent exception of Latin Americans) and in most foreign affairs (with the exception of Latin American affairs).

Subject's strongest characteristic is his ability to live and to utilize his commercial cover. He showed great aptitude and commendable imagination in devising new modes of commercial access to foreign nationals residing in Washington. For example his use of his cover was the matrix of several successful recruitments for which other case officers received the ultimate credit, even though the recruitments were based on this officer's discovery of the potential agents and his initial development of them before they were transferred. Conversely, when Subject retained the contacts through the development phase, the contacts languished.

(Continued on separate sheet.)

Certification and Comments.

Date: 20 February 1970. Months employee has been under my supervision: 12. Signature of employee: /s/ William Kent. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Base. Typed or printed name and signature: John C. Shaffer, Jr. (Signed in Proude on Term 45a).

Comments of reviewing official: This reviewing official concurs with the ratings and narrative comments. Subject tended to evince operational interest in individuals or situations that were rather marginal in terms of the mission of the Base. It is significant that during the course of his tour in the Washington Base, he has made no recruitments of foreign targets. His propensity for living his cover was so strong that it suggests his future operational utilization in the field should be in spotting and assessing rather than recruiting.

Official title of reviewing official: C/MO/I. Typed or printed name and signature: Joseph J. Bulik. Date: 6 March 1970.
