M.A. Jones to Bishop Memo

Re: Luncheon with Attorney General

(3) On 8-8-67, the House passed H.R. 5037, the Law Enforcement and Criminal Justice Assistance Act of 1967 (originally the Administration's “Safe Streets and Crime Control Act”)—but with considerable changes. One amendment to the original Act would empower regional institutes to engage in police training—thus duplicating and competing with FBI police training. This matter has been brought to the attention of FBI friends on the Senate Judiciary Committee. Our Hill sources advise that Senators McClellan and Hruska plan to combine their bills regarding controlled use of wiretaps and eavesdropping devices and add this to H.R. 5037.

(4) The Attorney General has indicated a desire to achieve about 400 convictions in the organized crime field during this fiscal year. As of 9-7-67, a total of 382 individuals in this field were awaiting federal prosecution. By letter of 7-27-67, we called the Attorney General's attention to a situation wherein 23 persons arrested in New York for gambling law violations in 1964 were still awaiting final prosecutive action. To date, no reply has been received from the Attorney General.

(5) The latest two issues of “Life” magazine contain articles by Sandy Smith, former Chicago newsman, focusing attention on La Cosa Nostra leaders, as well as their political affiliations, and the need for electronic surveillance to cope with organized crime. Smith has extensive background and contacts qualifying him to write on organized crime. It is obvious he obtained help from such persons as Professor Robert Blakey of Notre Dame, formerly in the Organized Crime Section of the Department.

(6) The “task force” organized under the direction of the Organized Crime and Racketeering Section of the Department conducted an operation against bookmaker Ernest Reinhart in the Niagara Falls, New York, area and learned from the Customs Service that the Niagara Falls Police Department was also interested in Reinhart's activities. According to officials of the Niagara Falls Police Department, attorneys and others on the “task force” appeared at the police department and “took over” the entire investigation. The “task force” was so inept that it “blew” the case against Reinhart, and “task force” surveillance was discovered by Reinhart and associates. Although Reinhart's gambling activities were across state lines from New York to Canada, our Buffalo Office was not notified. Pertinent details were brought to the Attorney General's attention by letter of 9-5-67, and we requested that the “task force” be instructed to immediately advise the FBI of matters within our jurisdiction.

Continued—over
