Bobby Rush Escapes Being Murdered

The dirty racist dogs that murdered Fred Hampton and Mark Clark tried to murder our Deputy Minister of Defense, Bobby Rush. Murdering Fred and Mark was not enough blood spilled, so less than 24 hours after they killed Fred in his sleep and Mark in cold blood, those treacherous pigs came down on Bobby Rush's crib in an attempt to kill him and his wife and kids, but he wasn't there. He had moved his family and escaped the slaughter.

The pigs have no respect for our people. Having failed in murdering our Deputy Minister of Defense, they threw drugs into his apartment and then charged him with possession of narcotics.

What kind of society is this where the victim is treated like a criminal; where a man is murdered by a cop and then charged with attempted murder and aggravated battery? This fascist capitalist system has to be brought to its knees. We, Black people, will never be free in this society that is based on racial oppression and racial genocide.

The pigs who murdered Michael and John Soto are trying to commit back-to-back murders with Hampton and Bobby Rush. When will we learn that the capitalists—Nixon, Agnew, LBJ, Mitchell, Daley, and others—are intent on destroying Black people? When will you admit that you are more a slave now than you were in 1619? In 1619 they had shotguns; now they have 357 Magnums, helicopters, machine guns, and canine dogs. When will you learn and realize that an unarmed people are subject to slavery or to being murdered at any moment?

Decisive action against the racist dog cop, the avaricious tycoon, and the democratic lying politician.

He helped found our Free Breakfast Program and, along with “Doc,” worked to establish a Free People's Medical Clinic. Fred took his valuable time to try to teach each and every member of the Black Panther Party and the masses what is to be done, and the proper road towards liberation, freedom, and strategic means of resisting the power structure.

Fred taught us so much and gave us everything, including his life, so that someday we will have the power to determine our own destiny and everything in our Ten Point Program, our major political objective, and love and respect for all people will become a reality.

All Power to the People.

Our Revolutionary Deputy Minister of Health, Ronald “Doc” Satchell.
