the Foreign Ministry of that country. The Vietnamese Government will pay all his transportation and living costs while on the trip, and the invitation resulted from urgings by Nguyen Quoc Ten, press officer of the Vietnamese mission to the U.N. in New York City. Wiley was certain that his reputation as a friend of the Vietnamese triggered the invitation.

Approval was given him to make the trip; however, his request to extend the trip through other places in the Far East and Europe was turned down.

On 18 December 1967, Cecil Tighe (SRS) reported in the memo to the Chief, SRS, that Wiley briefed him on the forthcoming trip on 15 December 1967. Wiley was told to stay out of the front lines and take precautions not to involve himself in any situation that might jeopardize his safety. Ralph True (Chief/SAD, OS) accompanied Tighe to the meeting, and True presented a requirement to Wiley to which he acceded. Apparently, True's presence at the meeting had the approval of the Chief, SRS. Wiley agreed to cooperate wholeheartedly with True. For the record, Wiley was loaned a two-suit suitcase, “medication in the form of tablets,” and was instructed to purchase a Leica camera case and sufficient color film. There is no explanation in the file concerning the requirement levied by True.

Wiley submitted a report concerning a debriefing concerning his Vietnam trip.

“During a debriefing session in Washington, D.C., 30 April 1968 (by Bob Long?), I was rather surprised by the lack of interest in my findings. The interviewer asked almost no questions and didn't take notes. In talking to someone who has a great many sources of information available, I had little way of knowing what might be of interest to him. On several occasions during the interview I specifically asked if there were any particular information that he wanted. There was no response.

“I was in Vietnam for over a month—through the Tet ‘truce’ offensive—as a guest of that country's government. I had private discussions with President Thieu, Vice President Ky. Some of these were very frank. All were long (over two hours each with Thieu and Ky) and I was treated as a friend. In addition, I saw many top U.S. leaders—including General Westmoreland—and representatives of other nations (the Chinese
