P. Signing of Loyalty Oaths, Affidavits, and Statements

1. Every effort should be made to guide security informants away from situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oaths or forms.

2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting Agent fully advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a form.

3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided.

4. The Bureau will consider as a last resort advising another agency of the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent facts concerning the informant's activity; however, such situations must be kept to a minimum in view of the obvious dangers to the informant.

5. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau is to be advised, as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recommendation for proposed action.

6. In no instance should you permit an informant to sign a loyalty oath in the negative.

Q. Discontinued Informants

1. When the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the name card “cancelled.” Destroy the symbol card. Never destroy the name card.

2. Refile the name card in numerical order by symbol number in the symbol number index. If a discontinued informant or confidential source to whom a symbol number was once assigned later is reactivated, remove his same card from the symbol number index, mark it reactivated with appropriate date, note thereon type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it alphabetically in the name card section of the index.

3. When a potential security informant or confidential source is discontinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alphabetical index card.

4. Advise the Bureau of the date when a potential informant or informant is discontinued and the reason therefor.

5. Advise the Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to testify in open court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity of all cases of security of Government employees type in which the informant has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in compliance with section 69F, volume III, of this manual.

6. Review the informant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the Department's interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes available as a witness are contained therein. In those cases in which it is evident the Department has indicated a desire to consider the informant further when he becomes available, advise the Bureau in each such substantive case, except in those cases in which it is obvious the statute of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exception does not apply to security of Government employees cases. When all above action is completed, advise the Bureau.

7. A statement shall also be made to the effect that the measures to control informants, set out in 8 below, have been considered and recommendations shall be made when it appears that such are warranted.

8. When the services of an informant are discontinued, maintain close contact with him so that the informant will look to the Bureau for advice and counsel prior to taking any action which would be against the Bureau's best interests. When an informant is discontinued, determine whether he has plans for writing a book, magazine or newspaper article, or otherwise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather than making other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in

4-13-64
