If typewriter is not available, bear down with ball-point pen to make legible copies.

Health Benefits Registration Form. Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. New Carrier's Control No. 22933820.

To employing office: Show old carrier's control number only if election is to cancel enrollment or to change options or type of enrollment in the same plan.

Part A. All who register must fill in this part.

1. Name (last): Collins. 2. Date of birth: month, day, year. 4. Your mailing address (number and street): Wendy St. N.W. City: Washington, D.C. State: DC. ZIP code: 20009. Yes: 1. No: 2.

Important: It is illegal for an employee or a member of his family to be covered under more than one enrollment. If you are already covered through the family enrollment of another Federal or District of Columbia employee or annuitant you must register not to enroll or the other enrollment must be canceled or changed to self only. Similarly, if a family member listed by you in Part B is covered through his (or her) own enrollment, you cannot elect a family enrollment unless the family member cancels his (or her) enrollment. Also see back of pages 2 and 3.

Part B. Fill in this part if you wish to enroll or change your enrollment in a health benefits plan. If enrollment is for Self Only, answer item 1. If enrollment is for Self and Family, also answer item 2. If you are changing your enrollment also fill in Part D.

Name of plan: Blue Cross/Blue Shield Service. Option (high or low): High. Enrollment code number: 1 0 1.

2. In space below list all eligible family members without exception: List your wife or husband first, then your unmarried children under age 22, including legally adopted children, stepchildren, foster children, and illegitimate children who live with you in a regular parent-child relationship. Include also any unmarried child over 22 who became disabled before age 22 and who, because of the disability, is incapable of self-support. Attach a doctor's certificate for a disabled child age 22 or over, if one is not already on file. Do not list parents or others who are not eligible family members. They will not receive benefits, even if they are dependent on you and are listed.

Names of family members. Date of birth (month, day, year). Wife or husband. Date of birth: 1. Date of birth: 6. Date of birth: 2. Date of birth: 7. Date of birth: 3.
