Memorandum to Mr. Gale

Re: Harold Frank Reis

It was pointed out that Mr. Reis had wanted to know the basis on which wiretap continuation requests were sent to the Department every six months. It was pointed out that the procedure was based on the suggestion of former Attorney General Katzenbach (Katzcnbach) and that former Attorney General Katzenbach had approved all of the continuation requests, with the exception of one that was used in coverage of Martin Luther King and had been approved by former Attorney General Kennedy. Katzenbach declined to authorize the continuation of the wiretap on King. It was pointed out that previously highly sensitive matters of this kind were supposedly known in the Department only by the Attorney General; however, additional information concerning these matters was being requested by personnel in the Acting Attorney General's Office.

Mr. DeLoach was contacted by Reis on 10/8/66, and in their discussion Reis stated that he thought it had been a good idea to admit to the Supreme Court the usage of a microphone in the Black Case. Mr. DeLoach told him this was one of the most stupid blunders the Department had ever pulled and that there had been no necessity to admit the usage of a microphone. Reis said it had been a good idea to admit usage in this particular case since there was less tainted evidence in this case than in any other and that if the Supreme Court had been presented with a case which involved considerable “bedroom gossip,” the Supreme Court would have had no alternative but to issue a sweeping declaration preventing use of all electronic devices in the future. Reis stated he had assisted Attorney General Katzenbach with the preparation of the draft given to the Supreme Court in the Black Case.

Mr. DeLoach advised 10/12/66 that Reis reportedly stated on one occasion that he owed considerable loyalty to Bobby Kennedy, inasmuch as Kennedy had brought him into the Attorney General's Office and had given him a higher position and private office. Reis obviously is quite loyal to Bobby Kennedy. Mr. DeLoach stated it should also be noted that in a conversation with Acting Attorney General Clark on the night of October 10, 1966, Clark told him, Mr. DeLoach, that Reis, in answer to a specific question, had told Clark that “It was alright to wait a week or 10 days to approve requests for wiretaps as sent over by the FBI,” and Clark was straightened out on this matter. Clark stated he realizes he was wrong in depending on Reis for these facts.

On October 11, 1966, Mr. DeLoach stated he brought up the matter of Harold Reis and Jim Flug in the Attorney General's Office with Acting Attorney General Ramsey (Hamsey) Clark. Mr. Clark was advised.
