WFO765-8517

MAT: jet

He was not sure of the date. He mentioned Houck was still Chief of Base at Berlin and said he saw Houck. Karlow explained that military orders were necessary for any travel into Berlin, including flight by Pan American Airways, which also operated under military control. He stated the orders for travel by train were the most formal, since a check by the Soviets was involved.

Karlow related one of his men from TAD, Daniel C. Nieschiur, was stationed in Berlin under the name of Daniel O'Neill. He thought this was in 1951 or after 1951. He also stated that other men from TAD had temporary duty in Berlin and recalled vaguely the photography men had set up some new equipment and dark room there; John Kopera had visited Berlin in connection with some Polish matter, Wesley Parcells on some German “things,” and Joublanc, the chemist, in connection with some case.

Karlow said he could not say whether he was in Berlin in August 1951, but recalled he was there on at least one occasion in the summer because he clearly remembered how early the sun rose in the morning.

Karlow stated he rarely became involved in operations and was usually occupied in making arrangements and setting things up for use of the facilities of TAD. He recalled, however, he was involved in an operation with John Parker and Harry Rositzke of the SR (Soviet Russia) Division and flew to Berlin in 1952 in this connection. Karlow explained the operation involved a planned attempt to steal the latest model MIG fighter plane and great preparation had been made, but at the last minute the adventure was called off because of possible political and diplomatic repercussions.

Karlow first said he was unable to recall visiting Berlin in 1953 but later said he recalled seeing William K. Harvey, Chief of Station, December 1952 to August 1959, on more than one occasion, so he supposes he did make such visits. When informed that it was understood that Karlow had been to Berlin ten to fifteen times in the period 1950–1953, Karlow offered no objection and said it was possible that this was true. With reference to his later assignment in Munich from November 1953 to the end of 1955, Karlow stated he was fairly certain he had not visited Berlin during this period.
