A directive permitting Loyalty Hearing Boards to hear witnesses in the absence of the employee and his counsel, if the witness so requested.

I understand the provision of section 9(c)(4) to be a deliberate policy judgment that witnesses, other than confidential informants, shall be subject to cross-examination. Accordingly, persons giving testimony will not have the choices set forth in your memorandum. I therefore suggest that you advise prospective witnesses that their testimony will have to be in the presence of the employee and his counsel and will be subject to cross-examination.

9. I consider the Bureau's policy of permitting Special Agents to testify at the hearings only “where they are in a position to furnish competent evidence,” to be sound and suggest that you undertake through the Civil Service Commission to advise the agencies concerned that this policy will be continued.

10. Serious consideration has been given to your suggestion that dismissals without prejudice to applicants in cases before the Regional Loyalty Boards may affect the Civil Service Commission's register of eligibles. The Commission has already advised that it believes that, under the basic Civil Service Act, it can establish criteria with respect to the register of eligibles similar to those set out in the order. The Department has advised the Commission that the order does not preclude it from so acting under the authority of the Civil Service Act if it is satisfied as to the existence of such authority.

11. I also go along with your view that it will be necessary that agencies use a standard form containing sufficient identifying data in checking individuals' names through the Bureau's files and in connection with investigations conducted under the Executive Order, and suggest that you work out a procedure for establishing such a form with the Civil Service Commission.

12. With relation to section 5 of the order you state that the Bureau, on receipt of information of a nature necessitating investigation by it, intends to follow the policy of immediately initiating the investigation rather than awaiting a request from the department or agency concerned, but notifying the head of the department or agency that information of a nature requiring investigation by the Bureau has been received and an investigation is being conducted. You also mention that upon request the interested agency will be furnished with the basis for the investigation. I do not believe this policy to be in conflict with any provision of the order and see no reason why you should not follow the policy you suggest.
