(6) After informant authenticates his statement, contacting Agent should prepare a cover sheet, Form FD-306, which should be stapled to it and thereafter the statement should be handled as a written one in accordance with instructions set out in 2, a, (10), and (11).

(7) Oral information furnished by informant purely of lead value should be incorporated in an office memorandum by the Agent and should not be initialed by the informant or exhibited to him or treated as evidence.

3. Transmission of information

a. Statements should be personally delivered to contacting Agent by informants whenever possible. Careful consideration should be given to full security of all such personal contacts.

b. They should never be mailed to field office or resident agency.

c. If they cannot be obtained personally by contacting Agent, obtain confidential post office boxes for their receipt.

d. Confidential post office boxes should be obtained under fictitious names and not under names of persons who may list them in post office directory.

e. More than one informant may send statements to a specific post office box, but consideration should be given to obtaining post office boxes in different post office stations to prevent suspicion on part of post office employees.

f. Envelope enclosing statement should be returned address of another confidential post office box obtained under a fictitious name in the same manner as d.

g. Statements should be collected at post office boxes regularly, but time of pickup should be varied. Work out system of rotation whereby same Agent or Agents will not appear at same post office box for any extended period of time.

h. When it becomes necessary to receive information of vital and immediate interest to Bureau, it should furnish it as promptly as possible to contacting Agent or office by most appropriate means of communication. Office should take any necessary action without delay.

4. Handling of lead information

a. All lead information obtained from informant must be run out to a logical conclusion.

b. If there is only partial name of individual or meager descriptive data, and if there is sufficient data available to do so, file should be opened and assigned to effect an identification and to take any necessary action.

c. If there is insufficient information to warrant opening case, a tickler card should be prepared to follow with the informant and take other logical steps in an effort to obtain additional identifying data concerning the individual. Tickler cards should be restricted to information which would warrant investigation if an identity is established. This will eliminate inconsequential items, but at the same time definite steps must be taken to run out affirmative information. If no identification is made after reasonable effort, prepare memorandum for informant's subfile. If an identification is made, a file should be opened and any necessary action taken in connection therewith.

5. Handling documentary material furnished by informants

a. Pamphlets and similar documentary material furnished by informants should have placed thereon the informant's code name.

b. Informant should affix date he received the material. If informant cannot recall date of receipt, the date he furnished material should be affixed.

c. No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, date received, permanent symbol number of informant, file numbers, indexing symbols, etc., should be placed on documentary material by Agents or clerical personnel.
