3. Criteria for placing and retaining name in security index

a. Basic criteria

No name shall be added to or retained in security index unless one or more of the following have been established through investigation:

(1) Subject has had membership in, or participation in activities of, a basic revolutionary organization within the last five years, as shown by overt acts or statements established through reliable sources, informants, or individuals.

(2) Subject has had membership in, or participation in the affairs of, one or more front organizations which adhere to the policies and doctrines of a basic revolutionary organization, in a leadership capacity or by active substantial participation in furtherance of those aims and purposes of the front organization which coincide with those of a basic revolutionary organization, within the last three years, as shown by overt acts or statements established through reliable sources, informants, or individuals.

(3) Investigation has developed information that an individual, though not a member of or a participant in activities of a basic revolutionary or front organization, has anarchist or revolutionary beliefs and is likely to seize upon the opportunity presented by a national emergency to commit acts of espionage or sabotage, including acts of terrorism, assassination, or any interference with or threat to the survival and effective operation of national, state, and local governments and of the defense effort.

(4) Although investigation has failed to establish the facts required by (1), (2), or (3) above, either as to the substance of those criteria or because there have been no overt acts or statements within time limits prescribed, facts have been developed which clearly and unmistakably depict subject as a dangerous individual who could be expected to commit acts of the kind described in (3) above.

b. Activity in support of Cuban regime

Recommend for security index individuals who would be dangerous or potentially dangerous to internal security of U.S. in the event of an emergency involving Cuba and the U.S. There should be substantial showing of the following:

(1) Individual has served in a pro-Castro organization as a leader or officer, or engaged in preparation or distribution of pro-Cuban or anti-U.S. propaganda; active collection of funds for any agency or representative of the Cuban Government or pro-Castro group; acts of violence against anti-Castro individuals or groups or against the U.S.; or active collection of intelligence data regarding the national defense of the U.S. which would serve the purposes of the Cuban Government, and there are reasonable grounds to believe that such data is to be or has been conveyed to any agency or representative of the Cuban Government.

(2) Based on overt acts or statements or other evidence, there are reasonable grounds to believe the loyalty of the individual would lie with the Cuban Government in the event of armed conflict between Cuba and the U.S.

(3) Alien of Cuban nationality or holding Cuban citizenship who (a) is likely to foster, encourage, or promote policies, programs, or objectives of the Cuban Government, or collaborate with the Cuban Government, or (b) is likely to engage in or attempt to engage in acts of espionage, sabotage, or other activities detrimental to U.S. defense. Take into consideration (a) participation in organizations supporting the Castro regime, (b) participation in picket lines formed in support of the Cuban Government, or (c) contacts with Cuban agents operating in the U.S. on behalf of the Cuban Government.
