Office Memorandum

To: A. H. Belmont  
From: S. B. Donahoe  
Date: 5-26-58

Subject: Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of Friendly Foreign Nations

The captioned program consisting of the development of informants and sources in the diplomatic establishments of friendly nations, where warranted, has been a vital part of our intelligence coverage of such nations. In connection with the program, we have always obtained State Department clearance for investigation and interview of individuals considered as potential sources without revealing to State the purposes of same. Recently the State Department has declined clearance for interviews with individuals employed at the Pakistani, German and Turkish embassies (although we previously obtained State clearance for our investigations) based primarily on the fact these countries are friendly and if the interviews were reported to the embassy it might result in straining diplomatic relations. It is noted we discontinued efforts to develop sources in those establishments.

In order to eliminate wasting investigative effort we will obtain State approval to develop sources and informants in diplomatic establishments of a certain country before instituting the program in the field.

In this regard in view of the existing critical political situation in the Middle East, the involvement of Israel in that situation and the activities of Israeli intelligence in the U.S., it is believed we should obtain State clearance for the field to institute a program to endeavor to develop sources and informants in the Israeli Embassy, Washington, D. C., the Israeli Consulate and UN Delegation in New York City. The principal Israeli intelligence agent in the U.S. known to the Bureau is Rafael Medan who is attached to the Israeli UN Delegation, New York City, but who is frequently at the Israeli Embassy, Washington, D. C. As a result of his intelligence activities we have under investigation approximately 15 other individuals in New York and Washington, D. C., known or suspected of being engaged in intelligence activities.

File: 65-58190 (Israeli Consulate, New York City)  
File: 105-10828 (Israeli Embassy, Washington, D. C.)  
File: 62-77787-345 (Israeli Delegation to the UN)

EHM:et (8)
