d. All such material should be transmitted in the same manner as statements furnished by informant.

e. Receipt of such material should be recorded on form FD-306 or on a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items set forth on form FD-306. See section 107M for filing instructions.

H. PASSING INFORMATION IN DOUBLE AGENT OPERATIONS

1. Carefully handle and create basis for acquisition

a. In double agent operations information requested by the principals is frequently passed either to build up a double agent's stature or as evidence of espionage activity.

b. Each case must be carefully evaluated to make certain that a net gain accrues to the U. S.

c. The information which is passed should be carefully handled and appropriate explanations created for its acquisition by the double agent to avoid his compromise.

2. Locating information to pass

Wherever possible the field office handling the double agent should locate appropriate information to be passed; however, the Bureau can assist in fulfilling requests for information in possession of Government agencies.

3. Obtaining Bureau authority

Bureau authority must be obtained to pass any information in a double agent operation except:

a. Newspaper articles.

b. Magazine articles.

c. Pamphlets, brochures, etc., prepared by a private company or corporation for distribution or sale to the public. (This does not include highly technical pamphlets, even if unclassified, which are prepared for limited use by engineering staffs and not intended for release to the public.)

4. Retention of copies of passed material

a. True copies should be retained by the office of origin of any documents or material related to the national defense which is passed in double agent operations.

b. Such material should be appropriately identified by the double agent.

c. Bureau Agents should not place identifying data on such material but should preserve any notes made by them in connection with the passage of such material.

d. Similar action should be taken with regard to any material which is passed which is considered evidentiary although not clearly related to the national defense.

e. It is not necessary to retain copies of build-up material obviously not evidentiary in nature where there is assurance that copies can be obtained at a later date from the Government agency or private concern having custody.

I. SYMBOLS

1. Assigning numbers

a. All informants should be designated by a permanent symbol number of which the Bureau must be advised. (Once a symbol number is assigned, it must not subsequently be reassigned to another informant.)

b. Potential security informants and confidential sources whose identity must be protected may be assigned permanent symbol numbers if they are producing sufficient information to warrant the use of such designations.

c. Individuals to whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be advised of such symbols.

d. An additional cover name should be used by informant in signing his statements and in communications between the informant and the field office.

e. Bureau should be advised of this cover name in addition to the permanent symbol.
