Telegram Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: South Vietnam. Report No. TDCS DB-3/656,842. Subject: 1. Ngo Dinh Nhu intention to deal with VC. 2. Attempts of Pham Ngoc Thao to arrange Air Force support for a coup d'etat. Date distributed: 24 September 1963. Precedence: Routine. Reference: IN 26062. Date of information: 9–20 September 1963. Place and date acquired: Vietnam, Saigon (22 September 1963). Appraisal: See below. Field report No. FVS 9684.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: A field-grade Vietnamese Air Force officer (F).

Appraisal: It is probably true that Thao has planned a coup and has sought VNAF support as reported. The substance of Thao's talks with Diem and Nhu concerning Nhu's contacts with the Viet Cong and Nhu's plans for major changes in the South Vietnamese economy cannot be accurately judged. It is doubtful that Nhu would make a deal with the Communists, although Thao is apparently convinced that Nhu is considering such action. It is not true that Ambassador Lodge talked with Thao.

1. Summary.

On 20 September 1963, Lieutenant Colonel Pham Ngoc Thao, assigned to the Presidency as an inspector for the Strategic Hamlet Program, said that he had talked separately with President Diem and Ngo Dinh Nhu about Nhu's contacts with the Viet Cong (VC) to vote who had loved, IHO this meeting, IHO had berthed in that this and that Nhu had admitted that he was “considering dealing with the Communists.” Thao claimed that Nhu was planning major changes to make the South Vietnamese economy more similar to the economies of Communist nations. Thao has solicited Vietnamese Air Force (VNAF) support for a coup d'etat against the Diem regime.
