United States Government Memorandum

To: W. C. Sullivan  
From: F. J. Baumgardner

Subject: Communist Infiltration of Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC; SCIC), Internal Security—Communist

Date: 12/17/64

Distribution: Mr. Belmont; Mr. Rosen; Mr. Sullivan; Liaison; F. J. Baumgardner; S. F. Phillips; T. P. Rosack.

This memorandum recommends that the National Science Foundation (NSF) be furnished information concerning the communist influence exerted on the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC; SCIC) and its President, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. This appears necessary since the SCLC has been contacted by the NSF for the purpose of obtaining applicants for southern schools.

AT 1332-S* has furnished information that Cordy T. Vivian, SCLC Director of Affiliates, was advised that the NSF desired qualified applicants to enter the University of Mississippi and other schools in southern states where the NSF has its program in progress. Vivian was advised that the NSF was contacting organizations such as the SCLC and other civil rights groups to handle the recruitment program for Negro students since they did not want it to appear that the NSF was attempting to put Negro applicants in southern schools.

Vivian was advised that each qualified applicant would receive a $3,000 scholarship from the NSF. Since this is a Government project, any expenses incurred in this matter “would not come out of anyone’s pocket.” This would indicate that any expenses incurred by the SCLC in their recruitment effort would be paid for with Government funds.

The communist influences exerted on King are well known to the Bureau. Vivian has in the past been a member of the Communist Party.

Observations:

It is incredible that an outfit such as the SCLC should be utilized for the purpose of recruiting Negroes to take part in the NSF program, particularly where funds of the

REC-16  
100-438794

Enclosure.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee (COMMITTED). It is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.

TPR:jad  
(S)
