Undermine during their cloak-and-dagger days.

Fear of poverty had spurred the retired spies to sign up with the Hollywood firm Entertainment and Communications Holdings Association to peddle their inside history of the Cold War for films, miniseries and docudramas.

“Due to the present confusion in our country, many of the veterans are in a very difficult financial situation,” Mr. Privalov said.

Oleg Nechiperenko, a 25-year KGB veteran, said his forthcoming book will give details of his two meetings with Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico City two months before Oswald shot President Kennedy.

The Oswald meetings took place Sept. 27–28, 1963, on the initiative of Oswald, said Mr. Nechiperenko, then KGB station chief in Mexico City.

“His mood was bad,” said Mr. Nechiperenko.

But, he teased, “the Oswald he met in Mexico City was the same one who was in Dallas.”

Another Nechiperenko tidbit: Two other KGB men were present at the interview and an operative in Moscow was kept abreast of the discussions.

Exhibiting familiarity with Oliver Stone’s movie “JFK,” Mr. Nechiperenko said he would agree with “some of the conclusions of James Garrison,” but only based on the former New Orleans district attorney’s book, not on any evidence.

“If he had the documents,” Mr. Nechiperenko said, “he could give a better verdict.” Of course, no talk of such an assassination took place in Mexico City and there was no encouragement of such a deed, he said.

Mr. Nechiperenko has been trotted out before by the KGB along with Yuri Modin, the handler of Kim Philby, the British master spy who worked for the Soviets. Philby died in Moscow in 1988.

The new face shown Wednesday was Anatoly Yazkov, code-named “Yakovlev” in his World War II years in America when he helped run the spy ring that gave Josef Stalin the atom bomb. It was one of the most successful espionage penetrations in history.

But Mr. Yazkov, beyond admitting that he worked out of the Russian consulate at 7 E. 61st St. in New York City, across from the Hotel Pierre, was singularly secret.
