Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show part of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you send the entire form before completing any evaluation. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel Management later than 30 days after the date indicated in Item 8 of Section A below.

Section A. General.

Name: Norel, James A. Date of birth: 19 March 1911. Sex: M. Service designation: DI.

Office/division/branch of assignment: DD/P/WH/Br. I.

Grade: 03-15. Date report due in office: 4 November 1956. Area Ops Officer (Branch Chief).

Type of report: Initial, annual.

Section B. Certification.

For the rater: This report. Not.

Check appropriate statements:

This report reflects my own opinions of this individual. If individual is rated “in Ch or O,” a pending letter has been sent to my copy attached to this report.

This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors. I cannot certify that the rated individual knows no more than this reviewer, and therefore evaluates his job performance because (specify).

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where to improve.

This date: 7 December 1958. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: Franklin J Holcomb. Supervisor’s official title: Deputy Chief/WH.

For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.
