Culminated in the abortive Bay of Pigs Operation in late April 1961. It has been conceded that the Bay of Pigs Operation caused many disillusionments and potential resistance groups to expose themselves and be "rolled up" in the Cuban security operations which came in the wake of this fatal operation.

During the six-month period which followed the events of April 1961, the U.S. was not in a position to expose itself further to any suggestion of clandestine actions against Cuba. The experts involved in that operation were reassigned and little or no effort was made to further endanger any residual assets in Cuba which may have survived the Cuban security operations of the spring and summer of 1961.

By late 1961, another effort was organized to determine what assets were available for operations in Cuba. It suffices to state that an inventory revealed that the few reliable assets in the target area were essentially intelligence agents and could not be spared for conversion to clandestine operations. Castro had consolidated his security mechanism to the point that by early 1962 it was quite clear that insertions of agents in useful areas would be most precious. The large reservoirs of motivated Cubans who had participated in the Bay of Pigs Operation were either imprisoned or had lost their cover. They were no longer an available source for clandestine operations. During the first nine months of 1962, the emphasis was placed on intelligence gathering rather than clandestine operations or political action in the target area.

Because of certain operational difficulties, most of the operational missions undertaken during the spring and summer of 1962 were aborted or compromised. Castro's acquisition, coupled with the public surveillance and "confessions" of U.S. agents, caused the operational program to be periodically discontinued. No attempt was made during or immediately after the missile crisis to continue the program.

4. Role of the Department of Defense

The role of the Department of Defense in clandestine and covert activities has been the subject of much controversy both within the Department of Defense and within the Central Intelligence Agency.
