(10) Communist infiltration of mass organizations program.

(a) Submit semiannual letters March 1 and September 1 under caption set out above program, Bureau 100-3-106, using the following topical outline and headings:

I. Information concerning Communist Party program

Furnish summary of information received concerning the overall Communist Party program to infiltrate mass organizations, nationally and locally; steps taken to carry out program; identity of specific groups which are targets for infiltration or which have been infiltrated by party members; and success being achieved by party.

II. Organizations concerning which information previously submitted

Only list names and Bureau file numbers concerning those cases wherein, since submission of last semiannual letter, letters using the five-point outline set out under item (4) above were furnished to Bureau. Do not list those cases which were under investigation by Bureau authority at time of submission of last semiannual letter.

III. Organizations concerning which information is being submitted for first time with instant letter

Only list names and Bureau file numbers, if known, of those organizations concerning which information has not previously been furnished Bureau but which is being furnished, together with recommendations regarding future investigations, for first time with instant letter. Submit information, using five-point outline as set out under item (4) above, as enclosure to letter. Submit separate enclosure on each organization listed in this category. Furnish two copies of each enclosure and sufficient copies of cover letter in order that one copy each of semiannual letter and enclosure can be placed in Bureau file on organization. This will eliminate necessity of submitting separate summary letter under each individual case caption. Do not use T symbols in enclosure, but set out identities of sources.

f. Members of law enforcement agencies are not to accompany Bureau Agents during course of security-type investigations without prior Bureau authority.

g. Photographic surveillances

(1) No photographic surveillances are to be conducted in communist front organization cases unless it is essential to protect Bureau's interests in internal security field by supplementing live informant coverage of a particular meeting with such a surveillance.

(2) Request Bureau authority to institute such a surveillance and outline manner in which it will be conducted and supervision which will be afforded it.

(3) No such surveillances should be instituted without specific Bureau authority.
