Agent Report.

Date submitted: 6 February 1972.

Report of findings:

John wanted to know on what frequency the radios operated. John stated that he hated to be a Disc Jockey, that he had more important things to do.

John also stated that they had some mighty fine missiles in Soest (MC3813), FRG. John stated that the Russian Army was far superior to anything in Europe. He talked at length about the Russian Army. Sources felt that John was serious about what he was saying and not trying just to make them uneasy. John asked Margulies if he was a CID agent. Margulies replied that he was not. John talked about and named every intelligence agency of the United States. He mentioned MI, OSS, ONI, CIA, CID and the FBI. John said that Israel's intelligence network was far superior to that of any countries' in Europe or that of the United States. John spoke fluent German and English and spoke Spanish and Russian to Sources to prove that he knew how. John said he learned to speak English in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic (USSR), and said, “we have to learn many languages.” John kept asking about Ramstein Air Force Base and stated that he had been to the NCO Club at Ramstein. John said he hated the FRG and that he wanted to go back to the German Democratic Republic (GDR). John stated that he goes to the GDR often and that he has been to Moscow (NCA), USSR. John expounded on how much better it was to live in the GDR. John claimed to have a cousin or nephew, Sources could not recall which, who was a Major in the army in the GDR. John talked about brainwashing at length and how information could be gotten from people without the threat of physical violence. John said that the American Prisoners of War in North Viet Nam would never be the same even after they were released. John stated that his hobby was just listening and looking around. Sources said that they had to go because tomorrow was a busy day and they had field exercises at 0900 hours. John quipped in, “Don't you mean that you and the convoy are leaving at 0600 hours?!”, and added that tomorrow should be a busy day from him also. John mentioned that he had stolen something and had sold it. John described the object in great detail, as to size, dimensions, and color, but never said what it was. Sources could only recall that it was about one and a half feet long with fins on the end. Sources thought from the description that John gave, that he was talking about a mortar projectile or some kind of small rocket. When Sources left the bar at 0430 hours, they waited for John outside the bar, but he did not come out. They then proceeded through the parking lot where their jeeps were parked to their hotel across from the Lord Nelson. At 0515 hours, Margulies looked out of his hotel window and saw John leave the Lord Nelson. John proceeded directly to the jeeps in the parking lot.

Typed name and organization of special agent: HETNZ E. ICKERT, 66th MI Group.

Signature of special agent: Henry E. Teckert.
