Training Program for Enlisted Personnel.

Section I: Identification Information. Name: PRI, Jerome. Sex: M. Dates of completion: 26 Sept. - 21 Oct. Mark of student's number: 1h. Date of birth: 9 October 1938. Birth date: 15 June 1955. Grade of rank: OS-7. Series: ORR.

Project or Assignment or Individual Position: Identification Specialist.

Section II: Objectives of the Course

1. To introduce students to the skills and methods involved in the production of intelligence materials.

2. To provide practice in the oral and written presentation of ideas for a variety of purposes.

Section III: Specific Characteristics of the Course

Intelligence Principles and Methods is a four weeks (700 hours) examination of Basic Orientation Course for personnel who are or will be engaged in the production of intelligence. Emphasis is on “learning by doing,” through the medium of a series of integrated written exercises which require processing of actual intelligence documents. Exercise is also gained in the oral presentation of Intelligence through a series of briefings before the class. Each student is assigned a special research problem for which approximately 40 hours are allotted in the course schedule. The results are presented to fellow-students and instructors in an oral briefing at the close of the course. The student also prepares an annotated bibliography, and writes a critical review of one of his chief sources.

Section IV: How the Students Are Evaluated

Written exercises are graded independently by at least two members of the instructional staff on the basis of how well the student has performed the requirements of selectivity, orientation, accuracy, originality, clarity and style. Grades for each type of written exercise are added in Section V. Oral briefings are evaluated by both instructors and fellow-students through the use of written critique sheets and oral observation following each presentation. A comprehensive grade is given for the oral briefings. In the evaluation of the research, notes the study made, indicates the intelligence focus, exploitation of sources, and general quality of written and oral presentation. The grades are defined as follows:

Superior: The student demonstrated outstanding ability or performance in meeting a total course goal or objective; he initiated an innovative approach to the subject matter of the individual assignment; and was identified as having met the criteria set forth above.
