Also went over all incoming messages from agents to scrutinize for the use of freedom signals. When the absence of such signals was pointed out to PM, they would sometimes claim that the agent had merely forgotten them. CI was able to stop all cable traffic to such agents when under suspicion. After a while, Rothwell was delegated to be the CI contact with the PM people, and due to his quiet methods and competence, he gained a fair share of their confidence and the work proceeded more smoothly.

7. Simmons and his section prepared a 225-page study of Castro's intelligence organization. This document was distributed generally throughout the U.S. intelligence community, as were also some extensive studies on Cuban bloc (block) wardens. They also issued CS/CI information reports, and Simmons gave a number of briefings to higher-ups. They were able to identify 14 provocative activities by the Cuban services in the U.S., Dakar, and Havana. They identified a U.S. employee of the U.S. Embassy in Havana as a Castro penetration agent in 1960. This document contains the identities of 492 Castro G-2 staff officers.

8. From September 1960 to January 1961, Simmons spent half of his time working on the case of the three ST ESCALATE members, i.e., the audio and development team which was arrested in Cuba and is still under arrest. If these men had checked in with the CI Branch before departure, they would have warned not to go. Simmons regards this matter as the greatest potential danger to the Agency, e.g., if these men should be sent to Moscow to be milked.

9. Simmons described the following difficulties he had:

a. His section was not fully staffed until October 1960, although he went to the greatest lengths to get additional people. He first had a machine run made for a list of CI personnel having a knowledge of Spanish. He checked the records of the individuals thus disclosed. He sent the names thus selected to the WH/4 personnel officer, who made a great effort, but in no case was he able to get a man taken off his present job. He feels that the DD/P should in the future tell all his senior officers of the importance of such a project so that the latter will cooperate when their valuable time is requested. After borrowing Melberg from covert training for two TDY trips, Simmons could not face going to Marchand with a further request, and instead asked Jack Earman in the DCI's office to help him get Melberg for another trip. The Director of Training complained of this irregular procedure. If Mr. Bissell had so informed his senior officers, Simmons feels that they would have received better cooperation. The result of lack of personnel was that they all worked six or seven days a week. Simmons knows of no case of a directed assignment to the project. As it was, he personally had to spend 80 per cent of his time on administrative matters, with the result that he could only spend 20 per cent of his time on operations. His final T/O was four case officers, four analysts, two clerk-typists, and one secretary.
