Another was a conscientious objector to military service. A third had contributed $5,000 to the National Committee to Abolish the House Committee on Un-American Activities. A speaker representing the W.E.B. DuBois Club was identified as a Communist. The FBI covered the meeting with an informant who reported practically verbatim the remarks of all the speakers, including the following:

The Chairman of the Philadelphia Ethical Society; a representative of the American Civil Liberties Union; a representative of the United Electrical Workers; a spokesman for the Young Americans for Freedom; a member of the staff of the “Catholic Worker”; a minister of the African Methodist Episcopal Church; a minister of the Episcopal Church; a representative of the Philadelphia Area Committee to End the War in Vietnam; a professor of industrial economics at Columbia University; a representative of the Inter-University Committee for Debate on Foreign Policy; a member of Women’s Strike for Peace who had traveled to North Vietnam; a member of Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom who had visited South Vietnam; a chaplain from Rutgers University; a professor of political science from Villanova University; another member of Young Americans for Freedom; and the former chargé d’affaires in the South Vietnamese Embassy.

This informant’s report was so extensive as to be the equivalent of a tape recording, although the FBI report does not indicate that the informant was “wired.” Another informant reported the remarks of additional participants:

An official of the Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy; a minister of the Church of the Brethren; a Unitarian minister; a representative of United World Federalists; a member of Students for a Democratic Society; a member of the Socialist Workers Party; and a spokesman for the W.E.B. DuBois Clubs.

The report was prepared as a Letterhead Memorandum with fourteen copies for possible dissemination by the FBI to other Executive Branch agencies. Copies were disseminated to military intelligence.
