Memorandum for: Chairman, Clandestine Service Personnel Staff.

Subject: James S. WOODS — Recommendation for Promotion.

1. Subject has been in grade GS-10 since June 1968. Based on his outstanding performance as Chief of Registry in the Rome (Romo) Station since June 30, 1971, he strongly merits promotion to grade GS-11 at this time. When Subject took over the responsibility for Registry a year ago, he found a system glutted with paper and bound up by a policy which discouraged getting rid of it. He found many procedures in force which were out of date, if not obsolete, and proposed streamlined procedures, which were adopted, to replace them. He asked for and was given the responsibility to analyze and distribute the cables, which had previously been a function of the Chief of Station's secretary. He recommended the discontinuance of the abstract system, which proposal had been adopted by most elements of the Station. He recommended a reduction in the retention period for cable and dispatch chronos. With the help of a TDY team here for the first half of CY 1972, he devised and instituted a program of purging the files. This program has resulted in the disposition of most of the departed Soviet files, a severe trimming of the true name files, and the review, reduction and up-dating of the project and operational files. All of this work was accompanied by appropriate name checks, entries on the index cards and selection of pertinent documents for transmittal to Headquarters. In summary, Subject performed a thorough “house-cleaning” of Station records in the full meaning of that phrase. This program is by no means finished. In fact, Subject has plans for continuing efforts along these lines which may exceed his tenure at this Station since he intends to return to Headquarters not later than May 1974. The on-going program includes a review and reorganization of the subject files, the encrypted 201's and the disposition (hopefully) of about 50 feet of microfilm. A corollary to these projects will be a significant reduction in the index cards, which at present lead to the microfilm and to other superfluous material we either have or will destroy.

2. The equally important aspect of records management, namely the introduction of procedures to lessen the likelihood
