Plans to begin a public hearing on defining an assassination record in September. Anna Nelson commented on the importance of identifying what is a record before beginning to address specific issues and documents.

William Joyce reported that he had sent letters to 55 agencies asking about the quantity of records still held by each agency and had received 20 responses, several of which had identified additional sources for documents (no specifics).

Steve Tilley gave a briefing on the status of releases. Releases since the last meeting include tapes of telephone calls from the Johnson Library, the FBI files, Church Committee files (7 boxes), and DOJ's FOIA litigation files. This month, an additional 10 boxes of Church Committee files and some Pike Committee files were released; only a small part deals with JFK. He expects a release from the CIA of approximately 70,000 pages later this summer and mentioned the 73 reels.

Tilley also described the 20,000 pages of HSCA material in CIA files and said that NARA would be acting as the House agent on these records.

Questions to Tilley by the Board:

Size of the NARA collection? 1,200 cubic feet, with 2,500 pages per foot.

Jack asked what was the number of documents with redactions. Steve said he could not give a figure but would guess less than 50 percent.

Graff asked whether there were any problems with the agencies' willingness to release documents. None. He considered the work by the various agencies to be a remarkable effort to turn over records. The problem was the volume of material and the time it takes to review.

A question about Senate and House Committee review procedures led to a discussion in which it was clear that neither the Board nor Tilley had a good fix on that part of the review. The point was made that CIA information in those documents, and in the HSCA material, would be reviewed by CIA reviewers; the originator of the information was the key reviewer.

Jack asked how the agencies were doing in defining “assassination records.” Tilley described some of his discussions about assassination records within NARA and with other agencies. He mentioned that the major agencies had records that they felt fell outside the scope, which they planned to discuss with the Board.
