Applicant.

1. Loop: center of loop; ink; delta.
2. Whorl.

To obtain classifiable fingerprints:

1. Use black printers' ink.
2. Distribute ink evenly on inking slab.
3. Wash and dry fingers thoroughly.
4. Roll fingers from nail to nail, and avoid allowing fingers to slip.
5. Be sure impressions are recorded in correct order.
6. If an amputation or deformity makes it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that effect in the individual finger block.
7. If some physical condition makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be obtained with a memo stapled to the card explaining the circumstances.
8. Examine the completed prints to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that most fingerprints fall into the patterns shown on this card. Other patterns occur intermittently and are not shown here.

This card for use by law-enforcing agents in fingerprinting applicants for lifetime credit positions.

Official Office of U.S. Attorney General for pursuit of fiscal offenses, punitive and pecuniary, as authorized in state statute, are attached by the Attorney General of the United States, U.S.C., and County Criminal Court, New York City, N.Y., in criminal case No. 1:19-20-C-210, published state criminal notice of service.

Official office of officer taking down basic information bank.

A. Type of finger to be printed: lifted, imaged, and/or lift imaged.
B. Name of person to be printed: [REDACTED]
C. Number of fingers to be printed: all if one.
D. What to do with the printed records: delete, X out, or do nothing at all.
E. If the following is not true, please specify why.
F. If yes, if possible, show how each finger should be shown in space, if any: up, down, forward, backward, or none. If up or down, show which way it is going; if forward or backward, show what is going to happen to the finger.
G. If any other information is needed, please add it below.
H. If no, signature, if applicable, must be shown on the appropriate space.

Instructions for recording information on the appropriate space.

Unclassified No. Record other armed forces No., passport No. (PF), alien registration No. (AR), port security card No. (PS), selective service No. (SS), veteran's administration claim No. (VA).

Leave this space blank.

April 4, 1978, 1750.

Recorded July 7, 1977. Ident. Div. 58.

The lines between center of loop and delta don't show.

Arched have no deltas.

Federal Bureau of Investigation. United States Department of Justice. Washington, D.C. 20537.
