Out the full extent of the communist influence in racial matters. They should separate words and intentions from actions; mere participation from direct influence; and the bona fide communist from the mere “do-gooder.” They should not include information concerning legitimate efforts in the racial movement where there is no communist taint.

b. Information should be reported according to the following outline. All main headings denoted by Roman numerals must be accounted for. If there is no information to report under a particular main heading, the heading should appear, followed by a statement “No information developed.”

I. Communist Strategy

(A) Communist Party, USA

(1) Plans, strategy, party line, and the like made at national meetings, including expressions by national and other functionaries.

(2) Plans, etc., made at district and lower-level meetings, including expressions by local leaders and rank-and-file members.

(3) Plans, etc., as revealed in party publications and other propaganda media, such as written directives, press releases, and the like.

Information under item 3 should be reported by the office covering the origin of the publications, such as the New York Office for “The Worker,” “Political Affairs,” and directives from party headquarters; San Francisco Office for “People’s World”; etc. Party expressions, oral or written, when directly related to a specific event covered under II, should be included under II.

(B) Other Communist Groups (such as Socialist Workers Party, Progressive Labor Party, Workers World Party, and the like)

Under (B), report information under separate numbered subheadings for each organization. Report here information generally along the same lines as for (A) above.

II. Communist Tactics

In this part report information on communist direction and influence of and participation in racial demonstrations, disturbances, drives, boycotts, and any other similar activities with racial overtones. This part will illustrate how communist activities attempt to exploit racial situations and expand communist influence, thus furthering communist objectives. List activities in chronological order with lettered subheadings, such as:

(A) Demonstration, Cleveland, Ohio, 1-10-66  
(B) Store Boycott, Youngstown, Ohio, 3-6-66

Under each subheading include such information as nature of event; sponsoring and participating groups; total participants; number and identities of subversives involved; specifics as to whether subversives directed, controlled, instigated, or merely participated; whether violence resulted and, if so, whether subversives were involved; arrests of subversives and court disposition; and any other information believed pertinent to the overall picture of communist influence. Efforts by supporting groups to avoid communist involvement should also be reported. If a particular event had no communist involvement, it should, of course, not be included in the report.
