Department of State. Telegram.

Would blow up. Also asserted Department had broken promise to locate wife and children, repeated that children were only thing in world that meant anything to him, that if he could not find them he would take leave of this world and would take somebody with him. In last meeting with consul April 7, consul had two Marine guards present, in view of USAF psychiatrist's advice to take no chances whatever. Nagell upset by guards' presence and by consul's refusal to permit his taping recording interview and to show him regulations prohibiting recording. Nagell belabored patient consul for nearly two hours. Consul informed him that Department had endeavored to locate wife and children without success, and promised to query Department what specific steps Department had taken in this matter. Nagell finally said he would leave Spain because of consul's action (use of guards) and requested that reply prompt from Department be forwarded to Paris, where he was going. Also informed consul he would “get him,” but through pocketbook, by suing him in the United States. In this interview Nagell denied having made threats of physical violence, only “promises” of publicity and of “playing footsie with certain sources” if Department did not locate children. Prior to departure from Madrid, Nagell (Nagel) sent consul postcard with message in Japanese language and writing, which translated means “without eyes we cannot see,” and salutation in Spanish meaning “good luck.”

5. Developments of interest in last Madrid interview: (1) Consul told Nagell gently he (Nagell) was never employed by CAS. Nagell insisted yes, he could prove it, but consul did not pursue subject. (2) Nagell severely criticized State Department for permitting CAS agents into its midst in foreign establishments, said he knew of at least two CAS agents in Zurich and that CAS was not supposed to have agents in Switzerland. (3) Nagell had another story which could be of interest to news media: He alleged that in 1957, “in time of peace,” he had been courier of Treasury plates from the United States to Japan for counterfeiting North Korean currency.

6. Copies of relevant correspondence follow by pouch.

GP-1. McAuliffe.
