United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: Legal Counsel

Subject: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

Date: 6/10/75

On 6/9/75, Mr. K. William O'Connor advised me that the Senate Select Committee would like to obtain access to Appendices A through E of the original Petersen Committee report on COINTELPRO. He advised that the Deputy Attorney General had requested him to determine by the morning of 6/10/75 whether the FBI would object to disclosing the Appendices to the Committee. Subsequently, Mr. O'Connor sent me a copy of a note he addressed to the Deputy Attorney General dated 6/9/75, and its enclosure, a copy of a letter from Senator Church to the Attorney General dated 6/9/75, both of which pertain to the Senate Select Committee request to have access to Appendices A through E of the Petersen report. The letter also requests access to Appendices K and L for inspection by designated Committee staff at the Department of Justice. Copies of these two are attached.

Previously, the Intelligence Division has been requested to review Appendices A through E, which are summaries of the several COINTELPRO (CONINTELPRO) programs. This memorandum should be referred to the Intelligence Division to indicate the need to expedite that review and to furnish appropriate recommendations to the Director concerning any objections the FBI should have to disclosure of the Appendices requested. In view of the urgency of the information furnished by Mr. O'Connor, it is suggested that this memorandum serve as the authority for the disclosing of the requested Appendices in the absence of any strong objections by the Intelligence Division.

Recommendation: Not recorded.

Legal Counsel Division 6/7 authorized 2/9/75 advise Mr. O'Connor on the morning of 6/10/75 that the FBI will defer to the judgment of the Deputy Attorney General in regard to disclosure of Appendices A through E of the Petersen report and of limited access to Appendices K and L by designated staff representatives.

1. Mr. Wannall  
2. Mr. Gregar  
3. Mr. Hotis  
4. Mr. Daly

Enclosure

See addendum: INTD—page 2.
