Stop Fascism

Fascism is the power of finance capital itself—the greedy businessman, the demagogic politician (one who leads the people by appealing to prejudices and passions), and the racist dog cop. Each of which carries out the oppression and exploitation of the working-class people in the guise of democracy.

The Black Panther Party, the Vanguard Party, finds it our duty to educate the poor and oppressed people to the form that this capitalistic, racist system is taking—fascism. Cold-blooded fascism is exemplified in the assassination of Malcolm X, the imprisonment of Huey P. Newton for his political beliefs, the assassination of Martin Luther King, the occupation of Wilmington, Delaware for one year after the death of King, the 14,000 troops at the Chicago Democratic Convention, the necessity for the exile of Eldridge (Eldrigde) Cleaver, the national repression of the Black Panther Party, the attack on the Republic of New Africa's Convention, the brutal attack on the people of Berkeley (Berkley) by 7,000 national guardsmen, and the representatives of all progressive elements that are struggling to wrest the power out of the hands of the oppressor and return it to the people.

We, the masses of the people, must unite around this common enemy of fascism to regain the power of the people. We, as a people, have been stripped of our power as a result of oppression and exploitation. Before we can regain that power and begin to control our own destinies, this system must suffer a revolutionary change for the good of all the people.

“Power cedes nothing without demand.” Without our demand to neutralize or suppress the power of this system, we will in turn suffer defeat under fascism and lose our move for liberation to return the power to the people.

Ill. Chair.  
Black Panther Party  
4837 S. State  
BOB=3078 or 243-8276

All power to the people!  
People of the world unite!  
Stop fascism in America!!

The revolutionary war is a war of the masses; it can be waged only by mobilizing the masses and relying on them.

Mao Tse Tung
