Organization

c. National Photographic Interpretation Center

(1) Mission. The National Photographic Interpretation Center is charged with producing photographic interpretation reports, providing photographic intelligence services in support of the national intelligence effort, furnishing such additional support to departmental and Agency interests as can be provided without degradation of national responsibilities, and promoting an integrated and coordinated interdepartmental effort in the exploitation of photography for intelligence purposes. (NSCID No. 8)

(2) Functions. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall:

(a) Produce photographic interpretation reports in support of the national intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence Objectives to include preliminary rapid interpretation of photographic detail and comprehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever possible, related collateral information.

(b) Provide as a service of common concern to the intelligence community photographic intelligence services in support of the national photographic intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish additional support to departmental and Agency interests.

(c) Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photographic data.

(d) Arrange for the exchange of photographs and photographic data with other photographic collections in the intelligence community.

(e) Make recommendations where appropriate to facilitate the coordinated development of compatible codes, indexes, and mechanized systems for the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available photographic data.

(f) Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence support requirements.

(g) Provide analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

(h) Engage in or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of specialized equipment for the intelligence exploitation of photography, and shall provide information about such specialized equipment to interested elements of the intelligence community for their own possible use or further adaptation.

(i) Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Center for photographic intelligence units of U.S. Intelligence Board components involved in national and departmental activities.

(j) Examine and make recommendations to the U.S. Intelligence Board, as appropriate, as to any special security controls required for photographic and related materials.

(k) Consult, as appropriate, with individual departments, agencies, and committees of the U.S. Intelligence Board on matters related to photographic intelligence exploitation activities.

(3) Organization. See organization chart, figure 13.

Revised: 26 September 1966 (308)
