Of the source, date of activity, date received, and name of the Agent receiving the information are known, it is not necessary to request the office originally obtaining the information to document it further by furnishing information showing the location of the original in the office files. If all documentation, except the latter item, is not in the possession of the office preparing the report, it should be obtained.

V. If it is found desirable to include in a report the identities of individuals who are known communists and have been associates of the subject to lend weight to evidence of the subject's potential dangerousness, only the source of the information showing the associate to be a communist need be identified.

VI. In a very limited number of instances it may be necessary to obtain a thumbnail sketch or characterization of an individual or organization from another office or the Bureau. When such information is received in your office, it should be placed in thumbnail sketch files so that it will be available to and can be readily located by Agents having future need for it, thereby eliminating repeated requests of another office for the same information.

g. Channelizing memoranda — destruction following submission of reports in security cases

Channelizing memoranda in organizational and individual security case files may be destroyed following submission of reports in these cases. In destroying these memoranda, be guided by the following instructions:

(1) The Agent, at the time he dictates the report, is to prepare a memorandum listing the channelizing memoranda to be destroyed by serial or serial scope and requesting the chief clerk's office to destroy. This memorandum should indicate that pertinent information contained in the serials to be destroyed was incorporated in the report. Use form FD-338 for this purpose.

(2) The cover pages accompanying the report will list the file and serial number of the original informant reports or master channelizing memoranda.

(3) In the case of multiple volumes, the destruction memorandum should be prepared by the Agent in sufficient numbers so that one copy will appear in each volume of the multiple-volume file being stripped.

(4) Prior to destruction, the Agent's recommendations are to be reviewed and approved by the supervisor at the time he reviews and approves the report.

(5) The employee destroying the channelizing memoranda must place the date of destruction and his initials on the destruction memorandum. Thereafter, this memorandum will be filed in the case file as a permanent record of the serials destroyed.

(6) Technical and microphone surveillance channelizing memoranda may be destroyed without the necessity of identifying in the cover pages of the report the exact location in the office files of the original information. The use of an asterisk identifies the source, and the original information can be readily located.

(7) Channelizing memoranda of translations of foreign-language newspapers and periodicals may be destroyed, provided the original translation is maintained in the main file of the publication concerned.

(8) Do not destroy channelizing memoranda in the following instances:
