NIS Operations Report. Date: 01-09-80. Code: O B H O. Control: 01-09-80 N 08-H067-INTC/F. Status: Only. Distribution: / /E II-N0022/ /. Made at: NIS (IN IS), New Orleans. Sex: M.

S/NOVEL. Gordon Novel/Civilian (DIRC sensitive).

DCI: 4–8 January 1980. OPA: 4–8 January 1980, New Orleans, Louisiana. Evaluation: F-6. Source: Various.

1. On 4 January 1980 the reporting agent received a call (in his absence) from an individual who identified himself as Gordon Novel. He indicated to the person taking the call that the subject to be discussed was “Washington.” The reporting agent returned the call and in the ensuing conversation Novel indicated that he was involved in a “commercial venture” and felt that the results might be of interest to PONI. He indicated, in essence, that this project involved outfitting a “fast patrol craft” with various means of testing defense systems (NFI). He indicated the take from this project would provide intelligence data on a variety of worldwide defense systems. He indicated the British were involved in a similar project.

2. During the conversation he mentioned, on several occasions, that he felt “ONI” would be the agency within the Navy to receive his information. When the mission of NIS was explained to him, he expressed surprise that PONI no longer existed and that NIS had no positive intelligence collection mission.

3. During the course of this conversation Novel frequently referred to “my company.” When asked a direct question regarding the identity of his company he said, “You know, the Company, CIA.” He expressed displeasure with CIA and stated that should he ever involve himself in a contractual arrangement with the Navy he would not allow any of his information to be passed to CIA.

4. At this point the reporting agent indicated to Mr. Novel that NIS would have no interest in his projects; that possibly someone else within the Naval intelligence community might be interested and that if the reporting agent learned of such he would recontact Novel.

5. The phone number left by Novel when he initially called seeking the reporting agent is 504-
