RESUME

Antoinette M. “Ty” Roberts  
(Mrs. Walter W.)

5402 Tuscarawas Road  
Bethesda, MD. 20016

Home telephone: (301) 229-4269

Position Objectives: Editor/Writer, Public Relations, Administration.

Summary: Journalism-Broadcasting; Congressional liaison; research; administration. Experience dealing with Congress and governmental agencies; journalist (radio-TV, political magazine, freelance writer); social services consulting firms (Dept. of Labor, OEO, HEW, EPA); administration.

Public Relations: Control Data Corporation, 6003 Executive Blvd., Rockville, MD. Wrote and placed articles in daily newspapers, weekly and monthly trade and general magazines on computer usage. Coordinated Washington Region CDC Public Relations. 1974.

Media Research: Common Cause, 2030 M Street, N.W. Compiled a media profile of all Congressional Districts throughout the Common Cause network; researched and wrote same for newspaper, radio and TV stations to serve as a guide manual to local Common Cause chapters.

November 1972–April 1973.

Feature Reporter: Public Affairs News, 1625 Mass. Ave., N.W. Conducted radio interviews with individuals prominent in government or private industry on topics of general public interest for broadcast over independent radio stations across the country.

February 1972–November 1972.

Research Assistant: WAPORA, Inc., 6900 Wisconsin Ave., N.W. Assisted in researching and preparing proposals to prospective government and private clients for environmental pollution studies.

January–February 1972 (contract).

Research Editor: Organization of American States, 1725 Eye Street, N.W. Researched and edited special report for the OAS on Barbados, W.I.

January–March 1972 (contract).

Media Assistant: Volt Information Services, Inc. Researched and wrote information on specific ICAP programs of Indian Community Action Programs for the Office of Economic Opportunity, Indian Division.

February–July 1971 (contract).

1968–1970.

Freelance Reporter: Resided in Barbados, West Indies, with my husband who was working for the United Nations Development Programme. While there I was Special Correspondent for the Toronto Telegram (Canada); also wrote for the local Barbados newspaper, Advocate News, and appeared on interview panel shows of the Caribbean Broadcasting Co.

Assistant Public Relations Director: Established administrative and Public Relations project for Reading Is Fundamental, a project funded by the Ford Foundation. Duties included publicity, answering information inquiries and establishing an information clearinghouse for the program.

August 1968–December 1968.
