Letter requesting Bureau authority for interview.

(1) In absence of special circumstances, include the following statement in the first paragraph of the letter.

(a) Bureau authority is requested to interview subject in accordance with existing instructions relating to interviews of security subjects. If subject is cooperative, no affirmative steps will be taken during initial interview to direct his activities, and complete background investigation required by section 107C of Manual of Instructions will be conducted. Bureau will be requested to authorize recontact with subject as PSI.

(b) Form FD-336 contains the above statement and may be used. The statement in no way precludes interviewing Agents from obtaining all subversive information subject is willing to furnish or other data which will assist in determining his potential as informant.

(c) If available, the letter must contain the following information:

I. Residence address, occupation, employment, race, date and place of birth, citizenship, and status of health.

II. Marital status. If married, occupation, employment, and race of spouse.

III. Length of time subject was a member of or affiliated with a subversive organization and positions held. When investigation is based on circumstances other than membership or affiliation with subversive organizations, briefly set forth facts.

IV. If married, state if spouse is or has been a member of or affiliated with subversive groups, positions held, and period of such membership or affiliation.

V. Membership or affiliation of any other close relatives in subversive groups.

VI. Information regarding defection, expulsion, inactivity, and present sympathies of subject and, if married, of spouse.

VII. What is expected to be gained by interview.

(d) In each letter, pertinent information, if available, regarding the seven items listed must be set out under the appropriate number, but headings need not be restated. If no pertinent data is available regarding any item, so indicate after the number.

(2) Letters must be personally approved by SAC.

(3) One copy of the letter should consist only of the first page of the letter. When unnecessary to issue specific instructions, Bureau will approve the request by stamping this page and returning it by routing slip.

(4) When authorized, the interview must be conducted within 45 days. If not possible, advise Bureau and indicate subject will be contacted within 45 days. If interview has not been conducted at the end of the second period, request new authority. Include any new information bearing upon advisability of interview.

Preparation for and conduct of interview.

(1) Preparation must be thorough and the interview conducted so that Agents will not be compromised, Bureau will not be embarrassed, and informants will not be exposed. CPUSA has planned traps for Agents attempting interviews with members by installing recording machines in members' homes or endeavoring to have interviews observed by concealed third parties.

(2) Safety, security, sensitivity, and good judgment are considerations in evaluating the necessity for two Agents to conduct an interview of any subject in all types of security investigations, i.e., revolutionary, subversive, or extremist. Special Agents in Charge have the responsibility and option of deciding when two Agents should be present during any interview of this nature. Safety of Special Agents should be the first priority in any evaluation in this regard. If two Agents conduct the interview, the background of the subject and circumstances will determine how the approach should be handled. An Agent experienced in security investigations who is knowledgeable regarding development of informants should conduct the interrogation. The actual approach need not be made by two Agents; one Agent may observe from a secure distance.
