Dispatch. To: Chief, DO. From: Acting Chief of Base, New York. Subject: ISOLOG/LICOCKY — Tana de GAMEZ. Action required — references. Action required: per paragraphs 1 and 7.

1. During a meeting with LICOOKY/1 on 7 March 1968, the agent passed on the following information which may be of interest to the appropriate Headquarters components. L/1 apologized for the lack of details, but the agent was not in a position to pump for further information beyond that which was volunteered.

2. On 7 March Tana de GAMEZ, a naturalized U.S. citizen of Spanish origin, said that she had been telephoned the night before by the son of her half-sister Mercedes (last name unknown to L/1), her nephew Roy. The latter is a college student somewhere in Connecticut (possibly the University of Connecticut), and his home is somewhere in Westchester County. Roy said that he was calling his Aunt Tana because he knew that she had worked for OSS during WWII; Tana rejoined that she had never had anything to do with OSS, that she had worked for the Office of War Information (OWI). At any rate, Roy said that he wanted to tell his Aunt Tana that he had been “recruited” by the CIA, and that he was only going to work for the CIA so as to evade the draft. Upon being questioned on this, Roy maintained that he had been “recruited” by the CIA on campus.

3. The nephew’s statements rather rattled Tana de GAMEZ, to the point where she had to take her heart medicine for palpitations (she has a heart history). Among other things, Tana was upset by the thought of a family member being affiliated with the CIA, even though the nephew is disliked by her as an individual.

4. Tana de GAMEZ was a member of the U.S. delegation to the Havana Cultural Congress in January 1968. She is a well-known figure in the intellectual leftist set in New York, and is outspokenly pro-Castro. She is a member of the editorial board of Grove Press; is a published author herself; and is a close friend and associate of John GERASSI, formerly of Ramparts Magazine.

5. Tana de GAMEZ is the subject of a voluminous file at the LNERGO office here. LNERGO information, which agrees with Base information obtained from L/1, indicates that de GAMEZ is vocal but /CONTINUED/

Cross reference to.
