Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

This officer continues to perform his duties in a highly efficient manner, showing diligence and initiative. He has successfully coordinated the activities of the ODJKE intelligence community in the Factory Management field, and has succeeded in keeping this an active and rewarding program. He has been cooperative at all times, and has willingly assumed additional duties, particularly in assisting the Branch Chief in handling KULUX problems and requirements. He has established good working relationships with the ODJKE agencies in the field, and has twice during this period received letters of appreciation from other agencies for the high calibre of training which he has conducted. No specific weak points have been noted, and no special training is recommended at this time.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 31 December 61. Signature of employee: R. Fox Jerome (Signed).

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 7. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 30 days. Report made within last 90 days.

Official title of supervisor: E. Mints. Typed or printed name and signature: Elmer F. Mints (Signed).

By reviewing official. I would have given this employee another evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employer's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 31 Dec. 61. Official title of reviewing official: Robert P. Wheeler (Signed).
