At the establishments of 25 non-Soviet-bloc countries. The principal cost involved in this phase relates to agent time devoted to investigations of sources and time spent in handling these sources.

3. Positive Results Achieved

This program has enabled us to provide the White House and the U.S. Government with a continuing flow of valuable foreign political information affecting the national and international interests of the U.S. The program was particularly productive in our coverage of recent critical areas or coups during the Middle East crisis, the continuing civil war in Vietnam, and the recurrent political crises created in South America through the understanding and assistance of regiments in Latin American countries covered. In those areas mentioned, so well known in other tripartite relationships are they, this program has served as a basis for obtaining information which was provided by U.S. Government with current data regarding the international political scene and has contributed towarzise containable information for the benefit of those responsible for policy decisions at the highest level of our Government. An example of the importance of this information is illustrated in the comments of the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Charles W. Yost (West), made to him in a letter dated 11/10/70 to the Director. Ambassador Yost noted that the support given to the U.S. United Nations Mission by the Bureau was deeply appreciated by him and had afforded him privileged insight and perspective.

The quality of this program is further attested to by realization by the White House of the collaboration of the FBI to produce positive foreign political intelligence with reciting instructions to the Bureau to expand its capability abroad in respect of Union positions. As a result of these instructions, our capability in furnishing foreign political information was enhanced to include the capacity of six new Union posts in Brazil, Louisiana, Canada, Venezuela: La Paz, Bolivia; Comprazón, Uruguay; Argentina, Venezuela; and Tel Aviv, Israel. With this expansion, our overseas Union posts in Argentina were increased from 26 to 42 with dispatching civilial personnel using increases to number from 33 to 40. This move has increased the number of our foreign posts from 11 to 17. (See detailed comment regarding increase in liaison abroad to not forth in the work papers of this inspection under section 4-6, Accomplishments - Special Coordination Unit.)
