On July 30, 1975, Emily Sheketoff of your staff receipted for a one-page notification distributed to the chairman and members that Anne P. Commanduras, an employee of CIA's domestic assassination office, had been murdered in her apartment house swimming pool by CIA assassin Eugene Hale Brading.

I now enjoy the additional intelligence that Commanduras was executed with a CIA dart gun such as that displayed to news cameras by a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. The intelligence weapon fires a sliver coated with shellfish toxin that kills within seconds, dissolves, and leaves no mark. The CIA preserved its shellfish toxin supply in direct contravention of an order of the President. Your Committee filed this report without action along with over 200 additional counterintelligence reports. Is this secrecy that protects national security?

Congressman Pike, you have exposed $10 billion of CIA funding mostly hidden in another budget. Will you go for more? Then examine the State Department, Treasury Department, Justice Department, White House, and Congress appropriations. All of these support personnel accepting orders for covert domestic operations from CIA.

You have uncovered CIA operations in the media. Investigate police departments throughout the nation funded by LEAA that are responsive to CIA orders. In the Fairfax County, Virginia, police department alone, a CIA assassin has twice employed the badge of the department as cover to gain entrance to domiciles to perform executions.

I again commend your Committee for resisting the pressure for secrecy in publishing your report. I deplore your resistance to the leaking of intelligence into your Committee. The latter confines your Committee's intelligence to official and unofficial leaking channels of the CIA. Please concede that there are other citizens as concerned for the security of America as you are.

I respectfully request the opportunity to confer with you, Congressman Pike, or with your capable, diligent, and honest staff chief, A. Searle Field. I want to assist your Committee in recommending remedial legislation based upon 27 years of defining the problem.

Encl.: Letters to Senator Abraham Ribicoff and to Senator Frank Church.
