7. A hotel room in Los Angeles was bugged by Brewer several years ago. It was to be used for some kind of interview.

8. A home in Bethesda, Maryland, was also bugged before being occupied by a Cuban national.

In all, Mr. Brewer believes he was involved in more than ten technical operations, but less than 100 prior to 1968. In all cases he was merely supplying technical support for operations at the request of his superiors, and was not witting to the actual operation. In each case he assumed the propriety and lawfulness of the operation.

Since 1966, Mr. Brewer has been engaged in only one technical operation (Operation PARAGON—threat against Director Helms and Vice President Agnew). When that threat was made, Brewer suggested that a line be run into the informing agent’s apartment. Such a line was run from that agent’s telephone (a telephone tap). This operation was approved by higher authority.

Surveillance

Surveillance was conducted off and on through the period from 1960 to 1973. However, active surveillance did not begin until 1968 when the “Surveillance and Technical Unit” was formed. Prior to 1968, surveillance was restricted to training exercises and surveillance of defectors. Mr. Brewer estimated that he engaged in about ten such operations prior to 1968. Training surveillance continued after 1968, but only one surveillance of a defector was made during that time.

In 1966 Headquarters requested that the Washington Field Headquarters form a sophisticated surveillance unit. Such a unit was not really created until Brewer took over the “Surveillance and Technical Unit” in 1968. After 1968 surveillance took up a large part of the time of the “Surveillance and Technical Unit’s” time. The Unit consisted of 14 support agents and was expanded to 20–24 men during some surveillances. The Washington Field Office did surveillance for the entire country with regard to Security Office matters. If a surveillance was conducted anywhere in the country, Brewer believes he would know of it. If surveillance was conducted in the territory of another field office, that field office would have been in charge, with the Washington Office providing the support. The following surveillance was undertaken by Brewer’s Unit:

1. Surveillance of Employees or Former Employees

a. Project CORSCO: A Mr. Hand, under official cover, at the Pentagon was surveilled due to his association with suspected security risks. He was eventually fired. His associates were also surveilled.
