Designation of Beneficiary.

Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program.

Important: Read instructions on back of duplicate before filling in this form.

Information concerning the insured. Name: Jerome. Date of birth: October 9, 1978. Status: employee; retired or an applicant for retirement; receiving Federal Employees’ Compensation benefits or an applicant for such benefits. Department or agency in which presently employed (if retired, former department or agency): department or agency; bureau; division; location—city, state, and ZIP Code.

I, the individual identified above, canceling any and all previous Designations of Beneficiary under the Federal Employee Group Life Insurance Program heretofore made by me, do now designate the beneficiary or beneficiaries named below to receive any amount of life insurance and accidental death insurance due and payable at my death. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary will remain in full force and effect, with respect to any amount payable, unless or until canceled by me in writing, or until such time as it is automatically canceled (see regulation “f” on reverse side of duplicate copy).

Information concerning the beneficiary or beneficiaries. Isaac T. Foss. Address: 5019 Commerce St., Annandale (Anandale), Va. 23203. Relationship: Dad. Share: 50%.

Paul P. Teng. Address: 5019 Commerce St., Annandale (Anandale), Va. 23203. Relationship: Son. Share: 50%.

For each type of insurance (regular and optional): (1) I hereby direct, unless otherwise indicated above, that if more than one beneficiary is named, the share of any beneficiary who may predecease me shall be distributed equally among the surviving beneficiaries, or entirely to the survivor; (2) I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary shall be void if none of the designated beneficiaries is living at the time of my death.

I hereby appoint and reserve the right to cancel or change this Designation of Beneficiary at any time without knowledge or consent of the beneficiary.

Date of execution—month, day, year.

Signature of insured.

Witnesses to signature. A witness is ineligible to receive payment as a beneficiary. Signature of testator. Number and street. City, state, and ZIP Code.

Print or type name and address, including ZIP Code, of insured. City, state, and ZIP Code. Indicate date and by whom received.

See reverse side of duplicate copy for instructions on where to file these forms. Do not file with the Office of Federal Employer’s Group Life Insurance.
