Statement of TRINKALA, Victor Lee, taken at 108th MI Group, Region I, 26 Federal Plaza, Room 1332, New York, New York 10007, dated 19 February 1970, continued:

Q. Have you ever attended any meetings of any dissident, anti-Army, anti-war groups?

A. No, never.

Q. Where were you stationed while in the Army?

A. I was stationed at Fort Gordon, Georgia for approximately nine weeks during which time I received Basic Training. I then went to Fort Polk, Louisiana, for AIT training in the MOS 11B10. I stayed at Fort Polk for approximately 10 weeks. I was then sent to Oakland Army Terminal with orders for Viet Nam. I was discharged at Oakland Army Terminal on 3 December 1969.

Q. Do you not remember the reasons for your discharge?

A. No, I do not remember the specific reasons.

Q. How much time had you spent in the Army?

A. I had spent five months and 22 days.

Q. Did you not think it rather odd that you should be granted a discharge after only five months and 22 days?

A. Yes, I thought it was odd but I did not know what was happening.

Q. Did you receive any counseling while in the Army from Army personnel?

A. No, but the Personnel Officer at Oakland Army Terminal asked me who Richard Nagel was.

Q. Why did he ask you the identity of Richard Nagel and what was his name and rank?

A. I do not know why he asked me about Richard Nagel. He was a Warrant Officer but I do not remember his name or rank.

Q. What did you tell him about Mr. Nagel?

A. I told him only that he was a personal friend of mine.

Q. Had you requested a discharge at any time prior to arriving at Oakland Army Terminal?

A. I do not recall.

Q. You had never requested a discharge?

A. I was trying to get my combat status changed to non-combat status. I never initiated any formal procedures to obtain a discharge.

Q. Did you ever tell any one that you were a Conscientious Objector?

A. Yes, I told the adjutant at Oakland Army Terminal but he tore up my request and told me to get the hell out.

Q. Have you his name and rank?

A. No, I do not recall his name or rank.

Q. Did Richard Nagel ever mention to you how he got you out of the Army?

A. No, as I mentioned before I have never seen him before or since. He called me long distance from New York City while I was at Oakland Army Terminal and that was the first and last I heard from him.

Q. Has Tony Muneer heard from him or does he know of his whereabouts?

A. No, Tony has not heard from him since December 1969 and does not know of Richard Nagel's whereabouts.

Q. Have you ever been arrested?

A. Yes.

Q. How many times?

A. About three or four times.

Q. Have you ever been arrested since being inducted into the Army?

A. No, and I listed all my arrests on the forms I had to fill out before going into the Army and at Basic Training.
