Section 107. Internal Security Informants and Confidential Sources; 107W and Foreign Counterintelligence Assets

16. Reliability of assets

Reliability of all assets must be constantly checked. If any doubt exists concerning an asset, give consideration to the use of various investigative techniques to ensure the asset is completely reliable and is furnishing accurate information.

17. Assignment of pseudonyms

In sensitive cases, where necessary; if the asset will sign reports or receipts; or if the asset is an OA receiving operational funds from a foreign intelligence service or payment from the U.S. which requires bookkeeping records, assign a pseudonym for these purposes.

18. Recording of information received from asset

When recording information from any asset in a communication prepared for dissemination, characterize the asset either as one “with whom contact has been insufficient to determine reliability,” or as one “who has furnished reliable information in the past.”

a. Oral information

(1) Information pertaining to the asset’s personal status is recorded in the 134 main file, e.g., marital difficulties, change of employment, change of residence.

(2) Information pertaining to operational administrative matters is recorded in the asset’s 134 subfile. When this data, e.g., location of meet sites, times of meets, or any data which tends to identify the asset, is furnished to FBIHQ, it should not be included in communications prepared for dissemination, but in cover pages. When the asset is a member of the military, submit, in addition to the communication for dissemination described immediately above, a communication for dissemination containing all operational administrative details for the information of the asset’s service.

(3) Information of intelligence value should be submitted to FBIHQ via appropriate communication, and, if of interest to other U.S. agencies or friendly foreign services, should be submitted to FBIHQ in a form suitable for dissemination.

(4) Execute and maintain form FD-209 in the asset’s main file concerning contacts with the asset. If contacts produced information of intelligence value, record only the date of contacts; if negative, record as such.

b. Written information

(1) Written information prepared by the asset, or by an FBI SA for the signature of the asset, pertaining to operational activities (not a written report passed by the asset to his principal) must be dated at the top of page one and signed at the bottom of each numbered page by the asset using his pseudonym. This material may be maintained as an attachment to a serialized memorandum in the asset’s subfile (punched holes are allowed), or in a section of the asset’s 134 subfile.

(2) Information received in this manner should be devoid of FBI identification, block or time stamps, serialization number, or other administrative markings.

(3) Only the original need be maintained; the asset must not keep a copy.

10-15-74
