Fitness Report. Coded.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in agency personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The agency selection board with information of value to the consideration of an individual for membership in the career service; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report.

To the Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns direct and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

Posted by: CFS. AIS. 20 APR 1955.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I (To be filled in by Administrative Officer).

1. Name (Last): O'Neal. First: Birch. Middle: D.
2. Date of birth: 1 June 1913.
3. Sex: Male.
4. Career designation: SD-FI.
5. Date of entrance on duty: 11 February 1947.
6. Office assigned to: DDF *.
7. Division: WH *.
8. Branch: III *.
9. Nature of assignment: Field.
10. If field, specify station: Guatemala *.
11. Grade: GS-0136.01-lh.
12. Date that this report is due: 11 February 1955.
13. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 28 February 1954 - 11 February 1955.

Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item.

Section III.

I certify that, during the latter half of the period covered by this report, I have discussed with the rated individual the manner in which he has performed his job and provided suggestions and criticisms wherever needed. I believe that his understanding of my evaluation of his performance is consistent with my evaluation of him as evidenced by this fitness report and I have informed him of his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness. If performance during the report period has been unsatisfactory, there is attached a copy of the memorandum notifying him of unsatisfactory performance.

This report has been shown to the individual rated.
