Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds, which must be supported by, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

No substantive change from previous Fitness Report. The comments therein remain essentially valid. Subject will be acting capacity covering in the main the current supervisor's functional responsibilities for an interim period of over two months. Through a deliberately imposed trial period in preparation for this change, Subject has moved in strongly and with good judgment. The variation in Rating Letter grades reflects the longer period of assessment. Subject has improved demonstrably in approaches and initiative under Specific Duty No. 3; under Specific Duty No. 6 the current Supervisor has noted a tendency to be less than prompt in finalizing support actions so vital to liaison as such and our own support elements; finally, the present Supervisor finds room for improvement in the conduct of intra-Station relationships, but this is admittedly a highly subjective view. There remains no question about overall professionalism and capabilities.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 8 May 1970. Signature of employee: /s/ Jerome Fox.

By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 12 months.

Date: 8 May 1970. Official title of supervisor: Opw Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Harry G. Petersen.

By Reviewing Official.

The reviewing comments made in the previous fitness report continue to apply for this brief rating period. For the same reasons stated therein, I would rate Subject in Duty #1 as Proficient and the overall grade of Proficient. Duty #1 is Subject's principal function assigned in his Letter of Instruction (LOI). During the past two weeks and for a two week period in mid April when Subject managed the Communist Operations Branch and his cases all by himself, I have observed a distinct increase in his effectiveness. He has worked long and hard, has shown initiative and imagination, has kept DCOS/COS currently briefed, and has shown good judgment in the decisions he.

Date: 22 May 1970. Official title of reviewing official: DCOS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Terry T. Shima.
