SECTION C - Narrative Comments (continued)

Their need for our support.

Subject, at the same time, surveyed the host government intelligence and enforcement agencies to learn how they had structured their responsibilities in combating the narcotics trade. By seeking out current and former liaison contacts, the picture that he received of the estimated size of the problem and the Philippine control effort gave us some idea of the parameters of what it was we were dealing with. Through a formerly dormant liaison contact, one of the country's experts on narcotics, he has developed both a window on what is being done officially and a means of access capable of affecting the Philippine policy on the subject. During a recent regional ASEAN meeting on narcotics held in Manila, Subject was able to insure that our objectives for the conference were met through this influential asset.

Subject has made a fine beginning in getting our narcotics effort underway. He has done the basic research, begun building the necessary data base and has culled from other activities three or four Station assets whose natural access is being utilized to develop leads into the murky Philippine underworld. His flair for organizing disparate data is being put to excellent use.

In the earlier period covered in this fitness report, Subject was plagued by a nasty, debilitating fever that eluded diagnosis for some time. A period of hospitalization followed by the necessary recuperative period kept him out of action for a lengthy period. Close on its heels, this was compounded by a freak bone break in his hand that required surgery and once again kept him off the active list.

Subject is a good agent handler; he is both FI and CI minded and he has the ability to ask the right questions to extract the maximum information from his sources. He has a great deal of energy and he liberally expends it in his work. This strength, curiously, is also a weakness since he has the tendency to ride off in all directions at once. In this flurry of activity, by attempting to do everything at the same time, his writing tends to become a shorthand of sorts and clarity inevitably suffers. He is aware of these problems and has consciously made the effort -- particularly since he has become the narcotics referent -- to give proper order to his priorities.

As has been mentioned previously, his knowledge of the Communist Party activities and personnel is impressive and until he relinquished his role as the Communist Party referent, he was a helpful focal point for other Station officers with party assets. In the months ahead his concentrated efforts against the narcotics target should bear fruit.
