If you are of a true “Rightist” revolutionary nature, do not hesitate to form an IRA cell of your own. Commit revolutionary acts, rob banks, and if it was done in the spirit of the White Racial Movement, we will accept credit for it and in all probability contact and recruit you into the “inter-circle” of our movement.

It will be rather difficult from this point on to contact us because we are already in permanent hideouts which we refer to as camps. We don’t mix with the public and only leave our camps to commit a revolutionary act.

But if you should decide to be one of us, in all probability someone in your area is already a member and we could arrange for a contact.

We have a code system set up throughout North America so that we can stay in continual contact with our comrades, and I rather doubt the Feds will ever be able to break our system.

Beware if you are an enemy agent yourself. We have in our possession a lie detector, sodium pentothal, the technology to use this equipment, and the ways and means of eliminating enemies.

We have many automatic weapons and chemicals for making high explosives and the technology for doing so. We have explosives which have been stolen over the years from various enemy camps. We will buy and steal more automatic weapons and explosives, and we will recruit more persons who have already stored away caches of such. We have scopes, silencers, and the contacts to get more. We have acids and other horrifying goodies.

We don’t intend being stopped, and we have the materials necessary to avoid capture and to kill the enemy.

We are presently working on a device which can be remote-controlled over a great distance which will horrify the enemy with gigantic explosions. We are attempting to perfect a sound device which will blow up the enemy’s war devices at a safe distance. We are looking into the production of laser equipment and shall have answers soon.

We are working with an anti-Communist group and shall perhaps have a safe foreign base within the next several months. This would even supply us with nuclear missiles, etc. Wow!!!
