MHFNO: 95-0906823. SENSIND: EO RYBAT.

Retirement, and the diversity issue will be another major concern of the group.

A new strategic budget planning group is being created. It will be led by Eric Quackenbush and Joe Detrani.

President Bush's 27 Jun visit to HQS went quite well, in the DCI's estimation. The DCI advised that the briefings by DO personnel were right on the money and very well received, especially the China briefing by ADCEA/CO.

The ADDO will attend a covert action hearing at the SSCI on 14 July. On that same day, the President and First Lady will visit the Agency.

George Tenet has been confirmed as the DDCI and will arrive on Monday, 3 July. Admiral Studeman will remain with the Agency for a few months overlap.

A Honduran task force has been created to fulfill the same function as the Guatemala TF.

An effort is beginning to declassify all documents related to the JFK assassination. Released documents will not include any info dealing with third country liaison relationships or about agent assets. However, all else will be released.

The IG semi-annuals are about to begin (NFI).

DDA and DDO will begin having breakfast meetings to hold discussions on “connectivity” (e-mail and other communication) between HQS and field stations.

Meals: Executive Dining Room #2 will soon close, and it may be re-established somewhere else in the HQS building. Dining Room #1 will remain for use with liaison visitors.

Frank Rocco (DDA) is retiring. As part of his retirement process, he will work for about two months helping establish the National Imagery Agency and then spend about one month in the transition program. At the DO staff meeting, ADDO formally bid adieu to LA Division Officer Bill Devine, who is also retiring.

3. Towards the end of the EA staff meeting, CEA joined the group; and, at the conclusion of DCEA/SEA's briefing, presented an EA plaque to IDEN Reports (and sometimes Front Office) secretary for her several years of outstanding service to the division, first as EA/J secretary and then in Reports. She is moving into an Agency job at an outlying office much closer to her residence.

4. FYI, this was yours truly's last EA staff meeting as I will be entering the 90-day retirement transition program.
