SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES

[e.] When an informant or former informant is initially considered as a potential witness in a Bureau case, determine whether he paid Federal and state taxes on the income he received from the Bureau for his services. If such taxes have not been paid, obtain all pertinent details and promptly submit recommendations for handling the situation.

7. Stipulation of payments made to witnesses

a. In trials in which informants, former informants, or other persons who were paid sums of money are prospective witnesses, the Bureau must furnish the Department a set of photostats of the original receipts signed by the prospective witnesses. The original receipts and a set of photostats will be transmitted to the field office in whose territory the trial will take place. The office handling prosecution must determine from the Government attorney which individuals are to be used as witnesses. Thereafter the office should furnish and/or cause other appropriate offices to furnish to the Bureau the following information:

(1) The correct, full name

(2) All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers

(3) The first date of contact by your office

(4) If first contact was prior to September, 1944, the names of all SAs, SACs, and ASACs who contacted and may have made payments

(5) A tabulation of all payments, broken down as to the amount applicable to services and the amount applicable to expenses. Although tabulations are not furnished to the Department, those prepared by your office will be reconciled with Bureau records.

(6) A listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of advances

(7) The date of last contact by your office

(8) Whether the individual has been contacted by any other office

b. Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. If no contact was made with a particular individual, the Bureau must be so advised.

c. Where an informant has previously been used and a tabulation of payments was prepared, information for items (5) through (9) need be given only from the date of the last trial from which the individual was used.
