Other action taken to neutralize their activities is handled, if possible, in such manner as to not destroy the opportunity to penetrate an active espionage network. When submitting FD-122 regarding such individual, the words “Special Interest” should be typed in upper right portion and the abbreviation “ESP” should be shown in the space provided after “Miscellaneous.”

(2) U. S. Government employees

The Department has requested regular advice as to the identities of all U. S. Government employees whose names are listed in ADEX. When submitting FD-122 regarding such individual, the words “Special Interest” should be typed in upper right portion and the abbreviation “GOV” should be shown in the space provided after “Miscellaneous.”

(3) Foreign government employees

In the event of a national emergency, special consideration should be given to these individuals to insure that investigation or other action taken to neutralize their activities is handled so as to minimize the possibilities of diplomatic repercussions. When submitting FD-122 regarding such individual, the words “Special Interest” should be typed in upper right portion and the abbreviation “FGE” shown in the space provided after “Miscellaneous.”

(4) Pro-Cuban individuals

In the event of a limited emergency involving the U. S. and Cuba, consideration should be given to affording special attention to the investigation of these individuals. This would include individuals who are included in the ADEX solely on the basis of pro-Cuban activities or sympathies as well as individuals who are included in ADEX primarily because of other activities or affiliations but who have shown a marked sympathy for the communist regime in Cuba or who otherwise would be of special interest in the event of a U. S.-Cuban conflict. When submitting FD-122 regarding such individual, the words “Special Interest” should be typed in upper right portion and the abbreviation “CUB” should be shown in the space provided after “Miscellaneous.”

FD-122 forms submitted relative to individuals in the above “Special Interest” classes should, in addition to listing the appropriate abbreviation after “Miscellaneous,” also indicate any other applicable organizational or nationalistic affiliation. For instance, FD-122 concerning a leader of the Communist Party, USA, who is a U. S. Government employee, would carry the abbreviation “GOV” as a miscellaneous item (and would have “Special Interest” typed in upper right portion) and in addition would be checked as to Communist Party affiliation.

Cards on “Special Interest” subjects should be filed in regular sequence with other ADEX cards in both the geographical (or unavailable, if applicable) and alphabetical sections and receive same handling as other ADEX cards except for instructions set forth above. Automatic Data Processing equipment at the Bureau will furnish on demand lists of individuals in any one or all of the above “Special Interest” classes.

ADEX cards for “Special Interest” subjects will bear appropriate code letters in upper right portion designating type of case. When subject no longer comes within one of classes of special interest, submit FD-122 with words “Remove from Special Interest” typed after “Miscellaneous.” If card should be placed in unavailable section, add “Place in Unavailable Section.” When new cards are received from Bureau, destroy old cards.
