Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

Country: USSR/International. Report No. OO-B-3,288,475. Subject: IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiations, Brookhaven, Long Island, NY, Oct 63: Neutron Irradiations Compared to X- and Gamma Radiations in Large Animals; the Problem of Neutron Depth-Dose Relationships in Large Animals; Problems with the term “Relative Biological Effectiveness”; Soviet Proposal for Supplanting “Rad” with Some Other Radiation Unit. No. pages: 10. Place and date acquired: Oct 63. References: CD/00 Case 41357; FTD-5462-N.

Source: Three US citizens. Radiobiologists at a major US radiobiological research center. Sources participated in IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiations, Brookhaven, Long Island, New York.

Source 1

1. Q. Did Symposium contributions include significant advancements in research on controlled thermonuclear reactions that may be useful in determining the feasibility of initiating uncontrolled thermonuclear reactions solely without the use of fissionable materials which would produce large amounts of energy, on the order of one kiloton or greater?

A. To the best of my knowledge there was no formal discussion of any nuclear reactions, as such. The great majority of the material presented had to do with biological effects, and the physicists at the Symposium were using high energy machines largely to produce the radiation that would be comparable to solar flare radiation.

2. Q. Was anything presented on effects of space radiation on the human body?

A. I can recall no Soviet references to the Vostok flights. The two Soviet speakers confined their references to purely laboratory observations. There was a number of US papers, and as I recall one from France, oriented to space flight conditions, however.

3. Q. Were there results in the use of drugs in radiation protection?

A. I do not recall anyone’s discussing drugs—Soviet or other. And I think that although research in drugs is continuing many radiobiologists are not very optimistic about their value. This is something many of us have reservations about.
