Assassination Records Review Board  
600 E Street NW, 2nd Floor, Washington, DC 20530  
(202) 724-0088; Fax: (202) 724-0457

April 16, 1997

Mr. J. Barry Harrelson  
Historical Review Group  
Center for the Study of Intelligence  
Central Intelligence Agency  
Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Compliance Program and Requests for Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:

I am writing to memorialize the Review Board's understanding of the status of CIA's responses to our formal and informal requests for additional information and records that have been requested pursuant to the Review Board's authority under Section 7(j)(1)(C)(ii) of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994) (JFK Act).

It is important that everyone at the Agency who is responsible for providing answers to our requests for additional information and records understand that the answers will need to be incorporated by reference into the Agency's Final Compliance Statement. Essentially, CIA will need to attest, under oath, that it has made all reasonable and diligent searches and that its answers are true and correct to the extent of the best, reasonably available information. In this regard, it is important to note that when the Review Board requests, for example, a 201 file, it is not asking that you identify relevant records within the Sequestered Collection. Rather, it is asking to review the original 201 file in its current and most complete version.

The Review Board has no basis for assuming that a 201 file as it appears in the Sequestered Collection today is necessarily complete. It is fully possible that a relevant document was not identified by CIA or the HSCA in 1978–79 and therefore is not included in the Sequestered Collection, or that a relevant document that was initially placed in the Sequestered Collection in 1978–79 may have been misplaced at some point during the subsequent twenty years. Therefore, in response to requests for files, it is not sufficient merely to point to places where responsive records appear in the Collection. On a case-by-case basis, we are very willing to hear your explanations for the possible burdensomeness of any particular search or your analysis of why a search
