Enclosed find the groups belonging to the Frente that were written for me by Dr. Fidez.

Enclosed find marked “Reporte and Informe” (2 sheets), given to me by Dr. Fidez to show what they are doing now.

Dr. Fidez (Dídez, F'dez) informed me of the following:

(a) A Communist militant, Alberto Iglesias, 425 Cedar Lane, E. Meadow, New York (phones: IV-1-4368 and IV-6-4547). He has been a resident of the U.S. for more than 20 years. He has his business, American Welding and Boiler Works Co. This is a man to be watched, as he even uses his business as a front.

(b) Mario Garcia, Miami Ventilated Awning Co., Inc. (works at), is presently asking Immigration permission to go to Cuba and is considered one of Fidel Castro’s heads here, with a great many ties.

Enclosed find a breakdown of expenses of the Frente Intell. Office, given to me by Dr. Fidez at my request. Frank Aries is helping the Dr. get funds for the maintenance of this office for at least another month. I think that this setup should be taken under study.

9. August 21/61

Enclosed find marked #9, two documents given to me by Emanuel Carvajal last night, which are self-explanatory in Spanish. One is a list of exiles in their Costa Rican Embassy in Havana, and the other is a document copy signed and given today to the Minister of Foreign Relations of Cuba in Havana.

It seems that there was very much discussion concerning some among the foreign diplomats in Cuba. The Egyptian Ambassador (RAU: Syria, etc.) went to the first meeting the diplomats had in Habana concerning the new monetary exchanges. He first agreed strongly with the rest and promised to sign the enclosed type of document concerning the new exchange of dollars in Cuba. The first meeting was held last Monday, August 13th, and they met again a second time on Thursday in order to sign. He, whose name was not known by Carvajal, then refused to sign and did not even show up, which indicated to the remainder of the diplomats that his money must have been exchanged in the full amount to keep him off the list of signatories.

The Swiss Chargé d’Affaires informed the diplomats at the same meeting that he had received information from his government that the Swiss government was checking all present Cuban bank accounts existing in Switzerland and was readying itself to act accordingly in case the Cuban government should not reach any agreement regarding the exchange with the diplomats.
