Payroll Authorization Form.

U.S. House of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515.

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action.

Employee name: I. Charles Mathews. Effective date: March 1, 1978. Employee Social Security Number: 013-34-3361. Employing office or committee/subcommittee: Assassinations. Type of action: Appointment; Salary Adjustment; Title Change; Termination at close of business on effective date; Leave without pay beginning with effective date above and ending close of business. Specify date.

Position title: Special Counsel. Gross annual salary: $30,000.

If employee is a civil service annuitant, including U.S. House of Representatives, the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

Committee employee:

1. Standing Committee: Staff—Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

Employee of an Officer of the House: Position Number. If applicable, Level. Step.

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date: March 14, 1978.

Signature of Authorizing Official.

If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member.

Louis Stokes. Chairman.

Name of Authorizing Official.

Name and title of above official.

Title—if Member, District and State.

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Approved: Chairman, Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only: ID. Office Code. Benefits. Monthly Annuity. Payroll.

Revised: August 1, 1977.

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee.
