TION CHART

Field Offices: Memphis; Oklahoma City; San Antonio; Miami; Omaha; San Diego; Milwaukee; Philadelphia; San Francisco; Minneapolis; Phoenix; San Juan; Mobile; Pittsburgh; Savannah; Newark; Portland; Seattle; New Haven; Richmond; Springfield; New Orleans; Sacramento; Tampa; New York; St. Louis; Washington, D.C.; Norfolk; Salt Lake City. Total: 59.

Assistant to the Director: Cartha D. DeLoach.

Division 6: General Investigative.

Assistant Director: Alex Rosen.

Division 8: Crime Records.

Assistant Director: Thomas E. Bishop.

Division 9: Special Investigative.

Assistant Director: J. H. Gale.

Criminal Intelligence Section:

192 Anti-Racketeering (Intelligence); 179 Extortionate Credit Transactions; 162 Interstate Gambling Activities; 143 Interstate Transportation of Gambling Devices; 144 Interstate Transportation of Lottery Tickets; 165 Interstate Transmission of Wagering Information; 166 Interstate Transportation in Aid of Racketeering; 168 Interstate Transportation of Wagering Paraphernalia; 172 Sports Bribery; 137 Top-Echelon Criminal Informants.

Fugitive Section:

115 Bond Default; 76 Conditional Release Violators; 13 Criminal Informant Matters; 42 Deserters and Deserter-Harboring; 76 Escape and Rescue; 76 Escaped Federal Prisoners; 20 Fugitive Offenders; 78 Unlawful Flight to Avoid Custody or Confinement; 88 Unlawful Flight to Avoid Giving Testimony; 88 Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution.

Employees Security and Special Inquiry Section:

151 Agency for International Development; 137 Applications for Executive Clemency and Applications for Pardon After Completion of Sentence; 116 Atomic Energy Act (Applicant or Employee Investigations); 151 Atomic Energy Commission (Civil Service Commission); 77 Coast Guard Screening Appeal Board; 77 Departmental Applicants for Presidential Appointments and Professional Positions, Including Special Agents and Inspectors for the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs; 77 Departmental Applicants, Including Deputy Marshals and Clerical Positions in Bureau of Prisons, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and Other Branches of the Department of Justice, Including Clerical Positions of the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs; 151 International Labor Organization; 138 Loyalty of Employees of the United Nations and Other Public International Organizations; 77 Maintenance Employe
