Harvey wanted to know all that Rosselli knew about Cuba in an intelligence line. Harvey told him at this meeting to have no further contact with Maheu and that he should not talk further with Giancana. He also said that he, Harvey, was in charge of the operation and that Rosselli should take his orders from Harvey. At this point the original project, using pills, was considered defunct.

After this first meeting, Rosselli again contacted his Cuban people. He made several trips with Harvey in Florida, some down in the Keys, to see what type of operations were continuing. One of the projects Harvey had Rosselli doing was verifying CIA reports by using Rosselli's own people who were in frequent contact with Cuba. The intelligence reports dealt both with personalities in the Cuban hierarchy and with different ongoing operations. Rosselli paid his own bills before the Bay of Pigs, but afterward Harvey would usually pick up the tab.

Castro

Harvey approached Rosselli with the proposed mission to try for a second time to assassinate Castro. Harvey said that the new pills would really work and were much stronger. Harvey gave Rosselli six pills, and Rosselli gave those six pills to his Cuban contact. There were no special instructions on how to handle the pills, and his Cuban contact said that they would be passed into Cuba and used.

At this time, Rosselli had no ongoing contact with Maheu, but may have run into him in Los Angeles. Maheu knew that Rosselli was still working on the Cuban project and that he, Maheu, was out. Rosselli never got any report back on what happened to the six pills, but he assumed that they had been unsuccessful. He did hear a rumor report over a radio or TV station that Fidel Castro was deathly ill, but then, shortly thereafter, he recovered.

Rosselli arranged for the CIA to supply a panel truck loaded with carbines for use by his Cuban contacts to make two- or three-man party raids into Cuba, hopefully assassinating Castro and overturning the government.

During the Cuban missile crisis, Rosselli was in Chicago. He contacted Harvey at Harvey's mother's home in Indianapolis and left his number in Chicago. Harvey then called him and told him to go to Washington, D.C. From Washington, D.C., Rosselli traveled to Florida, where he stayed for the duration of the Cuban missile crisis. He, at times, would, through his Cuban contacts, attempt to verify the location of the Russian missiles in Cuba. Rosselli claimed that this had been successful. After the Cuban missile crisis, Harvey called Rosselli and told him to stop all contacts with any and all persons involved in past Cuban missions. Harvey never stated why the missions were being called off.

The only money that Rosselli ever put up was $800 to buy gas for the speedboat that would deliver the two- or three-man teams to Cuba to do guerrilla operations. He stressed throughout the interview that he had never received any money and that besides this $800 he had never given any money for anything. His last contact with Harvey was in June of 1963 or shortly thereafter, when Rosselli found out that Harvey was being transferred to Rome and he made a special trip to Washington to say goodbye to him.
