Section D. Narrative Comments.

Since his last Fitness Report, in June 1974, Mr. Woods has continued his extremely fine performance as a conscientious, hardworking, and thoughtful records manager and registry supervisor. The CCS registry workload remains at about the same level as previously reported, and Mr. Woods regularly works an hour or so of uninterrupted overtime every working day personally reorganizing procedures, cleaning out, consolidating, and retiring files. His enthusiastic determination in reducing the numbers of out-of-date and no longer useful files is most exemplary. Knowing the numbers of primary and supplemental files involved in this exercise, and as a retiring supervisor, I can only wish him “good luck”!

Mr. Woods also continues eager to learn and use new methods and techniques. During this reporting period, in July 1974, he took the Agency course “Introduction to Micrographics Seminar #2.”

Finally, it gives me pleasure to note here that, effective 11 November 1974, Mr. Woods will be given a well-deserved promotion from GS 11/6 to GS 12/3.

Section E. Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employee was under my supervision: 15 months. Date: 20 November 1974. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief, CCS. Typed or printed name and signature: Carter H. Yates.

2. By Employee. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance: Have attached X; have not attached. Date: 20 Nov 74. Biography of employee: James S. Woods. May be attached X; have not attached.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Both Mr. Yates’ letter ratings and narrative comments accurately reflect the quality of Mr. Woods’ performance during the reporting period. He is a thoroughgoing professional records officer who uses his extensive experience and his good judgment to take initiatives toward improving the Registry service and the management of records. Hand in hand with his high substantive competence goes his excellent ability as a supervisor. I can say nothing more laudable in this regard than that I have not had to deal with Registry personnel problems during the last year. He knows the job that needs to be done and so do his people. With this kind of leadership, the work gets accomplished with a high state of morale. Date: 25 November 1974. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, Cover and Commercial Staff. Typed or printed name and signature: Erich W. Isenstead.

4. By Employee. I certify that I have read the entries in all sections of this report. Date: 25 Nov 74.
