How to Protect Yourself from Wage Garnishments

1. Get a lawyer immediately if your wages are garnished. The Seattle Legal Services Center provides lawyers for people with low incomes who cannot afford to pay for a lawyer. A similar service for low-income workers is provided by the Tacoma Legal Assistance Office, 1501 South “M” Street, Tacoma.

2. Do not go to court alone and do not call the creditor without legal advice, or they may help you to confess judgment against yourself; and you can lose your wages and your case without any evidence or trial or opportunity to testify. Do not sign a confession of judgment without your lawyer’s advice.

3. Do not ignore the action or a default judgment may be entered against you without your knowledge. Your lawyer can prevent this if you notify him promptly of the action.

4. You are entitled to an exemption of $25.00 per week, plus $10.00 for the first dependent, plus $5.00 for each additional dependent, up to a maximum of $50.00 per week. Be sure you claim an exemption for each week’s wages caught by the garnishment. You don’t have to state whether you owe the debt to claim an exemption.

5. You may have a defense to all or part of the claim if it includes a “collection fee” or “attorney’s fee,” if it is an old debt, if it was incurred by fraud or deception, if you did not get what you bargained for, or if you have been through bankruptcy. Your lawyer may advise you of other defenses to the garnishment.

6. Jury trial and night court may be available to you, in certain cases, by requesting them. Jury trials cost $6.00 and night court costs $1.00 in Justice Court.

7. If you are fired because of a garnishment, report it to your union and you may be able to file a grievance or have it arbitrated.

8. Unemployment compensation. Many courts say that garnishment is not “misconduct” on the job. If you are refused unemployment compensation for this reason, you have only 10 days to file Notice of Appeal with the Employment Security Department.

9. Welfare, veterans and Social Security payments and certain other kinds of government benefits cannot be garnished.

10. Bankruptcy or a wage earner plan may be a way to protect yourself from repeated garnishments.
