Office Memorandum, United States Government

To: A. H. Belmont  
From: S. B. Donahoe  
Date: 8-18-58

Subject: Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of Friendly Foreign Nations

WFO on 8-8-58 advised that since the revolution in Venezuela in January 1958, the country has been ruled by a junta. Newspaper media since the revolution have reported periodically that individuals who were political exiles during the regime of Marcos Perez Jimenez (Marcos Pérez Jiménez) have been allowed to return to Venezuela and pursue their former political activities.

It has become apparent from daily news stories that Venezuela is presently in a state of political upheaval. Although the leader of the junta, Admiral Larrazabal (Larrazábal), has stated he has no political aspirations, it has been pointed out by correspondents that he has recently given indication of this by touring the country and “wooing” the support of the communists. This reportedly has been done by statements attributed to Larrazabal (Larrazábal) that he could not conceive of a Venezuelan communist being controlled by the USSR since all Venezuelans are inherently patriotic and loyal to Venezuela. It has also been pointed out that the communists of Venezuela are being played up as the heroes of the recent revolution in that country. Some correspondents have stated that it is felt there will possibly be a military coup if the politicians of Venezuela do not soon set up a government acceptable to the military leaders. It is further noted that the Vice President and Mrs. Nixon experienced insults during their tour of Latin America, the most vicious of which occurred in Venezuela.

From the above, it appears that we should try to place ourselves in a position to obtain current intelligence data concerning the Venezuelan political situation. It is pointed out that there appears to be a possibility of the Venezuelan communists gaining more and more influence and power in that country and, therefore, shifting Venezuela to alignment with the Soviet Bloc. WFO noted that a confidential source has reported on several occasions a strong interest in Latin America by the Soviet Embassy. WFO has requested the Bureau obtain State clearance for WFO to initiate a program, looking toward the development of informants and sources within the Venezuelan Embassy, Washington, D.C. This should be done.

65-63113

94-4-4761 (Embassy of Venezuela)
