6. Reports of trainees indicate that weapons training is confined to weapons they will be able to obtain, maintain, and replenish in their own countries. We have reliable and corroborative reports that trainees and sponsoring leaders alike have been told Cuba does not intend to supply appreciable quantities of weapons because a guerrilla must be self-sustaining. It should be noted that while Cuba does supply some funds, guerrilla handbooks also suggest that bank robberies make guerrillas self-sufficient in this respect. Leftist militants have in fact resorted to robberies in Peru, Venezuela, and Argentina.

E. Subsequent Employment and Countermeasures

1. Clandestine reporting has established a number of incidents of sabotage, terrorism, guerrilla activity and other subversive action in which individuals known to have received training in Cuba have participated. The clearest cases involved the establishment of local guerrilla training camps by Ecuadoreans and Brazilians returning from training in Cuba. In each case, however, our evidence of the guerrilla training in Cuba comes from clandestine sources, there is no legal evidence of such Cuban instruction, and there has been no move to prosecute. All 48 arrested in Ecuador were released after short detention. Two individuals arrested in connection with the Peasant League training activities in Brazil are still known to be detained.

2. The records maintained by Latin American security services are inadequate and far from standardized, so that it has been difficult to establish a statistical approach to arrests for all types of subversive activities. Available reporting indicates at least 11,000 such arrests since 1 January 1962, but a survey shows that most of these arrests amounted to little more than detention and some interrogation. There were relatively few trials and convictions, probably not exceeding five per cent of arrests.

3. Some of those arrested were released for lack of evidence. In other cases, for example in Ecuador, Brazil, and in Peru until last January, there has been little evidence of any inclination on the part of the government to prosecute. In cases where trials have taken place, the local security services have frequently
