VI. What support for collection facilities was required from other agencies? How was it secured from them? Was it timely and effective? What, if anything, was lacking?

The conduct of intelligence collection operations often has depended on timely and effective support from other U.S. government agencies. Several government agencies provided support to intelligence operations directed against the Cuban target on both a regular and a standby basis. In fact, each and every request for policy-approved support was granted and carried out rapidly and effectively. For example, the Department of State has expedited the issuance of visas in selected cases at our request, as well as granting visa waivers to individuals of operational interest to the Agency. In addition, Foreign Service personnel interview, debrief, and attempt to establish the bona fides of potential intelligence assets who voluntarily contact a U.S. Embassy or Consulate. This is often done alone and sometimes in collaboration with an agency officer prior to introducing the agency officer for further development and exploitation as the case may require. These types of support are provided regularly by the Department of State and contribute considerably to the effectiveness of many complex intelligence operations.

Another U.S. government agency which has given invaluable support to the Agency's intelligence collection operations is the FBI. The FBI has provided biographic data, investigative reports, and operational leads to individuals of known or potential operational interest. This support has been maintained on a regular and continuing basis. Close liaison relations between the FBI and this agency are maintained at Headquarters and at various Field Stations. This close liaison has resulted in a better understanding of the needs and requirements of each agency in the successful accomplishment of their separate responsibilities, as well as providing a rapid channel for providing support and assistance when requested.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has facilitated the entry into the U.S. of persons of operational interest to the Agency and has provided guidance and support for cases which involve unusual alien residence and/or naturalization proceedings. Liaison with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is particularly close and harmonious at the Miami Field installation, where the bulk of the cases involving persons of operational interest to us originates.

Reports provided on a regular basis by the National Security Agency have been a source of operational leads which have been followed.
