WILL YOU HELP?

Yes, you. It may come as a surprise that you'd be asked ... but as a reader of Computers & Automation you are in a unique position to help us.

NAMES ... people, institutions, companies who should be interested in 1) the computer industry and/or 2) seeking truth in information are very much needed to join you as readers of C&A.

Will you tell us who they are? And perhaps even more, will you let us use your name in writing to them? But with or without your name (we'll only use it if you grant permission) we need to know those you think might be interested in also reading C&A.

Reprint from Computers and Automation: Science and the Advanced Society, by C. P. Snow, Ministry of Technology, London, England (April 1966); The Information Revolution and the Bill of Rights, by Dr. Jerome B. Wiesner, M.I.T. (May 1971); Employment, Education, and the Industrial System, by Prof. John Kenneth Galbraith, Harvard Univ. (Aug. 1965); Computers and the Consumer, by Ralph Nader, Washington, D.C. (Oct. 1970).

Please give us their names and addresses on the form below or add another sheet of paper. Trim out the card with scissors and drop it in the mail. We'll gladly pay the postage to learn of possible new friends. And many thanks for your help! As a token of our appreciation we'll send you our Reprint.

P.S. If you like you may mail your list separately to:

R. A. Sykes, Circulation Mgr.  
Computers & Automation & People  
815 Washington Street  
Newtonville, MA 02160

To: R. A. Sykes, Circulation Mgr.  
Computers & Automation & People

I suggest you send information on C&A to ... (attach list if you like).

(1) Name. Address. City. State. ZIP.

(2) Name. Address. City. State. ZIP.

May we use your name? Yes. No.

Please give us your name and address on the form below so we can send you your Reprint. Just cross out the subscription request—unless you also want to enter your new or renewal order.

Yes, start my subscription to Computers and Automation and People according to the instructions checked below.

One Year (Including the Computer Directory and Buyers' Guide—13 issues), U.S. only: $23.50.

One Year (excluding the Computer Directory and Buyers' Guide—12 issues), U.S. only: $11.50.

Name. Title. Organization. Address. City. State. ZIP. Country if not U.S. Signature. P.O. No.

Payment enclosed. Renewal. Bill me. New subscription.

To speed the processing of your order, please check the one best descriptor in each of the two categories below. This information will be used for statistical purposes only.

Business Type:

01—Computer Manufacturer.

02—Aerospace: Aircraft Manufacturer.

03—Other Manufacturing.

04—Raw Materials Processing: chemical, primary metal, petroleum, food, etc.

05—Mining and Construction.

06—Computing & Consulting.

07—Finance, Insurance, Publ., and Service Organizations.

08—Transportation Companies.

09—Public Utilities.

10—Research.

11—Wholesale, Retail, Sales, and Marketing Firms.

12—Educational: College, University, or School.

13—Receivable and Millers' Job Function.

1—Technical Management: computer installation management, program management, or engineering management.

2—Computer Center Personnel: methods and procedure analysts, and operators.

3—Programming Personnel: systems, application, and research programmers.

4—Professional: systems analysts, mathematicians, operations researchers, and professors.

5—General Management Executives: corporate officers, owners, and partners.

6—Engineering Personnel: systems engineers, research and development engineers.

7—Research Personnel.

8—Students.

9—Library Subscription.
