3. Soviet Signal Intelligence Ships

The Group considered an outline plan for “communication” with Communist crews. The general consensus was that this plan did not fall within the purview of the Special Group. It was referred back to JCS for further development. The matter will be discussed at a State-JCS meeting to be held in the near future. Mr. Gilpatric also expressed interest in seeing a more detailed development of the concept. Mr. Bundy pointed out that we should be careful where such activities are pursued. Generally speaking, they should be limited to the high seas or international air space. General Carter raised the point that this concept should not be stretched to include defection operations on land. This is a highly skilled operation which requires special attention and control. The Group took no particular position for or against the concept in referring it back to Defense.

4. Chile

The Group reviewed the two Agency papers. Mr. Johnson stressed the necessity for concealing U.S. participation in this operation and also expressed some concern about the possibility of the Radicals pulling out prematurely and bringing the government down. The Agency mentioned the desirability of policy-level conversations with suitable Chileans so that they would be aware of the future political arrangements which it is felt would be to the common interests of Chile and the United States. The Group approved the recommendation in paragraph 5 on page 7.

5. Dominican Republic

The Group noted this paper. General Carter urged the Department of State to continue to press the interim government on the desirability of holding early elections.

6. Panama

Mr. Johnson said that State concurred in the general thrust of this paper, but would like to limit the continuation of the program to a three-month period during which time it would be reviewed in detail by State and CIA. The Group approved the proposal with this reservation.

7. General Lemnitzer stated that Mr. McCone had called him and posed a possible requirement for low-level photography of critical Cuban targets. General Lemnitzer said that from the military point of view this was feasible, utilizing either RF-101 or FBU aircraft flown by U.S. pilots from various bases or carriers in the Caribbean area.
