Polygraph. Standard polygraphs were four variables: pulse, blood pressure, and perspiration. Some measure additional physiological variables. The more variables measured, the more reliable the polygraph.

I and McQuiston discovered that the frequencies composing the human voice are not fixed; they shift very slightly from ten to fourteen times every second. When the speaker is under stress, this normal frequency modulation disappears. There remain only the pure component frequencies of the voice. This is a strong indication that the speaker is lying.

Two men developed a device to test this phenomenon and planned to use an additional “channel” on the polygraph. Then they discovered that the new one was such a reliable and accurate measure of psychological stress that there was no need to measure the other polygraph variables.

Tested without the necessity of strapping the subject into a chair, stretching a pneumocardiograph tube across his chest, gluing electrodes to his palms, and clamping his arm at his side, the PSE is much more versatile than the polygraph. Because it can work from a telephone or tape recorder, the PSE can be used without the knowledge or even the visual presence of the subject.

I asked Colonel Bell to tell me about some of the things the PSE was being used for, especially cases in which a conventional polygraph could not be used. He mentioned that the police in Howard County, Maryland, had been using the PSE for two years; they had had great success in establishing the guilt of suspects who were afraid to submit to a polygraph examination because of the machine’s forbidding aspect.

I went on to describe some of his idea’s other uses, actual or potential. The Federal government was expanding its use as a defense against skyjackings and telephoned bomb threats, and as an aid to speeding up customs inspections. Some doctors and psychiatrists were using PSEs to study patients’ physical and mental stress. The National Committee to Investigate Aerial Phenomena, a private group that investigates UFO reports, was using the PSE to interview witnesses to sightings.

I asked Colonel Bell if he would lend me a PSE instrument in order to write a piece about the device. He agreed, with two conditions. First, I must take Dektor’s three-day course in operating the instrument; second, using the PSE, I must review my notation of its output with his staff, in the interest of accuracy. This seemed reasonable, so I agreed.

A course was held in the meeting room of the Holiday Inn in Falls Church, Virginia. Eight other students were employees of customers who had purchased the PSE. These included a private detective in Pennsylvania, a New York chain, and an African country. The instructor was Mike Kradz, a criminologist and retired police officer. Kradz projects the tough-cop image, but he is a living rebuttal to the Polish joke. There is nothing about forensic science, from fingerprints to polygraphy, on which the man is not an expert.

The first morning of the course was devoted to the physical operation of the PSE. The device is used in conjunction with a Uher tape recorder, which has four speeds and can be manually wound back to locate a particular point on the tape. The testimony to be evaluated is recorded at a tape speed of 7½ inches per second, then played back and stopped at the beginning of the utterance in question. The recorder is slowed to 15.16 inches per second and played. The sound, no longer recognizable as a human voice, is a long, low rumble.

The PSE itself is built into an attaché case. The case opens to reveal a chart drive, similar to an electrocardiograph, and a number of buttons and knobs. A single cable connects the PSE to the tape recorder.

As the tape recorder reels slowly turn and a rumble issues from its speaker, the PSE stylus dances back and forth across the moving chart paper, leaving behind a ragged trail. Then the recorder is stopped, the chart paper is stopped, and that’s all there is to it. The result is a strip of paper with a squiggly line. The rest is up to the human eye and brain.

On the afternoon of the first day, Kradz showed us what to look for. The unstressed voice looks like an untrimmed hedge, with stalks of different heights sticking up and down at irregular intervals. But add some stress, and that hedge begins to look trimmed. The greater the stress, the smoother the shape.

The more I read, the more I doubted the official account of what happened that day in Dallas.

If the subject was experiencing the hard stress that accompanies deception, the overall outline of the figure tended to take on a rectangular shape, a concertina as seen by the player. Kradz showed slide after slide of charts made during actual police interrogations. He told us the background of each case and pointed out the telltale signs of deception, whenever they were present.

That night each student took a PSE back to his room to practice operating it. Some coordination.
