Fitness Report.

Section A. General.

Name: FOX, Jerome. Date of birth: 9 October 1948. Grade: S-11. Service designation: IR. Official position title: 10 Factory Mark. Career staff status: Deferred X. Type of report: Initial annual reassignment/supervisor X reassignment/employee. Pending. Declined. Special: To Augt 59 Apr 61. Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: From May 1948 to June 1950.

Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employee supervisors).

Section B. Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employer's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

a. Performance in many important respects falls to meet requirements.
b. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
c. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
d. Performance exactly exceeds basic requirements.
e. Performance in every important respect is superior.
f. Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Section C. Description of the Employee.

In the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee.

1—Least possible degree. 2—Limited degree. 3—Normal degree. 4—Above average degree. 5—Outstanding degree.

Characteristics: Not applicable. Not observed. Rating.

Gets through does. Resourcesful. Not applicable: X. Not observed: X. Ratings: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

Accepts responsibilities. Not applicable: X. Not observed: X.

Can make description on his own when needs areks. Not applicable: X. Not observed: X.
