Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Strong strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplitude or complete, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

The undersigned's assessment of subject officer continues essentially the same as stated in the previous fitness report.

During the 18 months this officer has performed his duties at Tokyo Station he has carried on and, with marked success, built upon the program organized by his predecessor. Subject officer by diligent effort and by demonstrating outstanding competence and expertise in the Factory Markings field has successfully established himself as the focal point for the Factory Markings Collection Program (FACP) within both the Station and the ODYOKE intelligence community. He has established and maintained excellent working relations with all ODYOKE Intelligence components having an interest and/or capability in the FACP. His status insures the maximum coordinated effort in this field with resultant benefits to the entire intelligence community. The thoroughness and effectiveness with which I believe the FACP is being carried out in the North Asian area is strong testimonial for the caliber of subject officer's performance.

Subject officer has demonstrated high devotion to duty and complete willingness to undertake any task; no matter how difficult or inconvenient, which would contribute to the FACP. In addition, he has voluntarily undertaken to look after the broader interests of NLYMX with both RUDOVE and ODYOKE military intelligence concerns in this area. In the performance of his duties subject officer has also displayed a high degree of initiative and self-reliance, as well as mature judgment in assessing the goals of his program and devising and implementing all measures necessary to achieve them.

With regard to subject officer's current assignment and performance I have no weakness to note. From the point of view of his career development I am推荐 further training.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 14 April 1961. Signature of employee: Jerome Fox (Signed).

This report was prepared in accordance with F.E. Division standards which are being rating the individual.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 18.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee's supervisor, see explanation.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify).

Date: 14 April 1961. Official title of supervisor: Clerk, CIB. Typed or printed name and signature: Frank J. Denney.

By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employer a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official: I am not, of course, as familiar with Subject's work as in the
