24 May 1963

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Special Group 5412 Meeting – 23 May 1963

1. After general discussion the North Viet Nam paper as presented by Colby was approved with the exception of Item b. State took the position that work with isolated ethnic groups in North Viet Nam should not be undertaken unless specifically approved by the Department. Defense raised the question of more extensive operations than anticipated by CIA and indicated that the JCS had developed a plan which would be submitted to the Secretary of Defense and then to the Special Group. I raised the question as to whether the General Harkins command working with the South Viet Nam army could conduct truly covert operations north of the 17th parallel, pointing out that if such actions were attributed to either the United States or the South Vietnamese (South Viet Namese), then the North Vietnamese (North Viet Namese) with their substantial military organizations could retaliate against South Viet Nam with punishing consequences. The JCS plan was not formally presented. No actions were taken although it is expected that it will be presented in the near future.

Action: General Carter has had this matter under consideration with Admiral Riley. We should receive and study the JCS plan immediately upon its approval.

2. Defense indicated that the Army have developed plans for large-scale operations against Cuba involving sabotage. No presentation was made; however, the Special Group was advised that such a plan would be forthcoming.

3. Plan for disposing of the 14,000 sacks of sugar in Puerto Rico was discussed. I explained the actions being taken by DDP under FitzGerald's direction and indicated the sugar would probably be sold by the Soviets to a New York sugar broker who would in turn sell it to a non-U.S. port. The 800 bags in question would be disposed of.

4. I reported the current status of British Guiana as outlined in the attached paper.

Action: Mr. Bundy asked that Mr. Helms follow British Guiana closely and keep in close communication with me and with him.
