Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 007894.

Section A: General.

Name: Smith, Joseph B. Date of birth: 16 June 1921. Grade: GS-14.

Official position title: Operations Officer. Office/city/no. of assignment: DDP/WH/1. Current station: Mexico City.

Checker type of appointment: Career professional. Special (specify). Temporary. Annual.

Checker type of report: Initial. Reassignment supervisor. Reassignment employee. Special (detail specialty).

Date report due in O.P.

Reporting period: April 1971–31 December 1971.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory. Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and continuing remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal. Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient. Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner specified.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and is so comparative to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. List the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise. Indicate manner of supervision employed.

Specific Duty No. 1: Supervises the CA section of the station, which includes one station case officer, one senior outside career agent, and part-time services of one senior contract agent. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 2: Supervises operations for the collection of intelligence on selected targets in the Mexican government and political arena. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Develops new contacts and operations to improve the output of station third-country-targeted propaganda. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4: Develops new contacts for producing intelligence on significant targets in the Mexican intellectual community.
