20/20 (ABC), August 27, 1993

Sheriff Bowles: You have to ask them.

Mr. Posner: They clearly went down the wrong path. The National Academy of Sciences reviewed their work later, and pointed out all the flaws in it. They just made an error on that Dictabelt. There is no fourth shot. There's no shot at all, even, to hear.

Sherr: Even if people accepted the physical evidence gathered here in Dealey Plaza, and agreed that it tended to support the Warren Commission's findings, that would not end the speculation. Surveys show that most Americans doubt that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone, believing instead that he was either part of or himself became a victim of a conspiracy.

Lee Harvey Oswald: I didn't shot anybody, no, sir.

3rd Newscaster: [?] Oswald has been shot!

Sherr: What about the Ruby—the Jack Ruby-organized crime connection? Clearly, there was a connection there.

Mr. Posner: No question. As a matter of fact, I think the Warren Commission underplayed Jack Ruby's organized crime connections.

Sherr: Isn't there some evidence, then, that he might have been acting on their behalf to wipe out Oswald?

Mr. Posner: Right. No. If he had a contract from organized crime, why didn't he shoot Oswald when he saw him for the first time two days earlier? On the day Ruby finally killed Oswald, it was only by chance that their paths crossed. He was not acting on behalf of organized crime. He was acting for his own motivation, this desire, as he thought, to be a hero in Dallas, that he would erase the stain and the stigma attached to the city that had been done by the President's murder.

Sherr: You're saying Jack Ruby acted all by himself, a lone-gunman theory once again?

Mr. Posner: Without any doubt.

Sherr: [voice-over] Posner also explained his views on the many conspiracy theories about the assassination.

Robert F. Kennedy: Did you say, “That S.O.B., I'll break his back”?

Jimmy Hoffa: Who?

Mr. Kennedy: You.

Mr. Hoffa: Who's the “who”?

Sherr: The Mafia wanted the President killed, because that would get rid of Bobby Kennedy, who was going after organized crime.

Mr. Posner: I would not be surprised if the Mafia, in 1962 or '63, sat at a
