Memorandum Donahoe to Belmont

Re: Intelligence Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries

In view of Murphy's willingness to cooperate with us on this, we have studied our system to see if we can streamline our “3-step” procedure to eliminate unnecessary paperwork for him and for the Bureau and to reduce liaison contact with him on such matters to a minimum so as not to tie up procedure with “red tape.” We feel we can best do this, and still give us adequate safeguard of State clearance, by following procedure: (1) when we select a country as a logical target, we will write a memorandum outlining reasons and have liaison orally discuss with Murphy to determine if he agrees and at the same time to secure his clearance for very discreet investigations of potential sources which we will thereafter select. Liaison notation on the memorandum will constitute Bureau record of clearance of country and individual investigations; (2) where we desire to interview a potential source, we will prepare a letterhead memorandum which liaison will deliver to Murphy. This memorandum will indicate we propose to conduct the interview under a suitable pretext and will concisely summarize identity, background, citizenship, position occupied, and other pertinent factors disclosed during investigation. Liaison, in delivering this memorandum, will then note on the yellow Bureau copy whether Murphy clears interviews or not, and this will serve as Bureau record. If Murphy declines an individual clearance, liaison will determine whether declination is strictly governed by facts relating to that case or whether Murphy feels the foreign policy situation has changed to such an extent that we should stop our efforts concerning that particular country. This will eliminate needless effort.

We have completed investigation of Shanker Samuel Jairam Bhole, Assistant to Procurement Officer at the Indian Embassy, who, while born in India, is a U.S. citizen, as is his entire family. Investigation has been favorable, and Bhole has reportedly been critical of Indian conditions and policies. Washington Field Office desires authority to interview him, will make no effort to direct his activities during initial contact, and foresees no possibility of embarrassment from this initial contact.

Recommendations:

(1) Recommend our liaison representative deliver the attached letterhead memorandum on Bhole to Murphy to obtain his clearance for this proposed interview.
