Testimony of William Branch

The Chairman. Will you identify yourself for the record?

Mr. Branch. I am a sergeant with the Orlando Police Department attached to the intelligence division, and I have been with them since 1951. I have been working in this type of work since 1956, with the cooperation of the Federal and State agencies in our area.

The Chairman. Do you have a prepared statement?

Mr. Branch. Yes, sir, I do.

The Chairman. It appears to be four or five pages. Do you wish to read it?

Mr. Branch. Yes, sir.

In the central Florida area the main gambling activity is known as bolita or Cuba. Bolita is a numbers lottery where the winning number is drawn daily. Cuba is a numbers lottery where the winning number is drawn weekly. Bettors can place bets on any number from 1 to 100 and receive a 60-to-1 return if they win. The Cuba winning number is the last two digits from the Cuban national lottery number, which is five digits and is broadcast over a Havana radio station each Saturday shortly after 2 p.m.

The public is contacted by “peddlers” or “sellers,” who receive a commission of 15 percent of their sales. “Pickup” men, who take the bets from the sellers to the “checkup houses,” receive 20 percent of what they collect. Employees such as checkup men, adding-machine operators, and supervisors above this position usually receive salaries for their duties.

Lottery operations in central Florida prior to 1948 were dominated first by Charlie Wall of Tampa and then by Sam Warren, an Orlando native. In that year Harlan Blackburn, FBI No. 1026922, a convicted felon, came into Orlando and began taking over bolita and Cuba gambling.

This man is on the chart also.

Organized.

Blackburn was convicted and served 4½ years in the Florida State prison in March 1956 for a 5-year sentence. Senator Muskin. Mr. Branch. Yes, sir.

The Chairman. He was then convicted of conspiracy and was most recently tried in Federal wagering trial.

Blackburn supervised Florida gambling. F. Lee, Cecil Merritt, Don Mach, Dan Fu, and Clifford Bell; Riffe; Clyde F. Lee; Macon Tribute; Julian Shaw; Cecil Merritt Solomon (Solombn); and Ralph and Elvin Carroll.

With the exception of one, all of these persons had been convicted of other crimes.

I have here copies for the committee’s record.

The Chairman. For reference only.

(The documents in evidence and may be filed.) Mr. Branch. The operation for a number of years consisted of gross and net collections. I have secured information from witnesses that gambling operations were conducted.

Senator Muskin. Mr. Branch. I have—

The lottery operation extended from Orange County into all of Georgia.

From 1948 until then, there was a man named Santo Traffican visiting Orlando and conducting the lottery.
