(b) Satisfactory notes or statements from informants necessary from which to refresh their recollection in the event they are called upon to testify at some future date. Such notes and statements must be in sufficient detail to serve this purpose and must contain no material which would make their use inadvisable or inadmissible.

(c) Informant's original notes or statements not to be blocked, stamped, serialized, or mutilated in any way which would render them unsatisfactory for use in Federal proceedings.

(d) The above applies to Agent's notes taken during surveillances or evidence otherwise obtained by Agents.

(7) Interviews with subjects of security investigations

(a) Purpose

I. To determine a subject's sympathies when investigation is inconclusive or to determine whether he continues to adhere to revolutionary doctrines.

II. To develop information concerning subject's activities and those of others known to him to have been associated with a subversive movement.

III. To develop security informants.

(b) Subjects not included in the security index

No security investigation of an individual shall be closed unless the subject is included in the security index or consideration given to interviewing him.

(c) Security index subjects

I. Bureau will not authorize cancellation of a security index card on an individual by reason of inactivity in a subversive movement until he has been interviewed or Bureau advised why an interview is inadvisable or impossible.

II. Active subversives should be considered as potential informants. Consider interviews with selected individuals currently active in subversive organizations for development of additional active informants. Proper selection of individuals for interview is most important. Thus: must possess necessary attributes for security informant work.

(d) Without Bureau authority the SAC may:

I. Authorize interviews with individuals who have not been subjects of security investigations and the available subversive information against them is not sufficient to warrant opening cases at this time.

II. Grant authority to interview subjects of security cases where the persons have previously been interviewed with prior Bureau authority, provided no change has taken place in the subjects' status and the interviews are conducted under the same conditions as previously authorized.

III. Authorize interviews of all persons who were the subjects of security investigations where the cases are now closed. This will include persons who were previously on the security index but whose names have been removed and the cases now closed.

IV. In authorizing these interviews, no communication to the Bureau will be necessary and if there is a closed file, it should be reopened. If there is no closed file, a new case file of 134 category should be opened. The case should be assigned to an agent to determine the residence of the subject, to make certain that the subject is identical with the information in the files, and to determine his current employment.

(A) The Agent to whom the case is assigned will prepare a memorandum for the SAC setting forth the information and requesting authority to conduct an interview with the subject solely for the purpose of determining his attitude toward cooperating with the FBI.
