and a secretary, all under Embassy cover, and four case officers under non-official cover. It is headed by Paul Dillon, and the other official cover case officers are Donald Vogel, Cynthia Hausman and Robert Steele. A number of sensitive operations are underway.

The station has two observation posts in front of the Soviet Embassy, which cover the entrances, plus a third observation post in the back of the Embassy to provide coverage of the gardens. The LICALLA observation post in the back is the closest of five houses bordering the Embassy property—all five are owned by the station. Several years ago films were made of Soviets conversing in the garden, but attempts by Russian lip-readers to discover their conversations were unsuccessful. From one of the front OPs, radio contact is maintained with the LIEMBRACE surveillance team for signalling when a particular Soviet surveillance target leaves the Embassy, his route and other data. Photos are regularly taken from all the OPs of Soviets and their families and all visitors to the Embassy. When visitors use vehicles, photographs are taken of their licence plates for tracing. Occasionally the LICALLA OP is used for electronic monitoring, since it is close to the Embassy, but so far attempts to pick up radiations from Soviet cryptographic equipment have been unsuccessful.

In addition to the LIEMBRACE surveillance team, several other support operations include coverage of the Soviets. Through the LIENVOY operation, Soviet telephones are constantly monitored, and through the LIFIRE travel-control operation photographs of travel documents are obtained along with data on arrivals and departures. Monitoring of Mexican diplomatic communications reveals requests for Mexican visas by Soviet officials, including the diplomatic couriers. In addition, NSA is also monitoring several communications systems involving “burst” transmissions from the USSR to as yet unidentified agents believed to be in Mexico—possibly Soviet intelligence officers assigned abroad as “illegals,” with false identity and non-official cover.

The station runs between fifteen and twenty access agents against the Soviets with varying degrees of effectiveness and reliability. Several of these agents are suspected of having been recruited by the Soviets for use as double agents against the station. Two of the most important of the current access agents are Katherine Manjarrez, Secretary of the Foreign Press Association, and her husband—both of whom are targeted against the Soviet press attaché and the Tass correspondent. Others are LICOWL-1 and LIOVAL-1.

LICOWL-1 is the owner of a tiny grocery store situated in front of the Soviet Embassy where the Soviets buy odds and ends, including their soft drinks—TSD is studying ways of bugging a wooden soft-drink case or the bottles themselves. More important, LICOWL-1 is involved at the moment in an operation against the Embassy zavhoz (administrative officer), who spends considerable time chatting with the agent. Because Silnikov, the zavhoz, has been on the prowl for a lover—or so he said to LICOWL-1—the station decided to recruit a young Mexican girl as bait. An appropriate girl was obtained through BESABER, an agent who is normally targeted against Polish intelligence officers and who runs a ceramics business specializing in souvenirs. By loitering at LICOWL-1’s store, the girl attracted Silnikov’s attention, and a hot necking session in a back room at the store led to several serious afternoon sessions at the girl’s apartment nearby—obtained especially for this operation. Silnikov’s virility is astonishing both the girl and the station, which is recording and photographing the sessions without the knowledge of the girl. Although promiscuity among Soviets is not abnormal, relationships with local girls are forbidden. Eventually it will be decided whether to try blackmail against Silnikov or to provoke disruption by sending tapes and photos to the Embassy if the blackmail is refused.

LIOVAL-1 is not as interesting a case but is more important. The agent is an American who teaches English in Mexico City and is an ardent fisherman. Through fishing he became acquainted with Pavel Yatskov, the Soviet Consul and a known senior KGB officer—possibly the Mexico City rezident (KGB chief). Yatskov and the agent spend one or two weekends per month off in the mountains fishing and have developed a very close friendship.
