Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 604818.

Section A: General. Name: Joannides, George E. Date of birth: 5 July 1922. Grade: GS-11. SD: D. Official position title: OPS Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/S.A.S. Current station: JMWAVE.

Type of appointment: Career-provisional; special. Type of report: Initial XX; reassignment supervisor; annual reassignment employee; special.

Reporting period: 1 January 1963–31 July 1963.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Deputy Chief of Branch handling, in absence of Chief, all aspects of political action and psychological warfare activity and supervising fourteen case officers and clerical personnel. Rating letter: O, S.

Specific duty No. 2: Case officer for student project involving political action, propaganda, intelligence collection and a hemisphere-wide apparatus. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty Nos. 3, 4, 5, and 6.

Overall performance in current position: Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position, such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job.
