Such activities, the Bureau will consider placing him in contact with a reliable publisher, but it must be made clear to the informant that the Bureau will not sponsor or endorse any book or publication which he elects to write.

9. All payments to discontinued security informants and confidential sources must be made on a strict c.o.d. basis. Obtain Bureau authority before making any such payments. In requesting Bureau authority for payments of this type, submit complete details as to the information furnished by the discontinued informant or source in the past and what is to be expected of the informant or source in the future.

10. Once an informant is exposed in any manner whatsoever he is no longer to be carried as a concealed source in reports or memoranda. His true name is to be set forth, together with descriptive data.

11. When an office receives information concerning, or obtains information from, an ex-informant, copies of memoranda prepared must be furnished to the office which originally handled the informant so that the file of the ex-informant will be as complete as possible.

12. When an informant has been discontinued for cause, such as unreliability, he should not be contacted in the future for information. If such an individual furnishes information it should be accepted, but in setting out the information in reports or communications use the individual's true name, together with an appropriate description of his reliability.

13. Remove flash notice per section F, 6.

14. Repeated use of the same discontinued informant as a witness at security trials and hearings should be avoided. Make an all-out effort to develop witnesses who can furnish the same testimony as that expected of previously used witnesses. Advise Bureau of any indication by Government attorneys that an informant-witness who has previously testified will be called upon for testimony at a subsequent trial or hearing and furnish your comments concerning possibility of supplanting the testimony of individual involved. Submit communication under appropriate case character.

15. Every effort should be made to prevent a discontinued informant from becoming involved in situations which may prove embarrassing to informant or the Government. Immediately after he testifies for the first time, a serious talk should be had with informant by the SAC in the presence of the agent who handled the informant. This interview should be conducted in the field office and informant told that:

a. He will no longer be operated by the Bureau.

b. Since he is a public figure, he will probably be contacted by representatives of the press, radio, and television for interviews and appearances.

c. He may be sought as a witness by congressional committees, by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and by state authorities.

d. (Firmly stress.) In connection with such interviews and appearances, informant must continue to be factual and truthful and must not build up or embellish the statements, for if he does so he will wind up in serious trouble.

Advise Bureau results of such interview and comment on its possible effectiveness.

Be alert to the possibilities of former informant being contacted by representatives of publicity media and as a witness by congressional committees, INS, and state authorities. It will be the SAC's responsibility to know when a former informant is scheduled or is likely to appear at a hearing or make a public appearance of any kind. Prior thereto in each instance, former informant must be contacted and instructions above set forth reiterated by Agent who handled the informant.

Emphasize to former informant that he must stick to the truth and make certain he can back up what he says, and if there is any deviation he
