(B) For dependents of active duty members in pay grades of E-5 and above, $25; and,

(C) For retirees and their dependents, $25.

(vi) The copayment for prescription drugs per prescription, for a maximum 30-day supply, is as follows:

(A) For dependents of active duty members in pay grades E-1 through E-4, $5;

(B) For dependents of active duty members in pay grades of E-5 and above, $5; and,

(C) For retirees and their dependents, $9.

(vii) The copayment for ambulance services is as follows:

(A) For dependents of active duty members in pay grades of E-1 through E-4, $10;

(B) For dependents of active duty members in pay grades of E-5 and above, $15; and,

(C) For retirees and their dependents, $20.

(e) Inpatient cost sharing requirements under the Uniform HMO Benefit.—(1) In general. In lieu of usual CHAMPUS cost sharing requirements (see § 199.4(f)), special cost sharing amounts are required. The specific requirements shall be uniform and shall be published as a notice annually by the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs).

(2) Structure of cost sharing. For services other than mental illness or substance use treatment, there is a nominal copayment for active duty dependents and for retired members, dependents of retired members, and survivors. For inpatient mental health and substance use treatment, a separate per day charge is established.

(3) Amount of inpatient cost sharing requirements. Beginning in fiscal year 1995, the inpatient cost sharing requirements are as follows:

(i) For acute care admissions and other non-mental health/substance use treatment admissions, the per diem charge is as follows, with a minimum charge of $25 per admission:

(A) For dependents of active duty members in pay grades E-1 through E-4, $11;

(B) For dependents of active duty members in pay grades of E-5 and above, $11; and,

(C) For retirees and their dependents, $11.

(ii) For mental health/substance use treatment admissions, and for partial hospitalization services, the per diem charge is as follows, with a minimum charge of $25 per admission:

(A) For dependents of active duty members in pay grades E-1 through E-4, $20;

(B) For dependents of active duty members in pay grades of E-5 and above, $20; and,

(C) For retirees and their dependents, $40.

(f) Updates. The enrollment fees for fiscal year 1995 set under paragraph (c) of this section and the per services specific dollar amounts for fiscal year 1995 set under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section may be updated for subsequent years to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with statutory requirements pertaining to government costs. This updating does not apply to cost sharing that is expressed as a percentage of allowable charges; these percentages will remain unchanged.

(g) Applicability of the Uniform HMO Benefit to Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities Managed Care Program. The provisions of this section concerning the Uniform HMO Benefit shall apply to the Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities Managed Care Program, effective October 1, 1995. Under that program, non-CHAMPUS eligible beneficiaries have the same payment responsibilities as CHAMPUS-eligible beneficiaries.

Dated: February 2, 1995.

L.M. Bynum,  
Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense.

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

36 CFR Part 1400

Guidance on Interpreting and Implementing the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

AGENCY: Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB).

ACTION: Proposed interpretive regulation.

SUMMARY: The ARRB proposes to issue regulations providing guidance on the interpretation of certain terms defined in and the implementation of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

DATES: To be considered, comments must be received on or before March 10, 1995.

ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to the Assassination Records Review Board at 6100 E Street, NW, Second Floor, Washington, D.C. 20530 or delivered in person to that address between the hours of 9:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday (except legal holidays). Comments may also be mailed to the Assassination Records Review Board at 6100 E Street, NW, Second Floor, Washington, D.C. 20530 or delivered in person to that address between the hours of 9:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday (except legal holidays). Comments may also be be
