Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization Selection Board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Field Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consent current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmission of this report to headquarters.

To the Field Supervisor: Read the entire lot before attempting to complete any item. As the Supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a DATE oral way he knows where he stands.

Posted for Control B7 2-15-55.

It is optional to further or not whether this Fitness Report is to be submitted for review by a date 3/8/55.

Section I.

Please leave blank for headquarters use only. Date of birth: Oct. 1955. Sex: M. Service designation: SD-PJ.

Station designation (current): Sd-Ja. Pre-the January 1955 US 30 October 1955, 30 November 1955, 26 November 1955 to 30 October 1955 (present supervisor). Due date of this report: 30 November 1955.

Section II (To be completed by Field Supervisor).

Current position (To be completed by Field Supervisor): Acting Deputy for EUFIRE Chief of Liaison. Date assumed responsibility for position: April–May 1954.

State the specific assignments or tasks which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency).
