19. Are there any incidents in your life not mentioned herein which may reflect upon your loyalty to the United States or upon your suitability to perform the duties which you may be called upon to take or which might require further explanation? Yes / No. If yes, give details.

18. Have you ever been detained, held, arrested, indicted or summoned into court as a defendant in a criminal proceeding, or convicted, fined, or imprisoned or placed on probation, or have you ever been ordered to deposit bail or collateral for the violation of any law, police regulation or ordinance (excluding minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $25 or less was imposed)? Include all court martials while in military service. Yes / No: No. If yes, list the date, the nature of the offense or violation, the name and location of the court or place of hearing, and the penalty imposed or other disposition of each case.

Other relatives. See Remarks.

17. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party U.S.A., or any Communist organizations anywhere?

Are you now or have you ever been a member of a Fascist organization?

Are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization, association, movement, group or combination of persons which advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government, or which has adopted the policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or which seeks to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means?

Are you now or have you ever been affiliated or associated with any organization of the type described above as an agent, official, or employee?

Are you now associating with, or have you associated with any individuals, including relatives, who you know or have reason to believe, are or have been members of any of the organizations identified above?

Have you ever engaged in any of the following activities of any organization of the type described above: contribution(s) to, attendance at or participation in any organizational, social, or other activities of said organizations or of any projects sponsored by them; the sale, gift, or distribution of any written, printed, or other matter, prepared, reproduced, or published, by them or any of their agents or instrumentalities?

If yes, describe the circumstances. Attach additional sheets for a full detailed statement. If associated with any of the above organizations, specify nature and extent of association with each, including office or position held, also include dates, places, and credentials now or formerly held. If associations have been with individuals who are members of the above organizations, then list the individuals and the organizations with which they were or are affiliated.

See Remarks.

16. Past and/or present membership in organizations. Name and address. Type (social, fraternal, professional, etc.). Membership from and to. See Remarks.

15. List.
