A. Definitions

1. Security informant: Individual actively engaged in obtaining and furnishing current information on security or intelligence matters exclusively for Bureau, whose identity must be protected. Such person should be a member of or attend meetings of a subversive organization, or be in such a position relative to a subversive organization that he is able to provide current information of value.

2. Potential security informant: Individual in a position to become active in or closely connected with a subversive organization or intelligence activities and is making an affirmative effort to obtain and furnish current information to Bureau.

3. Double agent: Person cooperating with, receiving assignments from, and performing tasks for both a foreign intelligence service and Bureau under FBI guidance.

4. Confidential source: Individual who, on a confidential basis, furnishes information available through his present position. Examples would be bankers and telephone company employees. These individuals make no concerted effort on behalf of Bureau but furnish information readily available to them.

5. Panel source: Individual who is not involved in a subversive group but who will attend its public gatherings on behalf of FBI for intelligence purposes or as a potential witness.

B. Sources of Potential Informants

Informants should be developed on all organizations and individuals that are inimical to internal security. Informants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal investigative activity. Live informant coverage depends for the most part upon the initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SACs.

For assistance in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested:

1. Evaluation of:

a. Complainants or other persons interviewed in security matters.

b. Subjects of security investigations who show disaffection, loss of interest, inactivity, financial hardship, or other repudiation of party loyalty.

c. Personal friends and contacts of Bureau employees.

d. Sources of information, confidential sources, and contacts.

2. Review of closed security files, reserve index, and files of former security informants.

3. Review of the factionalism section of the file on Communist Party, USA.

4. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disaffection on the part of subversive group members. They should not be informed as to the purpose of the inquiry.

5. Review of files on communist front organizations, looking for individuals who have been associated with only one or two fronts or who attended only a few meetings.

C. Background Inquiries on Individuals Being Considered for Informant Purposes

When a decision is made to consider an individual for informant purposes, conduct a background investigation. Extensive background investigation should not be conducted until the individual has been interviewed and it has been determined he is willing to assist Bureau. Obtain prior Bureau authority to interview whenever restrictions imposed in section 87, volume III, and section 105, volume IV, of this manual, relative to interviews apply. Background investigation should include:

1. Check of field office files.

2. Discreet canvass of logical informants.
