Manolo Ray. Volume VII continued.

Quotes Ray as having said, “When I was Minister of Public Works, we, the inner circle of the Department, took a course in Marxist economics, and if what we were taught is communism, I must say that communism is not as bad as it is claimed to be.”

8. Report on visit with Ray in Puerto Rico during first week of June 1962, submitted by Winterrowd through Walt Raymond. Winterrowd states his general impression of Ray was a good one—seems to be a moderate, intelligent man, a little given to hysteria and slogan-mongering. Best quality is in his skill as an organizer.

9. Cable to Director from JMWave, dated August 15, 1962, DIR Cite WAVE 7062. Ray had a meeting in the Miami area on August 11 or 12 in which an informant says Ray stated that he has arsenals in Venezuela and the Dominican Republic, has a B-26 plane, territory available for training in Costa Rica, and has the support through indirect means of the U.S. He has invited journalists from the New York Times and Time Magazine to cover his announcement of the formation of JURE.

10. Cable to Mexico City from Director, dated August 6, 1962, says Ray plans to travel to Central America in late August or September and needs a visitor’s visa for Mexico. Says he has a close acquaintance and wants to make a personal effort to recruit him or talk him into defecting.

CIA makes inquiries in an effort to obtain a visa for Ray.

11. Cable to Director from San Juan, dated August 20, 1962. Ray believes Llanusa will defect but needs financial support. Jose Gelabert to make a pitch to Llanusa. Later cable says CIA is willing to offer Llanusa $5,000.

12. Cable to Mexico City from Director, August 23, 1962, with directions to proceed to procure a visa permit but make every effort to conceal the U.S. connection. Ray had agreed in a New York meeting to make a recruitment or defection effort toward the Cuban Ambassador in Mexico.

13. Memo to Chief, Task Force W from Alfonso Rodriguez, dated August 24, 1962. Subject: Operational Use of Ray—Expenditure of Funds.

Rodriguez feels beginning collaboration with Ray can be based on three specific proposals:

1. Creation of an intelligence network inside Cuba.
2. Creation of recruitment or defection capability to assist our efforts in MEXI, RIO, SAGO, and MONT.
3. Immediate effort to recruit in place Carlos LEGHUGA and Raul PRIMELLES.

Recommends paying Ray $84,700 over a six-month period to begin this initial operation.
