MHFNO: 95-9691281

SENSIND: RYBAT

Opportunity to travel to Alexandria or other resort areas on the weekends. Lashin's favorite pastime seems to be lying on the beach. His description of his lifestyle in Egypt is not that of a civil servant who must depend on his salary as the sole source of income.

4. C/O raised the terrorist killing of U.S. diplomatic personnel in Karachi on 8 March to gauge Lashin's response. After launching into a homily about how the Prophet had called for mercy and decency by warriors in the treatment of civilians, Lashin went on to spin a series of typically paranoid Arab conspiracy theories. He suggested that the assassinations of JFK and Anwar Sadat were somehow the work of the Israelis, who always sought to disrupt good relations between the U.S. and Egypt. He suggested that the Israelis liked to "play the fundamentalist card" whenever pressures mounted on them to make concessions, and he argued that the Israeli Mossad had been behind terrorist acts in Egypt as far back as the 1950's.

5. Biographic miscellany: Lashin's brother is the Egyptian ambassador in Ecuador. Four of his brothers-in-law have spent considerable time in the U.S. Two remained. Two returned to Cairo, where they are not happy. However, they are reluctant to return to the U.S., where the pace was too stressful for them. Lashin recalled that his brother had advised him not to join the Foreign Service, for it was not a particularly rewarding career. Lashin now seems to regret that he failed to take his brother's advice. He said that he had the chance to pursue an academic career as a professor of physiology, after having served as an army doctor for two years. However, he decided against pursuing medicine, for he felt at the time that the medical facilities and system in Egypt were too backward. Now he believes that it is too late for him to return to medicine. Lashin is an observant and apparently believing Muslim, and this year he continued his Ramadan fast for an additional six days.

6. Lashin is hardly a rising star. However, other than a dislike for his ambassador, he has not displayed any perceptible unhappiness with the way in which he has been treated by his ministry. In future sessions with Lashin the C/O will try to determine whether he possesses any manipulable disgruntlement over the modest progress of his career, whether he has any well-placed patrons within his ministry, and whether he has any prospects for an assignment with good FI access upon his return to Cairo. The C/O will also seek to draw him out on his contacts within the local diplomatic community, especially among Chinese, Russians, Indians, and Pakistanis. The C/O will keep in the back of his mind the possibility that Lashin may at some point have crossed the screen of Russian intelligence officers.

7. File: 144-120-027. Decl OADR DRV HUM 4-82.
