Betsy Palmer

Volume XII – Manual Ray

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 31 January 1964: Article in the Miami Herald (Herlad) about the discovery of an arms cache in Puerto Rico confirms the accuracy of AMTAUP/2 reporting that Ray was involved in the robbery of a U.S. military installation and that Governor Marin is misleading the FBI investigation. WAVE believes the C-3 explosive found in the cache was provided to Ray by WAVE as directed by Headquarters, but WAVE did not provide any weapons. WAVE will tell the local FBI that they know nothing regarding the background of the cache discovery and assumes Headquarters will coordinate the case at the Washington, D.C., level with the FBI.

7. Intelligence Information Cable, dated 4 February 1964: Reliable source says Ray is expected in Caracas, Venezuela, in the middle of February 1964 to establish a guerrilla training base for JURE in Venezuela. It will be a regional center used by JURE (JBRE) members in Venezuela and Panama. Likely that if Ray succeeds in setting up camp, it will be with the tacit consent of the Betancourt government. Field comment. Ray claims he will be inside Cuba by 20 May 1964.

8. Cable to DIR from Panama City, dated 9 February 1964, states that JOSE MARIA PUENTE BLANCO, Panamanian/Cuban, born 17 July 1930 in Havana, Cuba, left Panama City for Caracas on 8 February. He is a possible Castro agent, and Panama City would appreciate information regarding his activities in Caracas and/or subsequent travel.

9. Memo for the Record, dated 12 February 1964, from Alfonso Rodriguez. Subject: Meeting with AMBANG/1.

ELC, according to Ray, was now dissolved and became a part of JURE on 17 January 1964. This brings to JURE the best former rebel army officers in exile and should give JURE a military background and support second to none in the exile community.

Comments: AMTAUP/2 reports have indicated that Cisneros’s activities and statements are directed against the CIA. Rodriguez discusses AMTAUP/2’s reporting with Tony Sforza and Warren Frank. If Cisneros is in fact directing a program of denigration against the CIA, suggest the agency follow the activities of Dionisio Suarez Esquival, who reportedly has been selected to carry out such a program in various Latin American universities.

10. Cable to DIR from Panama City, dated 22 February 1964. The PUENTE BLANCO brothers have been under some suspicion since their arrival in BACY following their release from Cuban prison as a result of the intervention of Thelma King. Part of the suspicion is a result of the activities of their brother, Jorge, still in Cuba.
