Penetration, while clearly fortuitous, are not unique in clandestine operations. In 1964, it was learned that the American embassy in Moscow had been thoroughly bugged by the KGB. Scores of Soviet audio devices were found throughout the building. Counterespionage and security specialists determined that the equipment had been installed in 1952 when the embassy had been renovated, and that the bugs had been operational for roughly twelve years. The damage report asserted that during this entire period—at the height of the Cold War—Soviet intelligence had probably intercepted every diplomatic cable between Washington and the embassy. This assessment was based on the discovery of electronic audio devices in the code room which allowed the Soviets to hear distinctly the sounds being made by the typewriters and cryptographic equipment. It was a reasonably easy technological feat—well within Soviet capabilities—to translate such sounds into their true alphabetical meaning.

American suspicions about the Soviet eavesdropping were apparently aroused early in 1964 when Soviet leader Khrushchev made a remark to Ambassador Foy Kohler (Fay-Foy Kohler) about Kohler’s role in blocking the shipment to the Soviet Union of steel for an important pipeline. Taken in context, Khrushchev’s remark indicated to Kohler that there was a leak somewhere in American security. Kohler started a massive investigation, and within a month or two, forty-odd bugs were found embedded in walls throughout the embassy. Although Kohler would later claim there was no connection between the discovery of the bugs and the investigation he ordered after his conversation with Khrushchev, the timing would seem to indicate otherwise.

In any case, the official damage report concluded that for those twelve crucial years at the height of the Cold War, the Soviets almost certainly knew every diplomatic secret which was communicated between the American embassy in Moscow and Washington. The damage report noted, however, that this Soviet knowledge may well have worked to the advantage of the United States at least in one instance in 1953 when the Korean War armistice was being negotiated. At the time, U.S. bargaining position with the North Koreans was that if a particular?
