Date: June 6, 1969.

On June 4, 1969, SAs John W. Housley, Jerome H. Scott, and Sheryl Roble, Jr., arrested Lockett P. Bibbs on the sidewalk in front of 2350 West Madison. This address houses the offices of the Chicago Chapter of the Black Panther Party (BPP), and Bibbs was about to enter same at the time he was arrested.

Bibbs was subsequently transported by Bureau automobile to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Office at 219 South Dearborn, where he was photographed, fingerprinted, and provided with a printed warning and waiver form which he read but declined to sign.

Bibbs was interviewed by SAs Housley, Jerome T. Collins, and Joseph J. Stumpf regarding his association with the BPP and he advised as follows:

Bibbs stated he has been a member of the BPP (BPI) for about four or five months. He then amended his statement regarding his membership with the BPP and advised he is merely a friend of the party and works for them. He stated, however, he has never formally joined the BPP. Bibbs stated that at the time of his arrest he was about to enter the offices of the BPP to help supervise their “breakfast for children” program. He stated that his duties are to set tables and help serve the children as they are being fed. He stated that the BPP tries to help the people in the neighborhood and he feels it is a very good and worthwhile organization. He advised that he has never seen any guns or other weapons in the BPP headquarters and that he has never seen a member of the BPP carrying a gun on his person.

Bibbs was shown a photograph of George Saws (Saws), Jr., and stated he did not know Saws by name or photograph. Bibbs advised he had been in the BPP headquarters several times during the previous evening, but again denied having seen Saws on the premises.

On June 4, 1969, at Chicago, Illinois.

SAs John W. Housley, Jerome H. Scott, Sheryl Roble, Jr., Jerome T. Collins, and Joseph J. Stumpf. JWH.

Date dictated: June 6, 1969.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency. It and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.
