(3) Interviews of active communists should be conducted at a secure place other than the subject's residence or place of employment. If reasonable effort has been made for such an approach and it is not practical, set forth the circumstances and request Bureau authority to make contact at home or place of business, explaining any need to contact the employer. The letter should contain a statement that, if the subject appears cooperative, arrangements will be made for another interview at a secure place away from the residence or employment, if necessary, to determine fully the degree of cooperation.

(4) If the subject is cooperative upon initial contact, further contact may be had without Bureau authority. There is no limitation on the number of recontacts, but use good judgment. If the interview was authorized by the Bureau, advise the Bureau of the results of the contact and plans for recontacts. Obtain specific authority to make recontact where circumstances indicate a delicate situation and greater-than-usual risks are involved, such as labor leaders and individuals employed in educational, mass media, religious, and publishing fields.

(5) Terminate the interview with an active subversive if a third person arrives during the interview. Furnish the Bureau details and obtain Bureau authority prior to reinterview.

(6) Terminate the interview immediately if the subject is hostile or uncooperative.

(7) Inform subjects connected with labor unions that the Bureau is not interested in employee-employer relations and is concerned only with infiltration of labor unions by subversive elements. Furnish no information and make no statements to embarrass the Bureau. Questions should require admission or denial by the subject of all pertinent items of subversive information unless doing so would expose investigative techniques or security informants. A cordial and friendly attitude alone is not evidence of cooperation insofar as potential dangerousness is concerned when the subject fails to admit or verify subversive information obtained through previous investigation.

(8) If cooperative, inform the subject that we want to interview him in detail and arrange interviews over an extended period if necessary to exploit the subject's knowledge to the utmost. Conduct necessary investigation or research to corroborate and develop information received.

(9) Where appropriate, reduce information obtained to a signed statement and determine his willingness to testify to the information furnished if needed in Federal proceedings.

h. Reporting results of interview

(1) When no information is developed during the interview which would affect the subject's security index status, promptly submit the results by letter and include them in the next report. If the individual is employed in or holds a sensitive position in trade-union, educational, mass media, religious, or publishing fields, the results of all interviews must be submitted promptly in a report or LHM, depending on priority designation, until he begins to cooperate as a security informant or source.

(2) Report the subject's admissions of his subversive activities and associations and indicate whether he did or did not furnish information regarding the subversive activities of others.

(3) Report statements by the subject denying subversive activities developed through prior investigation and follow with a concise statement of such past subversive activity.

(4) The letter transmitting the results of the interview must contain:

(a) Definite statement or conclusion of the interviewing Agents as to the cooperativeness of the subject and reasons for the conclusion.

(b) Statement as to whether the information furnished coincides substantially with other available information.
