Schedule B (Form 1040)  
U.S. Treasury Department  
Internal Revenue Service

Supplemental Schedule of Income and Retirement Income Credit

(Free, paid, or semi-annually, semi-annually, biannually, triennially, etc.)

Attach this schedule to your income tax return, Form 1040.

Name and address on shown on page 1 of Form 1040.

Part I.—Pension and Annuity Income. A.—(General) State or local government plan described in the first paragraph. 1 Investment contract; 4 Amount received this year. 2 Expected return; 5 Amounts payable by this contract (line 4 multiplied by 1/12). 3 Percentage of income to be excluded (line 1 divided by line 2). B.—Special rules. Where a year employee has contributed part of the cost and year's own contribution will be measured tax-free within 3 years. If year and was fully recognized in prior years, enter the total amount received on lines 5 and add line 1 through 4. 1 Cost of annuity (amounts you paid); 4 Amount received this year. 2 Cost received tax-free in past year. 3 Remaining cost (line 1 less line 2); 5 Taxable portion (amounts you paid, if any, of line 4 over line 3).

Part II.—Rent and Royalty Income. 1. Real estate of property; 2. Total amount of sales. 3. Total amount of receipts. 4. Depreciation (applies to Part II only). (See instructions). 5. Reserves (attach limited list). 6. Other expenses (attach limited list). 1 Totals. 2 Net income (or loss) from rents and royalties (column 2 plus column 3 less columns 4, 5, and 6).

Part III.—Income or Losses from Partnerships, Estates or Trusts, Etc. 1 Partnerships (name, address, employer identification number, and nature of income). 2 Small business corporations (subchapter S—name, address, and employer identification number). 3 Estates or trusts (name, address, and employer identification number). Total of Parts I, II, and III (Enter here and on page 2, Part II, line 3, Form 1040).

Part IV.—Schedule for Depreciation Claimed in Part II Above

This schedule is designed for taxpayers using the alternative guidelines and administrative procedures described in Revenue Procedures 63-21 and 65-13 as well as for those taxpayers who wish to continue using practices authorized prior to these revenue procedures. Where double headings appear, use the first heading for depreciation under Revenue Procedures 63-21 and 65-13 and the second heading for other authorized practices.

1. Group and public housing class. Description of property
