Office Memorandum

To: A. H. Belmont  
From: S. B. Donahoe  
Date: 6-6-58  
Subject: Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of Friendly Foreign Nations

Since 10-10-56 we have had a program of developing sources at official establishments in U.S. of various Arab nations and have developed over 10 excellent sources at these various establishments. In connection with this program, we have always obtained State Department clearance for investigation and interview of the individual considered as a potential source without revealing to State the purpose of same. Although State to date has not declined clearance for interview of any individual under development as a source at an Arab establishment, recently State declined clearance for interviews with individuals employed at Pakistani, German and Turkish embassies although clearance had earlier been obtained from State to investigate these individuals. State Department's declination was based primarily on the fact these countries are friendly and if any interviews were reported to embassies diplomatic relations with the country involved might be strained.

In order to eliminate wasting investigative effort on source development in an establishment at which State will not give clearance for interview, memorandum Donahoe to Belmont dated 5-16-58 recommended that we clear our intentions with State Department before authorizing field to expend any investigative effort in developing sources in a particular field since this will put State on notice as to our objectives at outset. That memorandum also stated that we should concentrate in this regard on a controlled selection of specific “trouble-spot” countries where a program of source development is warranted.

In this regard, the existing critical political situation in the Middle East definitely warrants that we continue our efforts to develop sources at all official establishments in U.S. of the following Arab countries: United Arab Republic (Egypt and Syria); Saudi Arabia; Iraq; Lebanon; Jordan; Iran; and Yemen.

Action:

It is recommended that the Bureau liaison representative orally clear with the State Department our intentions to continue to explore the possibility of developing sources and informants on a carefully selected basis at the official establishments in U.S. of each of the above Arab countries, with the clear understanding that we will seek State Department clearance for each individual investigation and interview.

65-63113

GCM:et
