Section D. Narrative Description.

Award for Meritorious Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was act voluntary? Describe why it was outstanding, and if it was more than normally expected. Explain why and how. If an aerial or marine operation, describe type and position of craft, crew position of individual, and all unusual circumstances. Indicate results of the act. Enclose unclassified citation.

Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance: State character of service during period for which recommended. Give complete description of administrative technique, technical, or professional duties and responsibilities if not covered in Section C; include dates of assignment and relief. What did the individual do that merits this award? Why was this outstanding when compared to others of the grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances? If appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other personnel on board. What obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate result of achievement, service, or performance. Include reference to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which supports this recommendation. Enclose unclassified citation.

Mr. Wheeler entered on duty with the Agency in September 1952 for assignment in Tokyo. During the period from 1952–1956 he served in the capacity of Deputy Chief, FI Ops and Chief, FI Liaison. For several years he served in responsible positions at Headquarters and was promoted to GS-15 in 1957. In 1959 he returned to Tokyo as Deputy for Operations and as DCOS until 1964. He was promoted to GS-16 in August 1964. From 1964–1966 he served at Honolulu Base. In 1965 he was appointed COB, Honolulu. From 1966–1968 he served in the Office of Planning, Programming and Budgeting. In 1968 he was reassigned to the Missions and Programs Staff and in 1971 was appointed Chief, MPS and served there until January 1972, during which period he was promoted to GS-17. In 1972 he was appointed Chief of the then designated Nonofficial Cover Affairs Division, presently Nonofficial Cover Affairs Branch, from which assignment he is retiring.

Mr. Wheeler's outstanding characteristics are his integrity and total dedication. He is a natural leader, bright and original. He has a creative mind, is articulate and rational. He has excellent recall, is a gifted administrator and manager. He is a searching individual who is totally committed and has the high regard of most of the elements comprising the DDO. During his tenure he has received laudatory commendations for his efforts.

Mr. Wheeler has made a valuable contribution to the Agency during his extended career and it is fitting that upon retirement after such a distinguished career, he be awarded the Intelligence Medal of Merit.

Continued on attached sheet.

46. Enclasses (List individually) if originator is not an eyewitness or does not have personal knowledge of the act or performance. Attach affidavits of eyewitnesses or individuals having personal knowledge of the facts.

1. Proposed Citation. 3. 3.

47. Recommendation initiated by: Gordon Mason. Title and signature of employee making recommendation: Chief, CMG. Date: 10/DRG 1973.

Section E. Recommendation forwarded through officials concerned for their information.

Head of DDO Career Service (Career service of none). Title and signature: See Item #52. Date.

Deputy Director of Career Service. Title and signature: See Item #52. Date.

Deputy Director of Operating Compare?
