The French press is generally negative regarding any aspect of CIA presence in France. For the French government and services, the distinction they have drawn is between unilateral operations that touch on French areas of interest and sovereignty, in other words, the activities of officers under state cover and/or NOCs, and those joint areas of operational engagement which the French believe serve mutual interests. As we have seen historically, when the French discover the former, they take quick investigative and diplomatic action to close these operations down.

F. Is there possibility of hostile use (e.g. Russian or Cuban) to discredit US Embassy as a “nest of spies” or similar?

This is a possibility, but we would expect that any hostile exploitation would be seen in press placement/propaganda re a “nest of spies” vice a diplomatic protest. We would not expect that such press coverage, if unsubstantiated, would have a negative impact on our service-to-service or government-to-government relations. If such press exploitation by hostile services drew on specific and concrete examples of Paris Station's use of state cover, it could negatively impact our ability to sustain some unilateral activity due to a possible increase of French scrutiny of our officers (see below).

G. Have there been past imbroglios over CIA presence or activities that this release could resurrect?

As noted above, in early 1995 the French Government demarched the U.S. Ambassador to France over incompatible activities of a Station NOC and several undeclared officers. The French revealed investigative material (including the results of physical and technical surveillance and photography of our officers) that bulwarked their contention that Paris Station was running unilateral operations targeting French political and economic interests by officers under Embassy cover and NOCs. The French press coverage was extensive and hostile. By the time the French concluded their series of demarches, they had indicated their desire for the recall of six Station officers.

We have gone to great lengths to ensure that any/all unilateral activity in France is carried out under stringent operational guidelines to protect such activities against French counter-espionage capabilities. While we view this as an ongoing requirement, any press or service apprehension regarding our presence, such as could result from ARRB-type releases, could force us to further restrict our unilateral operational parameters—something we wish to avoid.

H. Have official USG releases such as FOIA ever appeared in the local media (e.g., Japan and campaign financing or Peru and FOIA released concerning Vladimiro Motesinos Torres), referred to by host government either on the record or off the record?

Current Station personnel have no recollection of such incidents in the recent past. We defer to HQS for any additional historical background.

MHFNO: 98-0480597
