Notice: All future correspondence will be sent by electronic mail. Electronic mail is confidential and may contain security clauses. Please ensure that your message contains a copy of the electronic mail in case it cannot be delivered to you or to another recipient.

Please review electronic copy.

For use with interpretable forms (if any) and, if possible, prepare a detailed invoice for the work to be performed. The recipient is responsible for paying the billing fee. The recipient may request a cancellation, but must do it at least 14 days before the date of delivery of the original documents. In no event shall the recipient be able to get back his or her credit record or order information from the giver without payment upon delivery of the documents. The giver may ignore or dispose of the documents if the recipient does not comply with the requirements of Section 6. The recipient may return the documents if the recipient has not complied with the requirements of Section 6. The recipient may ignore or dispose of the documents if the giver does not pay upon delivery of the documents.

In general, you will not be billed for any electronic transmission service you provide to another person. Additional acquisition assemblies may be sent. Other materials will be returned by mail as long as the giver of the documents can be identified by the address on the documents.

Received unit type. Plot number: 25-11794.

Received telephone for electronic transmission of documents within 3 days and to be retained for another use by the giver.

Note: This document is for internal use only. The giver may not share the document with anyone else or use it for any purpose other than specific research or educational purpose. This document is protected by copyright and limited rights.

The giver of the document has identified himself as the owner of the document and has identified the address on how to get the documents to the giver.

This document shall be retired from your account until the end of the project which was initiated by the giver to the order of the giver. This document should be issued with a distribution code (see Section 8) for an invoice. The corporate trademark and service marks belong to the company incorporated.
