Locate subjects are not to be submitted. The Bureau will closely follow investigative action to locate missing security index subjects.

II. If you receive indications that the subject went to Mexico or Canada, request the Bureau to alert other appropriate Government agencies to this possibility and to determine any available verifying information through liaison channels.

III. If the subject is reported to have gone to any other foreign country, the Washington Field Office should be requested to check the records of the Passport Office of the State Department for verification.

IV. When all logical leads have been exhausted in the case of a missing important functionary, consideration should be given to circularizing all field offices with the subject's photograph and background information for the purpose of alerting the entire field to the identity of the subject. Bureau authority must be obtained before circularization is made. In seeking Bureau authority, advise the Bureau as to the position held by the subject and what efforts have already been made to locate him.

If this procedure is to be effective, its application must necessarily be restrictive in the number of subjects to which it is applied. Therefore, requests to circularize must be made only after every possible lead has been exhausted and then only in the cases of the most important missing functionaries.

(4) Individuals Traveling Abroad (Also consider section 105G, volume IV, of this manual.)

When information is received indicating that (1) a subject of a current security investigation, (2) a subject whose name is included in agitator index or priorities I or II of security index, or (3) where information available indicates a subject of a past security investigation may be a “sleeper” or in an underground capacity, or where current information otherwise would indicate a need to effect foreign coverage, intends to travel abroad or has already departed this country for foreign travel, take the following action:

(a) Immediately advise the Bureau by letterhead memorandum setting forth complete available details concerning the foreign travel, including places and dates of departure and intended return, destination and itinerary, purpose of trip, the exact name under which the passport was issued, the number of the passport, and the office issuing the passport, if known. Include in the letterhead memorandum a full description of the subject, including all aliases, and in the case of Chinese and Korean subjects Chinese telegraphic code and Korean telegraphic code numbers, as well as a concise resume of available subversive data regarding the subject. Do not delay in advising the Bureau of the actual or intended travel while developing the details of the travel, as time is of the essence in this matter.

(b) Set out a lead for the Washington Field Office for a check of the records of the Passport Office, Department of State; however, do not limit efforts to develop the above information to a check of such records.
