Q. Corrective Action on False Information

1. When it is determined that an informant or ex-informant furnished false information while an informant, promptly advise the Bureau of complete facts.

2. Set forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing the informant in future, such as: “informant of known unreliability” or “informant who has furnished both reliable and unreliable information in the past.”

3. The Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with review of all data furnished by the individual and label information from him accordingly.

4. All communications containing information from the informant which have been disseminated to the Bureau, other Bureau offices, and outside agencies must be corrected.

5. Identify cases individually by title and character, together with dates of communications containing information.

6. If information was used in reports, corrective letters should be crystal clear and refer to the specific report, page number, and change to be made.

7. Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by the Bureau in accordance with Part II, Section 4, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations. Corrective action should be called to the attention of other Bureau offices, outside agencies, and the Bureau by letter.

8. Instruct each interested Bureau office which has made further dissemination of information to follow the instructions set forth above.

9. Set up a control file regarding this corrective action, and upon completion submit to the Bureau a final letter under the informant’s caption identifying each case by title, character, Bureau file, where known, and date of communication. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files to see that necessary corrective action has been taken.

10. If necessary, other field offices which have received information from the informant should also be requested to submit summary letters showing what corrections have been made.

11. All information from the informant must be correctly labeled, and great care must be taken to see that this is done.

12. Occasionally, an ex-informant, through his speech, writings, or actions, raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an informant. It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of information attributed to that individual in the absence of definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information while he was an informant.

13. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability and known unreliability should be made in accordance with Part II, Section 5, Manual of Rules and Regulations.

R. Confidential Sources

1. Definition

See page 3 of this section.

2. Assignment of Symbols

a. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem exists or if typing would be saved.

b. Advise the Bureau by letter, giving the name, address, business affiliation, symbol number, reason for assigning the symbol number, and a brief statement concerning the type of information furnished.

c. The abbreviation “CS” may be used in intra-Bureau communications for a confidential source; e.g., “Richard Roe, CS.” Communications relating to espionage and foreign nationality matters should in addition have a character indicating the country involved; e.g., IS-R.

d. When a permanent symbol has been assigned to a confidential source, the abbreviation “CS” is to appear before the symbol number; e.g., CS NY-000-S.

e. Numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from the series of numbers used for security, racial, and criminal informants.
