Federal Bureau of Investigation  
United States Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20537

Applicant

1. Loop  
2. Whorl  
3. Arch  
4. PFI Number

To Obtain Classifiable Fingerprints:

1. Use black printer's ink.
2. Distribution is only on inking slab.
3. Ease and get fingers thoroughly.
4. Bend fingers if needed to mail, and warm along fingers to clip.
5. Be sure the form is correct in combination with other.
6. If an accuracy or detailed part is incorporated to form a finger, make a notation to that finger in the individual finger block.
7. If some error occurs, or conditions make it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be obtained with a new card stapled to the card explaining the circumstances.
8. Examine the completed prints to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that most fingerprints fall into the patterns shown on the card; other patterns occur infrequently and are not shown here.

This card for use by:

Law enforcement agencies in fingerprinting applicants for law enforcement positions.

Officials of state and local governments for public use of training, licensing, and terminals as authorized by statute, statutes and appropriations by the Attorney General of the United States, local and county courts, parole, prison and criminal records, unless specifically dated or applicable to state or local government, or under this delegation.

Officials of banks, national banks, non-banks, personal banks, Department of Commerce, Treasury, SEC, Department of Labor, cultural affairs, etc.

Officials of fire and police departments and fire stations.

Officials of libraries and government banks.

Officials of post offices and mail, insurance companies, banks, corporations, enterprises, societies, associations, colleges, institutions of humanities, and religious authorities.

Note: Do not use this card for any purpose or service other than the one indicated here.

1. Fill out the line by hand in proper order. If the approved format is not available at your location, fill in the lines as many times as needed. If you are able to use the approved format, do that.
2. If you are able to use the approved format, do that.
3. If you are able to use the approved format, do that.
4. If you are able to use the approved format, do that.
5. If you are able to use the approved format, do that.
6. If you are able to use the approved format, do that.
7. If you are able to use the approved format, do that.
8. If you are able to use the approved format, do that.

6. Privacy Act of 1984 requires that data provided by you, or any of your surviving relatives, must be useful for fiscal year 2000 or later, in the case of an unclassified record, or must be used for the period of the person's lifetime, in the case of a classified record.

7. Consider Social Security. It is determined by the amount of other resources the student currently possesses. A percentage is multiplied by the total income. The result is the name of the agency submitting the fingerprint card to the FBI.

8. PFI number, if known, should always be furnished in the appropriate space.

9. Judicial and legal records of other armed forces. No. 595-270. Passport No.
