Federal Bureau of Investigation, United States Department of Justice, Washington, D.C. 20537.

Applicant.

1. Loop.

To Obtain Classifiable Fingerprints

1. Use back of Form 6491.

2. Distribute the Form 6491 on a trading slab.

3. Wash and dry the fingers thoroughly.

4. Roll fingers from nail to nail, and avoid welding fingers to the slip.

5. Be sure the impressions are recorded in correct order.

6. If an injury has permanently made it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that effect in the individual finger block.

7. If some physical condition makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be obtained, with a wire stapled to the card explaining the condition.

8. Examine the completed prints to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that most fingerprints fall into the patterns shown on this card. Other patterns occur infrequently and are not shown here.

2. Whorl.

Delta.

This card for use by:

Leave this space blank.

1. Law enforcement detectives in fingerprinting applications for loan to the custodians of electronic national security systems.

2. Official state and local governmental forums, bases or centers, libraries, and other facilities may be authorized by the Attorney General to print new national security state patterns.

Note: All new patterns must be clear.

3. U.S. aircraft operating at airports, airport departments, Air Force airports, air dockyards, ports, and seaports may be enabled to print new national security state patterns.

4. Gun control offices may be located here, or at any location in the United States.

5. All new patterns, as well as revised patterns, will be published in the appropriate space.

6. All new patterns or revised patterns, if any, may be published in the appropriate space.

New patterns and revised patterns are permitted by this space.

New patterns No.: 1000-CHG; New National Security Force No.; Passport No.: 1000; Alias Registration No. (AR): Port Security; Card No.: PG; Selective Service No.: US; Veterans Administration claim No.: VA.

New Patterns. Revised Patterns.
