On 3 December, Headquarters furnished JMWAVE some details on the Amlash meeting, including the fact that he had been promised “full U.S. support if he is successful in a real coup against the Castro regime.” He was also promised arms, which will have to be furnished through JMWAVE’s operations.

A series of confusing cables passed between Headquarters and JMWAVE on December 6, 7, and 8. Apparently, Headquarters first gave JMWAVE authority to drop a cache of arms in Cuba. Then Headquarters called off the operation. In DIR 87615 of 7 December, it is noted, “major top level Cuban/Caribbean policy review scheduled early next week which should provide basis for decision.”

JMWAVE complained about the change in orders in a cable of 8 December. JMWAVE 8702 pointed out that one Headquarters message indicated December infiltration operations were approved by higher authority, but a second message indicated a scheduled operation should be delayed and not run in December.

Headquarters responded in DIR 87880. Headquarters procedure was to present infiltration operation plans to “higher authority,” even though there is a reasonable chance the operation may be postponed or delayed, as was the case with the scheduled operation. “This procedure will secure approval for the operation with only telephonic reconfirmation needed when previously relaxed operation finally mounted.” Headquarters recommended delay until January after considering and equating objectives against risk factors for Amlash and others. “Believe by January, CIA should be in position better evaluate status of internal assets.”

By Paris (Pari) 1914 of 13 December, Paris reported that Amlash left Paris for Prague on November 27 but did not seek recontact with case officer. DIR 90966 to JMWAVE of 23 December reported that Havana radio on 2 December stated Amlash arrived in Cuba on 1 December.

The last document in Amlash’s file for the period ending December 1963 is a long report on Amlash, but it does not contain information relevant to the October-November activities. Nevertheless, in red pen on the cover page appears: “Dec 1963 Not to leave this office on Nestor’s (Sanchez) orders,” followed by initials that appear to be “GM.”

One later document in the Amlash file contains more information about the November 22, 1963 meeting. That document, a rough draft of a biographical information sheet on Amlash (no final draft was found), appears to have been prepared in 1966 at the time of Amlash’s arrest for a later plot against Castro. It states: “22 Nov. 63 Mr. Fitzgerald and Mr. Sanchez assured subject that this Agency would give him everything he needed (telescopic sight, silencer, all the money he wanted). The situation changed when Mr. Sanchez and Mr. Fitzgerald left the meeting to discover that President Kennedy had been assassinated. Because of this fact, plans with subject changed and it was decided that this was the case.”
