07D18-1

Details:

1. On 1 October 1969, Investigator William C. Goodman, Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Control Division, IRS, Pensacola, FL, was interviewed by SA William D. Dixon. Goodman advised that as of that date, he had not received any additional information concerning the matter under investigation. Goodman was requested to determine if IRS would object to an interview of Mitchell L. Werbell III by OSI. Goodman advised that he would query his higher headquarters regarding the request, and subsequently, Goodman advised that he had spoken to his supervisor in the Atlanta office and that his agency had no objection to an interview of Werbell, Vice-President and Director of Research and Development of Sionics.

2. On 8 Oct 69, Mr. Shelley F. Reeves, GS-3, SSAN 261-50-7220, Shipment Planner, 3201st Trans Sq., EAFB, FL, advised that it was possible for a shipment to arrive at Eglin AFB without any paperwork, such as a Government Bill of Lading (GBL); however, if such shipment arrived by military air, it should be listed on the manifest of the aircraft involved. Reeves added that the Air Transportation Section is required to keep copies of aircraft manifests for one year.

3. On 9 Oct 69, Eugene D. Lawrence, MSgt, FR 407-38-0038, Director of Air Transportation, 3201st Trans Sq., EAFB, FL, made available to the writer copies of all military air shipment manifests for the months of May, June and July 1969. Review of these manifests disclosed no information pertinent to this investigation.

4. On 9 Oct 69, Naomi J. King, GS-5, Freight Rate Assistant, 3201st Trans Sq., EAFB, FL, made available to the writer her log of all shipments received from Charleston, SC, from Jan 69 through Jul 69. Review of all GBLs concerning these shipments failed to disclose any information pertinent to this investigation.

5. On 9 Oct 69, William N. Griffin, Assistant Regional Commissioner, Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Tax Division, Internal Revenue Service, Southeast Region, Atlanta, GA, advised by letter that Werbell had been interviewed by agents of his office on 16 Sep 69. Griffin advised in summary as follows:

Werbell stated the 11 Title II firearms shipped by subject to Sionics on or about 11 April 1969 were obtained by Werbell in Vietnam and registered during the amnesty period. Sionics did not apply for or receive authorization to import these firearms. The Title II firearms received at Eglin AFB, FL, during June 1969 were sent at Werbell's request by ARPA. Col. Patterson authorized the shipments after Werbell had told Patterson that the firearms were for Air Force museum purposes. Werbell reviewed the list of firearms currently being held by OSI at Eglin AFB, FL, and advised that all the sound suppressors, except the one marked HELE 4A, and the Winchester Model 52, Cal. .22 rifle, SN 69494B, were the property of Sionics and were taken or sent to Vietnam by him after approval of the shipment by the State Department. According to Werbell, the Air Force agreed to send the weapons to Vietnam and return same to Sionics; however, he could not produce written authorization for this action. Werbell said the remainder of the firearms were to be sent to subject for the purpose of Air Force museum displays.
