To the nearby home of a retired engineer and his wife.

The militiamen charged after her, entered the engineer's house, and burst into a room where ten leaders of the military conspiracy were seated around a table littered with Havana street maps pinpointing the locations of key installations that were to be seized.

The militiamen were outranked and outnumbered. They hesitated, not sure what to do. Then informed sources said: “Sori Marín (Sort Marin) pulled his pistol. A short burst from a Czech-made submachine gun wounded him in the leg and produced him and his co-conspirators to surrender.” They were hauled off to La Cabaña Fortress for questioning.

Around this time, in March 1961, a noisy party was held in a small white bungalow in Miami's Cuban section. The bungalow was a CIA “safe house,” and the party was a sendoff celebration for an Operation 40 squad—five Cubans and an American—that was about to invade Cuba.

Contact underground

The squad's mission was to contact the anti-Castro underground and create a diversion on the north coast, to make Castro think a guerrilla force was landing there. The diversionary action was to begin shortly before the real invasion on the south coast.

Most of the people at the Miami party were Cuban refugees. Among the Americans there were Frank Nelson, a former Havana businessman and a veteran Caribbean conspirator, and CIA contractors Frank Sturgis and Alex Rorke (Alex Rurke).

Nelson fell into conversation with young Angus McNair, lone American member of the Cuba-bound squad. Asked why he was going on such a dangerous mission, McNair replied: “Because Castro killed an American soldier, Bill Morgan.”

Morgan, a former U.S. Army paratrooper who attained the rank of major in Castro's army, was executed by a Castro firing squad on March 11, 1963.

“Wait: 20 people were at the party. No one called recently. I asked McNair, ‘Aren't you afraid of a breakup—all these people knowing about last mission?’” He said they were good friends and relatives of the Cubans who were going with him. He trusted them all. That was a fatal mistake.

The CIA invaders set off the following morning from the Florida Keys in the 32-foot motor launch Mercury, landed with automatic rifles, Tommy guns, gas canisters, mines, and boxes of ammunition. Their destination was an inlet of Cuba: the Bay of Pigs, Pinar del Río Province, along the coast to Havana.

Reputed CIA agent

Ray (May) of Coral Gables, Fla., was a guest of honor. His orders were sent to Harvard Anderson, a highly rated CIA agent who owned a boat, and to José Catalano of Havana, a commando. A second message passed there.

Anderson had been in close touch with the Cuban military officers who were planning an anti-Castro coup. After they were captured, he was immobilized to determine if other Cuban officers were in the plot and if they would attempt to carry it out. He was also to advise the CIA of the progress of the diversionary action to be launched by Operation 40 in Pinar del Río.

Shortly after midnight on March 19, the Mercury slipped the sandy bottom of a small, palm-fringed cove. McNair left the Cuban at perfectly idle.

In one CIA plot to kill Castro, the rifle failed to fire.

News photo

Super-secret Operation 40 was stymied so many times by the alert Cubans that it began to sound like Catch-22.

Hearing the alarm, they jumped into the deep water and started to unload the boat.

Searchlights were turned on, blinding the invaders. Armed men spilled onto the beach and surrounded them. More than 100 soldiers and militiamen had been waiting for them to land. Someone, perhaps a Castro agent who was a guest at their farewell party, had talked.

Anderson was arrested the same night on his way to rendezvous with McNair. The two Americans died at dawn before a firing squad on April 19, two days after the Bay of Pigs invasion began.

Seven Cubans were caught with them, including Gilberto Martínez (Metalon), one of the leaders of a group heading to Cuba to invade Panama in 1968. A correspondent for The Miami Herald, he covered the Panama truce and went to work for the CIA.

Twelve more anti-Castro plotters were captured the next day, April 20. Seven of them were shot in the firing squad at La Cabaña Fortress. Among them were Huber Matos (Huelva Sori Marín), the man who legalized firing squads, and a mysterious American citizen who called himself Rafael Díaz Benéman and was employed by the CIA. He reportedly served as liaison between Sori Marín's forces.
