It has meant too that the State Department, often apprised of an operation only in its later stages, is under great pressure to endorse the operation as already mounted because of the alleged evil consequences of exercising a veto. I will remember Tom Mann’s remark the day the decision was made to go ahead on Cato: “I would never have favored initiating this operation; but, since it has gone as far as it has, I do not think we can risk calling it off.”

Moreover, at a time when there is an increasing premium on activism, State, when it questions CIA operations or initiatives, casts itself in a prickly, negative role. The advocates of clandestine activities seem “tough” and realistic; the latter has to invoke such intangibles as the reputation of the United States, world public opinion, “What do we say in the United Nations?”, etc., and seems hopelessly idiotic, legalistic and “soft.”

The result of CIA’s initiative in covert political operations has been to create situations which have forced policy on the State Department. This was not the original idea behind CIA. As Allen Dulles wrote in his 1947 memorandum to the Senate Armed Services Committee, “The Central Intelligence Agency should have nothing to do with policy.” Yet, in the years since, CIA has, in effect, “made” policy in many parts of the world. A number of governments still in power know that they have even been targets of CIA attempts at overthrow—not a state of mind calculated to stimulate friendly feelings toward the United States. Indonesia, of course, is a prime example.

This experience suggests that the present system by which CIA notifies State of a projected covert operation is inadequate to protect US interests. There must be some means by which State can be informed of such operations at an early enough stage to affect the conception and preliminary planning of the operation. Otherwise CIA will continue to confront State with propositions having potential impact on foreign policy but at too late a point to subject that impact to reasonable control.
