Federal Bureau of Investigation

Date of transcription: 8/12/74.

Mr. William R. Jenkins, 364 South Olden Avenue, Trenton, N.J., was interviewed regarding his knowledge involving his identification papers being found on a William Eric Carroll when Carroll was arrested on June 13, 1974, by the New Jersey State Police at Columbus, N.J.

Jenkins initially advised he had no knowledge as to how William Eric Carroll could be in receipt of his driver's license and Social Security card. He stated he had lost his wallet several months back and did not know its whereabouts. At that time, it was pointed out to him that Carroll was a travelling companion of Frank August Drager, and that Drager had had his White Action Movement headquarters just two houses from the Jenkins' residence. At that time, Jenkins advised that he knew Frank Drager and related the following information:

He stated that early in the spring of 1974 he saw Frank Drager in a camper truck with Pennsylvania tags across the street from his residence. Drager had spotted him coming home from school and pulled over to talk to him. Drager had stated that he was wanted by the FBI and needed phoney identification. Jenkins advised he could not help him and could not supply any information how he might obtain such.

Jenkins then advised that around the first of June, 1974, he again met Drager in the front of his residence and Drager, at that time, was driving a green Ford Pinto believed to have Florida license plates. Again Drager requested false identification, and Jenkins advised he could not supply him with any. Jenkins then noticed his driver's license was about to expire and asked Drager to take him down to the Department of Motor Vehicles, Trenton, N.J., where he could obtain a new license. Jenkins then stated he must have accidentally lost his wallet in Drager's car when they were returning from the Department of Motor Vehicles. Again Drager indicated he was wanted by the FBI and local police authorities. He stated he was only passing through Trenton and was not staying in the area.

Interviewed on 7/31/74 at Trenton, N.J. File No. Newark 157-2011.

SA Charles F. Moffett. Date dictated: 8/6/74.
