EP 65-951

On September 21, 1963, Assistant United States Attorney Frederick J. Morton was furnished the facts of the case involving the attempted robbery of the State National Bank of El Paso on September 20, 1963, and Mr. Morton then authorized the filing of a complaint charging the subject with bank robbery.

On September 21, 1963, a complaint was filed before United States Commissioner Henry C. Clifton, El Paso, Texas, charging Nagell with violation of Section 2113, Title 18, United States Code, in that Nagell did on September 20, 1963, at El Paso, Texas, enter the State National Bank of El Paso, a bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, organized and operated under the laws of the United States, and make a felonious attempt by force and violence and putting in fear by use of a .45 caliber revolver, one Patsy Clydine Gordon, an employee of the said bank, to take a thing of value, to wit, Travelers Cheques, which were in the care and custody and controlled by the said bank.

The subject waived hearing and stated that he did not desire to be represented by an attorney. Commissioner Clifton set bond in the amount of $25,000, in lieu of which the subject was remanded to the custody of the United States Marshal and placed in the El Paso County Jail.

On September 21, 1963, Richard Case Nagell was interviewed at the El Paso County Jail subsequent to a hearing before U.S. Commissioner Henry C. Clifton, El Paso (ElPaso), Texas, at which hearing the charges of bank robbery filed against him were read to him by the United States Commissioner and at which time he was advised of his right to counsel.

Nagell was again advised as to the identity of the Special Agents of the FBI who were desirous of interviewing him and was told that he did not have to make any statement and that any statement he made could be used against him in a court of law. He was also advised that he had the right to consult an attorney and that no threats or promises would be made to him to induce him to make a statement.
