Section D: Management. Narrative comments.

After a short overlap with his predecessor, Mr. Woods assumed his responsibilities as Chief of Registry, CCS, on 3 October 1973—roughly nine months ago. In this position he is responsible, overall, for CCS registry and records management activities, including the supervision of seven other individuals. As could be expected from even a casual reading of his past fitness reports, Mr. Woods quickly took hold and has been performing his new responsibilities in an exemplary manner. Despite the volume and variety of files with which he was required to become familiar, early on he systematically began cleaning out, consolidating, and retiring files as appropriate, reorganizing and updating the indexing system for individual and project files, and redistributing employee workloads. He also reorganized the placement of file machinery, desks, and service counter to achieve greater employee comfort and efficiency in the utilization of personnel. Although his task as Staff Security Officer is a secondary function, he also reorganized, simplified, and rewrote the security check and duty officer roster procedures.

Indicative of the work which he supervises are selected Registry statistics for May 1974: 7,015 documents filed; 8,200 files pulled and re-filed for Staff officers’ use; 6,642 cables processed and distributed; 9,900 facility and name searches; 2,353 documents logged; 833 index cards made and filed; and 200 new files opened. During his nine months with CCS, Mr. Woods not only has had to learn the CCS “system” himself.

Section E: Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 10 mos. Date: 25 June 1974. Official title of supervisor: DC/CCS. Typed or printed name and signature: Carter H. Yates.

2. By Employee. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance: Have attached. Date: 25 June 74. Signature of employee: James S. Woods.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: In the relatively short period of his assignment to CCS, Mr. Woods has completely lived up to his advance billing as reflected in past fitness reports. Mr. Yates has provided the specifics of Mr. Woods’ accomplishments and has left me only to say that Mr. Woods is a first class professional Records Officer and supervisor who fully deserves an overall rating of Strong.
