d. If, at conclusion of investigation, subject is not being recommended for security index, set out brief summary statement in appropriate closing communication showing reasons.

e. Current summary report must be submitted to Bureau when subject is being recommended for security index. If case is pending because of outstanding leads, set out additional lead to follow authorization of security index card by Bureau and, if approved, to disseminate copy of report to Secret Service. If case would otherwise be closed, place in pending-inactive status with lead to follow authorization by Bureau and, if approved, disseminate copy of report to Secret Service and then close case administratively.

f. Recommendations for security index should not be delayed because of absence of background or descriptive data. Submit recommendation with current report and retain in pending status to obtain missing items.

g. Subjects missing or out of country may be recommended for security index. FD-122 should include data required for unavailable section.

h. When FD-122 is submitted recommending subject of Chinese extraction, include words “Other - Chinese” under race. When recommending person not of Chinese extraction but who has definite sympathies for Communist China, include under “Miscellaneous” following statement: “sympathetic to Communist China.”

i. If Bureau approves recommendation, security index cards will be prepared. Copy of FD-122 will be returned stamped “Security Index card approved and prepared, three copies attached. Place description and photograph on reverse side of Geographical card. Cards should be filed in your Security Index.” These cards should be filed in security index as outlined below. Place returned copy of FD-122 in subject’s main file. Offices with geographical breakdown by residence and employment will receive extra card.

j. When cards are received from Bureau, check data for accuracy. Cards will be complete except for description and photograph. Descriptions and photographs are maintained on separate cards which are stapled to back of two security index cards. File one of these cards in geographical section, except special section and unavailable section cards. With the exception of Honolulu and Washington Field Offices, file other in duplicate security index maintained in headquarters city in a state of readiness to be evacuated on a moment’s notice. Third security index card is filed in alphabetical section.

5. Content and appearance of security index card

a. Data to appear on face of card

When complete, face of security index card should contain following information. If any items are missing, case should be continued pending to obtain necessary information. Set forth under each item are possible categories in which subject may be classified and code letters which should be placed in appropriate space on FD-122.

Code letters should appear on security index cards received from Bureau.

(1) Name and aliases

Full and correct name and aliases of subject.

(2) Race

White and Caucasian: W  
Negro: N  
Chinese: C  
Others: O

All others, including Orientals except Chinese, American Indians, etc.

(3) Sex

Male: M  
Female: F

(4) Citizenship

Native born: NB  
Naturalized: NA  
Alien: AL

If unknown, space should be left blank, but status should be ascertained and submitted by FD-122.
