Narrative (Continued)

Referent for Communist Matters in an excellent fashion. He has a thorough knowledge of the communist situation in the Philippines and can provide briefings on any aspect of it. Subject has made meaningful comments on the communist penetration operations of other officers, advising them on vulnerabilities and suggesting approaches for greater exploitation of these assets. His briefings are well prepared and he delivers them fully and persuasively. During this rating period, Subject was the most aggressive and effective of the three “Referents,” who are senior operations officers responsible for the main operational targets of the Station.

Subject has continued to be an effective agent handler. He motivates them and applies discipline without destroying initiative. He has directed them to collect difficult intelligence information, which has been of high value in planning and assessing future operations. Headquarters grades to Subject’s intelligence disseminations from the two communist penetration agents above attest to Subject’s competence in extracting and preparing intelligence disseminations.

While Subject has performed well as a Referent and agent handler, he has not done as well in the priority area of acquiring fresh assets in the unilateral and liaison penetration fields. This requirement has been spelled out in his Letter of Instructions (LOI), discussed by COS in the weekly operations staff meetings and daily Referent meetings, and in separate consultations with COS and DCOS. It is not that Subject dislikes contacting new people or contacting Filipinos; to the contrary, Subject has a warm, natural, and sincere approach in meeting Filipinos. Initial contacts are made with potential assets but there is a lack of planned and systematic follow-through that all developmental cases require. Subject keeps himself busy throughout the day and his workday at the office normally begins at 0730 hours. He is no slouch when it comes to work and he appears to gravitate to it. His attitude and efforts in a recent highly sensitive Station operation were commendable. Subject is at his best in ad hoc duties: he sizes up a problem quickly, discusses his operational plan with COS/DCOS, and proceeds at once to implement it. Intelligence product derived from such operations are well written and meaningful; operational reports are thoughtful and thorough. His total workload described above is no heavier than any other officer at this Station. The Station of the ’70s is lean on personnel and heavy on responsibilities. Since there appears to be no relaxation of the latter and the trend is further personnel reduction, not increase of personnel, operations officers will have to trim excess corners.
