Vice-Intelligence Division  
Montgomery County Police Department

Continuing Investigations Reports

Subject/Case Reference: Carrafa, Eugene Michael

Date Observations/Investigation Conducted/Expenses

It is noted that this was the weekend when Carrafa and Knohl were supposed to be in Chicago, and they may have been returning at that time. Carrafa was operating a ’74 International tractor-trailer, Maryland registration FB 9629. FB 9629 was listed on a ’73 International dumpster to Ryder Truck Rental, 920 S. Brunswick St., Baltimore, Maryland.

Cpl. M. F. Alban

09-09-76. Mr. Frank Yarian, Erie Insurance Co., 587-1200, was contacted because Carrafa had written his name and address on a piece of paper. Mr. Yarian stated that earlier this year he contacted Roger Smith of the Roger Smith Insurance Agency regarding the feasibility of continuing to insure Carrafa’s vehicles. A loss prevention man was sent to Gino’s Classical Cars, whereupon he met a W/M, burly, NFD. When the insurance man commented about the building being susceptible to burglary, the subject commented that someone once broke in, but he hit the man over the head and broke both of his legs. Yarian then told Roger Smith that no further insurance was to be written on Carrafa’s vehicles, and as a result Carrafa called and later visited Mr. Yarian. Mr. Yarian then told Carrafa that Erie was not in the business of insuring antique dealers, as this was a specialty, and Carrafa left without further incident.

Mrs. Muriel R. Harris of L. E. Harris Insurance Agency, (202) 393-4200, was contacted regarding Carrafa’s calls to this number. Mrs. Harris related that Carrafa carried his homeowners, life, and his wife’s auto insurance with them, and Mrs. Carrafa is the beneficiary.

Philadelphia P.D. Intelligence and O/C were contacted regarding the following names that were in Janice Piccerelli’s personal telephone book:

Joe Pagano, 1825 South 8th St., Philadelphia  
Richie Baratelli, South Philadelphia

Philadelphia O/C Section advises that their files contain the names of Joseph Pagano of 2234 South 19th Street, Philadelphia, Pa. This Pagano and his brother, Vincent Albert Pagano, AKA Al Pajamas, are affiliated with the Liberty Clown Club, and they are involved with the Angelo Bruno LCN family.

Cpl. M. F. Alban
