PHI 52-7165-SUP-8

Occupation: Said, “Never had an occupation, other than searching for freedom.”

Father: Charles Alexander Tosi, Sr., deceased. 160 Blauvelt Avenue, No. 10, P.O. Box. Born November 23, 1913, by Yon. of City.

Mother: Bernadine Tost (Tosi), née Beasley. 160 Blauvelt Avenue, No. 10, N.J. Would not give telephone number. Born July 30, 1913, Joliet, Illinois.

Brother: Charles Alexander Tosi, Jr., age 31, married. Would give no further information.

Sisters: Carol Ann Tosi Arnaud, age 32, married; address unknown. Mary Ellen Tosi, age 26, unmarried; lives with mother.

Marital status: Single.

Children: None.

Previous arrests: None admitted to.

Driver’s license: None admitted to.

Vehicle ownership: None admitted to.

Selective Service No.: Admitted having one but could not remember number.

Military service: None.

Local address: Said she had no local address. When asked if she considered 21 North 4th Street, Camden, N.J., her local address, she would not answer.

Education: High school graduate. Attended one year at Wellesley College, Wellesley, Massachusetts, school year 1969–1970.

Religion: Roman Catholic.

Tosi was given an Interrogation: Advice of Rights form, which she read, and she was also verbally advised of what that rights form meant. She stated she understood what the form said, and her rights, but she did not wish to sign this form, nor would she give any information regarding her arrest or the charges against her.

She was again advised that the basic charge against her was for conspiracy in connection with the destruction of government property. She was photographed, fingerprinted, and strip-searched by Bureau employee Trudy A. Croutharmel. She was allowed to rest and walk around in the room where she was being interviewed, and she used the women’s restroom a few times and obtained drinks or water whenever she requested. She was asked continually if she were all right and if she wanted anything, and each time she would either say, “No,” or “I am fine.”
