5. In lieu of a security exit briefing, send each Board member and staffer a letter which expressly mentions that they have an obligation to submit for prepublication review any future writings they plan to publish (related to their work as Board members or staffers) as part of their obligation to protect classified information. This approach would make it more inconvenient for the Board to probe for the source of this obligation (which we would be unable to produce since we have not found any signed secrecy agreements). Again, we bluff the Board. Board members and staffers sign nothing.

6. Ask Board members and staffers to sign secrecy agreements on their way out. This option could be difficult to implement as there would be no incentive for a Board member to sign it (there exist no sanctions for not signing), although Board staffers have indicated they would support this approach. Generally speaking, a secrecy agreement signed on the eve of separation from government service would be legally unenforceable (since the agreement would provide a benefit to the Agency, but not to Board members or staffers, and therefore would not contain the legal consideration necessary to establish a binding contract). However, in this case, if the agreement was modified to indicate that it merely reduced to writing understandings which had been previously agreed to by the Board, we would have a strong argument the agreement was legally binding. Of course, this option would alert the Board to the fact that we do not have any secrecy agreements previously signed by the Board. Even if the Board agrees to sign new secrecy agreements before they disband, nothing would preclude them from disputing the enforceability of the agreements at a later date.

6. We can rely on language in the Snepp case, as interpreted by the Department of Justice in the mid-1980s, that appears to permit the DCI to write a regulation to protect intelligence sources and methods by requiring prepublication review of the possibly classified writings of non-CIA personnel who have served in positions of special trust and have been given access to CIA information. The regulation would be signed by the DCI, and promulgated immediately. Then the Board would be briefed on their responsibilities and obligations under the regulation. Of course, nothing would preclude the Board from disputing the validity of such a regulation at a later date.

None of the above options guarantee success. However, I have discussed these options with Dawn Eilenberger, and we believe that Option #___ is the best approach to take. OIM concurs. Please let me know how we should proceed, since our last chance to deal with the Board as a group will be at their 23 September meeting.

Bruce

Sent on 18 September 1998 at 04:31:51 PM
