In a key facility, copies of reports bearing the dual character, “Security of Government Employees; Security Matter - C,” should be furnished to appropriate intelligence agencies of the armed services by the field offices as shown in section 87D 7e (2) of this manual. For instructions regarding dissemination to the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office, Defense Supply Agency, Columbus, Ohio, see 87D 7e (3) of this manual.

Specific instructions with regard to all phases of our responsibilities under Executive Order 10450, including policy, investigative procedures, and dissemination, are set out in section 19, volume II, of this manual.

(7) Individuals who own property or reside in the immediate vicinity of an installation or other premises under the cognizance of a branch of the armed services.

Dissemination should be made locally to the intelligence service of the military branch involved.

(8) Airmen issued certificates by Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). FAA issues certificates to airmen who are defined as persons in command or acting as pilot, mechanic, or member of the crew in the navigation of aircraft while under way; individuals directly in charge of the inspection, maintenance, overhauling, or repair of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, or appliances; and any individual serving in the capacity of aircraft dispatcher or air-traffic control tower operator. Subversive data developed concerning persons within such definitions should be furnished to the Bureau by report or letterhead memorandum suitable for dissemination, together with cover communication recommending that such data be furnished to FAA. Such dissemination will be made only at the Bureau. For additional instructions regarding dissemination to FAA, see Manual of Rules and Regulations, part II, section 5.

(9) Security index—dissemination of information to Secret Service. Under the agreement between the Bureau and the Secret Service concerning Presidential protection dated 2-3-65, which is set out in its entirety in section 102, volume IV, of this manual, reports are to be disseminated henceforth to Secret Service in all security index cases. An extra copy of the report in these cases should be furnished the Bureau. At the time the agreement was entered into, letterhead memoranda in all security index cases had been disseminated to Secret Service. Therefore, prior reports in these cases will not be disseminated.

Under the terms of the agreement, it is essential to advise Secret Service of the reason or reasons for referral—statement of the class or classes in appendix B of the agreement which the individual referred fits. For this purpose utilize form FD-376, which is designed to serve as a letter of transmittal for both local dissemination and dissemination at the SOG. The original and one copy of this form should be forwarded to the Bureau. A copy is to be maintained in the main case file and upon transferral of office of origin in any case, the new office of origin is to be furnished a copy. Careful consideration must be given to insure that the individual is properly categorized. In the case of subject being recommended for the security index, withhold dissemination pending Bureau approval of his security index status only in those cases in which the subject is categorized as falling within category 3 of the agreement between the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Secret Service concerning Presidential protection. Forward FD-376 as in any other case. Prompt dissemination should be made of information developed regarding individuals falling within other than category 3.
