Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

This employee is an outstanding, talented and dedicated individual who is original in his ideas and thorough in executing them. He has been placed in most difficult positions, particularly in the handling of incompatible people and groups which he has managed without alienating either side and on various occasions accomplishing the impossible by satisfying everyone concerned. His versatility, coupled with his language ability, makes him particularly important at this time; however, I believe that his potential has not been scratched. He is circumspective, intelligent, conscious and possesses administrative ability.

Date. Signature of employee.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 3.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: He was not available at the time.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days.

Other (specify).

Report made within last 90 days.

Official title of supervisor: COB, JMASH. Typed or printed name and signature: Raymond J. O’Mara.

3. By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee’s performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

The reviewing official has known subject and his work for several years and considers him to be an outstanding employee with tremendous career potential. The reviewing official would have rated him slightly lower than the rating official, however, although this does not mean to imply at all that the fitness report is not a valid one.

Official title of reviewing official: C/WE/4. Typed or printed name and signature: Jacob D. Esterline.
