2. Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties

Directions:  
a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties.  
b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance, as rated by your supervisor.  
c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty. Do not rate as “responsible” those who supervise a secretary only.  
d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.  
e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, put them on different duties.  
f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are: oral briefing; has and uses area knowledge; conducts interrogations; giving lectures; develops new programs; prepares summaries; conducting seminars; analyses industrial reports; translates German; writing technical reports; manages files; debriefing sources; conducting external liaison; operates radio; keeps books; typing; coordinates with other offices; drives truck; taking dictation; writes regulations; maintains air conditioning; supervising; prepares correspondence; evaluates significance of data.

Descriptive rating number:  
1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty.  
2. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty.  
3. Performs this duty acceptably.  
4. Performs this duty in a competent manner.  
5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.  
6. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs.  
7. Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Specific duty No. 1: Directs special investigations. Rating number: 7. Specific duty No. 2: Supervises small staff. Rating number: 5.

Specific duty No. 2: Coordination of most sensitive matters between CI Staff and Office of Security. Rating number: 7. Specific duty No. 3: Prepares final reports and memos. Rating number: 6.

Specific duty No. 3. Specific duty No. 4.

3. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance

Directions: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those
