Department of State.

Telegram.

Madrid 01109, 252147Z.

4. Nagell threatened to have himself arrested by Spanish police, or defect to East Germany if he doesn't receive assistance from U.S. source. Nagell claimed that he has left “very compromising” classified documents with “friends” in Switzerland who will forward them to the “appropriate” newspaper representatives, one of whom he said is Ludwig Morrill, whom Nagell claimed is Der Spiegel (DERSPIEGAL) representative in Zurich.

5. Nagell claimed to be a former Army officer who held the rank of captain. He alleged that his Army serial number is 02028346, that he was discharged from the Army on October 29, 1959, and that he is receiving 100 percent disability from the Veterans Administration.

6. Nagell explained, in a rather articulate manner, that he had been arrested by the FBI shortly after President Kennedy's assassination in 1963, and that he had been imprisoned, unjustly (UNJUSTILY) in his opinion, in the federal penitentiary, Leavenworth, Kansas, until early 1968, at which time he had been acquitted and released. He said that the reason why he had been arrested in the first place was that he had worked with Lee Harvey Oswald in an assignment with a “U.S. intelligence agency.”

It was a long story, he said, and he did not want to give me all the details, but instead wanted to assure me that he had been in the “intelligence game” for a long time. Nagell also stated that he had been held in the federal penitentiary for such a long period because he refused to reveal to the FBI any information about his intelligence activities—and that furthermore he was visited by CIA agents while in prison who cautioned him to keep his mouth shut about his ties with Oswald.

7. Request copy of OM from Zurich to Department pertaining to subject, and request check of appropriate sources in name of subject and advise of results soonest.

Mcauliffe.

Note: LIMDIS caption deleted per Mr. Harris, S/S-O, 3/25/59.

J/8/69 from 2/29/59.
