Luther King, Jr., and Malcolm X and gravely wounded Governor George C. Wallace. At the same time, the American government resorted to deception to disguise its policy failures. The nation fought and lost a bloody conflict in Southeast Asia—an undeclared war fostering doctored casualty reports; secret missions into Cambodia and Laos; purported attacks on the destroyers Maddox and C. Turner Joy; and President Richard Nixon's “secret plan” to end the war. The plan took five years, cost many thousands of additional American and Vietnamese lives, and left our former allies in the South to the tender mercies of their northern opponents.

Footnotes

22. See Posner, supra note 6, at 412–19 (describing the “network of amateur sleuths” who checked the accuracy of the Warren Commission Report and challenged its conclusions).

23. Harold Weisberg, Whitewash (1965) (stating that the Warren Commission did not consider any alternatives to Oswald as sole assassin).

24. David E. Scheim, Contract on America: The Mafia Murders of John and Robert Kennedy 263 (1983) (concluding that the Mafia killed President Kennedy).

25. Anthony Summers, Conspiracy 523 (1980) (calling for a new investigation).

26. Lane, supra note 6.

27. See Weisberg, supra note 23, at 189 (“In writing this book, the author has had but one purpose. That was to show that the job assigned to and expected of the President's Commission on the Assassination of John F. Kennedy has not been done.”); Scheim, supra note 24, at 2–3 (finding that “evidence that established [Jack Ruby's] criminal ties has been repeatedly suppressed or distorted by the Warren Commission”); Summers, supra note 25; Lane, supra note 6, at 378 (“The Report of the President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy is less a report than a brief for the prosecution.”).

28. See D'Army Bailey, Mine Eyes Have Seen: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Final Journey (1993) (providing a pictorial account of King's final journey to Memphis); George Breitman et al., The Assassination of Malcolm X (1976) (arguing that the CIA and FBI participated in the assassination of Malcolm X); Karl Evanzz, The Judas Factor: The Plot to Kill Malcolm X (1992) (concluding that government agencies were involved in the assassination); Gerold Frank, An American Death: The True Story of the Assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. (1972) (concluding that James Earl Ray alone killed King); Michael Friedly, Malcolm X: The Assassination (1992) (concluding that Muslims killed Malcolm X); Robert Blair Kaiser, “R.F.K. Must Die!” (1970) (exploring various conspiracy theories); Three Assassinations: The Deaths of John & Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King (Janet M. Knight ed., 1971) (providing “a factual account of the assassinations” based on “Facts on File, the press, and U.S. government studies”); Stephan Lesher, George Wallace (1994) (describing Arthur Bremer's attempt on Wallace's life); Philip H. Melanson, The Robert F. Kennedy Assassination 13 (1991) (concluding that Sirhan Sirhan was “hypnotically programmed to attack [Robert F.] Kennedy”); Philip Melanson, Who Killed Martin Luther King? (1993) (calling for an investigation of possible CIA and FBI involvement); Dan E. Moldea, The Killing of Robert F. Kennedy 323 (1995).
