Liebengood Rough Notes from U.S. v. Veciana, et al., continued.

Foreign passports belonging to several subjects were seized. Swiss bank account deposit slips were seized and are to be followed by IRS. Veciana claims to be an anti-Castro fundraiser. FBI confirms this.

A July 1973 TWIX from DEA in New York to DEA headquarters, Washington, attention Daniel P. Casey, Acting Chief, referenced as subject: G1-73-X093 (presumably Veciana), states: “During debriefing of the defendant in New York on July 25, 1973, it was learned that Antonio Carlos Veciana, 811 North Southwest 30th Court, Miami, is a member of an anti-Castro group which he has stated intends to blow up a number of Cuban properties and/or embassies in foreign nations, i.e., Spain, Mexico, Peru and France. Bombings originally scheduled for July now delayed until August.”

A subpoena of August 14, 1973, exists for a telegram billed to Veciana at 649-1226 and sent to Barcelona, Spain, on 5/26/73.

Barres implicates a Paraguayan (Paraguyan) diplomat formerly assigned to La Paz (LaPaz), Bolivia, and reassigned to Spain in the drug traffic. DEA is discreetly checking his identity. A follow-up cable from DEA indicates that they have failed to identify the Paraguayan (Paraguyan) diplomat sent to Spain but do indicate that Pedro P. Medina, a Paraguayan (Paraguyan) assigned to La Paz (LaPaz), is believed to be involved in cocaine smuggling.

Barres admitted that he was responsible for bringing Pomares, an employee of his, into illegal drug activity.

Veciana claimed to be without funds and destitute and was not fined. The U.S. Attorney was concerned that he posted a $100,000 bail immediately. However, after initial concern being shown in the file by the U.S. Attorney, the U.S. Attorney later writes the judge that $80,000 of the $100,000 bond was furnished by Veciana’s cousin, Dr. Pablo Zalduendo, a physician from Detroit, Michigan. The remainder of the bail money was furnished by Veciana’s uncle and other family members and friends who cashed insurance policies, closed children’s savings accounts, etc. The U.S. Attorney concluded that Veciana was possibly telling the truth when he advised the court that he was destitute.

Jose Lopez is a character reference for Barres on appeal.
