5. In December 1962 and January 1963 Nagell was examined at the VA hospital at Bay Pines, Florida. The diagnosis was “chronic brain syndrome associated with brain trauma with behavioral reaction characterized by passive aggressive and paranoid features.” An FBI memorandum of 12 June 1964 noted that Nagell was considered mentally disturbed by his mother, his brother, an ex-wife, and a friend. The mother, who said that she had been under psychiatric care for several years, described Subject’s brother, Louis, as an almost hopeless alcoholic.

6. On 20 September 1963 Subject was arrested in El Paso, Texas, on the charge of having tried to rob the State National Bank. A cell mate concluded from Subject’s remarks that he had become a Communist Party member after his discharge from the army, that he had attempted suicide three times after his arrest, and that he had made arrangements with the CP in Los Angeles to pick up his passport in El Paso so that he could go to Czechoslovakia.

7. In a letter of 6 January 1964 Nagell advised the FBI in El Paso that in September of 1963 he had been instructed by an agent of a foreign government to comply with an agreement made in May 1963 to participate in a criminal offense against the U.S. or be exposed to the FBI. It was this threat, said Nagell, that led him to try to hold up the bank. The reference appears to be to the assassination of President Kennedy. At any rate, sometime after the assassination Nagell claimed that he had known both Oswald and his wife. Pictures of Nagell were shown to Marina Oswald on 18 January 1964. She said that she did not know him.

8. At the time of his arrest Subject had in his possession a notebook which made reference to “Medical Aid to Cuba,” the “Fair Play for Cuba Committee,” the names of six persons alleged to be CIA agents, and other information. The FBI informed the Office of Security on 12 March 1964 that at the time of arrest Nagell also had a list of six names, marked CIA. The names were F. Parker, Mrs. Guthries, C. Churchill, J. Sloss, E. Leibacher, and J. Davanon. It was later determined that Richard Fecteau also appeared on this list, where he was marked as “Lynn, Mass.” and “DAC (CIA).”
