(j) Physical description

I. Obtain and report a detailed physical description.

II. During the course of the initial investigation in any security-type case, including espionage and nationalistic tendency cases, the physical characteristics and description of the subject shall be determined or verified by personal observation. It is not necessary to observe personally the subject of any case where preliminary investigation determines the basis for opening the case is unfounded.

III. The subject should be personally observed, if possible, early in the investigation after it is determined that a complete investigation is warranted to develop the extent of a subject's subversive activities and to consider whether the subject's name should be added to the security index. This action should be taken in the course of developing background information to determine the true identity and existence of the subject and to assist in establishing that the subject of the investigation is the person against whom the subversive allegations have been made. Each subject should be personally observed whenever a complete security investigation is conducted even though a security index card is not being recommended at the completion of the investigation.

IV. Do not delay the submission of form FD-122 recommending the addition of a subject's name to the security index even though it has not been possible to observe personally the subject if it has been determined through investigation that the subject is dangerous or potentially dangerous.

V. If a security index card is not being recommended after all logical investigation has been conducted and it has not been possible to observe personally the subject during the investigation, the case may be closed even though this has not been done. If a security index card has been recommended and prepared and it has not been possible to personally observe the subject, the case shall remain open until such time as the subject is personally observed, except when it has been determined that the subject is residing outside the continental U. S., Hawaii, Alaska, or Puerto Rico, in which event the case may be closed if there is no other pending investigation and the matter should be followed administratively to be certain that the subject is personally observed upon his return to this country.

(k) Photograph

I. Reasonable efforts should be made during the investigation of a security subject to obtain a photograph of the subject through usual sources.

II. Deleted.

III. Cases on security index subjects are to be maintained in a pending status until such time as a suitable photograph is obtained unless circumstances dictate otherwise, in which case the Bureau should be advised. Once a photograph has been obtained, continue to be alert for the existence of more recent photographs which may become available.

IV. Do not forward a copy of the photograph to the Bureau unless the subject has been designated a key figure.
