1. Recording Investigative Activity

All investigative activity must be made a matter of record in the field office file, with all sources of information being completely identified.

Sources include all confidential informants—criminal, security, and others.

Agents must not have or use informants known only to the individual agents personally.

1. Indoctrination, Direction, and Control of Security Informants

1.1 Caution Against Divulging Relationship

a. During initial development and consistently thereafter, impress upon the informant the absolute necessity that he refrain from divulging through any medium any information regarding his relationship with the Bureau.

b. These instructions must be properly worded and phrased to prevent any possibility of the Bureau being accused of attempting to impose censorship.

2. Developing Additional Background

a. During development of the informant, additional data concerning his background should be continuously obtained from the informant.

b. After gaining the informant’s confidence, information will be elicited which may be pertinent to his operation and may have an effect upon his retention, such as data revealing he is mentally or emotionally unstable, or has some personal problem which would make him a risk as an informant.

3. Handling Indications of Instability

a. Details of any indications of instability should be furnished to the Bureau immediately upon being obtained, with recommendations as to the informant’s continuance.

b. Set forth the steps being taken to prevent any embarrassment to the Bureau.

4. Contacts by Agents

a. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters, where the frequency of contact is dependent on the circumstances of each case, informants should be contacted as often as necessary, but at least one personal contact should be made every two weeks.

b. If such frequent contacts cannot be established, obtain specific Bureau authority for an exception to this requirement, except in espionage and foreign nationality matters. In requesting such exception, set forth all attendant circumstances.

c. During each contact, the informant’s activities since the previous contact should be carefully reviewed, and the contacting agent should make certain the informant has furnished in writing or verbally all information and data which he has obtained since the last contact. If additional or supplementary information is furnished during this contact with the informant, this information should be handled in the same manner as outlined in subsection G.

d. The contacting agent should become so well acquainted with the informant that he will not breach the confidential relationship. If there is the slightest indication the informant may do so, the agent should be able to anticipate this action and forestall it.

e. The contacting agent should not only collect information but also direct the informant, be aware of his activities, and maintain such a close relationship that he knows how the informant is thinking with regard to the Bureau connection. This relationship should not be so reciprocal that the informant obtains information concerning the agent or the agent’s business, personal, or official affairs.

f. Good judgment must prevail in handling the informant to see that he does not become too familiar with the agent and later cause embarrassment to the agent or Bureau by using for his own advantage such knowledge as he may obtain.

g. Promptly advise the Bureau of any indication the informant is wavering in his Bureau relationship.
