BPP

2350 W. Madison  
243-8246

Tuesday 1/6/70

Fred Hampton–Mark Clark Inquest

The Fred Hampton, Mark Clark inquest began today with obvious attempts by the Daley-Conlisk-Hanrahan pig structure to put a smokescreen over the whole issue.

The white-washing, an attempt to justify the actions of Daley and his Irish side-kick Hanrahan, began with the presence of an illegal and unconstitutional jury. The jury was composed of middle-class senior citizens who have no idea of the trials and tribulations of poor, oppressed, Black people. The Constitution guarantees us the right to be tried by a peer group (people from our social, economic, and ethnic communities). But the jury, hand-picked by Daley's lackey, Coroner Andrew Toman, is truly unconstitutional.

In addition to the white-wash jury, Daley/Hanrahan have selected Asst. States Atty. (STARES ATTY.) Thomas Hett, a man who last year threatened to quit because of Hanrahan's lies concerning the murder of Michael and John Soto, to cover up the crimes and take the heat off the real murderers, Mayor “Shoot to Kill” Daley and Edward “War on Young People” Hanrahan.

Monday, the Party discovered evidence showing that Deputy Chairman Fred was drugged before he was murdered. The test was made by a pathologist hired by the Deputy Chairman's family who claimed that “I found between 4.1 and 4.5 per cent of Seconal present.” This is enough to prevent any man from moving or raising himself from a sleep to engage in a shoot-up.

Deputy Chairman, Fred Hampton  
Murdered—December '69

The news conference that was held to disclose this information was blacked out to keep the public from getting this information. We claim that an infiltrator slipped the drug to Fred, because the Deputy Chairman (like all Panthers) didn't use drugs. This also shows that the Democrats of Chicago are in cahoots with the Republicans of the White House since J. Edgar Hoover admitted that he pays (either money or under threat of incarceration) agents to infiltrate the People's Party.

We are asking the people to come to the inquest and see for themselves that the fascist-racist power structure doesn't respect us or intend to give us due process of law.

Be at the inquest each day. The inquest begins 10:00 am each morning. It is located at 2600 S. California.

All power to the people!!!

Mark Clark
