Dan Burton, Indiana — Chairman

Benjamin A. Gilman (Gilmar), New York  
J. Dennis Hastert, Illinois  
Constance A. Morella, Maryland  
Christopher Shays (Ghay[e]), Connecticut  
Steven Schiff, New Mexico  
Christopher Cox, California  
Leona Ros-Lehtinen (Rod-Lehman), Florida  
John H. McHugh, New York  
Stephen Horn, California  
John L. Mica (Nica), Florida  
Thomas M. Davis, Virginia  
David H. McIntosh (Mointosh), Indiana  
Mark E. Souder (Bouder), Indiana  
Joe Scarborough, Florida  
John Shadegg, Arizona  
Steve C. LaTourette, Ohio  
Marshall “Mark” Sanford, South Carolina  
John E. Sununu (Sunucci), New Hampshire  
Pete Sessions, Texas  
Mike Pappas (Paprab), New Jersey  
Vince Snowbarger (Showbarger), Kansas  
Bob Barr (Bank), Georgia  
Rob Portman, Ohio

One Hundred Fifth Congress  
Congress of the United States  
House of Representatives

Committee on Government Reform and Oversight

2157 Rayburn House Office Building  
Washington, DC 20516-8143

Major (MAYOR) (202) 225-6094  
Municipal (202) 225-5051  
TTY (202) 225-4852

December 16, 1997

The Honorable George J. Tenet  
Director of Central Intelligence  
Central Intelligence Agency  
Washington, D.C. 20505

CIA has no objection to declassification and/or release of CIA information in this document.

Dear Director Tenet:

As Chairman of the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight, I have a great interest in ensuring that the Assassination Records Review Board, which is under the jurisdiction of the Committee, completes its work by its scheduled termination date of September 30, 1998. Earlier this year I introduced H.R. 1553, now Public Law 105-25, which extended the authorization of the Review Board for one additional year, until September 30, 1998. This one-year extension of authorization for the Review Board was included in President Clinton's fiscal year 1998 budget, and received bipartisan support in Congress.

During consideration of H.R. 1553, I stated my firm intention for this to be the final extension of authorization for the Review Board. Accordingly, I believe that it is of utmost importance that all federal agencies holding assassination records fully cooperate with the Review Board, in a timely manner, in order that documents may be processed and transferred to the National Archives, in compliance with the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-526).

The Review Board has advised me that while it perceives that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) generally has been cooperative and helpful, the Board nevertheless believes that the CIA is not transferring records to the Board at a pace consistent with the need to complete the work on time. The Board similarly has advised that, unless it receives processed records in a more expeditious manner, it is prepared to use its legal powers to order a transfer of records to the Board which would then vote to open the records without benefit of a pre-review by the CIA. The Board has informed me that it does not wish to take this step, but that it is fully prepared to do so if necessary to complete its work by its September 30, 1998, termination date.

I urge you to take all appropriate steps to ensure that the CIA promptly fulfills its obligations under the law by expeditiously reviewing and transferring the relevant records to the Review Board.

DB:jts
