V. Utilization of Informants and Sources at Institutions of Learning

1. Use of students

a. Students under age of 21 years are not to be developed as security informants, potential security informants, or other types of security sources in other than highly unusual circumstances. Under such circumstances, furnish complete justification to Bureau.

b. Upon initial contact with a potential student security informant or source, individual should be tactfully requested to execute a brief signed written statement for field file setting forth that this individual has voluntarily come forward to furnish information to FBI because of his concern over individuals or groups that may be inimical (iminimal) to interests of U.S. Government and that he understands that FBI has no interest in legitimate institution or campus activities. Taking this statement should place Bureau in a position to refute possible subsequent false allegations as to nature and purpose of source's cooperation with FBI.

2. Quarterly letters

a. Beginning 1-1-70, submit quarterly letters on each student and teacher authorized by Bureau for contact as a security informant, potential security informant, or other sources (including panel sources). Quarterly letters are not to take place of or be combined with six months' payment justification letters. Include following in quarterly letters:

(1) Specific productivity

(2) Specific information furnished not otherwise available from public source material or other office sources off campus

(3) Frequency of contact

b. Quarterly letters of security and racial informants should be jointly transmitted to Bureau by cover letter captioned “Utilization of Informants and Sources at Institutions of Learning.” Include following in cover letter concerning security sources:

(1) Number of security informants, potential security informants, and other security sources active and under development at each educational institution affected

(2) An overall analysis of coverage afforded by campus informants and sources

3. Responsibility for well-planned coverage

Each office must have a continuous and well-planned program to obtain necessary coverage at institutions of learning so that Bureau can fulfill its obligations. Care with which this must be done in no way lessens responsibility of each individual field office to have proper coverage.

10-13-69
