107K-L Section 107. Internal Security Informants and Confidential Sources; and Foreign Counterintelligence Assets.

9. Use of informant by Department—filing correspondence. From time to time, Department expresses interest in using particular informant for testifying when he becomes available as witness. Place copies of all correspondence of this type in informant's file. Occasionally such correspondence may be voluminous and apply to more than one informant. In those cases, summarize information concerning each informant and place summary in appropriate file.

10. Form FD-238. Form FD-238, printed on pink paper, is used in security informant and potential security informant files in nature of table of contents or index to show where in file particular data can be found. This form is to be kept as top document in informant file and is not to be serialized. If particular section of form is not applicable, note such thereon.

11. Bulky material submitted by informant.

Where informant or source submits bulky material other than statement and same pertains to specific investigative matter, bulky material may be filed in investigative case file, together with copy of form FD-306 or channelizing memorandum. File original form FD-306 or channelizing memorandum in subfile of informant or source and note thereon file and serial number where bulky material is located.

L. Payments to informants.

1. No gifts to informants.

a. Gifts should not be given to informants.

b. Relationship between agents and informants shall be maintained on businesslike basis.

c. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, representatives of companies, private industries, or insurance companies and request assistance regarding payments of money, gifts, or products of such companies to informants.

2. SAC authority.

a. When deemed necessary and expedient to expend money to develop individual as informant to obtain information concerning security matters which is not otherwise obtainable or to advance expense money to obtain such information, SAC may approve payments up to $400 and totaling not more than $400 on a c.o.d. basis regardless of number of payments. This applies only to individuals who have never been regularly paid for services or expenses on Bureau authorization.

b. Individual who is paid on SAC authority should not be described in correspondence as informant or source who is being paid on a “regular basis” or on “Bureau authorization.”

c. Blue slip reclaim
