Control in field. We opined this is to some extent the direction in which coordination has trended over the years, but local commanders probably feel his control undermined thereby.

4. Turning to EKHERALD ops, Mr. Aaron said he recalled from a Washington briefing that the German station had a sizeable allotment for an officer engaged in political covert action on a regional basis. We explained that monies in this project were almost exclusively for the salary and extensive travel of the officer (Herzfanz not mentioned by name) and were not used for agent payment or other purposes. This seemed to satisfy Aaron.

5. He asked a number of questions about “fancy” political sources, along the line that these could perhaps be handled as normal diplomatic contacts, and asked whether these contacts did not represent high risk if exposed. Stiggins explained at some length that these sources were very few in number and were the product of several factors, including many years’ contact with specific CIA officers, making the point that the agents’ confidence in CIA was based on many years of association. We estimated flap potential slight with these long-standing contacts, which could be explained as old friendships. For the reason that they were, in fact, such, these relationships could not be transferred to State Department officers. We mentioned that some of the lower-level developmental operations actually represented higher risk and cited a general outline of the “Hilton affair” (without names) as an example of how a developmental case could be troublesome. Emphasized there had been few of these over the years.

6. Aaron asked some questions about FEDREP reaction in the event our incompatible sources were exposed. We responded that in general the Germans were not interested in embarrassing us and that this key element, plus the factor that we handled all incompatible activity very carefully, led us to the conclusion that we were not running a risk of major embarrassment by conducting a limited number of these operations. Pointed out that a certain number of these operations were essential to provide coverage of those areas in East-West relations and some economic fields where the Germans were not completely candid with our Embassy regarding their activities.
