Memorandum

To: Mr. A. H. Belmont  
From: Mr. S. B. Donahoe  
Subject: Intelligence Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries

Date: June 14, 1960

My memorandum of 12/21/59 pointed out that twelve field offices, directly or potentially involved under the captioned program in the development of live sources within foreign official establishments in the U.S., had been requested to submit evaluations and suggestions regarding possible expansion of this phase of the program. As a result, three specific questions were raised. These were considered at the Internal Security–Espionage Conference June 9–10, 1960, with results set forth hereinafter:

The first question related to whether we should attempt source developments in establishments outside Washington, New York City, and San Francisco, where all existing sources currently operate, and whether we should alter present instructions that potential sources be limited almost exclusively to employees of foreign establishments who are U.S. citizens. The Conference decided that official establishments outside Washington and New York City for the most part are of a commercial nature with honorary consuls, most of whom in fact are U.S. citizens. For this reason, in the absence of a showing that valuable intelligence data might exist in establishments removed from these two cities, it would not be feasible to undertake an extensive program to develop sources therein. With regard to expanding our targets to include for potential development individuals who are not U.S. citizens, the Conference was of the opinion we should continue as in the past, concentrating on U.S. citizens but giving consideration, taking into account any special circumstances involved, to making discreet approaches after thorough investigation to foreigners employed in these diplomatic establishments, this to be done on a highly selective basis.

The second question related to whether we should relax the present requirement that all authorized interviews with potential sources be initially conducted under a suitable pretext, preferably in connection with a criminal matter unrelated to the employment of
