United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. A. H. Belmont  
From: Mr. S. B. Donahoe  
Subject: Intelligence Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries  
Date: April 20, 1961

We are requesting State to grant clearance for us to conduct a program to develop sources and informants at diplomatic establishments in the United States of the Government of the Republic of the Congo in view of the political crisis existing in that country and in view of Soviet support and support of other African and pro-Soviet countries of the procommunist political group in the Republic of the Congo.

The Republic of the Congo obtained its freedom from Belgium in 1960 and since that time has been involved in political turmoil between opposing factions. The procommunist-pro-Soviet faction was represented by Patrice Lumumba, who was killed in the Republic of the Congo during February 1961. As a result of his death, procommunist and anti-Western demonstrations were held in the United States and in many countries of the world. Lumumba's lieutenant, Antoine Gizenga, who is pro-Soviet, has assumed Lumumba's position with the dissident group. In view of the critical political situation existing in the Republic of the Congo and the fact that Soviet Russia and other pro-Soviet African countries—Ghana, Mali, and Guinea—are supporting the pro-Gizenga faction in the Republic of the Congo, it was believed desirable in late 1960 that we should endeavor to establish sources in diplomatic establishments of the Republic of the Congo in the United States. Through such sources it was believed we could obtain intelligence information of value to the United States Government and be in a position to promptly institute investigation of any matter coming within our jurisdiction through such coverage. Both New York and WFO have made inquiries in the past and were unable to ascertain that the Republic of the Congo had set up any diplomatic establishments in the United States. The New York Office has now determined that a temporary office for its United Nations Delegation has been set up at 145 East Forty-ninth Street, New York City, and New York has requested authority in order that investigation can be conducted to determine the identities of any personnel who would be suitable for development as sources and informants at this establishment.

65-63113

EHM:fag
