Increase fairly rapidly if it is clear to Cubans that Castro himself is responsible for the political and economic deterioration of the country. However, the consolidation of the opposition will be slowed down if Castro can succeed by wrapping the flag of patriotism and nationalism about himself in further convincing the Cuban people that the United States has aggressive designs on the Cuban nation as a whole and that the United States, rather than Castro's policies, is responsible for Cuba's difficulties. He must, therefore, exercise the greatest care that we do not inadvertently transform the developing disintegration of the Cuban people with Castro into a fight between the United States and Cuba, for no self-reliant, self-supporting Cuba could then afford to support us against its own country.

d. Until we believe that Inter-American action through the OAS and/or some intermediate action by the United States in defense of its rights may play an important role at the proper time, we must not let these possibilities come to pass: to lose sight of the critical fact that no solution will be possible until an alternative leadership is ready to move in. If the application of collective or unilateral pressure should bring the Castro Government down before an acceptable leadership is ready to take over, the probability is civil war or a takeover by even more Communist elements. Either would bring us closer to such intervention. Then, while we are going ahead in the process of influencing the other American Republics to see the Communist and other aspects of the Cuban situation as we do and preparing the ground for possible Inter-American consideration of the Cuban problem, we intend to control the timing of any such meeting in order to be able to coincide with the development of an alternative leadership. It is also the intention of the Administration to propose to the Congress that the President be given discretionary authority to alter sugar quotas in the national interest, and we have developed and are putting into effect an action plan to obtain the release of the United States from certain other economic commitments which impair our ability to take action in the economic field when this could contribute to hampering our interests or to the creation of conditions favorable to a leadership opposed to Castro's policies.

Villa

R.F.J.
