Designation of Beneficiary. Important.

Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act of 1954. Read instructions on back of duplicate before filling in this form.

Information concerning the insured:

Name (last, first, middle); date of birth (month, day, year).

Department or agency in which employed (if retired, so state and give “CHA” or “CSI” number): C.A. (department or agency); bureau; division.

I, the employee or annuitant identified above, canceling any and all previous Designations of Beneficiary under the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act heretofore made by me, do now designate the beneficiary or beneficiaries named below to receive any amount of group life insurance and group accidental death insurance due and payable at my death. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary will remain in full force and effect, with respect to any amount payable, unless or until canceled by me in writing, or until such time as I become insured in a department or agency other than the above, or until such time as I become insured as a retired employee. In which event this Designation of Beneficiary shall terminate.

Information concerning the beneficiary or beneficiaries:

Beneficiary: Julian Fox. Address: 340 E. 53th St., New York, N.Y. Relationship: Brother. Share to be paid: All.

I hereby direct, unless otherwise indicated above, that, if more than one beneficiary is named, the share of any deceased beneficiary who may survive me shall be distributed equally among the surviving beneficiaries, or entirely to the survivor. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary shall be void if none of the designated beneficiaries is living at the time of my death.

I hereby specifically reserve the right to cancel or change any Designation of Beneficiary at any time without knowledge or consent of the beneficiary.

Witnesses to signature (a witness is ineligible to receive payment as a beneficiary).

Signature of beneficiary. Number and street.

Margery J. Donnelly, 4287 6th St. S.E. City, state, number, and name.

Signature of witness. Number and street.
