Mrs. Francesca Stein, née Friedel, owner of the Black Bear Inn, Lyons, Colorado, advised she is a citizen of Czechoslovakia and has been in the United States for approximately four years. She stated that in about October 1967, a Mr. Staben, a visiting professor from France at the University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, and a frequent customer at the Black Bear Inn, introduced her to a professor of history at the University of Colorado by the name of Thomas Riha, also a native of Czechoslovakia, and that thereafter she and her husband became friendly with Riha.

Mrs. Stein advised that in April 1968, Riha visited the restaurant in the company of a Czechoslovakian citizen by the name of Jiri Cerveny, who advised her that he had a son, Zdenek Cerveny, who had recently escaped from Czechoslovakia into Vienna, Austria. She stated Jiri Cerveny was from Prague and that Zdenek Cerveny is a nephew of Riha. They inquired if Mrs. Stein would be able to assist his son in coming to the United States, particularly with regard to obtaining employment for him. Mrs. Stein advised both Riha and Cerveny that she would attempt to assist in this endeavor through her attorney, Paul Morris, in Boulder, Colorado.

Mrs. Stein recalled that in September 1968, Morris and Riha visited her residence in Lyons concerning Zdenek Cerveny, at which time Morris told her that he knew a woman from Denver, Colorado, by the name of Galya Tannenbaum who had a great deal of influence in the Government, and who was referred to by Riha as “Colonel.” She stated that Morris and Riha advised her that Tannenbaum would be able to assist them in setting up Zdenek Cerveny into the United States.

According to Mrs. Stein, shortly after this meeting with Morris and Riha, Tannenbaum visited the restaurant in Lyons to discuss the bringing of Zdenek Cerveny to the United States. She told Mrs. Stein it would be necessary to first check out Mrs. Stein and Riha for security purposes before bringing Cerveny into this country. She told her that she was a “Colonel in the Immigration,” and showed her a small handgun which she had in her purse. During this conversation, Tannenbaum told Mrs. Stein that she belonged to an extermination group which killed people after the Second World War. Mrs. Stein stated she considered Tannenbaum to be a “nut” and did not pursue the matter any further with her, pointing out that she was not for dissemination.

On 1/20/86 at Lyons (Iyom), Colorado. File No. 37-6139.
