Reel 84-ES-248

9 June 1966

After 12:50, 9 June

7.7. Leonov asks maid, who answers, for Enrique (Semo). FS takes phone. FS has been looking for Leonov. Yes, Leonov got the message but at noontime, when ES is at home, Leonov has been very busy. (They talk to each other in familiar form.)

The University of Puebla has decided to invite a series of ambassadors to talk about the economic achievements of their countries. At the Economy School, France, USSR, U.S., Czech and other countries are invited. FS has the letter of invitation for Soviet ambassador. What does Leonov think about this? Could this be arranged? They can try. Leonov understands that the ambassador is going on vacation to Moscow at the end of this month, in 2 or 3 weeks. He is only waiting for the Councillor who is in Moscow now, and the ambassador will leave right after his return. The ambassador will return in August. Perhaps there is someone else who could represent the ambassador. The Councillor could go or some other “high-class” attaché, or First Secretary. FS says perhaps Leonov. No, he is too ignorant (knowing). No, Leonov would be very good since he could talk Spanish. No, any person who wouldn’t go would speak Spanish. Yes, this is a lecture. It would be a person who speaks Spanish. FS thinks this would be a positive act, a good opportunity. Leonov agrees. FS leaves Mexico today for 2 days. Perhaps they could see about this on Monday. FS could send Leonov the letter meanwhile and then on Monday they can get together. Yes, they can set the time and place and will really meet. Leonov has no engagement on Monday, so they could see each other at any time FS wants. FS asks if it wouldn’t be good to talk to the ambassador or someone on Monday. Leonov will take this up. FS will send Leonov the letter and perhaps he could arrange an interview for Monday. Leonov thinks it is not worthwhile for FS to talk to him. Leonov will talk to him (the ambassador), and he will tell Leonov frankly how things are, and Leonov will give FS the message. Then, they can have lunch together on Monday. Fine. FS will go by for Leonov at 14:00 on Monday.

ES asks how Leonov liked all the things and articles on the Jewish matter. They (Soviets) have sent everything there (to USSR). Leonov liked all of it. ES says that Leonov knows that ... fell immediately and there is absolutely nothing on this. Leonov comments that, besides, the people who participated lost prestige. Yes, they suffer. ES laughs. No, Leonov can’t tell him the names of some people who call Leonov at times and they ... ES says, the people who signed the document. No, Leonov says, including persons like June Cobb. She called Leonov.

FS has no idea of the repentance. JC gave Leonov her phone, asking him to help her, so doors are not closed to her. ES is surprised. She did not want them to catalog her among their enemies (of Soviets), that she had nothing to do with it. This is a matter of fear. Leonov will tell ES all about it on Monday.

Reel 84-ES-248

9 June 1966

ATT I to HMM A 29207

201-278841
