The PSE grew from an effort to improve a polygraph. Standard polygraphs measure four variables: pulse, blood pressure, respiration, and perspiration. Some also measure additional physiological variables. The more variables measured, the more reliable the polygraph.

Bell and McQuiston discovered that the frequencies composing the human voice are not fixed; they shift very slightly from eight to fourteen times every second. But when the speaker is under stress, this normal frequency modulation disappears. There remain the pure component frequencies of the voice, and this is a strong indication that the speaker is lying.

The two men developed a device to detect this phenomenon and planned to use it as an additional “channel” on the polygraph. They discovered that the new variable was so reliable and accurate a measure of psychological stress that there was really no need to measure the other polygraph variables.

Freed from the necessity of strapping the subject into a chair, stretching a pneumographic tube across his chest, gluing electrodes to his arms, and clamping his arm with a blood-pressure cuff, the PSE proved to be much more versatile than the polygraph. Because it can work from a telephone or tape recorder, the PSE can be used without the knowledge or even the physical presence of the subject.

I asked Colonel Bell to tell me about some of the things the PSE was being used for, especially cases in which a conventional polygraph could not be used. He mentioned that the police in Howard County, Maryland, have been using the PSE for two years; they have had great success in establishing the coincidence of suspects who were afraid to submit to a polygraph examination because of that machine’s forbidding aspect.

Bell went on to describe some of his invention’s other uses, actual or potential. Dektor and the Federal Government are exploring its use as a defense against skyjackers and telephoned bomb threats, and as a means of speeding up customs inspections. Some doctors and psychiatrists are using PSEs to study patients’ physical and mental stress. The National Committee to Investigate Aerial Phenomena, a private group that investigates UFO reports, is now using the PSE to interview witnesses to UFO sightings.

I asked Bell if he would lend me a PSE to experiment with, in order to write a piece about the device. He agreed, with two conditions. First, I must take Dektor’s three-day course in operating the instrument; second, I must review my interpretation of its output with his staff, in the interest of accuracy. This seemed reasonable, so I agreed.

The course was held in the meeting room at a Holiday Inn in Falls Church, Virginia. Eight other students were employees of customers who had purchased the service. These included a private detective agency in Pennsylvania, a New York chain store, and the security service of an East African country. The instructor was Mike Kradz, a criminologist and retired police officer. Kradz projects the tough-cop image, but he is a living reentrant to the Poison joke. There is nothing about forensic science, from fingerprints to polygraphy, on which the man is not an expert.

The first morning of the course was devoted to the physical operation of the PSE. The device is used in conjunction with a Unertape recorder, which has four speeds and can be manually wound back to locate a particular point on the tape. The testimony to be evaluated is recorded at a tape speed of 7½ inches per second, then played back and stopped at the beginning of the utterance in question. The recorder is slowed to 15–16 inches per second and played. The sound, no longer recognizable as a human voice, is a long, low rumble.

The PSE itself is built into an attaché case. The case opens to reveal a chart drive, similar to an electrocardiograph, and a number of buttons and knobs. A single cable connects the PSE to the tape recorder.

As the tape recorder reels slowly turn, and a rumble issues from its speaker, the PSE stylus dances back and forth across the moving chart paper, leaving behind a ragged trail. Then the recorder is stopped, the chart paper is stopped, and that’s all there is to it. The result is a strip of paper with a squiggly line. The rest is up to the human eye and brain.

On the afternoon of the first day, Kradz showed us what to look for. The unstressed voice looks like an untrimmed hedge, with stalks of different heights sticking up and down at irregular intervals. But add some stress, and that hedge begins to look trimmed. The greater the stress, the smoother the shape. If the subject was experiencing the hard stress that accompanies deception, the overall outline of the figure tends to take on a rectangular shape, a concertina as seen by the player. Kradz showed slide after slide of charts made during actual police interrogations. He told us the background of each case and pointed out the telltale signs of deception.
