United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. McDermott

From: J. C. Farrington

Date: 5/9/75

Subject: Senator Gary Hart (D-Colorado)—Request for FBI Data on Him Under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)

We received this afternoon, 5/9/75, from Mrs. Susan M. Hauser of the Deputy Attorney General's Office, the following data: 1) informal note from Doug Marvin to the Deputy Attorney General regarding Senator Hart's meeting with the Attorney General dated 5/6/75; 2) letter to Senator Hart by the Attorney General dated 5/7/75 advising that Hart's oral request for access to his FBI file will be treated as coming under the FOIA; and 3) a memorandum from for files dated 5/6/75 that appears to have been dictated by the Attorney General in which he sets forth pertinent information concerning his meeting with Senator Hart. The Attorney General points out that he will treat Hart's oral request as coming under the FOIA although he did not know whether the Senator should in fact make this request in writing (actually, the Code of Federal Regulations, of course, points out that FOIA requests must be in writing).

According to the Attorney General's memorandum, Senator Hart indicated that he was not trying to make a particular point and did not want to go to court, but rather felt it would be helpful to members of the Senate Select Committee, who wanted to do it, to see what an FBI file was like, and he felt that by seeing his own file it would raise fewer problems than trying to see someone else's file.

In view of the Attorney General's letter to Senator Hart of 5/7/75 advising him that his oral request will be processed under the FOIA, the FOIA Section will immediately institute the processing of this request. However, unless advised to the contrary, it is intended that Senator Hart's request will be put in chronological order and will receive no special treatment. It should also be noted that Senator Hart is under the mistaken belief that as a Senator, and particularly as a member of the Senate Select Committee, he could receive an FBI file on a third

Mr. McDermott—Enclosure.

Mr. Mintz—Enclosure.

Mr. Wannall—Enclosure.

Attention: Mr. Cregar

FOIA Section—Enclosure.

JCF: law (7)

Continued—Over
