Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. Noel was assigned to his post at a time when the country was undergoing a revolution which later was successful. He has done an outstanding job in adapting and redirecting the Station's operational program. He has shown initiative, imagination and resourcefulness in developing new operations, both in the FI and PP fields.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

1. By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date. Signature of employee.

2. By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Employee is in the field. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (specify).

Date. Official title of supervisor: DC/AM. Typed or printed name and signature: R. E. Gomez.

3. By reviewing official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official: I concur (concern) that Mr. Noel's operational performance under difficult conditions has been outstanding. It should also be noted that he has been highly successful at his present post in getting the best out of his staff.

Date. Official title of reviewing official: C/MHD. Typed or printed name and signature: J. O. King.
