Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Analyze or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Number of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

He arrived ten months ago at this post, with considerable experience in Registry work at Headquarters and at other field stations and with a thorough understanding of how a Station Registry should be organized and run. He immediately put this understanding to good use. While maintaining the overall efficiency of Registry programs already in effect when he took over, he enthusiastically began a carefully planned and continuing effort to further reduce less than essential Registry paper holdings, with results which are already impressive. His suggestions on new procedures designed to conserve space and manpower are usually imaginative and practical.

He himself is a remarkably well-organized, conscientious and cooperative person.

He has had to undertake his improvements while accommodating to the loss of one Registry slot which fell victim to a Foreign Service reductions program. Primarily due to his managerial talents, the Registry has been made to carry on almost as well with three regulars as with the previous four. Although his people are increasingly hard-worked, their morale is high. He himself appears to be a glutton for work, but his Registry is obviously a happy shop.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. By employee.

Date: 9 October 1969. Signature of employee: /s/ James S. Woods.

2. Months employee has been under my supervision. By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 9 October 1969. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ David D. Whipple.

3. Comments of reviewing official. By reviewing official: Concur with this very favorable assessment. Subject has a real talent for work in his chosen field and his professional accomplishments here have been impressive. Subject's career should be watched with care and there should be room for considerable advancement in the Records Management end of our business.

Date: 5 November 1969. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Bronson Tweedy.
