March 31, 1997

8. We have seen DDP monthly operational reports which contain information on the allocation/distribution of operational funds. Are there other DDP records which would reflect how certain projects utilized their funding? How are these records organized? How should a search query be framed?

9. Various open sources have linked the CIA to various journalists and publishing companies during the 1960s. How should a query be framed to search for connections between the Agency and journalists or publishing companies?

10. Did the Agency have any relationship, projects, or contacts with publishing houses during the time of the assassination and in the aftermath of the Warren Commission? How would a search be formulated to determine whether or not the Agency had a relationship with any of the same publishing houses that were also publishing books about the assassination?

11. How would a query be framed to search for files on any office or person dealing with organized crime and Cuba? How should a request be formulated to institute a reasonable search on this topic?

12. Is there a comprehensive record or list detailing the identities of individuals on the Interagency Source Register? How are these records organized? How can a search query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular individual appears in the Register?

13. How could a search query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular individual was given access to classified information by DCD (then OO)? What kind of files are assembled in the process of clearing non-Agency contacts/sources for access to classified information?

14. ARRB's Request for Additional Information and Record No. CIA-13, dated November 1, 1996, contained the following questions:

A. What forms of backchannel communications were there between the Mexico City Station (including the COS), JMWAVE, or Headquarters during 1963? By “backchannel” we mean, inter alia, any administrative, senior staff, or restricted access communications, or any written or electronic communications other than regular cables or dispatches (of the type included in the JFK Collection).

B. Were there, in fact, any backchannel communications between the Mexico City Station (including the COS), JMWAVE, or Headquarters during the time periods 27 Sept–16 Oct 1963 and 22 Nov–30 Nov 1963?
