As of 7-6-61, E. Mitrani was working in the Cuban Consulate, Mexico, D.F., and had reportedly offered to cooperate with anti-Castro persons in Mexico, D.F.

E. Mitrani, mentioned above, was subsequently identified as Ernesto Mitrani.

Ernesto Mitrani, also known as E. Mitrani, mentioned above, was subsequently identified as Ernesto Mitrani Levy, who in about December 1959 was employed as an “Auxiliary Consular Clerk” in the Cuban Embassy, Mexico, D.F. Ernesto Mitrani Levy had reportedly been helpful to anti-Castro forces in Mexico. Jose Antonio Portuondo.

On October 24, 1960, Mitrani received a telegram recalling him to Havana, Cuba; however, he did not want to return to Cuba, and reportedly went to the then Ambassador Portuondo and explained that he planned on marrying a Mexican girl, that his father had offered him employment in Mexico, and that for these reasons he did not want to return to Cuba. Portuondo reportedly counseled Mitrani to write to the Cuban Foreign Office in Havana and explain his problem, which Mitrani reportedly did. At that time Mitrani was the holder of Cuban diplomatic passport No. 480 and also held a regular passport.

Mitrani reportedly had arrived in Mexico on December 15, 1959; he was a bachelor at the time of his arrival, and his father was reportedly engaged in business in Mexico. His residence in about 1960 was given as residing at the corner of Avenida Insurgentes Sur and Viaducto Miguel Aleman, Mexico, D.F., telephone No. 11-96-11. The telephone and address data was as of 10-24-60.

Mitrani was reportedly in contact with the USIA, U.S. Embassy, Mexico, D.F., in 1960 in regard to his desire to remain in Mexico, and Mitrani was reportedly told that a visa to enter the U.S. would be arranged for him if he would publicly denounce the Cuban regime.

Mitrani reportedly never publicly denounced the Cuban regime, although CIA file data reflects that someone wrote to the Cuban Embassy in 1960 stating that Mitrani was a “spy” and cooperating with anti-Castro forces.

Mitrani, reportedly acting as a “cut-out,” supplied one report to the CIA, Mexico City Station, which was submitted on or about 8-13-62.

The CIA, Mexico City Station has no data on file concerning Mitrani since 8-13-62.

The above CIA data was secured from David Phillips.

Eastern Exploration
