Section IV.

This section is provided as an aid in describing the individual. Your description is not favorable or unfavorable in itself but acquiring its earning in relation to a particular job or assignment may be reviewed by others.

On the left-hand side of the page below are a series of statements that apply in some degree to most people. On the right-hand side of the page are four other categories of descriptions. The scale within each category is divided into three small blocks; these are to allow you to make finer distinctions if you so desire. Look at the scale on the left and then check the categories on the right which best tell how much the statement applies to the person you are rating. Placing an “X” in the “Not Observed” column means you have no opinion on whether a phrase applies to an individual. Placing an “I” in the “Does Not Apply” column means you have the definite opinion that the description is not at all related to the individual.

Statements and categories: Samples; Not Applicable; Does Not Apply; Applies to a Limited Degree; Applies to a Reasonable Degree; Applies to an Above Average Degree; Applies to Any Outstanding Degree.

A. Able to see another’s point of view — Not Applicable.

B. Practical — Applies to an Above Average Degree.

1. A good reporter of events — Applies to Any Outstanding Degree.

2. Can made decisions on his own when need arrives — Applies to Any Outstanding Degree.

3. Cautious in action — Applies to an Above Average Degree.

4. Has initiative — Applies to Any Outstanding Degree.

5. Unemotional — Applies to a Reasonable Degree.

6. Analytic in his thinking — Applies to an Above Average Degree.

7. Constantly striving for new knowledge and ideas — Applies to Any Outstanding Degree.

8. Gets along with people at all social levels — Applies to Any Outstanding Degree.

9. Has sense of humor — Applies to Any Outstanding Degree.

10. Knows when to seek assistance — Applies to Any Outstanding Degree.

11. Calm — Applies to a Reasonable Degree.

12. Can get along with people — Applies to an Above Average Degree.

13. Memory for facts — Applies to Any Outstanding Degree.

14. Gets things done.
