HENRY F. GRAFF

Professor Emeritus of History, Columbia University

Born in New York City on August 11, 1921, he was educated in the public schools, including City College, where he received a B.S.S. degree, magna cum laude in 1941, and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. In 1942, he received the M.A. degree from Columbia University, and in 1949 the Ph.D. He, meanwhile, had enlisted in the Army shortly after Pearl Harbor, and rose from private to first lieutenant in the Signal Corps before going on inactive status in the early part of 1946. His principal service was as a Japanese language officer with the Army Security Agency (predecessor of the National Security Agency) which was charged with responsibility for reading foreign codes and ciphers. He received a War Department Citation and the Army Commendation Medal.

Upon returning to civilian life, Graff taught for a semester in the History Department of City College before accepting an appointment as lecturer at Columbia in the fall of 1946. He remained at Columbia thereafter until he retired in 1991, rising through the ranks to Professor and Chairman of the Department of History in 1961. (His term as Chairman ran to 1964.) He has been a visiting professor at Vassar College, and he has lectured on many campuses, including those of the service academies. He has been the Distinguished Speaker at the United States Air Force Academy, and the Sol Feinstone Memorial Lecturer at the Jewish Theological Seminary. In 1992 he was the Dean's Distinguished Lecturer in the Humanities at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons. In 1993 he lectured at the Yale School of Medicine.

Graff's field of specialization is United States history, and within it, the history of the Presidency of the United States and the history of the foreign relations of the United States. He taught courses in both subjects at Columbia where he was a member of the faculties of Columbia College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and the School of International and Public Affairs.

Graff served for six years on the National Historical Publications Commission (1965-71), to which he had been appointed and then reappointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson. Beginning in 1971 he served for a number of years on the Historical Advisory Committee of the United States Air Force, by appointment of the Secretary of the Air Force. In 1993 he was nominated by President William J. Clinton for membership on the newly-established Assassination Records Review Board.

Graff's books include Bluejackets with Perry in Japan, published by the New York Public Library, and The Modern Researcher (with Jacques Barzun) first published by Harcourt Brace in 1957 and now in its Fifth Edition (1992), the text edition currently issued by Harcourt and the trade edition by Houghton
