6 ATHENS 588

The basic program of Diko's Democratic Bloc is to be found in the "Constitution of the Bulgarian National Agrarian Union," as published in Sofia in 1922. Diko carries an old and dog-eared copy of this publication with him. Presumably a copy is available in Washington.

In addition to these basic tenets, Diko's group has evolved a supplementary program. The points of this supplementary program are listed on enclosure No. 8. In general, Diko's program appears democratic and idealistic.

Diko's group is opposed unalterably to the Bulgarian National Committee and to Dr. G. M. Dimitrov. Diko states that, although he worked with Dr. Dimitrov for many years, he has come to realize that Dr. Dimitrov is guilty of those same totalitarian and terrorist leftist practices of which the Communists are guilty. Diko states that the final break with Dr. Dimitrov came over the following incident:

Dr. G. M. Dimitrov knew that Diko had organized many secret posts throughout Bulgaria and, after Diko escaped from Bulgaria, Dr. Dimitrov asked Diko to name the posts. Diko thought it wise not to write down the names of the persons in charge of the posts, and was also suspicious of this request. When Dr. Dimitrov did not receive the information he wanted, he became very angry and "showed his true totalitarian hand."

(Diko has made available to the Peripheral Reporting Unit many of his files, including those on his correspondence with Dr. Dimitrov. It appears that he does know GeMe and that GeMe at one time thought well of Diko. For instance, in a letter dated October 31, 1947, Dr. Dimitrov spoke of Diko as a "hero" and in a letter dated January 2, 1948, Dr. Dimitrov stated that he had sent Diko some clothing and shaving equipment.)

At the present time, Diko is collaborating with the Paris group of Toncho Tenev and Vakrel Yanev (Yaney). (The four Bulgarians in Lavrion who stated that they supported Toncho Tenev—see Athens despatch 380, September 1, 1940—seem to be Diko's men now.) Diko makes it very clear, almost illogically and stubbornly clear, that he will continue to work with Toncho Tenev only so long as Tenev does not change his present program. Diko seems to suspect that Tenev might later evince "Monarchist" or "Gemetoist" tendencies.

Diko corresponds with Toncho Tenev, Vakrel Yanev, and Yankee Danov in France, with Groszian Danev and Lt. Col. Nikola Alexandrov in Italy, with Panayot Panayetov in Venezuela, and with other Bulgarian refugees. Enclosure No. 8 is a translation of part of the text of a letter from Vakrel Yanev, which

X-52E 201-652
