Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. Social Security Administration. Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors Insurance.

In replying, address: Social Security Administration, 701 Loyola Avenue, New Orleans, Louisiana 70113. Telephone: 527-2551. Date: 1/10/64.

We have received an application for social security benefits based upon the wages paid to the individual named below. We need a statement of wages to process this claim. Your cooperation in promptly filling out and returning this statement will be appreciated. An envelope requiring no postage is enclosed for your use. The filing of an application does not necessarily mean that a currently employed wage earner plans to quit working.

Enclosure.

District Manager.

Statement of Employer.

This is to certify that wages in the amounts shown have been paid during the calendar years to Lee H. Osmond, name of wage earner. Social Security account number: 433-54-3937.

Include the value of all remuneration before withholding of tax whether paid in cash or kind (but for services performed in a private home as a domestic, or in work not in the course of the employer's trade or business, show only the cash amount paid). If no wages were paid in the periods checked below, write “None”; if the amounts are unknown, write “Unknown.” If you believe any of the amounts shown are not wages or any of the employment is not covered under the Social Security Act, outline your reasons under “Remarks” on the back of this form.

Wages paid, year 1963: January 1–March 31, inclusive: none stated. April 1–June 30, inclusive: $422.25. July 1–September 30, inclusive: $191.25. October 1–December 31, inclusive: none stated.

In item 3 below use specific terms such as file clerk, traveling or city salesman, maid, plumber, attorney, etc. In item 7 use specific terms such as radio manufacturing, wholesale drugs, retail grocery store, physician's office, private home, etc.

3. Employee's occupation.
4. Business name of employer (type or print).
5. Street address of employer.
6. City and state.
7. Nature of business.
8. Written signature of employer or authorized employee of firm.
9. Title of person signing above.
10. Employer's Federal identification number.
11. Date this statement filled out.
