This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Directorate of Intelligence.

Country: USSR.

Subject: Visit to US by Yu I. Moskalev and Alex Moiseev; current positions; Moskalev's research program; personality data.

Report No. E-324/37776-71. Date distributed: 23 December 1971. No. pages: 2.

Date of info: October 1971. Place and date acquired by source: US, October 1971.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: US biophysicist who had conversations with Yu I. Moskalev and Alex Moiseev during the visit of the two Soviets to the US in October 1971.

1. In October 1971 Dr. Yu. I. Moskalev, Institute of Biophysics, Ministry of Public Health, Moscow, and Dr. Alex Moiseev, Central Advanced Institute for Training of Physicians, Moscow, visited several US biological and biophysical research facilities. During one of these visits it was learned from Moskalev that he is the Chairman of the USSR equivalent to the US National Council on Radiation Protection. In this position, Moiseev is Moskalev's secretary.

2. Moiseev was a difficult individual to figure out. He stated that his training is in health physics and that his job in the USSR is to be informed at all times of the status of US health physics and radiation protection programs. He said that he reads the US journal “Health Physics” regularly as well as other Western radiation research journals. Although in discussions with Moiseev he appeared to be technically competent, he kept very close to Moskalev and rarely let him out of his sight. If Moiseev is Moskalev's “guardian” (as he appeared to be), he let his own guard down during a cocktail party hosted by Dr. David M. Taylor, Department of Biophysics, Institute of Cancer Research, Belmont, UK. During the course of the evening Moiseev consumed countless gin and tonics until he could barely articulate. Moskalev, on the other hand, sipped one or two drinks all evening.

3. Moskalev was a very adept diplomat. He finds it easy and convenient to adapt his conversation to whatever kind of group he is with. He talked at considerable length about the role of women in the Soviet economy and mentioned that his own wife is a pathologist. He was always much freer in his conversation when Moiseev was out of hearing.

4. In terms of his professional work, Moskalev stated that he has a program in the USSR of exposing dogs to various doses of radiation to learn the biomedical effects of radiation. It is a program quite similar to that at the Lovelace Foundation in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The major difference being that whereas the Lovelace inhalation experiments involve only the beagle dog, the Soviets do not use a controlled breed, but rather use mongrels. Moskalev's budget, which
