F. Ability to Write (not observed). 1. Display a written expression in clear, distinct thought, free from errors in spelling and grammar in written form. 2. Written work shows complete understanding of the material being presented. 3. Written work is clearly organized with a main idea, supporting details, and a conclusion.

G. Facility of Oral Expression (not observed). 1. Unable to express self clearly; presents ideas in grouping and coherent fashion. 2. Lacked fluency or enunciation in his speech, but meaning usually clear. 3. Displayed reasonable facility in oral expression.

H. Ability to Get Along With Associates (not observed). 1. Frequently aligned with his associates. 2. Failed to win social acceptance but did not actively antagonize others. 3. Reasonably effective in his social relations.

I. Tact (not observed). 1. Marrowly blunt and indisciplined. 2. Frequently said or did something which induced an unfavorable reaction. 3. Reasonably discreet.

J. Adaptation to Training (not observed). 1. Displaying no interest or enthusiasm for training; failed to adapt himself to the demands made upon him. 2. Accepted training program relevant to his job and had difficulty adapting himself to the training received. 3. Display average interest in and acceptance of training.

K. Ability to Influence His Associates (not observed). 1. Withdraws from group. Normally rated as inhibitive, reticent, aloof, and actions of others. 2. Was fairly successful in selling a point or himself. 3. Was well accepted in his own personality and thinking.

L. Adaptation to Training Upon Completion of His Contemplated Tour of Duty in the Air Force (not observed). 1. Display a performance and especially so in his ability to adjust to training. May be rated合格 and meet all normal requirements. May demonstrate thinking ability, allows him to error next of the group on all pertinent points rapidly, and it is only through deliberation to self-control that he slows down sufficiently to make an easily understandable oral presentation. 2. Display analytical ability, makes him a natural for directing clear thinking activity. His preformed background would make him very worthwhile for consideration by the office of training upon completion of his contemplated tour of duty in the Air Force.

Approved. Signature of Deputy for Staff Training. Reviewed. Signature of Chief, Training and Evaluation.
