b. Definition

A top functionary is an individual who is on a high-policy level in the CPUSA, other subversive organizations, or unorganized groups, to whom it is necessary to give continuous investigative attention because of his importance. The term “top functionary” does not require that individuals actually hold official positions in organizations but is given broad construction to include others of equal importance because of their influence in the movement itself, or their position and activities outside the movement in labor, front, or similar organizations. Consider black nationalist extremists whose importance justifies continuous investigative attention.

c. Manner of designation

Prior Bureau authority is necessary to designate a subject as a top functionary. Top functionaries are to be in Priority I, and reports are submitted annually.

d. Regulations governing handling of top functionaries

(1) Designation and deletion of top functionary status

Handle by letter to the Bureau containing a brief statement of the reason for designation or deletion.

(2) Photographs

Obtain photographs for each top functionary. Send two copies, one for the Secret Service, to the Bureau, either by cover letter or as an enclosure to a report. Maintain a copy in the subject’s file.

If an album of top functionary photographs is maintained, keep a duplicate in the subject’s file.

(3) Handwriting specimens

Obtain suitable handwriting specimens of each top functionary.

When possible, obtain specimens from public records, law enforcement agencies, and similar sources. Send specimens to the Bureau under a separate cover letter by registered mail for the attention of the FBI Laboratory. When they may be of value as evidence, state so in the transmittal letter and request their return after copies have been made. Specimens should be sufficient to permit future comparisons by the Laboratory.

(4) Security index cards

Request preparation by FD-122 at the earliest possible moment.

(5) Change of office of origin

FD-128 changing the office of origin on a top functionary automatically deletes him as a top functionary in the old office and adds him as a top functionary in the new office.

(6) Reports

Character: Internal Security, followed by the appropriate letter designating organizational affiliation or nationalistic tendency.

e. Maintenance of list

Each office must maintain a current list of top functionaries.

14. Correlation of other investigations with security index and reserve index

Individuals investigated by the Bureau under any classification against whom subversive information is developed must be considered for the security index and/or reserve index. This includes espionage, foreign intelligence, applicant-type, and Security of Government Employees (SGE) investigations. When an individual previously investigated under the SGE classification is a security index subject and is still employed by the Federal Government or is being considered for Federal employment, use the dual character of “Security of Government Employees” and the character of the security case in reports to ensure routing to the proper field and Bureau desks for supervision. Use the standards prevailing for SGE reports. Disseminate these reports as any other security report. Advise representatives of other agencies requesting reports of SGE investigations to direct requests to their headquarters for referral to the Bureau.
