Plans, Programs, and Projects

HFH 230-1

Support Supplements for Agency Instrumentalities

1. Purpose

This handbook sets forth guidance for developing support supplements (administrative plans, fiscal annexes, and liquidation plans) governing Agency instrumentalities, as required by HR 230-8.

2. General

Properly approved support supplements modify or waive specific provisions of Agency regulations except HR 230-9 and, in lieu thereof, set forth the provisions for special authorizations and management control of instrumentalities in the conduct of their affairs. They are designed to promote:

a. The most effective management, to include staffing of each instrumentality with personnel qualified to manage it in accordance with Agency objectives, under sound personnel policies and practices;

b. The establishment of an effective budgeting, accounting, and reporting system that will produce accurate, timely, and useful reports of financial status and financial results of the operations of each instrumentality;

c. The establishment of an accounting system for the instrumentalities that is compatible and reconcilable with Agency financial records;

d. The highest degree of cover and security compatible with the overt character of each instrumentality and its operation or support objectives;

e. The effective Agency control of funding to, and assets held by, the instrumentalities;

f. The orderly deactivation or liquidation of any instrumentality that has ceased to be of operational value to the Agency.

3. Administrative Plan Presentation

The administrative plan presentation should consist of (a) a memorandum requesting approval of the administrative plan by the Deputy Director having jurisdiction over the project and the Deputy Director for Administration; (b) the administrative plan (usually drafted by the support element in the operating component concerned); and (c) a concurrence sheet evidencing concurrence in applicable provisions of the administrative plan by the designated representatives of the General Counsel; the Comptroller; the Director of Finance; the Director of Security; the

Revised: 29 October 1974
