A Call to All American Women Who Are Outraged by the Ruthless Slaughter in Vietnam and the Persistent Neglect of Human Needs at Home

Sponsors:

Jeannette Rankin  
Vivian Hallinan  
Mia Auerbakken  
Adjali  
Mrs. John C. Bennett  
Mrs. Harry Bridges  
Jane Buchenholz  
Mrs. John Burton  
Mary Clark  
Judy Collins  
Mrs. Cyrus Eaton  
Mrs. Jack Gilford  
Mrs. Martin Luther King  
Vivica Lindfors  
Jessica Mitford  
Rosa Parks  
Louise Peck  
Mrs. Ester Pike  
Malvina Reynolds  
Mrs. Robert Scheer  
Susan Sontag  
Mrs. Benjamin Spock  
Emyline Stokes  
Helen B. Turnbull

To come to Washington on January 8.

Women represent 51% of the voting population of our country. Women have power to acclaim peace and a decent life for every American. This is “womanpower”! Demonstrate it to the Congress of the United States. Come to Washington on January 8 as Congress opens its 91st session. Support Jeannette Rankin as she heads a representative delegation of American women to the Capitol to demand that:

- Congress, as its first order of business, resolve to end the war in Vietnam and immediately arrange for withdrawal of all American troops.
- Congress use its power to heal the sick society at home.
- Congress use its power to make reparations for the ravaged lands we leave behind in Vietnam.
- Congress listen to what a people are saying and refuse the insatiable demands of the military-industrial complex which controls the ruling interests of America.

Women of America, our power is unlimited. On January 8, 1968, American women will:

- Petition the U.S. Congress.
- Convene a congregation of American women to develop programs to meet the crises in America—programs which will express our political powers, reason and consciences.
- Let us declare our intention to return to our communities and mobilize women on all levels of activity, dedicated to reshaping American society and restoring our country to the community of nations.

For more information call or write Eda Hallinan, 5490 Kales Ave., Oakland, Calif. 653-1204.
