Chief of Police Jack Ziegler, Chicago Heights, Illinois Police Department, advised on December 5, 1969, that approximately 200 Black youths disrupted morning classes at Bloom Township High School, resulting in the dismissal of school for the day. The youths indicated the disruption was caused by memorial services for Hampton. The high school is 25 percent Negro. No arrests or injuries were reported.

On December 5, 1969, an FBI agent advised that at approximately 2:15 p.m., about 75 Northwestern University (NW) students, led by members of Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) from NW, conducted a demonstration in downtown Evanston, Illinois, protesting the death of Hampton. During the demonstration, Evanston police officers attempted to keep the demonstrators on the sidewalk, which resulted in some demonstrators resisting the police. Several demonstrators commenced shoving Lieutenant Tom Joyce of the Evanston Police Department. Several blows were struck; however, neither Lieutenant Joyce nor the demonstrators suffered injuries.

This incident culminated in the arrest of four demonstrators, who were charged with disorderly conduct. Following the arrest, the demonstrators moved their demonstration to the Evanston Police Department to protest the arrest of their group.

During the demonstration at the Evanston Police Department, the number of demonstrators rose to approximately 100. The demonstrators left the Police Department at approximately 3:45 p.m. and proceeded again to the business district, where they attempted to remove an American flag from the downtown flagpole. The demonstrators were stopped by citizens. A fight resulted, and six more demonstrators were arrested. Their charges ranged from aggravated battery and disorderly conduct to resisting arrest. All those arrested were either Northwestern University or Kendall College students.

Following the later arrests, a group of approximately 40 Northwestern University students returned to the Police Department to make bond for those arrested. The crowd dispersed at 5:15 p.m. without further incident or arrests.
