United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: W. R. Wannall

Subject: SENSTUDY - 75

Date: 5/16/75

This informative memorandum is to report briefing of Senate Select Committee (SSC) Staff Members on informant matters by INTD personnel.

At the request of the SSC Staff, a briefing session was held in my office from 8:50 a.m. to 10:50 a.m., 5/16/75. Representing the SSC were Staff Members Mark Gitenstein and Thomas Dawson. In addition to myself, present from the INTD were Deputy Assistant Director H. E. Helgeson, S. F. Phillips of SENSTUDY - 75 Staff, and Unit Chiefs E. P. Grigalus (IS-2 Section), and H. A. Newman, Jr. (IS-1 Section). Also present was Supervisor J. D. Miller of the Legal Counsel's Office.

SSC Staff Members had previously reviewed Sections 107 (Part I - Security Informants) and 130 (Extremist Informants) of the Manual of Instructions, and the purpose of the briefing was to go over these Sections, answer the visitors' questions, and clarify doubtful areas. Such matters as the following were covered: terminology regarding confidential sources, potential security informants and security informants; means for approving informants; payments to informants both on SAC approval and FBIHQ approval; converting potential informants to informants; establishing reliability; assignment of symbol numbers; distinction between permanent and temporary symbol numbers; use of FD-401 for semiannual reports on informants; and use of FD-405 for monthly and quarterly reports on informants. Also covered were use of informants in COINTELPRO; entrapment and agent provocateur aspects; movement of informants between field office territories; channelizing memoranda; handling of informants after determined to be unreliable; and inspectors' role relating to informants at field level.

REC-100

Mr. Gitenstein, who was the senior member of the SSC team present, indicated satisfaction with the results of the briefing and that all their inquiries had been answered. He made

62-116395
