F. Reserve Index

1. Purpose

Reserve index includes persons who should be considered from standpoint of security with view toward investigation, interrogation, or security index. It serves as administrative aid and working index containing names of persons having sympathy for or affiliation with basic revolutionary organizations.

2. Composition

Reserve index contains names of individuals about whom investigation did not develop sufficient information to justify security index, but there is no reliable evidence of defection and there is evidence of:

a. Membership in basic revolutionary organization subsequent to 1-1-49, together with some indication of continuing sympathy or association with such organization or subversive front organization.

b. Activity, association, or sympathy for subversive cause during past five years, even though investigation has failed to substantiate allegations of membership in revolutionary organization.

c. Associations, writings, financial support, or conduct in support of subversive organizations or international communist movement within past five years, and individual is in position to influence others during national emergency.

d. Leadership or substantial activities in major subversive front groups over three years ago, together with some evidence of continuing activity, association, or sympathy for subversive cause within past three years.

e. Membership in subversive front organization within past three years.

3. Arrangement

Each office is to maintain this index alphabetically on 5-inch by 8-inch cards in two sections, A and B.

a. Section A

Section A represents special group of individuals who should receive priority consideration for investigation and/or other action following apprehension of security index subjects.

(1) Section A includes individuals whose subversive activities do not bring them within security index criteria but who, in time of national emergency, are in position to influence others against national interest or are likely to furnish material financial aid to subversive elements because of their subversive associations and ideology. Include individuals who meet standards for reserve index and are:

(a) Professors, teachers, and educators.

(b) Labor union organizers and leaders.

(c) Writers, lecturers, newsmen, entertainers, and others in mass media field.

(d) Lawyers, doctors, and scientists.

(e) Other potentially influential persons on local or national level.

(2) Inclusion or deletion of names must be approved by SAC. Reserve index A is maintained only in field offices. When name is deleted from security index, consider including in reserve index A. Upon approval by SAC, make two cards and file one in office and one away from headquarters city at same location as extra set of security index cards.

(3) Review field office file of reserve index A subject whenever information is channeled to it to determine if additional investigation is warranted and if current information is sufficient for retention in reserve index.

(4) Changes, additions, and deletions of data appearing in reserve index A cards.

(a) Forward changes in data to clerk in field office handling these cards.
