MHFNO: 98-0480597. SENSIND.

In which six station officers were removed from Paris, was driven in large measure by an unscrupulous politician looking for headlines.

Integrated state cover of our small group of unilateral officers is among the station's most effective means of access to non-French targets. Official acknowledgement of our use of official cover in Paris could prompt them, or their respective security officers, to review their American targets.

B. Otherwise is the CIA under pressure from the host government to reduce presence, or more fully declare presence, or undertake no undeclared activities? Describe presence. Describe those activities to restrict the CIA (e.g. service to service, legislative initiatives, opposition political initiatives, and media activities.)

To date, the French have not demanded the identities of all station personnel; however, we are concerned about this possibility due to our expectation that the French may decide to mirror actions of other European services wishing to restrict CIA presence in their respective countries. ARRB disclosures would serve as a possible catalyst for forcing this issue between us and the French.

C. Describe some particular activities which could be imperiled?

Unilateral activities carried out by the station's undeclared officers, out-of-country case officers and NOCs are compartmented and cannot be discussed in this channel. We defer to EUR/SG re provision of specific operational details.

D. Are there new initiatives with the host government and service which could be imperiled? Describe.

Forward movement on our joint work with the French services, most importantly in counterterrorism, was slowed in the year following the 1995 démarche. Over the past two years, we have seen significant progress in the willingness of the French services to resume active and productive liaison. Of particular note are our current joint counterterrorism initiatives (e.g., support from the French internal police/intelligence services, the DST and RG, of CTC's 17 November Task Force through technical and physical surveillance of 17N targets located in Paris), and an important new initiative with the French external service, the DGSE, to work jointly against Russian SVR intelligence officers in locations where our combined resources would be mutually beneficial. Questions raised in the press or within these services regarding the possibility of undeclared unilateral activities in France would place at risk the current momentum we have with the French services in these areas.

E. Is CIA presence inherently sensitive because of hostile population elements or political activities?
