Agent Report. For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence. Date submitted: 4 February 1972.

Report of Findings.

(a) On 1 February 1972, Stephen R. Wilson, SP4, 167-40-2332, Clerk, C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln (LC8424), Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), APO New York 09078, was interviewed at his place of duty concerning an incident of possible counter-intelligence interest, and stated substantially the following:

(b) About two or three weeks ago, Source was approached by a man who identified himself only as John in the Stadtschaenke Bar, Datteln. John refused to mention his last name, but Source knew that he had been the disc jockey at the Western, a bar in Datteln, and was now the disc jockey at the Lord Nelson, another bar in Datteln. Source had only a brief conversation with John, but was asked for the name of the security sergeant at the unit. John then told Source to tell Pimentel that he was back in town. Source described John as follows: Height: six feet to six feet one inch tall. Weight: 180–190 pounds. Hair: brown. Dress: wore furry coat and boots. Distinguishing marks: none.

Source had not met John before although he had seen him at the Lord Nelson, and has not had contact with John since. Source did not answer questions posed by John that pertained to military affairs.

(c) Remarks: Source felt the reason John was interested in Pimentel probably had something to do with drugs. Pimentel was known to smoke hashish and marijuana. The Dortmund Police, Dortmund (LC9308), FRG, were interested in Pimentel as a drug pusher. Dortmund Police had been to the unit two or three times to talk to Pimentel about drugs and had searched his house and car. Pimentel had his car impounded shortly before he left the unit in regards to refusing to pay the one thousand German Marks deductible on an automobile accident he had. The case was still pending. Pimentel was married and had four children, all residing with him in Datteln, but had German girlfriends in the area. Source could provide no further information about Pimentel.

(d) Agent's Notes: Pimentel referred to by Source above was Cristobal Pimentel-Davilla, SP6, 582-58-9662, formerly assigned to C Team. Pimentel-Davilla left the unit on 20 January 1972 for assignment at Fort Eustis, Virginia.

Typed name and organization of special agent: Heinz.
