Date: January 27, 1970.

Zdenek Cerveny, care of Black Bear Inn, Lyons, Colorado, was interviewed at this establishment and advised he was born December 5, 1938, in Jihlava, Czechoslovakia, and holds a Master's degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Czechoslovakia Technical University, Prague, Czechoslovakia. He stated he is the nephew of Thomas Riha, a Professor of Russian History at the University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado. He is currently employed as a plant engineer with the Martin-Marietta Cement Company in Lyons, Colorado.

According to Cerveny, he came to the United States on November 8, 1968, from Vienna, Austria, destined for the residence of his uncle in Boulder, Colorado. He stated that upon arrival in New York City, he spent several days at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. R. V. Grossman in Brooklyn, New York, who are the aunt and uncle of Hana Riha, the former wife of Thomas Riha.

Cerveny continued that he arrived in Denver, Colorado, via Greyhound Bus on November 16, 1968, and immediately called Thomas Riha at his residence in Boulder. He was advised by Riha that he would be unable to come to Denver to drive him back to Boulder, but that he would have a friend meet him at the bus station. He stated that approximately one hour later a woman who introduced herself as Galya Tannenbaum approached him at the bus station and thereafter drove him to the residence of Thomas Riha at 1005 8th Street, Boulder, Colorado. He advised that after Tannenbaum departed the Riha residence, his uncle told him that she was a very important person, and the one who had been influential in getting him into the United States.

Cerveny stated he resided with Riha from November 16, 1968, until January 8, 1969, when he moved to 918 South Logan Street, Denver, Colorado, in order to be closer to the Samsonite Company where he had secured employment in the Research and Development Laboratory. During the period he resided with his uncle, Tannenbaum visited this residence on several occasions, and on almost every instance reminded him that she was an officer in Military Intelligence; very influential with authorities of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service; and that if he did not behave himself in the United States, she would have him sent back to Czechoslovakia. Cerveny stated he never was certain.

On January 21, 1970, at Lyons, Colorado.

File No. Denver 47-3190.

SA's Kerrill R. Smith.

Dated January 21, 1970.
