Section C: Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

During the reporting period Mr. Fox has assumed greater responsibility as an Acting Desk Chief. As such he is responsible for the support of the operations of a large and active Station and for the direction of some eight employees either serving on this Desk or in process for the field. On balance he has done extremely well. His ability to express himself well verbally or in writing has stood him in good stead. His operational judgment is extremely good. He gets along well with his subordinates, delegates to them, and has obtained good production from them. He is highly cost conscious.

He has made progress in speeding up the preparation of his written material. After serving with him for some two years the undersigned is convinced that Mr. Fox has considerable potential for further advancement as a manager and operations officer.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

By employee. Certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 28 April 1969. Signature of employee: Florence Fr.

By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Official title of supervisor: ADC/FE/PMI. Typed or printed name and signature: Laurent M. H. Georges; Laurent M. St. Georges. Date: 28/4/69.

Comments of reviewing official: Mr. Fox leaves shortly for an assignment in Manila. He will be missed here since he assumed increasingly heavy responsibilities during his tenure on the Branch and performed in a responsible manner which clearly warrants the strong fitness report given him.

Date: 29 APR 1969. Official title of reviewing official: AC/FE/PMI. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert F. Thompson.
