Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 017974.

Section A: General.

1. Name: Fox, Jeromo (NMI). 2. Date of birth: October 1928. 3. Sex: M. 4. Grade: GS-13. 5. S.D.: D. 6. Official position title: Operations Officer. 7. Officer of assignment: DDP/FE/PMI.

8. Type of appointment: Career. Reserve. Temporary. Career-Provisional (see instructions—Section C). Special (specify).

10. Type of report: Annual. Initial. Reassignment supervisor. Re-assignment employee. Special (specify).

11. Date report due in O.P.: February 17/70. 12. Reporting period: 20 May 1969–31 December 1969.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some respects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is to exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Station MPWATCH officer responsible for functional coordination of overall program, including program guidance, analysis and research, and maintenance of central subject files pertinent to program targets. Rating: PATING.
