Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I–XVIII

April 6, 1978

Volume VI: August 1, 1961–June 30, 1962

11-10-61

1. Cable to JMWAVE from Director

Date: August 1, 1961

The FBI was conducting an investigation of the MRP and Ray, and the Director indicated that he needed to know the purpose of the investigation in order to respond properly.

2. Dispatch from Chief of Base, JMWAVE

Date: August 4, 1961

Subject: Debriefing of Father Bastarrica

Father Bastarrica recently arrived from Cuba as a political exile. At a luncheon meeting, he reported as follows:

MRP was formed in Cuba around July 26, 1960. The organizers were Dr. Amalio Fiallo Gonzalez, Dr. Antonio Fernandez Nuevo, Reynol Gonzalez, and Humberto Perez Herrera. All these men belonged to a group called Accion Democratica. The name MRP was suggested by Raul Chibas and in itself does not constitute a party or group but rather a coalition of several small groups, which were the following:

a. The 20 May group, led by Manuel Ray.

b. Accion Democratica, led by Dr. Fiallo.

c. Accion Verde Olivo, led by Dr. Rufo Lopez Fresquet.

d. 30 November Movement, led by David Salvador, who never really joined.

e. Chibas' group, with Jorge Beruff and Felipe Pazos.

f. Dr. Valdez Pino, in asylum in the Embassy of Peru, who belonged to Accion Democratica.

Father Bastarrica's opinion of Ray is that he had no way of judging whether Ray is Communist or Marxist. Ray lacks quality of leadership because he does not publicly hold to a definite political, social, and economic ideology. He appears to agree with every person he talks to, never arguing with them or opposing them, all of which shows he has no ideology and makes him a very dangerous man. He is extremely ambitious for himself, with a great desire for power.

3. Memorandum for Chief, WH Division, dated October 10, 1961, from Warren S. Yauger

Subject: General—Cuban Matters; Specific—Manuel (Monolo) Ray

The Planning Board of Puerto Rico announced on October 9, 1961, that Ray had accepted a position as consultant to that Board. The Board is an important agency of the Puerto Rican government, attached to the Office of the Governor. It has broad powers over economic and social planning and is active in exercising these powers. Ray will receive $12,000 per year. Ray is presently in Venezuela but is expected to arrive in Puerto Rico within a week.
