With Eric Rise, *From Local Courts to National Tribunals* (Carlson, 1992).

With James W. Ely, Jr., *An Uncertain Tradition: Constitutionalism and the History of the South* (Georgia, 1989).

He is completing a case history of *New York Times v. Sullivan* under the title *Heed Their Rising Voices*, to be published by McGraw-Hill in 1994, and is supervising the preparation of the *Oxford Companion to American Law*, to be published by Oxford University Press in 1995. He is also the author of more than 60 scholarly articles and essays in books.

Professional Activities

Professor Hall has been a Fulbright Scholar in Finland and a Visiting Scholar at the American Bar Foundation; he has also held grants and fellowships from the National Science Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the American Council of Learned Societies, the Exxon Education Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, the U. S. Department of Education, and the Pew Charitable Trusts. He has also lectured and conducted seminars on the American legal system, legal education, and legal history in Poland and Czechoslovakia.

Hall has served as a consultant for script preparation and production of several television programs and documentaries, including “The Federal City” (Maryland Public Broadcasting, 1989), “Prayer in the Public Schools” (Maryland Public Broadcasting, 1989), “Prohibition and Constitutional Change” (Maryland Public Broadcasting, 1989), and “Simple Justice” (New Images Productions and WGBH, 1993).

Hall is currently chairperson of the Bill of Rights Education Collaborative, a joint effort of the American Historical Association and the American Political Science Association to promote teaching about the Bill of Rights in primary and secondary schools; a member of the Editorial Board of the *Law & Society Review*; Associate Editor of the *American Journal of Legal History*; editor of *Bicentennial Essays on the Bill of Rights*, a monograph series published by Oxford University Press; co-editor with David O’Brien of *Constitutionalism and Democracy*, a monograph series published by the University Press of Virginia; a member of the Board of Directors of the Oklahoma School of Science and Mathematics and the ERIC Clearinghouse for Social Studies Education; and a member of the Board of Advisors, American Bar Association’s Commission on College and University Nonprofessional Legal Studies.
