WFO 105-8906

That he had read this also. Jaffe expressed considerable concern about receiving action on his proposal and then asked if Smirnovsky knew of any place in the U.S. where one could buy Russian vodka, and Smirnovsky said he did not.

On 2/18/54, Sam Jaffe (phonetic) told Smirnovsky that he planned to be in Washington next Thursday and wondered if Smirnovsky would have lunch with him. Smirnovsky said he would and suggested that he call him when he got in town. Jaffe said he was working on a story regarding the Indian caste system; that he already had the Hindu story laid out, covering about 40 pages; that at a conference yesterday it was decided that photos would have to be taken in China, i.e., pictures of temples, but they still had not received an answer from the Peking government. Jaffey (Jaffe) wondered if Ambassador Zarubin could be of further help in this matter if a wire were sent to him in Germany. Smirnovsky said it would be all right to send the wire. They agreed to discuss this further Thursday.

On 2/26/54, Sam Jaffe, “Life,” tried to reach Ambassador Zarubin and finally spoke instead with Fedoseev, with whom he went over again “Life’s” project for photographic essays of religions of the world and their desire to get into China. Fedoseev promised that he and the Ambassador would do all they could, but that they just had not heard as yet. Jaffe emphasized that all he wanted was a definite answer, even if it was no.

On 3/22/54, Sam Jaffe asked whether Fedoseev had heard any word from the People’s Republic of China regarding his request. Jaffe pointed out that the Chinese would be holding a big Confucius ceremony in April and he would like to cover it to get material for his story. Jaffe went into great detail explaining the importance of covering the ceremony in China proper since it is the birthplace of Confucius. He said they would probably cover it in Korea and on Formosa. Fedoseev agreed to talk the request over again with the Ambassador and call Jaffe when something came in.

On 4/9/54, Sam Jaffe tried to reach Fedoseev, was told that he was out to lunch and to call back at 2 o’clock. Jaffe said that he wanted to know something about the “Red Star” magazine (Red Army magazine), and was told Fedoseev would help on this matter.

On 4/9/54, Sam Jaffe again attempted to reach Fedoseev and was told by Smirnovsky that he was not in the Embassy. Jaffe said this call did not pertain to the Chinese proposal but to a drawing published in the end of the March issue of the “Red Star” of the “H Bomb.”
