12. Bull. By: Informant.

When a source submits bulky material other than a statement and is certain to a specific investigative matter, bulky material may be filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of executed Form FD-306 or channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items set forth on Form FD-306. In such a case, the original Form FD-306 or channelizing memorandum should be filed in the subfile of the informant or source, and the file and serial number where the bulky material is located should be noted thereon.

Payments to Informants and Handling Money Received

1. No gifts to informants.

a. Gifts should not be given to informants since such actions might be misconstrued.

b. Relationship between agents and informants shall be maintained on a businesslike basis.

Investigative employees must not approach, directly, representatives of companies, trade industries, or insurance companies and request assistance regarding payments of money, gifts, or products of such companies to informants.

2. S. Ayre. By informant.

a. Special expenses in connection concerning matters of persons to be paid out of expense monies not otherwise obtainable, for advance to an individual to obtain such information, up to $200 and totaling not more than $200 C.O.D., regardless of the number of payments. Payment to another person who has not been recently paid for services or expenses requires Bureau authority. In other words, once an individual has been paid on Bureau authorization, regardless of the amount, no one utilized on the authority of the SAC may be paid.

b. Individual payment on SAC authority should not be described in correspondence: an informant or source who is being paid on a “regular basis” on “Bureau authorization.”

c. The blue slip claiming any of these payments authorized by the SAC must clearly and accurately explain the amounts and summarize the information obtained so the Bureau will be in a position to pass intelligence on such blue slips for payment.

d. Prior Bureau authority must be obtained to make any additional payment to an individual who has received payments totaling $200.

3. Payments on continuing basis—Bureau authority.

a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authorization.

b. In requesting this authorization, a justification must be set forth containing the following items and using the subheadings shown. In espionage and foreign nationality matters, use subheadings where applicable.

(1) Recommendation.

Use the following wording as nearly as possible:

“I recommend that authority be granted to continue (increase, decrease) payments to the above informant up to ____ (amount) per ____ (month, week) for services, plus up to $____ (amount) per ____ (month, week) for expenses actually incurred for a period of ____ months, effective ____ (date).”

7-15-63
