Office of the Director

United States Department of Justice  
Federal Bureau of Investigation  
Washington, D.C. 20535

May 27, 1975

Memorandum to All Special Agents in Charge:

(A) Informant Matters—Defense Plans and Strategy

Recently there have been several instances where attorneys in connection with lawsuits have publicly and erroneously alleged that the FBI utilized informants to uncover defense plans and strategy. Also, recently a former informant falsely alleged that the informant's services were utilized by the Bureau to infiltrate a defense camp. These accusations reemphasize the need for the careful and professional handling of informants at all times.

As you are aware under current policy, informants are advised to avoid becoming involved in defense plans or strategy in subversive-type cases or with anyone under criminal indictment. It is the responsibility of all Special Agents handling informants to insure that their informants are continually alert so that they will avoid becoming involved in defense matters and, in the event an informant is requested to assist or partake in such matters, that the contacting Agent is immediately advised so that the matter will be recorded. If the informant cannot avoid being involved, the informant is not to report any information pertaining to defense plans or strategy, and such incident must be promptly reported to the Bureau under the substantive case caption.

In view of the above, the statement of cooperation normally signed by security and extremist informants is being amended to incorporate current policy regarding defense plans and strategy. Where it is not required, as in criminal informant cases, or it has not been practical to obtain a statement of cooperation, each handling Agent must orally advise the informant of the above, reduce it to writing, and record it in the informant's file. Insure that all pending informant files reflect the above as a matter of record.

Manual changes follow.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee, and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.

Clarence M. Kelley  
Director

5-27-75. Memorandum 23-75. Enclosure.
