Central Intelligence Agency (Clerical Intelligence Agency).

Country: USSR. Report No. OO-B-321/30340-67.

Subject: Second International Symposium, “Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radionuclides,” Sun Valley, Idaho—Interesting Paper Presented by Soviet Yuri I. Moskalev, an Unscheduled Participant.

Date of info: September 1967. Place and date acquired: —; September 1967. References: DCS Case 49,991 (351).

This is unevaluated information.

Source: U.S. citizen; research scientist.

This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. I attended the Second International Symposium on “Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radionuclides,” Sun Valley, Idaho, 12–14 September 1967.

2. An interesting paper was presented by Yuri I. Moskalev, USSR, on “Some Late Effects of Radionuclide Damage.” Dr. Moskalev was not expected at the meeting and he came alone, arriving two days early. He had furnished no brief and it was a surprise to hear his paper.

3. I was unaware that research such as he presented was being done in the USSR. His demonstration was a good piece of scientific work, that is, his procedures and results in pathological consequences of radioisotopes fit reasonably well with our procedures and results in the U.S. He did not present anything new in his paper, and it must certainly reveal that they are a few years behind the U.S. in biology and radioisotope studies and applications. They are apparently still testing the toxicity of radio elements, which we have already established and accept, knowing the effects and using them accordingly. In other words, we are through with his reported work, feeling that it is completed; apparently they are not. Else, they don't yet know the toxicity boundaries, are still experimenting along these lines, or are experimenting to see how much more they can learn. But his paper reveals remarkable research.

4. Dr. Moskalev understands English reasonably well, but speaks it less well. Therefore, his appearance alone at the conference was even more unusual.

5. I understand that Dr. Moskalev became very interested in visiting a certain U.S. facility researching in his field of interest and pursued arrangements to visit there. His time schedule permitted the visit and permission to visit the facility was obtained for him from the facility and the U.S. governmental clearances were also obtained. However, after all this was done, he “backed out,” going to great extent to give the
