Operational leads and debriefs those with information of intelligence value. Heretofore this project has suffered from lack of adequate facilities and trained personnel. Only 29 positive intelligence reports were disseminated by Headquarters during the past year. It is planned to correct these deficiencies and expand capabilities to the end that the intelligence product will be improved and the operational leads increased. An experienced officer from the JMAVE refugees center has been detailed to the station to assist in training the personnel there.

11. The station's Cuban case officers must devote a substantial effort to responding to requests for support from other stations, chiefly JMAVE, with involvement in Cuban operations. Approximately 47 per cent of the station's cable traffic is commercial with Cuban operations. This volume alone is testimony to the relative effort which must be devoted to the support of Cuban operations originating in other CIA stations. The Cuban case officers in Mexico City feel that the requirements to keep abreast of day-to-day activities and to handle the volume of paper leave insufficient time for planning and development of an effective station operational program.

12. Operations are being conducted against the Cuban Embassy, and the results, while limited, are as satisfactory as may be expected in view of the target. Given Mexico City's strategic location astride the only direct air link to Cuba, more success should be achieved in recruiting agents in place in Cuba. This target has been assigned as Priority I to every Latin American country and, if it is to be achieved at all, it is logical to expect that it will be done in Mexico City. To the extent possible, the Cuban case officers should be freed from the excessive support to other stations so they can concentrate on this target. The Chief, WH Division, should direct other stations to carefully screen Cuban requirements on Mexico City, with a view toward reduction of such requirements.

It is recommended that:

The Chief, WH Division:

A. Instruct the Chief of Station, Mexico City, to concentrate Cuban case officer efforts on developing agent assets resident in Cuba and,
