Suspicious that he has turned it over to the FBI. The conversation was then concluded.

15. Shortly thereafter, according to Mr. Hughes (also confirmed by Mr. Fay), a person who identified himself as Gordon Novel (Neville, Nevel, or Novel) called the FBI office and said he registered in Room 551 at the Ambassador East and that he was in Chicago on a matter involving James Garrison and a legal action against Playboy Magazine for defamation of character or some such vague explanation. Agent Fay was recontacted by CFO regarding the above telephone call, but he was unable to add to or clarify the details of the call. Agent Fay said he prepared a brief memorandum on the case and closed it.

16. Mr. Hughes said he had suspected all along that the telephone calls were either made by or instigated by one Gordon Novel (Nevil, Neville, or Novel). Hughes professed only phonetic spelling; however, Headquarters, after an indices check, later said that it was probably Gordon Novel, who had previously owned a bar in New Orleans and who had previously claimed an affiliation with the Agency.

17. Mr. Hughes said that he had a little background on Gordon Novel and that it might have a bearing on the recent events. Mr. Hughes said that about three years ago, he met one Abbey Mulligan, a native of Tennessee, who was then working as a burger in the Playboy Club in Chicago. Abbey had also worked at Playboy Clubs in New Orleans, Cincinnati, London, and other places. A few years ago, Abbey married Novel, whom she met in New Orleans. Since that time, Abbey and Novel had made their home in the Columbus, Ohio, area. They had had a lot of fights and arguments and had been separated on several occasions. Abbey had filed for a divorce. Presently, Abbey was living in Columbus with her parents, the John Mulligans.

18. Mr. Hughes further related that Novel lived by his wits and was not to be trusted; that Novel engaged in “private eye” work of questionable practices; that he reportedly tapped telephones, “bugged” rooms, and took photographs, all of which were in connection with questionable activities; and that Novel, in the past, according to Abbey, had claimed working for the Agency.

19. Mr. Hughes further related that he had no romantic interests, such as marriage, with Abbey and looked upon her as a good friend. Last summer, Mr. Hughes arranged for Abbey to spend a few weeks in the Fort Lauderdale area. Mr. Hughes was there also. Mr. Hughes said that he made elaborate precautions to make sure that Abbey could not be traced directly from Columbus to Florida. He had Abbey fly to Chicago and then catch another plane to Florida. Somehow, Mr. Hughes further related, Novel found out about their trip to Florida, according to Abbey.
