Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain findings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds, as applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

With about nineteen months’ experience managing the station registry already under his belt (bolt), his usefulness here increases. He continues to demonstrate the same quietly effective leadership and talent for sound organization in his own shop as were noted on the last fitness report.

While maintaining a high standard in the more routine day-to-day services and processes a registry is normally expected to supply, he has also been the catalyst for a thorough, carefully phased, and continuing review and, where appropriate, purge of registry and other file holdings. Administering this ambitious reduction program requires sound judgment and experience in handling the detail in our existing records. Subject has these qualities and has achieved impressive results. To complete this task, he has asked to extend his tour here for one year until November 1971, and Headquarters has approved this.

He is invariably completely responsive to guidance from the DCOS, his immediate supervisor, and conscientiously seeks to achieve the work goals which are identified during our occasional accomplishment and performance consultations. The spirit of cooperation with which he deals with other station personnel is equally commendable.

No criticism can be made of his security and cover deportment.

Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 18 June 1970. Signature of employee: /s/ James S. Woods.

By Supervisor. Date: 18 June 1970. Official title of supervisor: DCOS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ David Whipple.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Concur entirely with this favorable assessment. Subject has been a dedicated and conscientious supervisor of his office. His achievements have been quite measurable and specific, as described in the above report. On the basis of his performance here, Subject should have excellent career prospects for further growth in his chosen field.

Date: 22 June 1970. Official title of reviewing official: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Bronson Tweedy.
