MHFNO: 95-0938136. SENSIND: 95-0938136 ASO. Page 001. TOT: 031840Z JUL 95. Director 346331.

031840Z Director 346331. To: Immediate Orlando. From: Limit Chief/PCS. Info: Chief/NR, NR/PGO, OGC/LIT. Slugs: WNINTEL. Subject: Request to contact former NWBOLTON employees. Ref: None.

1. Action required: Please have station officer contact two former NWBOLTON officers by COB 5 July and contact NVTAG/Jacksonville for assistance in locating IDEN B per paragraph 3B.

2. As you may know, NWBOLTON has been cooperating with the Assassination Records Review Board, the panel charged with releasing documents on the JFK assassination, by conducting a declassification review and passing appropriate documents. The panel has selected its first batch of documents to be released publicly, which contains the true names of two former SVLION officers who retired covertly in the 1970s and, to his knowledge, have not broken cover. In order to challenge the Board's decision, we need to show that certain conditions exist pursuant to the language of the applicable law. Thus, we need the input of the two former officers to complete our research and written response. We request Station's assistance in contacting them and demonstrating to them that the request for information is authorized and legitimate.

3. Specifically, we would like an officer who has NWBOLTON alias documents to call the former employees (IDENs A and B), identify himself as a colleague from their former employer, and request a brief meeting. If IDENs are amenable, please explain in person that HQS is faced with the possible public disclosure of their NWBOLTON affiliation. We need to know the dates and places of all of their tours, the most sensitive operations in which they were involved, and any other NWBOLTON equities they are aware of that would be affected by revelation of their former employment. Station can then cable the information securely to HQS.

A. In the case of IDEN A, HQS already contacted him and was advised he needed more time to evaluate the consequences of lifting his cover. Believe he would be more comfortable.
