Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the field administrative or personnel officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters.

To the field supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

It is optional whether or not this fitness report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I.

Date of birth: May 9, 1929. Sex: M. Service designation: DT. Grade: GS-9. Station designation (current): Panama. Due date of this report: 31 December 1955. Period covered by this report: 1 December 1954–31 December 1955.

Section II (to be completed by field supervisor).

Current position: Operations Office – KUTUBE (Staff Agent). Date assumed responsibility for position: 2 January 1952.

Specific assignments or tasks typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months:

1. Acting Chief of KUCAGE operations since mid-October 1955 and, for approximately three months before that time, personally planned and directed a very active KUCAGE campaign against the local CP-controlled labor organization.
2. Case Officer trainee on direct contact with one of Station's top local CP penetrations.
3. Liaison with indigenous persons and with ODOKE officials as needed to carry out his duties.
4. Travel control and surveillance duties as directed.

Posted on: Sep 27 1956.

Section III (to be completed at headquarters only).

Authentication of report and signatures. Name of rater (true): Anderson Edward L. Name of reviewing official in field (true): Jenkins, June H.
