EP 65-951

That the actual trial would not take place until December next. He stated that he left California in August 1962 and went to Mexico, where he remained until October 28, 1962. He claimed that his wife's attorney knew this and apparently brought the case on prematurely so that he would be deprived of his day in court.

NAGELL claimed that he had written a protest to the court granting the divorce, claiming he was deprived of his right to be heard and to have a jury trial. He stated that he was consulting the Legal Aid Society and the Veterans Administration concerning this matter, since his Army pension was his only current income.

December 15, 1962

On December 15, 1962, the subject advised Special Agents of the FBI in Jacksonville, Florida, that he had served as a captain in the U.S. Army and had been involved in intelligence investigations for the CIB for approximately seven years. He said he served in Japan for most of that period and married a Japanese woman named MITSUKI NAGELL, from whom he was presently divorced. He advised that during 1957 and 1958 he became acquainted in Japan with one Doctor HAKAO FUJISAWA (HAKAO FUJISAWA), a professor of political science at Tokyo, Japan University. He said this person was a member of the Cabinet Research Office (KIO), a rightist organization. He said this person was presently in the United States, place unknown, and deemed him detrimental to the internal security of the United States. He said that in either 1958 or 1959 he directed an anonymous letter to the FBI in Washington, D.C., relative to the above information concerning FUJISAWA. He stated he was honorably discharged from the U.S. Army on October 29, 1959, and subsequently became employed on December 14, 1959, by the State Beverage Department in Los Angeles, California. He said that in June 1962 he was accused of taking a $20,000 bribe by the State Beverage Department and was released from his employment on June 8, 1962, for refusing to answer questions. He stated he talked to the FBI in Los Angeles regarding the possibility that his dismissal was a violation of his civil rights.
