Instructions for Completing Federal Employees' Notice of Injury or Occupational Disease, CA-1 & 2.

Important: Employee and official superior should read all of the following instructions before the page is removed.

Items 1 through 16 of this form should be completed by the injured employee or by someone acting on his behalf, whenever an injury is sustained in the performance of duty. The term injury includes occupational disease caused by the employment. The form should be given to the employee's official superior within 48 hours following the injury. The official superior is that individual having responsible supervision over the employee.

In instances of a recurrence of disability resulting from an injury previously reported on form CA-1 & 2, the official superior should complete and submit form CA-2a.

The official superior will complete the “Receipt of Notice of Injury” at the bottom of this page, tear off the page, and give it to the employee. The official superior will also be responsible for obtaining the statement of a witness, if any, signature, and date, in items 17, 18 and 19 on the front of the form.

A brief description of benefits provided by the Federal Employees' Compensation Act is given on the back of this page.

Instructions for Completing Official Superior's Report of Injury or Occupational Disease, CA-1 & 2.

The back of form CA-1 & 2 should be completed by the employee's official superior. The form should be sent immediately to the Office of Federal Employees' Compensation servicing the employing establishment if:

The injury causes disability for the employee's usual work beyond the shift it occurred;

It appears that the injury will result in prolonged treatment, permanent disability or serious disfigurement of the head, face or neck; or

It appears that the injury will result in a charge for medical or other related expense.

If none of the above occurs or appears likely to occur, the form should be filed in the employee's official personnel file after the official superior completes the “Receipt of Notice of Injury” and gives it to the employee.

When additional information is required to explain or clarify any point, attach supplemental statements to the form. The form should then be sent to the appropriate office of the Bureau. For further information, see the regulations governing the administration of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, Code of Federal Regulations, Title 20, Chapter 1.

Receipt of Notice of Injury.

This acknowledges receipt of notice of injury sustained by Kevin Sean Doyle, name of injured employee, which occurred on 3/24/77 at 3337 HOB #2, location.

Signature of official superior: Dennis S. Doar. Title: Chief Researcher. Date: 3/24/77.

CA-1 & 2. Rev. May, 1973.

Official Superior's Report of Injury or Occupational Disease.

20. Department or Agency: House.

21. Bureau or Office: House.
