Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I–XVIII  
April 24, 1978

Volume IX — January 1963–July 1963

1. Cable to Director from Caracas, dated February 22, 1963

Francisco Suarez Quinones wishes to travel to Miami (Maimi) to attend JURE rally 24 February. In view of Ref B (WAVE 2462) information that Suarez is communist and also MRP member, DCM has asked if there is any information that Suarez was an undercover agent for MRP or if he may be a double agent working for Castro.

2. Controlled dissemination, dated June 3, 1963  
Title: Plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Infiltrate the Ranks of the Central Intelligence Agency

On April 30, 1963, Rogelio Cisneros reported on a meeting of the JURE executive board in his home attended by, among others, Antonio Arias. During the meeting, Cisneros said it was mentioned that Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of any plans with regard to Cuba and, if possible, infiltrate this man into Cuba. Cisneros also said JURE was planning a leaflet drop into Cuba which would include such matters as Ray's manifesto against the U.S. Government and against the CIA.

3. Cable to Director from Paris, dated June 19, 1963, #7727Z

Ray in Paris—contacted by Jervay. Ray driven to airport by Alberto Baez, with whom Ray spent much time and who seems to be closest to Ray among his contacts in Paris. Ray in Paris and Brussels for purpose of turning Franqui and Arcós into agents in place, or defection. Also Cabrera. Ray convinced Cubans how disillusioned with Castro. Asks for update of list of personnel and addresses of all Cuban embassies in Europe to be passed to him in San Juan and UNRUMBLE 6 in Paris. Wants to be trained in short-wave system between himself and UNRUMBLE 6, and station felt these were good ideas and could be done.

4. Memo for the Record from Alfonso Rodriguez (Rodreguez), dated June 19, 1963  
Subject: Manolo Ray

Ray's attitude towards CIA—feels that the Agency has in the past purposely and actively attempted to destroy him as a political leader and has proof of at least one CIA officer plotting with certain MRP officials to remove him from the MRP as a condition for CIA assistance to that organization. Ray cannot be overlooked in the struggle for Cuban freedom. “Of all the Cubans I have met, he is the most purposeful, methodical, as well as the most experienced clandestine operator.”

5. Controlled dissemination, dated June 27, 1963  
Re: Creation of an Intelligence Corps within the JURE

Reliable information from former Rebel Army member (F), active in clandestine movements. JURE meeting about March 30, 1963, at the home of journalist Antonio Arias, said JURE national executive board had created an Intelligence Corps within JURE whose function was to infiltrate JURE members into various
