Memo Donahoe to Belmont.

Re: Intelligence Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries (Semiannual Evaluation).

Administrative Controls

Controls over this program are exercised on a day-to-day basis through review of outgoing instructions to field relating to the various phases of program. Technical surveillances under phase 2 are subject to 90-day evaluation, same as normal technicals instituted for Bureau investigative purposes. No interviews conducted under phase 3 without State Department clearance and prior Bureau authorization.

Field is required to submit regular letters concerning progress in developing live sources with respect to certain countries where efforts are most desirable.

Control file maintained to which copies of pertinent serials are regularly routed. Semiannual review of program encompasses complete review of control file.

Adequacy and Currentness of Instructions

Instructions are current and adequate. During past 6 months, two memoranda were sent to all Supervisors in Section (6-29-59 and 7-15-59) giving directions concerning handling of phase 3. Bulletin to 12 offices 6-29-59 required survey and evaluation of this same phase, as noted hereinbefore. New York and Washington Field, which handle bulk of work under program, were issued background and guidance material by Bulletin 12-7-59.

Overall Value

For the most part, this program consists of a coordination of accepted investigative and intelligence procedures for the purpose of proper direction, redirection when indicated, and administrative controls. On a continuing basis, it produces information of value to State Department in its formulation of foreign policy and handling of international relations and to the Bureau in its investigative and intelligence responsibilities. Frequently, the data are most useful for budgetary purposes.

Contemplated Action

From current evaluation and analyses, no changes are indicated at this time. We will closely follow all phases of our intelligence coverage to assure that changes and redirection are instituted as the need arises.
