Frank Church, Idaho, Chairman  
John G. Tower, Texas, Vice Chairman  
Philip A. Hart, Mich.  
Walter F. Mondale, Minn.  
Walter D. Huddleston, Ky.  
Robert Morgan, N.C.  
Gary Hart, Colo.  

Howard H. Baker, Jr., Tenn.  
Barry Goldwater (Golowater), Ariz.  
Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., Md.  
Richard S. Schweiker, Pa.  

William G. Miller, Staff Director  
Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel  
Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel  

United States Senate

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities

(Pursuant to S. Res. 21, 94th Congress)

Washington, D.C. 20510

178-10003-10453

June 26, 1975

Mr. William E. Colby  
Director of Central Intelligence  
Central Intelligence Agency  
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Colby:

On May 27 and June 2, the Senate Select Committee informed the Central Intelligence Agency of the Committee's plans for examining the field of foreign intelligence and the subject of covert action. In the area of the domestic activities of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Select Committee intends to address a wide range of issues, including the domestic aspects of CIA's foreign operations. The Committee intends to approach the issues of the CIA's domestic activities with a broad perspective, realizing, as I am sure you agree, that the threats to United States security and the need to protect sources and methods of intelligence, as well as CIA installations and personnel, cross our national borders.

Basically, the subjects of investigation fall into the following five headings:

1. Counterintelligence activities at home and those counterintelligence activities abroad which involve American citizens, including activities undertaken pursuant to the Director's authority to protect intelligence sources and methods.

2. Foreign intelligence activities at home and those foreign intelligence activities abroad which involved American citizens.

3. The domestic operations of the CIA undertaken in support of activities abroad.
