Betsy Palmer

File Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero — Volumes I–XVIII

May 1, 1978  
Volume XV — June 1964

1. Intelligence Information Cable, dated 30 May 1964 — information from Rogelio Cisneros Diaz — as of 30 May 1964, Ray had not entered Cuba. Boat to be used in final infiltration developed motor trouble. JURE representatives were making an all-out effort to go to Ray’s aid with a replacement for the boat and an additional supply of drinking water.

2. Cable to JMWAVE from DIR, dated 2 June 1961, reference WAVE 7218 (in 95616). Please note similarities between the rumor reported in reference paragraph 2 and the statement attributed to Rogelio Cisneros that CIA had instructed AMWORLD boats to fire on JURE boats per WAVE 3691 (IN 41477). Is this significant?

Artime’s followers authorized to attack any of Ray’s or Gutierrez’s men on the high seas.

2. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 3 June 1964, stating that Ray and Andrew St. George were among the individuals arrested by the British near Cayo Largo. The location of Anguilla Cay was also used in the cable. Detainees were taken to Nassau. Tom Duncan (Dunkan), Life photographer, was also in the group.

3. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 4 June 1964 — AMTAUP/2 reported that Ray’s organization was going to make a press statement that Ray’s failure to enter Cuba was the fault of CIA.

4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 6 June 1964, reflects the feelings of the Cuban exile community over Ray’s failure to enter Cuba.

a. Ray made a fool of himself by taking a girl and two non-Cuban newsmen with him, none of whom adapted to the rigors of guerrilla warfare.

b. British and U.S. participated in Ray’s capture.

c. The whole thing was a publicity stunt that went wrong.

d. Enrique Huertas was jubilant over Ray’s disgrace, but feels it is a loss of exile prestige and harbingers a bleak and hopeless period.

e. Dr. Antonio Maceo says many have lost faith in Ray for lack of accomplishment this past year.

f. Ray is a laughingstock. Those who had hopes now feel he is only an ambitious politician, not willing to keep promises.

g. JURE members were confused and undecided over how to defend Ray. Alanis and Zarraga wished to remove their followers from JURE.

h. Cisneros states to AMTAUP that Ray will accuse the U.S. government of treachery for cutting off economic aid one month ago and for searching his home, automobile, and offices (Cisneros’s [Cisnero’s]). Photostats in Volume XIV.
