Our strategy was based on a consistent ideology, which had us understand the conditions around us. We knew that the law was not prepared for what we were doing, and policemen were so shocked that they didn’t know what to do.

We saw that the people felt a new pride and strength because of the example we set for them, and they began to look forward to the vehicle we were building for answers.

Later we dropped the term “self-defense” from our name and just became the Black Panther Party. We discouraged actions like experiments into police observations because we recognized that these were not the things to do in every situation or on every occasion. We never called these revolutionary actions. The only time an action is revolutionary is when the people relate to it in a revolutionary way. If they will not use the example you set, then no matter how many guns you have, your action is not revolutionary.

The gun itself is not necessarily revolutionary, because the fascists carry guns—in fact, they have more guns. A lot of so-called revolutionaries simply do not understand the statement by Chairman Mao that “political power grows out of the barrel of a gun.” They thought Chairman Mao said political power is the gun, but the emphasis is on guns. The combination of political power is the ownership and control of the land and the institutions thereof, so that you can then get rid of the gun. That is why Chairman Mao cites the statement that “we are advocates of the abolition of war, we do not want war; but war can only be abolished through war, and in order to get rid of the gun, it is needed to take up the gun.” He is always speaking of getting rid of it. If he did not look at those terms, then we surely would not be revolutionary. In other words, by all revolutionary principles, the gun is a tool to be used in our strategies, and not an end in itself. This was a part of the original visit of the Black Panther Party.

I had asked Eldridge Cleaver (Bridge Cleaver) to join the Party a number of times, and he did not join until after the confrontation with the police. The article in Ramparts Magazine, where the police were affiliated to knowledge, he took this as the revolution and the work. Even before the revolution, it was not until point seven that we mentioned this, and thus, seven in a row, we were trying to build a political vehicle, in order to make the point that could express their revolutionary desire in a way that could be perceived by the people and make the revolution, on its largest scale, be used as a guide to the people. Because the largest scale can be used as a guide to the people, it’s also used to be a guide in a dialectical manner. If we can only use our gun in that regard, we compare it with the same action that could be improper at any moment. We cannot use it as a guide to the people, and use the same analysis of concrete conditions, and use the same as a way of mobilizing the people and the government.
