Which cause people to release their bowels or lose their equilibrium; adhesives which cause parts of the body to stick together, which, if moved, cause large areas of flesh to be torn away. Foam, invisible gases, odors detectable by dogs, plastic confetti, tranquilizers, electric sluices, hoses, hanging gases, and on and on.

This list of weapons is far too lengthy and horrifying to be a mere reaction to Black peoples' desire to defend their homes and lives. This listing of weapons is such as to wipe out entire areas of a population, such as is being done in Vietnam. One cannot use tanks and machine guns, sundry devices, and flame throwers selectively against snipers. These weapons either wipe out large areas of people or they aren't used at all.

During all the latest riots the National Guard and the local police shot indiscriminately at Black people. Innocent women and children were injured as well as people only suspected of looting. Capital punishment was extended to those who were arrested at the wrong place at the wrong time. No crime at all was necessary. Further riot-control plans included the request in Detroit for $9,000,000 for riot equipment. Where snipers are suspected, the article indicated that entire buildings were razed to the ground. These dead, the article went on, are not among those listed as casualties.

The psychology of the police interviewed by Wills was that potential riots must be squelched. This means that police patrol the ghetto and look for “suspicious” activities. Who could blame the police for using violence to squelch a potential riot? Only those who might question the nature of such activity in the first place and who might question the right of an individual man with a gun to pass judgment on another man without benefit of trial. In Los Angeles in July of 1967, the police at a Black Muslim temple were mock-marked with machine guns. The police claimed that they suspected that the temple was the hiding place for guns. Naturally, they shot first and asked questions later. The result? No guns found. In this case, because of widespread publicity, Major Yorty was forced to apologize publicly for the outrageous conduct of the police. However, such raids continue regularly in the Black community by the police. The police are getting “tough.” To quote Cook County Sheriff Wood (Chicago): “When we had our Maywood riot, I went around telling my men on the bullhorn, so all those on the street could hear, that any rioter who raised his hands above his head would be guilty of aggravated assault, and should be fired on. I also told my men to shoot carefully—we didn't have extra men to take wounded off to hospitals.” Compare this with what happened to Denzil Dowell, above, and Bobby Hutton (see below). A further interesting comparison was a statement made by Herr Göring (Goring), who issued these “shoot first” orders: “...for failure to act is a graver fault than errors made in action.”

Even the Berkeley (Berkely) police broke into the home of Panther Chairman Bobby Seale at 3:30 a.m. on phony charges of conspiracy to commit murder—charges that the police could never substantiate enough even to press. Huey P. Newton issued Mandate No. 3:

Because of the St. Valentine’s Day massacre of February 14, 1929, in which outlaws donned the uniforms of policemen, posed as such, and thereby gained entrance to locked doors controlled by rival outlaws with whom they were contending for control of the bootlegging industry in Chicago; and because these gangsters, gaining entry through their disguise as policemen, proceeded to exterminate their rivals with machete or fire, we believe that prudence
