2. On 24 September 1969, a review by SA Cundiff of case file 50D24G-133, of which Werbell is the subject, revealed the following information:

Werbell was in the RVN in an unofficial status, with the concurrence of ASD Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, to demonstrate a noise and flash suppressor assembly for the M-16 rifle, as well as other firearms equipment. He possessed no security clearance. He was to demonstrate his equipment only in the RVN and was then to return to the U.S. Upon his arrival in the RVN, he was given a Military Assistance Command Vietnam (MACV) Identification and Privilege Card (MACV Form 6) for use while in country. The application for this card was filled out by Col. William M. Fagan, Commander, Det 6, ASD, TSNAB, RVN. The card, to expire March 69, was only to reflect Werbell was to have BX privileges, and no grade or rank was reflected intentionally. The card that was finally issued reflected equivalent rank of GS-16 and gave Werbell postal, BX, commissary, and check privileges for a period of one year, to September 69. The application form was adjusted to show this, and someone other than Fagan placed Fagan’s initials in the appropriate blocks to obtain these privileges.

The subject was the individual who met Werbell upon his arrival in country and who took care of getting his weapons registered in accordance with MACV directives. The subject also set up the demonstrations Werbell was to give.

At the conclusion of the demonstrations, rather than return to the U.S., Werbell traveled to Bangkok and Korea, utilizing his MACV ID card and dropping names of alleged acquaintances of high reputation in order to show his equipment in those countries. Fagan obtained the MACV ID card from Werbell in Bangkok on 8 May 69.

3. On 24 September 1969, a review by SA Cundiff of 50D24G-0/86 revealed the following information concerning Werbell:

Fagan advised that in January 69, Werbell stated he had captured weapons he wanted to ship back. Fagan told him he would help through legitimate channels if the weapons were for a government agency; otherwise, he would ship back only the equipment Werbell brought over. Fagan heard no more from Werbell until early February 69, when Werbell stated he was ready to leave and would bring the items to be shipped. He was told by Fagan to bring the items in an open box, which would be sealed at the aerial port.

Fagan was unable to locate Werbell after that meeting until 8 May 69, when he located Werbell in Bangkok to retrieve the MACV ID card. Werbell requested Fagan to ship some gear from Saudi Arabia to the U.S. Fagan again replied he would ship back only the original equipment from TSNAB.

The files contained no further information pertinent to the present investigation.
