Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in mind the perspective of their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section II to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

There is little change over the previous report. Subject remains eager and aggressive and his enthusiasm for his assignment has not been dulled by the everyday frustrations and difficulties of doing business and living in Argentina. Subject's political action project was reactivated during this period with the return to Buenos Aires of the principal agent. This activity shows promise of making an important contribution to understanding the political tides at work in Argentina. Subject has developed a long-time agent in the liaison service (and recruited his wife) to a point where the "take" has been considerably improved. Subject's project management remains good and his reporting is both timely and in depth.

Subject supervises an American Staff Agent under deep cover in which effort Subject exhibits a high degree of competence. This officer continues to show an admirable cost consciousness which can be demonstrated in his management of a large and important CA liaison project; the costs to the Agency of this project have been reduced about 65% since subject assumed direction while at the same time improving the end result. Subject's Spanish continues to improve and he has no difficulty in understanding and in speaking with Argentines who have no English.

Subject has obviously established effective rapport with his agents and his Argentine colleagues and friends. This is in part due to a genuine interest on Subject's part in these people, their country's problems, and their culture. Subject remains responsive to guidance.

Certification and Comments. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 24 May 65. Signature of employer: A. M. Larkin /s/.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 12. Date: 24 May 65. Official title of supervisor: Operations Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: Frederick Larkin, Jr. /s/.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: From fairly close observation of his work I agree generally with ratings and comments of supervisor. The rating of "outstanding" on his work with liaison was justified in his last report because of the exceptional job he had done in developing this relationship. While he has continued to maintain it at a high level, there is some question in my mind whether a rating of "outstanding" is still justified. He is definitely a strong and active officer, handling a heavy load of liaison and independent operations. A well-rounded judgement of this officer should, however, include the statement that he sometimes rushes ahead a bit too precipitously and enthusiastically, and is inclined to gloss over operational details which can be important. He is effective.

Date: 24 May 65. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: J. Foster Collins /s/.
