In narcotics.

In 1955, Wall's body was found, and his throat had been murdered. The body of Wall was not the one that Trafficante's confidential facts concerned.

A confidential source in the Mafia and its opium-dealer, Charles Wall, came to light. The controlled gambling was headed, he said, by James Lumia, Ignacio DeSimone, and Imposanto, and Italiano fled.

Going along with Trafficante, they had made three attempts as Wall was leaving. It happened a few blocks away, and the automobile was involved in an accident in front of the car. No. 2716692, each armed and firing at Wall and his men, was fired at Wall and his men and killed him at City, Missouri. They were—

And later he was killed?

The public believed that Wall was at the heart of the organization and that the members of that organization once used the Mafia to educate them on their “racketeering” business. They had taken over the rackets that they ran to the exclusion of everyone else. They had adopted by bribery and that device the use of “suborned” tickets in the United States. They had also run out of money, but were “bigger than” any other gangsters in the country. They had also run out of the active Mafia members in Tampa, and had—

Santo Trafficante, Sr., was well informed on the activities of the organization in the United States, in Sicily, and in other countries of the world. Trafficante had told him, Wall said, that the Mafia in the United States was directed by a local board in every city having a sizable Sicilian population. There was a national board, headed by Joseph Profaci in New York City, which was composed of the heads of the major local boards. Trafficante is reported to have said that Frank Costello, Vincent Mangano, and Joe Massie were influential members of the national board, and that Frank Nitti and Lucky Luciano were former members.

According to Wall's account, the Mafia was composed of two distinct groups, an “inner circle” and an “outer circle.” The general rule was that only natives of Sicily were admitted to the “inner circle,” while American-born Italians were recruited into the “outer circle.” Wall was told it was possible for a member to be transferred from “outer” to “inner” status when he performed an act of special merit, even though he had been born in the United States. The restrictions were not due to lack of trust by native Italians toward those of American birth, but because the “inner circle” usually took the major part of the proceeds of the Mafia's illegal activities and, therefore, preferred to keep the membership of the “inner circle” as small as possible.

Senator Muskie. Would you say that this chart represents the inner circle, Chief?

Mr. Brown. At the very top portion, Senator, would be the inner circle.

Below that—

Senator Muskie. By the “top portion,” do you mean—

Mr. Brown. I would include in that list the three top men who would be in the inner circle, and those below that would be in the outer circle.

The Chairman. Those would only be in the inner circle so far as the Tampa area is concerned?

Mr. Brown. That is right.

The Chairman. Not in the inner circle overall?

Mr. Brown. No, sir; this is just in the inner circle in the Tampa area.

The Chairman. But that gives an indication of how the overall organization is set up.

Mr. Brown. That is correct.

The Chairman. You may have it in here, but I may have missed it, but who was Wall talking to when he gave all this information?

Mr. Brown. That was a confidential informant.

The Chairman. I see. Very well.

(At this point Senator Javits entered the hearing room.)

Mr. Brown. Wall believed the influential Mafia members in Tampa from 1930 through 1945 were: Santo Trafficante, Sr., Salvatore Italiano, James Lumia, and the Diecidue family—Alfonso, Antonio, Thomas, and Frank. The Diecidues and their in-laws opposed the leadership of Trafficante in the Tampa organization. Trafficante told Wall that Vincent Mangano, of the national board, supported the Diecidues, but that he, Trafficante, was able to stay in power because he had Joseph Profaci's friendship.

Senator Muskie. May I ask a question here?

Mr. Brown. Yes, sir.

Senator Muskie. You refer to the national board. I do not recall any point in this hearing where there was this kind of a direct reference—
