Source: 1963 Ramparts article by William H. Turner.

OS indicates results:

Subject became of interest to the Office of Security in March 1964 when the FBI informed the Agency that Subject had in his possession at the time of his arrest for bank robbery at El Paso, Texas, on 20 September 1963, the name of Richard MRCRAU (an individual by this name was captured by the Chinese Communists and is now in prison in China) and the names of six Agency employees. Research failed to reveal any reason why NAGELL had these names in his possession. It was concluded that while NAGELL is unquestionably unreliable, his story of being involved in espionage is not fully contradicted by evidence. He could have been contradicted by a Soviet agent while in Washington, D.C., in December 1962 or while he was in Mexico City in September and October 1962. His file contains mostly FBI reports dated 1962 and 1964, and these document his history of mental instability and physical complaints stemming from the plane crash. Attached is a chronology dated 3 March 1965 made from the information contained in the FBI reports. At the time this security research was conducted, it was recommended that NAGELL be personally interviewed by a representative of OS in the hope that NAGELL might reveal how he came into possession of these names, but no further action is indicated in his file and this interview was not undertaken.

Details:

Subject's file reflects no Agency interest in him prior to March 1964, when the names of CIA employees were found in his possession when arrested for bank robbery.

The Ramparts (RAMPARS) claim that he received intelligence training after the plane crash is true. The crash occurred 29 November 1954, and he graduated from Army Intelligence School, Ft. Holbrook, Maryland, on 15 August 1955. He served in Korea and Japan as a member of the U.S. Army Counterintelligence Corps, terminating about 1958. A Lt. Col. Red W. Glenn, who served with NAGELL personally in Korea, advised that NAGELL was not stable mentally and that this instability was probably due to brain damage suffered in the airplane crash.

The Ramparts (RAMPARS) article's claim that NAGELL said he fired the gun in the bank at El Paso, Texas, because he wanted to be in custody when the assassination took place is not completely in conflict with a statement NAGELL made on 1 January 1964, which was, however, after the assassination. See page 4 of chronology.

The Ramparts (RAMPARS) article's allegation that the FBI took from NAGELL a notebook containing the names of CIA employees is true.

NAGELL's complaint that he was “salted away” is open to speculation. A ten-year prison sentence does appear harsh, considering the documented brain.
