International Federation of Petroleum and Chemical Workers (IFPCW). Set up originally by the CIA through the US Oil Workers International Union.

International Federation of Plantation, Agricultural and Allied Workers (IITA&W). The international trade secretariat for rural workers. Used by the CIA for labor operations.

International Federation of Women Lawyers. Organization used by the CIA for propaganda operations.

International Police Academy. CIA-controlled police training school under cover in Washington, DC. Formerly the Inter-American Police Academy founded in Panama by the Panama station.

International Police Services School. CIA training school for police in Washington under commercial cover.

International Student Conference (ISC). See Coordinating Secretariat of National Unions of Students (COSEC).

International Trade Secretariats. A generic description of the international trade-union organizations having as members the national unions of workers in a particular industry. There are 15–20 ITSs, most of which have been used by the CIA for labor operations. Some have headquarters in Europe, others in the US, but close relations are maintained with the RCFTU in Brussels.

International Transport Workers Federation (ITF). The international trade secretariat for transport industries. Used by the CIA for labor operations. See Joaquin (Jack) Otero.

Jacome, Francine. American married to Ecuadorian. Quito agent who wrote earlier letters to Luis Toroella, q.v., and served as transcriber and counter for telephone-tap operation. Cryptonym: ECDOXY.

Jaramillo, Rene. Velasquista leader and Quito station penetration agent.

Jauregu(i), Arturo. Secretary-General of the Inter-American Regional Labor Organization (ORIT), q.v., in Mexico City. CIA agent.

Jauregu erra. Montevideo police commissioner in charge of movements of non-domiciled population. Montevideo station liaison collaborator.

Jones, Derek. Agent of the Montevideo station used in operation to break the AME system of the Embassy of the United Arab Republic (Egypt).

Karameissiker, Teomas. Assistant Deputy Director for Plans and later Deputy Director for Plans.

Kaufman, Walter J. Chief of Mexico branch of Western Hemisphere Division.

Kindschi, Jack. CIA operations officer in Stockholm using non-official cover of Washington, DC public relations firm Robert Mullen Co. Assigned to Mexico City with same cover.

King, Colonel J. C. Chief of the Western Hemisphere Division of the DDP.

Kladensky, Otto. Quito Oldsmobile dealer and station agent for intelligence on the Czech diplomatic mission. Also the cutout to Reinaldo Varea Donoso, Ecuadorean Vice-President, q.v. Cryptonym: ECTOSOME, later DICTOSOME.

Labor Committee for Democratic Action. Propaganda mechanism of the Montevideo station.

Ladd, Raymond. Quito station administrative officer, also in charge of certain operations.

Ladenburg, Arthur. CIA operations officer in Mexico City under non-official cover. Later assigned to Santiago, Chile.

LIBIDINAL. Mexico City station postal intercept operation. True cryptonym and true names of agents unknown.

LICALLA. One of three observation posts overlooking the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City. Names of agents forgotten.

LICOBRA. Cryptonym for operations targeted by Mexico City station against the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), the Mexican Foreign Ministry, and Ministry of Government.

LICOWL-1. Owner of small grocery store near Soviet Embassy, Mexico City. CIA agent. True name forgotten.

LICOZY-1. Double-agent of Mexico City station against the KGB. True name forgotten.

LICOZY-3. Double-agent of Mexico City station against the KGB. True name forgotten.

LICOZY-5. Double-agent of the Mexico City station against the KGB. True name forgotten.

LIDENY. Mexico City station unilateral telephone-tapping operation. True cryptonym and true names of agents unknown.

LIEMBRACE. Mexico City station surveillance team. Names of team members unknown.

LIENVOY. Joint telephone-tapping operation between Mexico City station and Mexican security service. Names of agents unknown.

LIFIRE. Mexico City station travel control and general investigations team. True names unknown.

LILINK. An operation in Mexico City to provide non-official cover for
