Agent Report (AR 381-130; FM 30-17).

Name of subject or title of incident: Griggs, Kenneth C., PFC, RA 19 772 378. Date and place of birth: 25 December 1946, Korea. Date submitted: 24 January 1968. Control symbol or file number: 8008-9182. SSAN: 519-45-7994.

Report of findings.

LaChapelle stated that the subject favored an absolute state of control as long as he was one of the ruling class. LaChapelle stated that the subject's defection was the truest decision he could make, thus making the only solution his conscience dictated. LaChapelle stated that the subject was not encouraged by a third party to defect except maybe the world around him. LaChapelle stated that only three people other than himself who were in any way friendly were Chaplain Camp, presently in Germany, Hal Nelson, and John Klink. They would not encourage a defection. The subject would not let himself be influenced by others. LaChapelle went on saying that the subject's defection was motivated by his resentment of his treatment by other personnel, indicating that he had been beaten and required stitches in his head on one occasion and that he was considered different by his section leaders. The subject had mentioned defection to LaChapelle, but LaChapelle had talked him out of it. At that point in their relationship, the friendship between LaChapelle and the subject seemed to decline. LaChapelle blames the Army and society for forcing the subject to defect. LaChapelle requested any information or photographs of the subject because LaChapelle intends to be a writer and wants to write about the subject and his problems. A copy of a letter dated 20 November 1967, written by LaChapelle, is attached as Exhibit III.

On 24 November 1967, Source answered the letter of 20 November 1967, stating that at first he was apprehensive and wondered how much LaChapelle was involved with the subject. Source commented that he could offer very little concerning the subject for LaChapelle to use in his writing. Source stated that the subject's mental problems started before his entry into the U.S. Army and that LaChapelle should take a more kindly view of the people who comprise society. Source gave LaChapelle a short history of the subject from the time he came to the United States in 1956 to the time he was placed in the Children's Home, Boise. During this period, the subject would not stay with any one thing for very long, such as scouts, sports, and physical activities. He became angry very easily. The subject was intelligent in school. From the time he was placed in the Children's Home until he entered the U.S. Army, the subject had a history of running away and was never satisfied being in the same place for very long. The subject finished high school and entered the military service. Source stated his desire to again hear from LaChapelle. A copy of a letter dated 24 November 1967, written by Source, is attached as Exhibit IV.

Source stated that he had not received any other correspondence concerning the subject. Neither Source nor his family have heard from the subject or any official of the Cuban Embassy in Japan. Source further stated that he had no information concerning the subject's present whereabouts or his future plans. Source stated that he would advise this office in the event he received other letters or information pertaining to the subject.

Agent's notes: Source was very cooperative. He had original letters written by LaChapelle and carbon copies of his replies, which Source allowed this office to copy.

Typed name and organization of special agent: Floyd N. Beery, 115th MIDOWNGBY (DV), May 1946.

Signature of special agent: Honold L. Beery.
