31. Corrective action on false information

a. When it is determined that a current asset or former asset has furnished false information, promptly inform FBIHQ of complete facts.

b. Set forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing the asset in future, such as “source of known unreliability” or “source who has furnished both reliable and unreliable information in the past.”

c. FBIHQ will advise which designation to use; the field office will then proceed with review of all data furnished by the asset and label information from him accordingly.

d. All communications containing information from the asset that have been sent to FBIHQ, FBI field offices, and outside agencies must be corrected. Corrective action should be taken by letter. Identify cases individually by title and character, together with dates of communications containing information from the asset. Corrective letters should refer to the specific report, page number, and change to be made. Amended pages should not be prepared unless you are so instructed by FBIHQ in accordance with instructions of part II, section 4, Manual of Rules and Regulations.

e. Instruct each field office that has made further dissemination of the asset’s information to follow the instructions set forth above.

f. Set up a control file regarding this corrective action and, upon completion of the same, submit to FBIHQ a final letter under the asset’s caption identifying each case by title, character, FBIHQ file number if known, and date of communication. This letter will be used to check all pertinent FBIHQ files to see that necessary corrective action has been taken.

g. If necessary, other field offices that have received information from the asset should also be requested to submit summary letters showing what corrections have been made.

h. Occasionally, a former asset, through his speech, writings, or actions, raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an asset. It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of information attributed to that former asset in the absence of definite indication that he furnished unreliable information while he was an asset.

i. Dissemination of information from assets of questionable reliability and known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, section 5, Manual of Rules and Regulations.

32. Discontinuance of assets

Advise FBIHQ under the asset’s symbol number caption when the services of the asset are discontinued.
