Station unaware if assassination was premeditated or whether it constituted a bungled abduction attempt. In any case, it is important to bear in mind that the move against Schneider was conceived by and executed at the behest of senior Armed Forces officers. We know that General Valenzuela was involved. We are also nearly certain that Admiral Tirado, Army Lieutenant Colonel, and Navy Captain were witting and involved. We have reason for believing that General Viaux and numerous associates were fully clued in, but cannot prove or disprove that execution or attempt against Schneider was entrusted to elements linked with Viaux. An important factor to bear in mind is that the Armed Forces, and not retired officers or extreme rightists (righttests), set Schneider up for execution or abduction. All we can say is that the attempt against Schneider (Schneic) is affording the Armed Forces one last opportunity to prevent Allende's election if they are willing to follow Valenzuela's scenario.

(Santiago 598, 22 October)

F. Post-October 22 Events

The shooting of General Schneider resulted in the immediate imposition of martial law, the appointment of General Prats as Commander in Chief, and the appointment of General Valenzuela as commander of Santiago province. These measures, and others taken,

Task Force to make the following initial judgment:

With only 24 hours remaining before the Congressional runoff, a coup climate exists in Chile. The attack on General Schneider has produced developments closely following Valenzuela's plan. Consequently, the plotters' positions have been enhanced.

(Chile Task Force Log, 22 October)

On October 23, Director Helms reviewed and discussed

It was agreed that a maximum effort has been made and that now only the Chileans themselves can carry out a successful coup. The Chileans have been guided to the point where a military solution is at least possible for them.

(Task Force Log, 24 October)

Although it [was] prediction of an abduction at constitutional [unclear]. Dr. Allende was [elected] the next [day].
