To understand the magnitude of the effort involved in reviewing these documents for declassification, it is important to place them in some context. The CIA's collection of documents related to the assassination of President Kennedy consist of approximately 250,000–300,000 pages of material. This includes copies and originals of Warren Commission and other information provided to the House Select Committee on Assassinations between 1977 and 1979, and over 17 boxes of material on Lee Harvey Oswald, accumulated after President Kennedy's examination.

At first blush, you might think that this is an enormous amount of material for the CIA to have on the assassination. It is important to recognize, however, that virtually all of these are essentially “secondary” documents collected after the assassination as a result of specific inquiries received from the Warren Commission or the House Select Committee on Assassinations. There were some documents that did exist before the assassination, but they were only brought together in response to investigations of the event. I have prepared a chart that illustrates this very point.

As you can see, prior to President Kennedy's assassination CIA held only a small file on Lee Harvey Oswald that consisted of 33 documents (less than 150 pages), of which 28 documents consisted of material originated by the State Department, the Navy, the FBI, and newspaper clippings. I have brought along a copy of Oswald's file as it existed before the assassination so that you can see first hand how slender it was at the time. As I have

The documents were declassified, only 11 of which were obtained from the CIA.

Approximately 160 pages of material originated by the State Department, the Navy, the FBI, and newspaper clippings. Only 11 of the documents were obtained from the CIA.

Approximately 150 pages of material originated by the State Department, the Navy, the FBI, and newspaper clippings. Only 11 of the documents were obtained from the CIA.

Approximately 166 pages of material originated by the State Department, the Navy, the FBI, and newspaper clippings. Only 11 of the documents were obtained from the CIA.
