United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. A. H. Belmont

From: W. C. Sullivan

Subject: “Communism and the Negro Movement—A Current Analysis”

Date: 12/21/64

By memorandum dated 11/27/64, which was approved, a paper captioned as above depicting the communist influence in the Negro movement, with emphasis on Martin Luther King, Jr., was disseminated to the heads of the intelligence community. We have received additional information concerning King's immoral conduct at Memphis, Tennessee, and at Oslo, Norway.

It is contemplated that dissemination of this additional information will be made, if approved, to the following individuals:

The Honorable Dean Rusk, the Secretary of State.

The Honorable John A. McCone, Director of Central Intelligence Agency.

The Honorable Carl T. Rowan, Director of United States Information Agency.

The Honorable Robert S. McNamara, the Secretary of Defense.

Major General Edgar C. Doleman, Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Department of the Army.

Rear Admiral Rufus L. Taylor, Director of Naval Intelligence, Department of the Navy.

Colonel Joseph J. Cappucci, Director of Special Investigations, the Inspector General, Department of the Air Force.

Lieutenant General Joseph F. Carroll, Director, Defense Intelligence Agency.

Dr. Leland J. Haworth, Director, National Science Foundation.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.

All information contained before December 8, 1964 by SPAMMER, date 10/18/64, herein is unclassified. This document may be reproduced or disseminated anywhere, for any purpose, without warranty of any type, whether express or implied. Copying is prohibited unless permitted by the author or corporation specifying the copyright owner or the correspondent of the copyright owner.
