Office Memorandum

United States Government

To: Mr. Tolson  
From: C. D. DeLoach  
Subject: Sam Jaffe, CBS News  
Date: September 28, 1959

On September 25, 1959, Jaffe, who is a good friend of the Bureau and who did two radio shows on the New York Office, came by and talked with Kemper.

Jaffe has been on the Khrushchev trip, and he said it was the most hectic thing he has ever had to do in his life. He said there was no question about Khrushchev's anger in Los Angeles and that one of the aides told him, “Don't be surprised if the old man doesn't suddenly get up and go home.” He said the security of Khrushchev was badly handled and that Roswell Garst, Coon Rapids, Iowa, the millionaire farmer, is no more than a publicity seeker and is a real “corn ball.”

He said one amusing thing happened in San Francisco. At about 7:15 in the morning Khrushchev decided to take a walk and, apparently, caught his bodyguards flat-footed. He headed down the street with the guards streaming out the doors behind him, some of them buttoning their clothes as they ran.

Jaffe is trying to get back to Russia (CBS lost their correspondents after the television show that was critical of Stalin, et al.) and he has been working with people at the embassy to try and get back. He said that he wanted to go back and have a television interview with Khrushchev on his reaction to his trip and that he had been in touch with Viktor Osipov, who is a second secretary in the embassy and attached to the Cultural Section. He said that at the reception at the embassy on Thursday night, Osipov told him to submit his list of questions and he would see what they could do about getting him to Moscow to interview Khrushchev.

Jaffe said that he felt that the overall trip by Khrushchev would be beneficial, particularly in case of a hot war because Khrushchev, having seen the country and the people, may hesitate before “pushing the button.”

Recommendation: REC-62, EX 103.

For information.

1. Mr. Belmont.

ECK:cag (3)
