7. Contractual Relationship—USJPRS: The Agency organization, USJPRS, has a contractual association with approximately 1,500 independent contractors and 45 contract employees. These individuals are unwitting of the fact that they really work for CIA in the performance of their domestic activities. USJPRS (United States Joint Publications Research Service) is a part of FBIS. They perform a translation service of unclassified documents for the Government. The independent contractors work in their own homes and are given assignments as the need arises. The contract employees are “integrated” into the Bureau of Standards and are located in Washington, D.C. They are paid and administered by the Bureau. CIA reimburses the Bureau. Their basic contracts of employment are prepared in Contract Personnel Division.

8. Hunt Requests a Lock Picker: This is a record of External Employment Assistance Branch’s action on a request from Howard Hunt for a lock picker who might be retiring or resigning from the Agency.

Sometime in the spring of 1972, Iden 38 of EEAB received a call from Howard Hunt, who asked Iden 38 if he had a retiree or resignee who was accomplished at picking locks. Iden 38 sent him a résumé on Thomas Amato, who retired 31 July 1971. Iden 38 did not document his EEAB record to show the date of this exchange, but Mr. Thomas-Hester, who also works in EEAB, opines that it occurred sometime between March and May 1972.

All of the above information was reported to the Office of Security on 4 October 1972 following the FBI’s contact with the Agency regarding Howard Hunt.

9. Resume Sent to McCord: Ross Lambert, a contract employee who retired in September 1971, was a client of the External Employment Assistance Branch in his search for a job after retirement. One of the leads given to Lambert was James McCord’s security business. EEAB sent a resume to McCord, but Lambert was not hired.

In mid-summer 1972, Mr. Lambert telephoned EEAB from Chicago. He had a job there with the Halifax Security Co., a lead provided by EEAB, but until this telephone call he had
