Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for certain positions. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This report covers a period of four months. There was no change in the substance of Subject's duties—merely a reordering of the priorities. Specific duty number four was elevated to the second priority. While we cannot cite any specific accomplishments yet in the performance of this second priority, we can say, in all honesty, that Subject is making a determined effort to achieve results. He is allocating his time in accordance with priorities and meeting deadlines. Comments I made in earlier fitness reports on his qualities as an agent handler, recruiter, and “guru” of the Philippine Communist movement continue to apply.

Dec. 6, 1974 (M. '71)

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 29 November 1971. Signature of employee: /s/ Jerome Fox.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 2.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 29 November 1971. Official title of supervisor: COS, Manila. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ George Kalaris.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

Concur with comments made by the supervisor. Mr. Fox is an overall proficient case officer with some very strong talents, particularly in the Communist and CI field. He lacks supervisory experience and his talents in this regard are uncertain. Nonetheless, he does render a creditable service to the organization and is a responsible and dedicated employee. In order to determine if he has the potential for further advancement, he should be given some supervisory responsibilities to evaluate his talents in this area.

Date: 02 DEC 1971. Official title of reviewing official: CFE/PMI. Typed or printed name: Ralph J. Katoosh.
