Agent Report (AR 381-180; FM 30-17).

1. Name of subject or title of incident: TRINKALA, Victor L.  
DPOB: 28 November 1950; Rochester, Pa.  
PVT - 186 42 1155.

2. Date submitted: 16 April 1970.  
3. Control symbol or file number: 9321 - 6006.

4. Report of Findings (Miscellaneous—Continued).

Color of hair: Brown.  
Color of eyes: Unknown.  
Physical defects: None; however, while at the FP at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, Nagell was believed to have had a physical defect which was corrected, further details unknown.  
Remarks: Nagell does not wear glasses or a mustache and he is always clean shaven.

Sometime in 1968, while Source was on duty as a Desk Clerk at the Strand Hotel from 1600 to 2400 hours, SUBJECT came to the hotel desk and requested that Source allow HIM to sleep at the hotel that night since SUBJECT was from out of town and did not have any money to rent a room. Source offered his room at the Woodstock Hotel for that night, which SUBJECT accepted. Since then, Source and SUBJECT have been close friends, and Source shared his room with SUBJECT until approximately three weeks ago when SUBJECT left the hotel with some friends, and Source had not seen HIM since.

SUBJECT told Source that HE was originally from Pittsburgh (Pittsburg), Pennsylvania, where HE lived with HIS mother, Mrs. Trinkala, prior to coming to New York City. Source had never met Mrs. Trinkala, however, Source had talked with her telephonically on several occasions. To Source's knowledge, SUBJECT'S parents have been either separated or divorced for several years, further details unknown. SUBJECT has several other brothers and sisters, names unknown. During July or August 1969, SUBJECT was inducted into the United States Army and was assigned to Fort Gordon, Georgia, for basic military training. SUBJECT always discussed with Source the fact that HE was a very religious individual and HE considered HIMSELF a Conscientious Objector. During one of Source's telephone conversations with SUBJECT'S mother, Mrs. Trinkala told Source that she was making the necessary arrangements with her Senator in Pittsburgh (Pittsburg), name unknown, to get SUBJECT out of military service. At this time, Source told SUBJECT'S mother that he felt it would be difficult to get SUBJECT out of military service; however, Source felt that he could help her and SUBJECT in obtaining SUBJECT'S transfer to the United States Army Chaplain School (USACS), Fort Hamilton, Brooklyn, New York. In December 1969, a couple of days after Source's conversation with SUBJECT'S mother, Source met Nagell at the Strand Hotel. Since Source knew Nagell to be a former United States Army Captain, Source told Nagell about SUBJECT and requested advice from Nagell as to what could be done to have SUBJECT.

5. Typed name and organization of special agent: CAPISTRANO PABON-IRIZARRY, 108th MI Gp. (I-SIB).  
6. Signature of special agent: Alastair A. Sanger.
