Supplement

The Situation in Central America, Panama, and Mexico

Central America is relatively stable. Preparations are under way for President Kennedy's scheduled meeting with the Chiefs of State of these countries at San Jose, Costa Rica, on 18 and 19 March. Tensions are rising, however, in those countries having elections scheduled this year; Mexico's political stability is threatened; and the Cuban subversive potential remains a problem throughout the area.

During the forthcoming meeting, an attempt will be made to center discussions on areas of common interest. Economic integration of the Central American region—one of the major objectives of the Alliance for Progress Program—will undoubtedly be emphasized. Central America, which has been moving toward greater political unity, has begun to take steps toward economic integration, and presently envisages the creation of a Common Market by 1965. The Cuban subversive threat is also likely to be given top priority. All of the Central American countries regard this as one of the major problems and are seeking ways to meet it.

On 3 February, Nicaraguans are scheduled to cast ballots for the first time in nearly 30 years for a Presidential candidate who is not a member of the Somoza family. Rene Schick—the government's Liberal Party (PLN) candidate and hand-picked by the Somozas—is expected to win easily, however. Effective opposition to Schick collapsed when the major opposition party—Traditionalist Conservative (PCT)—boycotted the elections because the government refused to permit OAS supervision. The only opponent is Diego Manuel Chamorro Bolanos, a last-minute candidate of the splinter Nicaraguan Conservative Party (PCN), whose entry into the race seems to have been engineered by the government to provide a semblance of opposition. Castro-Communist elements, militant conservatives and others may attempt to create disorders before or during the elections, but the Nicaraguan National Guard is believed capable of controlling any troubles short of a general uprising or well-coordinated rebel invasion—neither of which seems likely.

Anti-Somoza Nicaraguans have alleged fraudulent registrations and may attempt to challenge the elections. Although Schick may not turn out to be a Somoza puppet, opposition suspicions will be reinforced with the likely retention of General Anastasio Somoza as Director of the National Guard.

Repercussions in Guatemala from the recent abortive Air Force revolt have not been too serious. Although plotting

28 Jan 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin
