Section A. General.

Name: Joseph B.  
Service designation: M.  
Official position title: Rpl, Hlarl.  
Career staff status: Not eligible; member; deferred; initial; reassignment/supervisor; pending; declined; denied; annual; reassignment/employee.  
Date report due in O.P.  
Reporting period: 1 Nov 59–30 Mar 60.  
Special (specify).

Section B. Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1. Unsatisfactory. 2. Barely adequate. 3. Acceptable. 4. Competent. 5. Excellent. 7. Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Operations officer, political action. Rating No. 6.  
Specific duty No. 2: Collection and processing of intelligence. Rating No. 4.  
Specific duty No. 3: Origination of correspondence. Rating No. 5.  
Specific duty No. 4: Assisting in political action planning. Rating No. 4.  
Specific duty No. 5.  
Specific duty No. 6.

Section C. Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position. Rating No. 9.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance. Rating No. 4/5.

1. Performance in many important aspects fails to meet requirements.  
2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.  
3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.  
4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.  
5. Performance in every important respect is superior.  
6. Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Section D. Description of the Employee.

In the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to
