May 27, 1960

Re: Howard Lewis Rundquist; William J. Shergalis, et al.; Registration Act—Cuba.

The case involves a U.S. plane piloted by two Americans, Rundquist and Shergalis, which was shot down March 21, 1960, while trying to smuggle four Cubans out of that country, resulting in the arrest of Rundquist and Shergalis. An FBI source in Miami advised March 22, 1960, that the incident was staged by Castro agents to provide Castro with a basis for renewed attacks against the U.S. for allowing illegal flights to Cuba. On March 23, 1960, this hoax was exposed when Shergalis gave a statement to the U.S. Embassy admitting his role as a Castro agent and implicating various Cubans in the U.S. and Cuba. We conducted an intensive investigation in this matter and developed substantial evidence showing that the Rundquist-Shergalis flight was, in fact, instigated by Castro agents. Miami reports of April 1, April 6, April 15, and May 6, 1960, covering our investigation, have been furnished to the Department and other interested agencies.

On May 3, 1960, the Federal Grand Jury at Miami, which was convened on April 6, 1960, returned indictments against Shergalis and Hector Garcia Soto, a Cuban Air Force employee at Miami who served as intermediary between Shergalis and Cuban intelligence officials, charging them with violations of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended. Indictments were also returned against Shergalis and Rundquist charging violations of the Federal Aviation Act, administered by the Federal Aviation Agency, for failure to file a proper flight plan. Shergalis is still in custody of Cuban officials in that country, the Cuban Government having rejected the U.S. request that Shergalis and Rundquist be extradited to face charges in this country. At the time the indictments were returned, Garcia was in Cuba and, therefore, the indictments were sealed and bench warrants were issued for the arrest of Shergalis and Garcia.

Garcia returned to Miami on the afternoon of May 4, 1960, and was arrested by our Miami Office at Miami International Airport. A press release was issued by SAC, Miami, concerning the arrest, and subsequently on the same date the Department issued a press release concerning the indictments of Shergalis, Garcia, and Rundquist. Garcia’s arraignment was originally scheduled for May 6, 1960, but was postponed until May 20 at the request of the defense attorney. Bond for Garcia was set at $10,000 and on the afternoon of May 6, 1960, bond was posted with money.
