February 5, 1960

Local 638 (Local 688), International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, and Warehousemen of America, AFL-CIO. Election Laws.

This matter involves the reported contributions by Local 688 to the political campaigns of Federal candidates. Most of the contributions involved were apparently made from the political action committee account of Local 688. Contributions from such accounts would not normally constitute violations of Section 610, Title 18, U.S. Code; however, with respect to this case, the Department by memorandum of December 14, 1959, stated that it had been advised by the U.S. Attorney in St. Louis that the political action committee fund of Local 688 was actually a general fund of the union, which was raised from dues assessments and was not a fund derived from voluntary contributions. Section 610, Title 18, U.S. Code, prohibits contributions by labor unions to the campaigns of Federal candidates.

On November 2, 1959, the U.S. Attorney in St. Louis, Missouri, began subpoenaing a number of witnesses to appear before a Federal Grand Jury in St. Louis, which conducted an inquiry concerning the captioned matter. In conjunction with the Grand Jury's inquiry, the Bureau, at the specific requests of the U.S. Attorney and of the Civil Rights Division, conducted certain investigations for the assistance of the U.S. Attorney in presenting this matter to the Grand Jury. Our investigation included interviews with Senator Wayne Morse (D.-Ore.), Senator Thomas Hennings (D.-Mo.), Congressman James Roosevelt (D.-Calif.), and Congressman Henry S. Reuss (D.-Wisc.).

On January 27, 1960, U.S. Attorney Webster and Assistant U.S. Attorney Bigler, St. Louis, advised that on January 26, 1960, they had sent a proposed indictment, together with a summary of the evidence, to the Department for its approval. They advised that they would like, if possible, to present the indictment to the Grand Jury in St. Louis on February 3, 1960. The U.S. Attorney said that the proposed indictment does not include a charge against James R. Hoffa. He said the evidence connecting Hoffa with the check payable to the Congressman Henry S. Reuss campaign seemed insufficient to support a charge against Hoffa. These officials mentioned that the proposed indictment includes 21 counts, involving 10 political contributions.
