II. Mark canceled across face of each card being retained and file in the reserve index, section B.

III. Above instructions do not apply to individuals removed from security index based upon activity in Nation of Islam. Security index cards in such cases should be destroyed.

(h) Subjects of Chinese extraction

In any communication recommending cancellation of a security index card on a subject of Chinese extraction, such communication must contain the words “Other - Chinese.” This regulation relates specifically to those subjects placed on security index following a recommendation submitted in accordance with instructions contained in section 87D 7b (4) (j) above.

(11) Priority apprehension program

(a) Purpose

Many individuals included in security index because of their training, violent tendencies, or prominence in subversive activity are extremely dangerous and would be more inclined to commit or capable of committing overt acts against U.S. in time of national emergency than would others in security index. Degree of dangerousness of such individuals is so pronounced that in interest of security they must be immobilized in least possible time prior to others in security index.

Individuals in security index tabbed priority I and possibly priority II would be arrested first in event of a limited but grave emergency, probably without arrest of other security index subjects.

In an all-out emergency, secondary consideration for apprehension will be given to all subjects whose names are included in priority III of security index.

Each individual case should stand on its own merits and decision to consider subjects for priority of apprehension should be based on subject’s subversive activities and revolutionary tendencies.

(b) Subjects to be tabbed priority

I. Each security index subject should be considered for priority I tabbing who falls within one or more of following categories:

(A) All top functionaries

(B) All individuals considered to be hard core national and state basic revolutionary organization leaders and those leaders of other subversive organizations and unorganized groups and individuals who have indicated a propensity for violence and/or have received special training in sabotage, espionage, and/or guerrilla warfare. Examples of activities of individuals who should be included in this priority are as follows:

i. Activity as organizers or leaders in the organization

ii. Special training at Lenin School or Far Eastern Institute in Moscow

iii. Experience as picket captains, strong-arm men, or active participation in violent strikes, riots, or demonstrations

iv. Violent statements or strong revolutionary tendencies as shown by their activities
