Country: USSR/Franco/Italy.

Subject: Second International Congress on Radiation Protection/Unimpressive Soviet Contribution/Lafuma's Work With DTPA at Fontenay-aux-Roses/General Interest in Plutonium Protection.

Date of information: May 1970.

Place and date acquired by source: Brighton/Fontenay-aux-Roses — May 1970.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: U.S. citizen, radiation physicist who attended the Second International Congress on Radiation Protection, Brighton, UK, 3–8 May 1970.

1. The Soviet delegation to the Second International Congress on Radiation Protection arrived several days late. As a consequence, the only presentation from the USSR personally attended was a paper entitled “Disorders in Embryonal Development of Rats after Injection of $131I$,” by A. M. Lyaginskaya, Y. D. Parev and S. N. Sinitsyana. Since this same experiment has been conducted on the human embryo, there was really nothing new or even interesting in Lyaginskaya's presentation.

2. A Soviet delegate who was very busy asking many questions at virtually every session personally attended was Yuriy I. Moskalev. Moskalev is a well-known scientist in the fields of radiobiology and radiotoxicity. He asked all of his questions through an interpreter, but when answers were given in English he always seemed to understand without benefit of his interpreter. Moskalev indicated to a U.S. attendee that the USSR was finally planning to request membership in the International Radiation Protection Association (IRPA).

3. The most interesting work presented at the meeting from a personal point of view was that of Professor J. Lafuma, Fontenay-aux-Roses, France. He is charged with the responsibility of setting the plutonium protection standards and removal techniques after exposure to plutonium for all of France. Lafuma's most impressive work involves the success he has had in removing copious amounts of plutonium and other transuranium products from humans using DTPA.

4. Lafuma explained that from his point of view he was concerned with only two primary aspects of human contact with plutonium, inhalation and wounds. His studies have shown, of course, that the earlier treatment is begun the better the results; but also he has found it easier to decontaminate an area of the body exposed to plutonium through contact or a wound than to remove it from the lungs. Lafuma has used intravenous injection exclusively for the treatment of wounds and finds that a very significant amount of the transuranium particles are discharged from the body in urine. For the treatment of inhaled particles, Lafuma has used both DTPA aerosols and injection. He finds his results from injection are better than the use of aerosols, even in lung decontamination.
