Section C. Narrative Comments. Office of Resignation: May 10, 1964.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain any given response in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or professional duties as described, if applicable.

Subject is one of the Agency's truly mature, experienced operations officers. He has had unusual operational experience in Central and South America, both in the field and in Headquarters. His activities have spanned both the FI and the CA spectrum. He has and does deal easily and graciously with high-ranking officials, both American and foreign. His good sense, poise, and dignity never fail to impress. He is a person of principle and high morals. He does not hesitate to express his convictions even though he may have reason to believe such convictions are not popular. He is a strong supervisor who enjoys his subordinates' respect. He is economy-minded and made diligent efforts to comply with requests to economize. Mr. Noel has succeeded in creating a cohesive station in Madrid.

Section D. Certification and Comments. May 10, 1964.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Signature of employee. Date: February 14, 1964.

By supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: April 14, 1964.

Official title of supervisor: Chief, WE/5.

Typed or printed name and signature: Fred E. McConnell.

By reviewing official.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 5 May 1964.

Official title of reviewing official: C/W E.

Typed or printed name and signature: A. D. Lynde.

Official title of reviewing official: C.W.E. / CLW E. Typed or printed name and signature: A. D. Lynde.
