In a key facility, copies of reports bearing the dual character, “Security of Government Employees; Security Matter—C,” should be furnished to appropriate intelligence agencies of the armed services by the field offices as shown in sections 69, volume III, and 87D 7c (2), of this manual.

Specific instructions with regard to all phases of our responsibilities under Executive Order 10450, including policy, investigative procedures, and dissemination, are set out in section 69, volume III, of this manual.

(7) Individuals who own property or reside in the immediate vicinity of an installation or other premises under the cognizance of a branch of the armed services.

Dissemination should be made locally to the intelligence service of the military branch involved.

(8) Airmen issued certificates by Federal Aviation Agency. Federal Aviation Agency issues certificates to airmen who are defined as persons in command or acting as pilot, mechanic, or member of the crew in the navigation of aircraft while under way; individuals directly in charge of the inspection, maintenance, overhauling, or repair of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, or appliances; and any individual serving in the capacity of aircraft dispatcher or air-traffic control tower operator. Subversive data developed concerning persons within such definitions should be furnished to the Bureau by report or letterhead memorandum suitable for dissemination, together with cover communication recommending that such data be furnished to Federal Aviation Agency. Such dissemination will be made only at the Bureau.

(9) Security index—dissemination of information to Secret Service. Letterhead memoranda are to be disseminated to Secret Service in all security index cases. These letterhead memoranda should contain background data on the individuals involved, residence, employment, and a description. They should contain any information indicative of emotional instability or any factors indicative of a propensity for violence, as well as any information indicating that the subject is in possession of firearms. The above should be followed by a succinct statement concerning the subject’s affiliation with or participation in a subversive movement. They are not to contain any reference to the security index program.

Dissemination of these letterhead memoranda to Secret Service will be made both at the Bureau and in the field following review at the Bureau. Submit in quadruplicate under the individual caption. Instructions regarding dissemination in the field will be issued after Bureau review.

After initial submission of letterhead memoranda in security index cases, as changes occur in the status of the individuals involved with respect to residence and employment, advise Secret Service locally and furnish two copies of the letterhead memorandum to the Bureau for dissemination at the SOG. The letterhead memorandum should contain a reference to the previous communication disseminated to Secret Service.

For instructions pertaining to dissemination to Secret Service in other than security index cases, refer to section 83X, volume III, of this manual.

Copies of letterhead memoranda prepared in security index cases should be retained in the individual case files only.

Upon transfer of office of origin in one of these cases, the new office of origin is to furnish Secret Service locally with pertinent data concerning the subject and advise the Bureau that such has been done by the submission of two copies of the letterhead memorandum disseminated locally.
