Of the Soviets, he certainly had been a fervent supporter of their causes.” The following are highlights taken from subject’s rather large headquarters file.

4. He studied briefly at Yale University and was expelled for misbehavior (NFI). For a short time thereafter, he worked for United Press International and “De Telegraaf,” a major Dutch daily newspaper, but was fired from both. In 1956, he married an American ground stewardess, and on 10 June 1958, he was admitted to the United States in New York City as a PRA, a status which he held until at least 1987. In 1960, he divorced his wife, and in 1961, was living with a Filipino (Philipino) male.

5. Numerous field reports indicate that in 1956, Oltmans arranged an introduction for himself to Indonesian President Sukarno, with whom he then traveled through Europe in 1956 as Sukarno’s guest. His trip from Indonesia to the U.S. in February 1957 was paid for by the Indonesian government, and all indications were that he was being used as a tool by the Indonesian government to carry on propaganda in the U.S. and at the UN. During the period 1960–1961, he shuttled between Europe and the United States.

6. Subject next appears in our records in 1968, when he telephoned the Director of the U.S. Information Agency (USIA) in The Hague to advise them that he was anti-American and to give the USIA information on anti-American Dutch groups in the Netherlands.

7. In 1972, subject planned to make a film on ecology in the former Soviet Union and visited there 23–26 January to make the final arrangements. At this time, the Dutch service claimed that Oltmans had a five-year retainer from the Russians as an overt PR man. There is no indication in the file that the film was ever made.

8. In March and April 1977, Oltmans gained a great deal of public attention in the U.S. and the Netherlands when he testified before the U.S. House of Representatives Assassinations Committee on the late George de Mohrenschildt (de Mohrenschildт)’s connection with Lee Harvey Oswald and the murder of President John F. Kennedy. It had long been known that de Mohrenschildt, as part of the Dallas Russian-speaking community, was close to Oswald. Oltmans had long been cultivating de Mohrenschildt as a news source and friend. In January 1976, de Mohrenschildt wrote Oltmans that he was preparing a book on how he (de Mohrenschildt) was responsible for Oswald’s assassination of Kennedy.

9. In May 1983, the Dutch service had a teltap (which they considered highly sensitive as it involved one of their own citizens) on Oltmans who seemed to reveal some interesting tidbits, some of which might be considered gossip, but which might be of serious interest to analysts watching the interplay of high-level Soviet personalities, particularly when he talked to his leftist Dutch friends. The question of Oltmans’ PRA status caused headquarters to request a standdown on further elicitation of information derived from the Dutch service teltap on Oltmans until a review of legal aspects.
