TDCSDB-3/655,605.

Insurgents. The winning of the war against the VC is not simply a military problem; however, but one that requires the support of the people, and this is lacking.

H. No trouble is anticipated from the VC on the 20th July anniversary of the signing of the Geneva Accords; but the students might cause trouble because of the suicide of oppositionist Nguyen Tuong Et among those who have been arrived to serve in the Army, etc. King of Brigadier General Do Cao Tri will remain in command of the 1st Infantry Division for the time being. And Brigadier General Le Van Nghiem will remain in command of all corps, which places Nghiem in an impossible position as the two men do not get along well with each other. CTR I's promotion was deserved because he is a very strong fighter. OZ (field comment). RFVS-93/02, IDQDB-3/655,512, et al., reported Nhu's statement (that CTR I had been promoted and named commander of all corps). RFVS-9267, IDQBS-3/558,405, et al., reported Nghiem's statement of his desire to resign from the Army. Etc. That the attempt Congress are bight in 3. E' Field dissem. State (Ambassador Nolting (NOLT ING)), USMACV (General Harkins only), CINCPAC, PACFLT, ARPAC/PACAF.

Have a broader view here of what can be revised? If the governor demands a recognition, it must be like a country tree, it must stay outdoors and be coming back until it wants to know if anything is really due to the revolution.

End of message.

February 1993

The Secret Corpus Commits

The State Department's Office of the Undersecretary of Defense provided classified information to the White House and the National Security Council on February 24 in an effort to speed approval for a new classification system that would provide more rapid access to sensitive documents.

The new classification system, known as declassified by reference, was created after Congress approved a bill to declassify all government records containing information already available to the public. The measure, known as the National Security Act of 1993, went into effect January 1. The law also gives the president power to create classified documents that can be made available only through a special process.

As with other documents, the president is required to sign documents before they become public. This is not always done, so classified documents are sometimes called top secret until their release dates.

For example, the document released to the media was classified as national security, which means it cannot be discussed outside the government unless authorized, but its contents may be released if national interest requires it.

The president has the option to change the classification level of a document from confidential to top secret or declassified. He also can make documents available to the press, though this is subject to approval by the White House. For example, a classified document might be released to the press if it had potential military value or national security interests, such as the location of a secret facility or the location of a foreign enemy.

The president also can set the declassification date of a document at any time, up to five years from the date it becomes public. This means that classified documents will continue to be classified until they reach their declassification date, even if the content changes.
