The National Revolutionary Primary Army is the militant underground faction of an already resistant Government which is ready and capable of seizing immediate power in the United States at the very moment the N.R.A. is successful in eliminating the enemy aliens now in power.

The N.R.A. pledges destruction of the existent government of the United States and a full return to a truly represented Government of the people, by the people, and for the people.

There has already been a Revolution in America in the past 50 years, but it was a silent revolution. The Zionist Jew and Russian Communist (usually one and the same) have told us repeatedly that they were going to take us without firing a single shot, and they have succeeded in doing so.

Yes, a worldwide conspiracy of Communistathletic Jews have blatantly crept into the Government of the United States and, with their power and money, have continually brainwashed America into believing that they should rightfully maintain high Government positions. Even now there is a movement to eliminate still another portion of our holy Constitution and permit a foreign-born person to seek the Presidency of the United States. Of course, we know the foreign-born person these creeps have in mind: it is that globe-trotting, Israel-born Jew, Zionist traitor to America, Henry Kissinger.

These foreign-born Jews, Communists, and/or Zionist creeps have almost totally brainwashed America with their television and newspapers. It is not unknown even to the average citizen that the F.V. and local newspapers are owned and/or controlled by these alien enemy parasites.

These manipulators of money have taken total control of our economy and have created a depression-like state, whereas we are now so economically enslaved to them that they now run our everyday life. The average working man is making much more money than he has ever made before, but he is finding it increasingly difficult to put food on the table for his family. A created gas shortage has put fuel prices so far out of reach that America’s working masses can no longer drive for pleasure and are cold in the winter. Their created meat shortages put beef so far out of range that America’s families had to change their diets considerably. Of course, they found they had to relax their rapidly rising prices because the meat was rotting as America started shifting diets. Everything in our economic system depends upon the Jew manipulator.

Even our national debt has climbed to a ridiculous astronomical figure of 472 or more billion dollars. Our gold reserves have dwindled to an all-time low of 9 billion, whereas the interest on the national debt is several times higher than the money we have in reserve. Our interest on the national debt is higher than our national budget was in 1933. And WHO DO WE PAY THIS INTEREST TO? To the damnable Jewish world bank, of course, which is owned and controlled by the parasitical and egotistical Rothschilds.
