MHFNO: 97-7142690. SENSIND:

Reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy is so substantial that it outweighs the public interest;

(4) The public disclosure of the assassination record would compromise the existence of an understanding of confidentiality currently requiring protection between a government agent and a cooperating individual or a foreign government, and public disclosure would be so harmful that it outweighs the public interest; or

(5) The public disclosure of the assassination record would reveal a security or protective procedure currently utilized, or reasonably expected to be utilized, by the Secret Service or another government agency responsible for protecting government officials, and public disclosure would be so harmful that it outweighs the public interest.

3. If station wants, you may offer IDEN the possibility of communicating with headquarters via cable traffic rather than by telephone or letter. In many cases the response contains sensitive if not classified information. All previous recipients of this letter have had concerns or questions; following are answers to some of the most frequently asked questions:

A. Why is my name in the JFK assassination records?

We do not know exactly, but your name may have been mentioned in a cable or document, or you may have coordinated or signed a cable or document with reference to the assassination.

B. What does this mean?

It means your name will be included in the public release of all documents pertinent to the assassination. The documents have been released to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) with the name removed, and if we do not make a compelling case the Presidential Board will release new versions of the documents with the names. The first review of names will be this summer and it will continue as documents are reviewed. Once the Board rules the documents in question must be released in 30 days.

C. What exactly does “release” mean?

It means the general public will have access to the document via NARA. There are professional researchers waiting for access to the material so that they can research the various conspiracy theories. We know of some organizations that will most likely put the information in computer systems so it can be easily searched.

D. What if I don't want my name released?

You and we will have to convince the Presidentially appointed Review Board that your situation meets the criteria provided in the grounds for postponement of public disclosure of records. To be absolutely frank, this is extremely difficult to do and the secret
