Copyright (c) 1997 Maryland Law Review, Inc.  
University of Maryland School of Law

1997

56 Md. L. Rev. 1

Length: 21,305 words

Article: The Virulence of the National Appetite for Bogus Revelation

Kermit L. Hall*

* Dean, College of Humanities; Executive Dean, Colleges of Arts and Sciences; and Professor of History and Law, The Ohio State University. Ph.D., University of Minnesota; M.S.L., Yale Law School. This Article was presented as the Judge Simon E. Sobeloff lecture at the University of Maryland School of Law on February 28, 1996. My thanks to Barbara Terzian, Jeff Marquis, and Kenneth Wasserman for their research support and to John Johnson, Donald G. Gifford, and Howard Leichter for their comments and suggestions about earlier versions of this Article. I am especially grateful to Sheryl Walter for her suggestions about sources and her willingness to share her extensive knowledge of the secondary literature on openness of and access to government records. For the title of this Article, I am indebted to one of Baltimore's favorite citizens, H.L. Mencken, who, in another context, commented on “the virulence of the racial appetite for bogus revelation.” H.L. Mencken, A Book of Prefaces 23–24 (1917).

Introduction

The specter of conspiracy has haunted Americans throughout the second half of the twentieth century. In the 1950s, Senator Joseph McCarthy's Communist conspiracy theory—the “second Red Scare”—traumatized the nation and destroyed lives. More recently, David Irving's explanation of the Holocaust as an enormous historical fabrication has defied logic and distorted reality. Even Abraham Lincoln rests uneasily in his grave, as theorists of his murder advance plots so tangled that only the exhumation of John Wilkes Booth's bones can unravel them.

Footnotes

1. This phenomenon is not unique to the modern era. There are many comprehensive historical accounts of the specter of conspiracy in America. See, e.g., Virginia Carmichael, Framing History: The Rosenberg Story and the Cold War (1993) (analyzing and tracing the “politically motivated production of the official Rosenberg story and the historical and cultural critiques performed by its re-presentation in literature, drama and the visual arts”); David Brion Davis, The Slave Power Conspiracy and the Paranoid Style (1969) (discussing the theory that slaveowners conspired against the rest of the country); The Fear of Conspiracy: Images of Un-American Subversion from the Revolution to the
