(2) Sometime during the interview, Mr. Gitenstein raised a question about “Expedite Processing” of mail and how it was handled in Mr. Hoover’s office. Miss Gandy pointed out that the handling of personal and confidential mail for Mr. Hoover was handled by Miss Mooney and she, Miss Gandy, was not aware of just how this mail was handled. I explained that all mail received in the Routing Unit of the Records and Communications Division was taken unopened to Miss Mooney in Mr. Hoover’s office where she opened this mail and the clerical employee who brought the mail down then logged it in and stamped the mail “Expedite Processing” on the left-hand edge. Thereafter the clerical employee would take the log back to the Routing Unit and when the mail was subsequently returned to the Routing Unit for regular filing purposes the item would be crossed off the log. Mr. Gitenstein wanted to know if the “Expedite Processing” logs were maintained permanently and he was informed that to my knowledge they were not kept after accounting for the particular items of mail contained on the particular log.

(3) Mr. Epstein questioned Miss Gandy at length concerning her title as “Executive Assistant.” He wanted to know when she acquired this title and she said she could not recall. He wanted to know whether anyone else at the FBI had occupied this position and Miss Gandy explained that she was the only employee with the title of Executive Assistant who had served under Mr. Hoover during his tenure in office. Mr. Epstein seemed to pay a great deal of attention to the title Executive Assistant and I endeavored to explain to him that the title was a Civil Service Commission title and that Miss Gandy’s position was set up under the Classification Act administered by the Civil Service Commission. Although I am not sure what was behind Mr. Epstein’s lengthy questioning about this matter, I got the impression he might be trying to find out if Miss Gandy acted for Mr. Hoover on her own initiative. This is just a guess on my part and I am not sure what was behind his questioning.

(4) During Miss Gandy’s description of the various offices, she did mention specifically the fact that the interesting case files were maintained on the shelves in the big conference room in black folders. They asked what the interesting case files consisted of and I explained this to their satisfaction; namely, that they were writeups of closed cases which might be of interest for various purposes.
