WFO 134-5437 Sub A

Source advised that REINER is the head of Cosmos Tours, New York City, and described him as a very shrewd and foxy individual. He said REINER was known to VLADIMIR D. CHELNOKOV, who was Deputy Chief, Seventh Department (Tourist); however, REINER was not recruited by the Seventh Department, and no effort was made to recruit him. Source described REINER as talkative and foxy and said he was suspected of being connected with American intelligence (FBI). Source stated REINER knew many important people, but he believed work on him was wasted. He recalled REINER's firm was the first to book a tour to Mongolia. REINER had negotiated with the Mongolian Republic for additional tours, but Source did not know whether he was successful.

Sergeant James McMillan

Source advised he was aware of the McMillan case and stated that, although he did not know any details, he understood McMillan had assisted the KGB and furnished everything he knew while at the American Embassy. He advised VADIM V. KOSOLAPOV visits McMillan regularly and gives KGB funds in the sum of 500 rubles for a month. Source advised McMillan is still married to the agent who assisted in his recruitment. Source identified this woman as VERA (LNU) and described her as a shy and decent girl. He said she had one son by McMillan and also a child by a previous marriage. Source mentioned it was the task of the First Section (American Embassy), First Department (American), Second Directorate, to take care of defectors such as McMillan.

Annabelle Bucar

Source advised he also was somewhat familiar with the case of BUCAR, who was recruited on the basis of ideology and a love affair with KONSTANTIN LAPSHEIN, an actor agent of the First Department, whom she subsequently married. Source stated BUCAR has not been happy in her private life since her husband is a heavy drinker and has a weakness for girls, but she is satisfied otherwise with her life in Moscow, where she works for the Radio Committee as an editor handling foreign broadcasts and also does translations, receiving good money.

Photographs of members of the Bolshoi Ballet who visited the U.S. in 1962 were displayed to NOSENKO, who identified three individuals, namely:
