Deadly Lived the Spirit of Jake Winters

Deputy Chairman Fred Hampton, Illinois Chapter of the Black Panther Party, with headline readers at 2350 W. Madison, was murdered, shot to death December 4, Thursday morning at approximately 4:45 a.m., in his home at 2337 W. Monroe. There is valid evidence that Chairman Fred, along with Mark Clark, Defense Captain, Peoria Branch of the Illinois Chapter of the Black Panther Party, were murdered. Mark Clark, 22, was a profound revolutionary brother. He is responsible for the Peoria Branch being at the level it is at now. He started the Breakfast for Children Program in Peoria and, before his death, started moving on a Free Health Clinic.

The shots, which were fired only from the guns of the Fascist, Racist manic pigs under the Gestapo guidance of pig Halfman Hanrahan, were found lodged in the walls, proving who fired the shot. It showed, positively, no shots were fired from the inside, especially none from Chairman Fred's room. He was openly and viciously murdered in his sleep. He didn't have a chance to fire a shot nor even take one pig along with him.

His death proves how murder-hungry, how scared, how disrespectful Tricky Dick Nixon's fascist pigs are, in regards to poor oppressed Black People and especially those who belong to the Black Panther Party or any organization fighting to change this low-lived decadent society existing in fascist AMERIKKKA!!!

After the murdering, wounds were over, the pigs confiscated $1,500 and also shotguns, rifles, pieces and over 1,000 rounds of ammunition.

The pigs stated that Chairmans who stayed at his crib were storing this arsenal to kill pigs with. Of course, standing when you know that pigs are beasts with no regard for law, justice of people; that unarmed people are every at any given time; that you are revolutionaries as the Chairman and his against this Fascist, Racist system, Capitalistic, Blood-thirsty Politicians and vicious Businessmen, you have to arrange the SOUL means of SELF-DEFENSE SURVIVAL!!

What does all this mean? Why show the Black Panther Party men masses of People? It says SIEZE IT cause before you realize, TIME WILL

ALL POWER TO THE BECAUSE POWER BELONGS IN OF THE RIGHT-ON CHAIRMAN FRED. YOU WILL

BUT LIKE THE REST CONTINUE TO GROW A

Spurgeon "Jake" Winters

Free Breakfast for Children

Breakfast for Children

Our Breakfast for Children feeding a lot of children understand our Breakfast program. We saying, come! We saying that Theory's experience with practice ain't do have both of them—the theory. We have a theory about feeding. What'd we do? We put it. That's how people learn. Don't know how serious. They think the children really should be.
