f. A US Air Force counterinsurgency team of five officers and eight enlisted men, based in the Canal Zone, provided training for Ecuadorian Air Force personnel in Ecuador.

g. At the request of USCINGSO, and with the enthusiastic support of the Venezuelan Government, a small boat program has been initiated to provide security for the Lake Maracaibo region. Arrangements have been made through the US Navy under Military Credit Sales agreement for the manufacture of six 25-foot and four 31-foot inboard-outboard fiberglass hull boats by Bertram Boat Company, Miami, for delivery in December 1963 or early January 1964. A SEAL-trained Mobile Training Team (MTT) of one officer and five enlisted men will be provided by the Navy and will report to the equipment supplier in time to become fully acquainted with the boats by 15 December. The MTT will accompany the boats to Venezuela and will remain up to two months in country to provide necessary familiarization training.

h. Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Surveillance.

a. Upon receipt of intelligence pertaining to suspected arms smuggling from the Canal Free Zone, Panama, into Colombia or Venezuela, the USCINGSO relayed this information to Colombia and Venezuela by the Military Alerting System. The US Ambassador to Colombia conveyed the information to the Government of Colombia. Colombian Navy and Air Force elements were assigned increased surveillance missions in the Caribbean coastal area of Colombia by Colombian military authorities, and results of their surveillance activities were provided to USCINGSO by the US Military Group Commander in Colombia. The results of US air surveillance of the expected route and landing area, undertaken by US Air Force and Naval air elements, were transmitted to the US Military Group Commander in Colombia for passage to the Colombian military authorities.

b. The motor vessel BLUE STAR, of Panamanian registry, was apprehended by Ecuadorian authorities in November 1963 as it was attempting the clandestine introduction of contraband articles.
