Title: Paul Arnold Marriott. Male, born 5 June 1915, Oklahoma. Lieutenant Colonel, 513 10 4326FR. Eglin AFB, Florida.

Report made by SA: Lawrence K. Harper.

Period: 12 November 1969. Office of origin: OSI District 7. Report made at: OSI District 19. Status: RUC. File No. 07D18-1.

Character: Customs violations.

Reference: ROI, OSI District 51, 29 October 1969.

Details:

On 12 November 1969, Karl D. Ackerman (former Counselor for Administration, United States Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand), 99 Victoria Drive, Atherton, California, was interviewed by SA Robert J. Novack and the writer, and related substantially as follows:

Ackerman had several conversations with Colonel Walter Adams concerning the practical problems of getting weapons, belonging to a Mitchell L. Werbell, into Thailand from the Republic of Vietnam in order that Werbell could put on a fire power demonstration for the King of Thailand's birthday. At all times during these conversations, Ackerman assumed the weapons were Werbell's wares, and that he had brought them from the United States with him. With this in mind, Ackerman stated that he instructed Mr. Gerald T. Carta to annotate Werbell's travel orders with a Bangkok United States Embassy Funding Citation number. Ackerman said the citation numbers were in a block of numbers belonging to the Embassy, and because he did not feel he had the authority to issue Werbell any other type of number, he issued him an Embassy number. When Ackerman was asked if he knew Paul Arnold Marriott, he said the name was vaguely familiar but could not recall anything further. When Ackerman was asked if he knew Earlene Dobbs, he stated that he did not, to the best of his knowledge. Ackerman stated that his knowledge of Werbell came solely from Adams and other stories he heard around the Embassy of the fire power demonstration to be given for the King. Ackerman stated he had no personal knowledge of Werbell.

Referred upon completion to office of origin.

Special handling required within USAF (AFR 124-4).

Distribution: OSI District 7; Commander, Eglin AFB, Florida (OCR: Elgin AFB, Florida), action.

This is a privileged document under military law. This report may not be reproduced or given additional dissemination except as authorized by AFR 124-4. If this report is classified, see also AFR 205-1.

Approved for the commander: Robert J. Dean, Lieutenant Colonel, USAP, Chief, Criminal Investigations Division.

OSI District. Reviewed by AFOSI for public disclosure in accordance with JFKARCA, 1992, 14 August 1995.
