Helms testified that "I remember vividly (the pressure to overthrow Castro) was very intense." (Helms, 6/13, p. 26.) Helms stated that this pressure intensified during the period of Operation Mongoose during late 1961 and throughout 1962, and then continued on through much of 1963. (Helms, 6/13, p. 27.)

As these pressures rose, "obviously the extent of the means that one thought were available, obviously increased too." (Helms, 6/13, p. 26.)

Helms stated that during the Mongoose Operations period "it was made abundantly clear...to everybody involved in the operation that the desire was to get rid of the Castro regime and to get rid of Castro...the point was that no limitations were put on this injunction." (Helms, 7/17, p. 16-17). In Helms' testimony, the following exchange occurred:

"Senator Mathias: 'Let me draw an example from history. When Thomas A. Becket (Beckett) was proving to be an annoyance, as Castro, the King said who will rid me of this man. He didn't say to somebody go out and murder him. He said who will rid me of this man, and let it go at that."

"Mr. Helms: 'That is a warming reference to the problem.'

"Senator Mathias: 'You feel that spans the generations and the centuries?'

"Mr. Helms: 'I think it does, sir.'

"Senator Mathias: 'And that is typical of the kind of thing which might be said, which might be taken by the director or by anybody else as presidential authorization to go forward?' 

"Mr. Helms: 'That is right. But in answer to that, I realize that one sort of grows up in [the] tradition of the time and I think that any of us would have found it very difficult to discuss assassinations with a President of the U.S. I just think we all had the feeling that we're hired out to keep those things out of the Oval Office.'

"Senator Mathias: 'Yet at the same time you felt that some spark had been transmitted, that that was within the permissible limits?'

"Mr. Helms: 'Yes, and if he had disappeared from the scene they would not have been unhappy.' " (Helms Tr.: 6/13, pp. 72-73)
