14 May 1973

Subject: Intelligence Evaluation Committee and Staff

1. Background: Formed December 1970 to produce fully evaluated national domestic intelligence studies, including studies on demonstrations, subversion, extremism, and terrorism. Membership: Department of Justice (Chairman); Federal Bureau of Investigation; Department of Defense; Secret Service; National Security Agency; Central Intelligence Agency; and, as necessary, representatives of other Departments or Agencies (the following have participated: Treasury and State). Staff: IES Executive Director John Dougherty and later Bernard Wells, supplied by the Department of Justice with the title of Special Assistant to the Attorney General, reporting to the Assistant Attorney General for Internal Security Robert Mardian and later William Olson. IES has received requirements directly from and delivered reports directly to John Doe of the White House. The White House has insisted that the existence of this Committee be kept secret. Awareness of its existence within this Agency has been limited to DCI, DDO (DNP), C/CI, and four officers of this office.

2. CIA Participation: Contributions on foreign aspects (by memorandum with no Agency letterhead or attribution). Contributions occasionally include foreign intelligence provided by FBI and NSA. The Chief of the Special Operations Group serves as the Agency representative on the Intelligence Evaluation Committee Staff and as the alternate to the Agency representative on the Committee (who is the Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff).

3. Special Report: The Unauthorized Disclosure of Classified Information, November 1971. This study was initiated in July 1971 by the White House as a consequence of the President's concern about the release of the Pentagon Papers by Daniel Ellsberg. Both Robert Mardian and G. Gordon Liddy were initially involved in tasking the IES (IFS) to produce this evaluation. Drafting was done by IES Staff members from Justice and FBI. The only Agency participation was editorial review.
