Fact, that Juliao's Peasant Leagues have received not only money but also shipments of small arms from Cuba. These Brazilian Communist leaders also said that the reason Juliao sent his family to Cuba was his fear that they might be endangered in the civil war he expects to erupt shortly in Brazil.

The Cuban government has also during the past year cultivated particularly close relations with leaders of the dissident Communist Party of Brazil (CPB). One of the CPB leaders who had visited Cuba last May told a friend of a long conversation he had had with Fidel Castro in late May. Castro expressed identity of feeling with the dissident Brazilian Communists and criticized the regular Communist party for its failure "to take a strong revolutionary line" in accordance with the decision of the 22nd party congress of the Communist party of the Soviet Union. Castro approved the insurrectionary policy of the CPB and urged the leaders to organize guerrilla activities and start the revolutionary movement in Brazil "as soon as possible." Castro advised them that government reprisals against revolutionary action in Brazil would serve only to increase popular discontent in Brazil and swell the ranks of the revolutionaries. He advised CPB leaders to give special emphasis to securing as wide a base as possible among agricultural workers and the inhabitants of rural areas.

The Cuban embassy in Rio de Janeiro, like Cuban embassies elsewhere in Latin America, has been a source of assistance to Communist and pro-Communist elements. Last May leaks to the Brazilian press reported discussions in the Brazilian cabinet on the subversive activities being directed by Cuban ambassador Joaquin Hernandez Armas. The Navy and Army Ministers are reported to have expressed particular concern over Hernandez's activities.

d. Chile (Chilá): Senator Salvador Allende, leader of Chile's Communist-dominated popular front and a leading presidential aspirant, has made at least two trips to Cuba.

The Cuban embassy in Santiago is the source of propaganda support for pro-Communist groups, mostly those associated with Allende, who are intent on coming to power in Chile through elections or revolution. Orlando Prendes, cultural attaché of the Cuban embassy, is known to be supervising the printing of Cuban propaganda on a clandestine printing press in the home of Julio Bocanegra, who also prints propaganda for the Chilean Communist party. This activity has been going on for some time. As long ago as August, 1961, Chilean officials investigating political agitation and resulting unrest in the Salamanca area learned that after a visit to the area by a Cuban diplomat the previous month, pro-Cuban propaganda was being distributed in the area, and Communists and pro-Communists there were saying "The mountains of Salamanca are going to be the Chilean Sierra Maestra (Sierra Maestre)."

Last March, when Cuban Minister of Education Armando Hart went to Chile for an international conference he took with him several sacks of propaganda.

e. Colombia: The United Front for Revolutionary Action (FUAR), organized early this year by Colombian extremists, is believed to have received financial assistance from Cuba to promote its objective of creating a guerrilla movement aimed at the overthrow of the government. A Colombian
