United States Government.

To: Director, FBI (105-28333). From: SAC, WFO (105-8906). Subject: Changed — Samuel Adason Jaffe, IS-R. Date: 8/25/55.

The title of this matter has been marked changed to show the full name of Jaffe as shown in his passport file. (C)

Reference is made to Bulet dated 7/19/54 to New York and WFO, captioned “Sam A. Jaffe; IS-R,” no copy being sent to San Francisco. Information contained in Bulet dated 7/19/54 will be set forth hereinafter.

Inasmuch as the Passport Office, Department of State, Washington, D.C., has authorized the American Embassy at New Delhi, India, that when Soviet visas are assured, the passport of Jaffe and the passport of Jaffe’s wife, Josephine Winter/Jaffe, née Josephine Calr/Winter, also known as Mrs. Samuel Adason/Jaffe, should be endorsed that when appropriately visaed each is valid for one round trip to the USSR, the Passport Office made their passport files available for review. (C) Born: 10-23-32 (June 1943 (Juni 1943)).

These files were reviewed on 7/27/55 by SA Albert B. Miller and reflect the following:

By communication dated 6/6/55, the American Embassy at New Delhi, India, advised the Department of State, Washington, D.C., that in consequence of the recent Khrushchev (a high official in the Soviet government) statement welcoming visits from American journalists, Samuel Adason Jaffe, Special Correspondent of “The Nation,” and his wife, Josephine Winter Jaffe, have inquired of the Soviet Embassy, New Delhi, regarding the possibility of a three-week visit to the Soviet Union, and they say a tentative reply is affirmative. They related their purpose in wanting to go to the Soviet Union is to study and write about advancement made in the USSR, freedom prevailing there, and chances of preventing war. The communication concluded by relating that Jaffe and his wife request the Department of State to remove the travel-to-the-Soviet-Union restriction.

By communication dated 6/28/55, the Department of State, Washington, D.C., advised the American Embassy, New Delhi, that when

ABM: sap.

2 — San Francisco (Encl. — 8) (RM). 1 — New York (105-8180) (Encl. — 4) (Info) (RM).
