Decade of Assassinations

1963–1973

Program

Friday, November 23

1:00 — Late Registration. Early registrants pick up passes.

1:30 — Welcome:

Mr. Bernard Fensterwald, Jr., Executive Director, Committee to Investigate Assassinations

Mr. Norman Mailer, author and forwarder of The Fifth Estate

10:00 — Current Status of Prominent Assassination Cases:

JFK case — Mr. Robert P. Smith, Director of Research, Committee to Investigate Assassinations

RFK case — Mr. Robert Hanson, attorney, present counsel for Sirhan Sirhan

King case — Mr. James Lesar, attorney, present counsel for James Earl Ray

Wallace case — Mr. Ronald Van Doren, newsman, author, researcher into the background of Arthur Bremer

Rockwell case — Ms. Meredith Rode, professor at Federal City College, authority in killing of George Lincoln Rockwell

11:30 — Unique Investigative Techniques:

Mr. William Turner, moderator — Former FBI agent, author of numerous books on investigative techniques

Mr. George O'Toole — Former CIA agent, freelance writer, expert on the PSE (Psychological Stress Evaluator)

Mr. Robert Saltzman — Computer engineer, consultant on the Warren Commission

Friday — Continued

12:30 — Break for Lunch

2:00 — Medical and Physical Evidence:

Mr. Josiah Thompson, moderator — Professor at Haverford College, author of Six Seconds in Dallas

Dr. Cyril Wecht — Professor of law and forensic medicine at Duquesne University; coroner of Pittsburgh, Pa.

Ms. Sylvia Meagher — Attorney, UN official, author of Accessories After the Fact

Mr. Roger Hanson — Attorney, counsel to Sirhan Sirhan

Mr. Herbert MacDonnell — Professor of criminalistics, Corning University; expert in case of Fred Hampton

Mr. Mark Lane — Attorney, author of Rush to Judgment and Executive Action

6:00 — Break for Dinner

8:30 — Warren Commission Report: Fact or Fiction. A slide show and lecture by Mr. Robert Saltzman

Saturday, November 24

9:30 — Assassinations and the Media:

Mr. John Henry Faulk, moderator — Humorist and author of Fear on Trial

Mr. Robert Kaiser — Author of RFK Must Die

Mr. Donald Freed — Co-author of Executive Action

Mr. Harold Weisberg — Author of Frame Up

Mr. Ted Charach — Author of Second Gun

Mr. Peter Noyes — Author of Legacy of Doubt

Mr. Fred Cook — Author of numerous books and articles

12:30 — Break for Lunch

2:00 — Theories of Conspiracy:

Mr. Richard Sprague, moderator — Computer expert and author

Dr. Richard Popkin — Professor at Washington University; author of The Second Oswald

Col. Fletcher Prouty — Former liaison officer between Pentagon and CIA; author of The Secret Teams

Mr. Robert K. Brown — Former Special Services officer; expert in attempts on life of Castro

Mr. Earl Golz — Reporter for Dallas Morning News; expert on organized crimes

Mr. Victor Marchetti — Former CIA agent; author

Mr. Peter Dale Scott — Professor at Berkeley; author of The War Conspiracy

5:00 — Individual Workshops with the Speakers. Question and answer sessions.
