Section 87. Security Investigation.

Movement, or (b) impairment of military strength of U.S. or its industrial capacity to furnish logistical support required by its armed forces. Provided, however, that any labor organization which is affiliated in good standing with a national federation or other labor organizations whose policies and activities have been directed to opposing communist organizations, communist foreign governments, or the world communist movement shall be presumed prima facie not to be a communist-infiltrated organization.

b. Proceedings when Attorney General has reason to believe organization is communist infiltrated.

He may file a petition with SACB and serve a copy on the communist-infiltrated organization. He may join more than one organization as respondents to his petition. Hearings will then be conducted by SACB on evidence presented by the Attorney General. SACB is empowered to make a finding that an organization is or is not communist-infiltrated, and within six months after an unfavorable determination the organization may petition for a new determination.

SACB is also authorized to notify the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) of its findings and to publish findings in the Federal Register. NLRB has power to deny organizations found to be communist infiltrated representation before it, and upon petition of twenty per cent of the membership of a communist-infiltrated labor union to NLRB, that body may nullify the rights of the union to represent its members and call for an election to determine a new bargaining representative.

c. Factors to be considered by SACB in determining whether organization is communist infiltrated (§ 792a).

SACB shall consider the following:

1. To what extent, if any, effective management of the affairs of the organization is conducted by one or more individuals who are, or within three years have been, (a) members, agents, or representatives of any communist organization, any communist foreign government, or the world communist movement with knowledge of the nature and purpose thereof; or (b) engaged in giving aid or support to any such organization, government, or movement with knowledge of the nature and purpose thereof.

2. To what extent, if any, the policies of such organization are, or within three years have been, formulated and carried out pursuant to the direction or advice of any member, agent, or representative of any such organization, government, or movement.

3. To what extent, if any, personnel and resources of such organization are, or within three years have been, used to further or promote objectives of any such communist organization, government, or movement.

4. To what extent, if any, such organization within three years has received from, or furnished to or for use of, any such communist organization, government, or movement any funds or other material assistance.

5. To what extent, if any, such organization is, or within three years has been, affiliated in any way with any such communist organization, government, or movement.

6. To what extent, if any, affiliation of such organization, or any individual or individuals who are members thereof, or who manage its affairs, with any such communist organization, government, or movement is concealed from or is not disclosed to the membership.

7. To what extent, if any, such organization or any of its managers or members are, or within three years have been, knowingly engaged (a) in any conduct punishable under § 783 or § 794 or under chapter 37, 105, or 115 of Title 18; or (b) with intent to impair military strength of U.S. or its industrial capacity to furnish logistical or other support required by its armed forces, in any activity resulting in or contributing to any such impairment.
