Agency responsible for such action. Forward such data to Bureau and incorporate in next report submitted concerning individual in question. Where no investigation has been conducted by Bureau and there is no case on individual being denied clearance, give consideration to opening a security investigation if information received from intelligence agency warrants such action.

(2) Inclusion in security index

In recommending key facility employee for inclusion in security index, FD-122 is to contain:

(a) Key facility geographical reference number

(b) Abbreviation for agency having security responsibility

(c) Abbreviations for other agencies known to have classified contracts with the key facility. Interested agencies should be identified on FD-122 to assure proper dissemination of reports but will not appear on security index cards returned from Bureau.

(d) Abbreviation AEC immediately following abbreviation for agency having security responsibility when abbreviation of responsible agency on key facilities list is followed by asterisk, which denotes Atomic Energy Commission is involved in security responsibility. This data will appear on security index cards returned from the Bureau.

If subject of existing security index card is found to have become employed in a key facility, FD-122 must be submitted to Bureau with above-required key facility data set forth thereon. Case is then to be handled in accordance with instructions set forth below concerning key facility cases.

(3) Dissemination

Upon receipt of original complaint or allegation concerning key facility employee from source other than interested intelligence agency, a summary of complaint and information concerning the individual should be furnished immediately by letter to interested intelligence agency. Intelligence agency should then be advised whether a security investigation is being conducted of the individual and, if investigation is being conducted, that copies of reports will be furnished upon completion of investigation. Letter to intelligence agency should clearly point out that information is unsubstantiated and has not been verified through investigation by FBI.

In addition to disseminating to interested intelligence agencies information of a derogatory security nature developed concerning persons employed at facilities holding classified contracts, with the exception of classified contracts with the Atomic Energy Commission, such information should be furnished to the Chief, Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO), Defense Supply Agency, Columbus, Ohio, 43215, attention Chief, Adjudication Division. In each instance, advise the interested intelligence agency that dissemination has been made to DISCO. This dissemination is to include derogatory security information developed concerning persons who may not be currently employed at such a facility but who are known to be holders of an industrial security clearance.

These instructions do not apply to allegations of espionage or those of such a confidential character as would not ordinarily be disseminated. Such information appearing to be of immediate interest to other intelligence agencies should be submitted to Bureau by most expeditious means, depending upon the circumstances, with a request that the Bureau consider advisability of disseminating it.

Disseminate copies of each report to the local representative of agency having security responsibility, as well as to local representative of other intelligence agencies known to have
