Imperceptible, while 2.5 can be felt; near the point of origin, 3 can be felt over a fair-sized area. Slight damage can be caused at 4.5; a level of 5 is considered ainy, 7 is major, and 8 is a “great earthquake.”

The issue, most geologists and seismic experts agree, is not whether another blockbuster quake will occur, but when. It could happen any time.

Should that earthquake occur “tomorrow,” these experts believe, the following realities await Californians:

Tens of thousands of buildings built in the first half of the century, clearly hazardous under severe earthquake conditions, in use in San Francisco and Los Angeles, could topple, endangering thousands of lives (an estimated 200,000 in Los Angeles alone).

Other thousands of buildings, built on or near faults, face destruction from ground shaking and land fill.

High-rise buildings, built to more modern standards, may not topple, but face serious hazards of fire, disabled elevators and inadequate stairwell safety.

Earthquake disaster urgency plans are in the nascent stages throughout the state, hampered by apathy among public officials, lack of funds and infrequent exercises.

The public is ill-prepared to cope with earthquakes or their aftermaths. There is virtually no publicity about what to do during or after a major quake. Earthquake drills are rarely, if ever, held in communities or in public buildings (schools are an exception).

A recent federally sponsored study gives these estimates of death and injury should a temblor of more than 7 or 8 on the Richter scale occur in or near San Francisco or Los Angeles:

San Francisco—as many as 10,000 persons dead and 40,000 injured. Should a major dam break, the death toll could rise to 60,000. Another 56,000 could be left homeless, not including dam evacuees.

Los Angeles—as many as 20,000 deaths and up to 600,000 injured. Additional deaths possible due to major dam failure—up to 14,000. Homeless, not including dam evacuees, up to 180,000.

At the very best, Californians are fatalistic about earthquakes, accepting that they will come, and hoping they will be out of the affected area when it happens.

“You don’t know when it is going to be or how it’s going to be,” said one West Los Angeles resident. “I should put money into making my house earthquake-proof when I could be in some skyscraper swaying when it happens? Who cares?”

In San Francisco, a college professor recently asked 125 residents in a random sampling what they would do if an earthquake comes. Sixty per cent said, in effect, “Start praying. What else is there to do?”

What can be done? In fact, quite a lot—and some of it is being accomplished in the areas of building code upgrading, land-use planning, emergency preparedness, earthquake prediction, and public education. But the effort of a few aggressive legislators, state and local officials, and private citizens is frustrated by the low level of priority generally assigned to earthquake protection.

The “kill ratio” of past California earthquakes is extremely low compared to, say, traffic accidents. About 900 persons have died as the result of quakes since the turn of the century compared to an average annual highway toll of 4,800. Thus there are those who argue against expenditure of time and effort on something as mercurial and unpredictable as an earthquake.

California’s new governor, Edmund G. Brown, Jr., is said to be one of those. According to a recent news story, Brown suggested that money being allocated for safe buildings might be used to improve the quality of education, to rehabilitate housing for the poor, or to create construction jobs.

After the San Fernando quake, there was a flurry of studies, hearings, plans and legislation.

In Los Angeles, the building code requirements were toughened. Explained Bob Williams, general manager of Los Angeles’ Department of Building and Safety: “We doubled the loading strength requirements and required standards twice as strong in reinforced concrete and reinforced masonry.”

Los Angeles’ building code is in some respect tougher than the Uniform Building Code to which most jurisdictions in the state adhere. One official, Long Beach building director Edward M. O’Connor, a leading proponent of better preparedness, contends that the Uniform Building Code falls short.

“It does not fulfill the purpose of the code: to preserve life, limb, property and the public welfare in the event of an earthquake,” he said.

Changes in the uniform code come slowly. They are modeled after recommendations by the California Structural Engineers Association, composed of professional engineers who help design buildings.

The recommendations usually represent a balance of conservative and liberal strains within the association, and, according to
