MHFNO: 96-2899455. SENSIND: INTEL.

Exercise field to work out. CCC security personnel noted that this would have assembled all or most of the CCC membership in Havana in an open area where it could be observed and photographed. The invitation, coming as it did as a one-time opportunity with no precedent, fueled suspicions within the CCC and the invitation was declined.

7. A series of events involving Rafael Alcides, a noted Cuban poet and first husband of Teresa Fernandez Mardones (a member of the CCC), was significant to the CCC because it called into question where Alcides' loyalties lay. Alcides and Fernandez had one child, a son, together before they were divorced around late 1993. Fernandez had remarried and was living with Ronaldo Roque (cousin of Reinaldo Roque), and Alcides was spending considerable time at the Roque residence, presumably to be with his son. The CCC became concerned with the security of the situation as Fernandez was privy to CCC information and was assessed as being emotional and tending to confide too much. Martinez-Amores was dispatched by the CCC to feel out Alcides, and reported that he spoke coherently and logically against the current regime. Martinez-Amores appeared to be reassured. Subsequently, however, in conversation with Alcides, Reinaldo Roque learned that Alcides was part of a delegation of the Cuban National Union of Writers and Artists (Union Nacional de Escritores y Artistas de Cuba—UNEAC) that visited Madrid sometime around 1994. While there, Alcides said that he was invited with a number of other UNEAC delegates to lunch with Carlos Alberto Montaner. (Source comment: The luncheon with Montaner must certainly have received Cuban government approval, and the group must have included Cuban security personnel.) Alcides told Roque that on his return to Cuba, he attended the funeral for a sister (NFI) of Fidel Castro and delivered the funeral oration. Following the funeral, he was observed to be embraced by Minister of the Revolutionary Armed Forces General Raul Castro Ruz.

POC: ECC, Howard, secure X-43770, STU III (703) 506 7687.  
ACQ: Late October 1995.  
DISSEM: Field: Sent to USCINCSO, USCINCACOM, AIC, USCINTRANS, USCINCSOC, JSOC.  
RELNO: E320078.  
ORIG: IIDIRPS.
