Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

During the approximately six months of Mr. Kent's association with WH/5, the Branch CA effort was almost exclusively concentrated on a special operation with which Mr. Kent was not directly concerned. His assigned task was to act as Headquarters case officer for those CA projects not directly involved in the special project and for peripheral aspects of some which were. He performed his assigned duties competently and demonstrated that in the graphic aspects of CA work he has few peers.

At the same time, Mr. Kent did not show any large measure of initiative in developing those projects assigned to him, and seemed to treat his assignment as a temporary one (as indeed it turned out to be) to which he was not fully committed and in which he was not overly interested.

Mr. Kent is a pleasant and cooperative officer who doubtless can perform capably in a position with supervisory responsibilities, although his duties with WH/5 gave him no opportunity to demonstrate his competence in this area.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 2/26/63. Signature of employee: William M. Kent. By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 2/24/63. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief, WH/5. By reviewing official.

Typed or printed name and signature: J. S. Morgan; R. D. Gahagen. Comments of reviewing official. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WH/5. Typed or printed name and signature: R. D. Gahagen.
