under section 8(b) of the CIA Act of 1949. I am informed that when an expenditure of this type is recorded on Agency books, nevertheless, a memorandum account is maintained so that the Agency has a record of the precise amount of Government funds invested in the proprietary. I am also informed that, if a proprietary were to be fully liquidated with the proceeds scheduled to go to the Reserve, but the funds returned are in excess of the investment, the excess would not be placed in the Reserve, but would be credited to Miscellaneous Receipts. Where funds are returned to the Agency from a proprietary, the current procedure is for the Agency to "reverse" the original expenditure entry and, for those funds which are to go into the Reserve, the Reserve account on the Agency books is credited, with notification to OMB.

8. Let us take a hypothetical situation where 20 years ago the Agency expended $1 million to establish a proprietary. At that time the $1 million would have been recorded as expended, certified under the Director's authority for purposes contemplated by the appropriation of 20 years ago. In the meantime, that $1 million would have been spent by the proprietary for salaries, purchase of equipment, or for other purposes. The Agency either supplemented its original expenditure with additional monies or the proprietary might have made a profit during these years. This proprietary, at Agency direction, now liquidates its activities, including the selling of assets. Under the Constitution and the laws cited above, it is my opinion that the law requires all such return of funds to the Agency to be covered into the Treasury as Miscellaneous Receipts.

9. The Agency may not legally expend these funds once again without the approval of the Congress, and by that I mean the full appropriations process and not merely the approval of OMB and notification to our two appropriations committees. The essential element missing in this latter procedure is that there has not been an appropriation bill approved by the Congress as a whole and signed by the President. In effect, the Agency would have had its appropriation supplemented without the full appropriation process.

JOHN S. WARNER  
General Counsel
