Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Cuba. Report No. 00-K-3,262,509. Subject: Frente Interno de Unidad Revolucionaria (FIUR). Date distributed: 27 May 63. No. pages: 2. Date of information: 25 Apr 63 and earlier. Place and date acquired: 25 Apr 63 and earlier.

This is unevaluated information. I-3-98 (JFK).

Source: Cuban national presently residing in the United States.

Source was a prominent sports writer and a very active member of the Havana Yacht Club. He is presently employed as a reporter on a large newspaper and is in close contact with Cuban exile leaders.

This report was developed by an AFNIN Air Force representative assigned to the office of preparation.

On file in the CIA Library is a copy, in Spanish, of the Frente Interno de Unidad Revolucionaria—FIUR.

1. A Cuban exile, Julio V. Leal, residing at 4823 East 8th Court, Hialeah, Florida, claims to be the US Delegate of the “Cuban Government in Arms.” He also claims that he received a copy of a proclamation prepared by members of the FIUR, in Cuba, and was authorized to release it to publicity sources. He provided me with a copy of the FIUR declaration. See on-file material.

2. On 25 Apr ’63 Leal furnished me with a copy of a document, in Spanish, which showed the appointments to executive and cabinet posts of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Cuba in Arms. The names are:

President: To be announced at a later date for reasons of security.

Vice-President: Dr. Gustavo Cuervo Rubio.

Premier: Dr. Jose Manuel Gutierrez.

Secretary to the President: To be announced at a later date.

Minister of State: Dr. Carlos Prieto Socarras.

Minister of Communications: Luis Conte Aguero.

Minister of Transportation: Dr. Aureliano Sanchez Arango.

Minister of Commerce: Abel Mestre.

Minister of Justice: Dr. Ricardo-Rafael Sardinas.

Minister of Interior: Dr. Manuel Antonio de Varona.

Minister of Education: Dr. Jose Ignacio Lazaga.

Minister of Public Works: Ing. Manuel Ray.

Minister of Health: Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.

Minister of Defense: Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.

Minister of Labor: Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.

105-NEW.
