Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Discuss performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds, if applicable. All extra space is needed to complete Section C; attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject is responsible for the supervision and operation of one of the more diversified and complex field registry operations in the Organization. He is thoroughly knowledgeable and experienced in registry practices. Subject is a dedicated and hard-working officer who will apply himself diligently to individual registry activities. Such diligent application occasionally causes him to overlook his overall supervisory role, the supervision and management of eleven personnel, and the responsibility for providing a wide variety of services, locally and in-country. In the press of his activities, he does not always employ a high degree of tact in dealing with his subordinates. In this context, it should be noted that he is performing proficiently in a position well above his present grade level.

During the past several months, the Section has undergone several changes and assumed additional functions under his guidance.

Subject is cost-conscious in the use of supplies and equipment in his Section.

Subject is attending evening courses leading toward his degree to further himself professionally.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 14 Aug 1967. Signature of employee: /s/James S. Woods.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 14 Oct 1967. Official title of supervisor: Records Admin Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/John K. Smith.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official. I concur in the ratings and comments of the supervisor. In fairness to the employee, it should be noted that the supervisor is a conscientious and conservative rater. Date: 14 Oct 1967. Official title of reviewing official: Opd Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/Vincent M. Lockhart.
