Office Memorandum, United States Government

To: Mr. L. V. Boardman  
From: Mr. A. H. Belmont  
Subject: State Department Requests for Surveillances of Latin Americans  
Date: 10-13-55

By letter of 10/10/55, Mr. Robert Murphy, Deputy Under-secretary of State, noted that it is important that State keep track of movements and contacts of selected Latin Americans while in the U.S. when there are reasons to believe subversive activities directed at other governments of this hemisphere are being planned and coordinated here. The letter notes that the FBI has cooperated in furnishing information from established sources but “has shown understandable reluctance to become involved to the extent of conducting direct surveillance in cases where there is no evidence of nor reason to suspect subversive activities directed against the United States or violation of United States laws.” The letter requests an opinion as to how surveillance of selected Latin American visitors might be arranged on an individual case basis and notes that an identical letter is being sent to CIA in the hope that a coordinated approach can be made.

In November 1954, the Bureau refused State’s request for surveillance of Pedro Estrada, Director, Venezuelan Security Police, who was brought here by State and escorted around by a State Department Security Division agent. In August 1955, State requested that the Bureau furnish as complete information as possible regarding the movements of Colonel Romulo Fernandez and his aide during a three-day stay in Miami. No request for surveillance was made, and State was advised that none was being conducted; the individuals were covered by other means, and State was furnished information developed. There are no other identifiable instances where State has requested or indicated the possible desirability of physical surveillance.

Attached is a suggested letter to State advising that the Bureau promptly investigates cases indicating subversive action against other governments in this hemisphere, using investigative techniques appropriate; that full-time surveillances require tremendous expenditures of manpower and, in most cases, more information can be obtained through other techniques; but that the Bureau is not reluctant to use physical surveillance when circumstances warrant; that when State has credible information of the type of activity referred to, it should be referred to the Bureau in order that a prompt investigation may be made; and that the Bureau will consider physical surveillance when requested by State when it is agreed that such surveillance is warranted. The attached letter also notes that it would be desirable, appropriate, and in accordance with U.S. laws that such individuals not be allowed to enter the U.S. when there is reason to believe they would engage in such activities.

Enclosure: Venezuelan Army Chief of Staff
