Betsy Palmer

Volume XV — June 1964  
Page 2

5. Memo for the Record, dated 9 June 1964, from Alfonso Rodriguez  
Subject: Possible Plans of Ray

Opinion of Rodriguez that Ray will attempt as soon as possible to mount another infiltration effort. He is relatively certain JURE has or can procure a small craft capable of making the trip from Florida to Cuba. He also thinks that either Cisneros or Ray (“Cisneros/oy Ray”) would be willing to publicly give the lie to the TIME magazine article of 12 June 1964.

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 10 June 1964 — re-canvassing of the exile community reveals Ray's prestige at a near-absolute low point. Trend is a tendency to ignore Ray completely. Information that JURE is in considerable dissension. Threats from various factions to withdraw unless Cisneros is dismissed and the national board reorganized.

7. Memo for the Record, dated 12 June 1964, from Samuel Halpern  
Subject: Information from the British in Answer to Questions Re: Identity of American Who Allegedly Paid Manuel Ray's Fine in Nassau

Chris Phillpotts called 12 June to say the Governor of the Bahamas had replied to our query as to the identity of the American who allegedly paid Ray's fine in Nassau. See TIME of 12 June 1964, page 48 — alleged CIA paid. Governor stated he had seen no such figure and, to the best of his knowledge, there was no such person. “I of course did not tell Chris Phillpotts that we knew the identity of the American as reported to us by Rogelio Cisneros of JURE.”

8. Memo for the Record, dated 12 June 1964, from Alfonso Rodriguez  
Subject: JURE Telegram to TIME Magazine

Protest falsity of information published by TIME regarding the capture of Manuel Ray and his group. False that a CIA ship participated in any phase of the operation. Also false that a CIA individual paid the fine — the $84.00 was sent to JURE by an American citizen at the request of one of his employees.

9. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 27 June 1964: According to AMFAST/6, Ray informed Pepe Castillo (Catillo) (Jose Garcia Valdez) their departure date for Cuba would be July 1. Boat to be used is an unnamed Rybovitch rented in Fort Lauderdale. Ray planning to stay in Cuba about 15 days.

10. Memo for the Record, dated 29 June 1964, from Alfonso Rodriguez  
Subject: Establishment of Base Abroad; Manuel Ray Rivero

On June 22, the Special Group agreed “no monies would be forthcoming,” specifically a requested $25,000, “until he ceased” all activities from the U.S. mainland.
