Date: January 29, 1970.

Stephen Fischer-Galati, Professor, Department of History, University of Colorado, advised that he had just returned from a European trip. He recalled first meeting Professor Thomas Riha sometime in 1966 at a meeting of the American Historical Society in San Francisco. He advised he also had heard of Riha prior to their meeting. He advised that after Riha came to the University of Colorado he knew him as a fellow faculty member of the Department of History and had dinner with him on two or three occasions. He advised their relationship was casual and could not have been considered a profound relationship.

Fischer-Galati advised he first met Galya Tannenbaum sometime in May 1969, after the disappearance of Professor Riha. He advised his object in meeting Tannenbaum was to determine if she were a “colonel” as described in hearsay. He advised he was convinced she was not connected with any kind of intelligence work and knew nothing of Eastern European history. He recalled that Tannenbaum stated she had known Riha for many years and indicated she had helped Riha come to the United States but gave no further explanation. He also recalled that Tannenbaum displayed a “Power of Attorney” document which was contained in a letter allegedly signed by Tom Riha. He advised the most significant part of the document to him was the date of same, which he easily recalled as January 5, 1968. Fischer-Galati pointed out that January 5, 1968, is the date of the overthrow of the Czechoslovakian Government, at which time Novotny (Novotony) was replaced by Dubcek, and at this same time the official who was in control of passports disappeared and subsequently showed up in Montreal, Canada. He recalled that Tannenbaum indicated she carried a gun in her purse and that her car had some special equipment, but Tannenbaum did not elaborate further. He advised that Tannenbaum was extremely careful in her conversations with him and made no allegations.

Fischer-Galati advised his second meeting with Tannenbaum occurred on October 1, 1969, at 2:15 p.m., same obtained from his notebook. He recalled that Tannenbaum called him on the telephone and arranged to meet him in front of the Colorado Book Store in Boulder. He recalled that her car was parked legally at the aforementioned location. He recalled that she was anxious to determine why a check had “bounced” in Riha’s bank account. He recalled she wanted to know if the University was continuing to deposit Riha’s salary to his bank account, as all University faculty.

File No. Denver 47-3190.
