NK 157-2011

It was determined that ROBERTSON's office maintains for distribution 1/1000 scale maps of the entire District of Columbia sewer system and 1/1000 scale maps of the entire District of Columbia water system. These maps are for personal use and available free of charge to persons having a valid reason but are not given away indiscriminately because of the cost. These maps have no dimensions and show no detail except in a very general way. There is no record maintained of the distribution. ROBERTSON advised the system is coded to the map described above relating to detail maps with scales of 1 inch to 100 feet and 1 inch to 50 feet, showing the exact locations of the water mains, the connections and valves. The maps are available primarily to architects preparing building plans. He stated to obtain copies of the detailed maps, the District of Columbia Government requires a release to limit the liability of the district in the event of a lawsuit.

On July 30, 1974, Mr. HASKELL L. COUNTS, Chief, Construction and Engineering Division, Department of Environmental Services (DES), Government of the District of Columbia, Washington, D.C., was interviewed. Mr. COUNTS stated that DES maintains for its own use and the use of a limited number of others having a need for them, 1 inch to 1000 feet scale maps of the overall water and sewer system of the District of Columbia. He said that blueprints scaled 1 inch to 50 feet or 1 inch to 100 feet can be obtained from DES for specific locations throughout the district. The blueprints show exact locations of sewers, water mains, valves, connections, etc., and generally are available to contractors and others having a need for them. COUNTS advised that SCHUYLER DAVENPORT FERRIS, who is employed by the Construction and Engineering Division, DES, as a member of a survey party concerned with the city water and sewer system, would have access to both maps of the overall water and sewer systems and detailed blueprints for specific locations in the District of Columbia.

On September 3, 1974, Mr. ALBERT P. LENTZ was interviewed at his employment, Quaker City Paper, 300 North Sherman Street, York, Pennsylvania, by Special Agents of the FBI. LENTZ stated that DRAGER stayed with him at his residence, 330 North Street, York, Pennsylvania, during the first week of June. He stated that DRAGER had several guns in his possession at that time. LENTZ advised that there were other Klan-type individuals from Indianapolis in attendance while DRAGER was there, and they and DRAGER held secret discussions to which LENTZ was not privy. LENTZ advised that he never heard DRAGER talk about bombing but knows that DRAGER was talking big about going underground. LENTZ advised that no one in his group favors “weatherman tactics” and that if he had learned of a bombing plot, he would have contacted Captain MC CAFFERY, of the York, Pennsylvania, Police Department, before he would have allowed
