There is, as well, the related question of how much information was known at the top of the cooperating governments and the extent to which such knowledge would enhance our understanding of the assassination as being the work of foreign conspirators. If we compromise any of those relationships and consequently cause political damage to the cooperating government, we may find a valuable future source of intelligence closed.

See Stafford T. Thomas, The U.S. Intelligence Community 89–94 (1983).

See James Bamford, The Puzzle Palace: A Report on America's Most Secret Agency 309, 315–17 (1982).

Congress acknowledged this concern in the JFK Act by allowing postponement of the release of documents, which clear and convincing evidence establishes will “compromise the existence of an understanding of confidentiality currently requiring protection between a Government agent and a ... foreign government.” 44 U.S.C. 2107(6)(4) (1994).

Exhibit Seven poses some of these liaison issues. The FBI provided the Board with this heavily redacted document, arguing that release of the body of material in the message from the FBI field office in Paris to the Director of the FBI in Washington on October 12, 1960 (three years before the assassination), would damage the ability of the United States to work with the intelligence and police operations of a foreign nation. The cable, however, struck the Board as being particularly important, in that it showed that three years before the murder of the President the FBI was engaged in surveillance of Oswald's activities. The Board was also concerned that concealing so large an amount of material would only heighten speculation about the document's significance.

See Exhibit Seven, infra, p. 52.

See id.

As Exhibit Eight demonstrates, the contents of the cable were far more sinister when redacted than when they were disclosed in full. To gain this release, the Board sought the cooperation of the Swiss ambassador to the United States, who consented to the release, only with the proviso that the names of specific Swiss officials not be divulged. As a result of the cable's release, we know that the FBI had knowledge of and interest in Oswald's activities well before the assassination, to the extent of relying on officials of the Swiss Federal Police to learn about his possible attendance at Albert Schweitzer College.
