Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Include a comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to justify being considered for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject will retire effective 80 June 1973, thus this will be his final agency Fitness Report. Subject's performance at this Station, during the past four years, has always been consistently strong. Subject has primarily concentrated his attention on CA and Mexican government matters. He has done very well at developing contacts in government circles and we have taken advantage of this ability.

Subject is responsive to guidance and direction and has an excellent grasp and understanding of local politics and its ever-changing profile. Subject is a mature seasoned officer who will be missed at this Station. His departure for retirement will be most felt in the area of his specialization.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 22 June 1973. Signature of employee: /s/ Joseph B. Smith.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 48. Date: 22 June 1973. Official title of supervisor: DCOS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ George A. Fill.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

In writing a comment on his Fitness Report in January 1973, I spoke of what a loss he will be to the Station. Because of overlap problems, he will have retired soon after the new COS arrives and before the new DCOS has come. It is typical of him that he has offered to perform introductions to some of his contacts even after retirement. He will be in Mexico and, while the Station must be careful to protect him in his new status, he probably will think of the Station first when he runs on to things of interest.

Date: 22 June 1973. Official title of reviewing official: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ John Horton.
