9 July 1970

Subject: Meeting with DCS Headquarters' Officers

Shirley STETSON, for at least ten years the backbone of DCS/OSS and recently reassigned to DCS/Washington, and John WILSON, recently designated as Jim DURBIN's replacement in the Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill Office, which covers North and South Carolina, visited CI/SO on 9 July 1970 and were briefed by a CIA officer and the writer from 1100 to 1200 hours. This was followed by lunch (the writer could not accompany them) and discussions until 1315 hours.

2. The following highlights are made a matter of record:

a. Reports from “Chico” concerning B'Nai B'rith in NYC are still being received by DCS but, as is the custom, they are being sent to a CIA officer in CI/SPG initially, rather than to CI/SO. It is believed that the CIA officer has been absent for about two months, and this may account for the fact that CI/SO has not been receiving the material.

b. Upon the departure of STETSON for Washington and of a CIA officer for LA, Peter HOUCK will assume responsibility for Case 52722. HOUCK has just completed his CT program and before that spent a year in DCS on the Soviet Bloc Desk, where he handled nuclear matters. He is well-regarded.

c. John WILSON is young, short, red-haired, aggressive, slow-speaking, a former CT who has spent two years in DCS Headquarters. He previously served as a missionary for the Mormon Church in Austria with his wife. He stems from Ogden, Utah, and the view is that he could be slated for the job of Gen. Sterling RYSOR's replacement in Salt Lake City in five to ten years, when RYSOR retires. WILSON is sensitive, flushes easily, has a friendly, somewhat shy manner, yet expresses his opinions easily. He does not seem to be a ball of fire or a personality guy, but seems serious and level-headed. As has been noted with many Mormons, he seems to save his greatest enthusiasm for discussions with the Mormon Church. How true it is that there is no such thing as a half-committed person. As a result of his year or two of missionary duty in Austria with 300 +-…
