Attention community workers and Black Panther Party members, Detroit Branch.

The following information is an order and will be carried out immediately.

All power to the people, comrades:

Because of the necessity to intensify the struggle here in the state of Michigan, it is necessary to intensify our knowledge of struggle, and to tighten up our ideology, which is our first step towards being truly a match for a hundred.

The life of our beloved Minister of Defense, Huey P. Newton, is in constant danger of assassination. Some 30 members of our party have already been murdered and countless of our comrades are imprisoned. All this is reality, and yet some of us are still very slipshod in our work.

Because of the level of struggle in which we are now engaged, survival-pending revolution, it has become necessary to condense this training and to develop into a vanguard soldier.

Outlines of training programs will be given each member and community worker. At the completion of these training programs, tests will be given to determine just what level a comrade will work.

The first six weeks will establish those to be put in charge of information centers throughout the state of Michigan.

Community workers are all those who cannot function full time and have not completed their first six weeks training. Those who primarily sell newspapers, pass out leaflets, etc.

Members of the Black Panther Party—those who function full time and have passed their first six-week training program, who sell newspapers and work in assigned areas under those who coordinate programs and activities.

Those working as organizers in charge of offices, programs, etc., are those who have completed Phase Two of their training course. These people will organize and be looked upon as the driving force of the Black Panther Party.

Phase Three will not be given, but members of the B.P.P. will be recruited from its ranks.

All success in our struggle to truly be a match for a hundred.

Right on, comrades.

March 27, 1972.
