Gordon Gray: Short Summary

Gordon Gray was Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs from 1958–1961. During this period, Gray represented President Eisenhower (EISENHOWER) at Special Group meetings at which the following subjects were discussed: “any particular kind of activity which might contribute to getting rid of Lumumba (LUMUMBA)”; provision of small arms to opponents of Trujillo (TRUJILLO) in the Dominican Republic; and detailed planning for “how the U.S. wishes to move against Castro (CASTRO).”

Gray’s testimony should involve the following questions (see attached list of exhibits):

Castro

1. What was Admiral Burke referring to at the March 14, 1960, NSC meeting when he spoke of “a plan for the removal of Cuban leaders should be a package deal”? (Exhibit at Tab E)

2. Is there a connection between the plan referred to by Admiral Burke at the March 14 NSC meeting and the discussion at the March 14 Special Group meeting on the “effect on the Cuban scene if Fidel and Raul Castro (Raoul Castro) and Che Guevara should disappear simultaneously”? (Exhibit at Tab F)

3. Were President Eisenhower (EISENHOWER) or Mr. Gray aware that on August 16, 1960, the CIA Office of Medical Services received a box of Cuban cigars to be treated with poison for use against Castro (CASTRO)? (Exhibit at Tab O)

4. Were President Eisenhower (EISENHOWER) or Mr. Gray aware that in August 1960 Bissell asked Edwards to find underworld contacts with Cuba for an assassination mission? (Exhibit at Tab R)

5. At the November 3, 1960, Special Group meeting, was Mr. Merchant referring to planning for assassination when he asked whether planning had been done “in taking direct positive action against Fidel, Raul Castro (Raoul Castro), and Che Guevara”? How does General Cabell’s response (that Merchant’s suggestion “is beyond our capabilities”) square with the fact that shortly before November 1960 the CIA had made contact with the Mafia for a Castro (CASTRO) assassination effort? (Exhibit at Tab V)

Trujillo

1. Was Vice President Nixon referring to assassination at the April 14, 1960, NSC meeting when he said “getting rid of Trujillo (TRUJILLO) would be a favorable development”? (Exhibit at Tab H)
