2. Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties.

Directions: State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effective performance of this specific duty. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty; do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties. Be specific.

Examples of duties: Oral briefing; has and uses area knowledge; conducts interrogations; giving lectures; develops new programs; prepares summaries; conducting seminars; analyzes industrial reports; translates German; writing technical reports; manages files; debriefing sources; conducting external liaison; operates radio; keeps books; typing; coordinates with other offices; drives truck; taking dictation; writes regulations; maintains air conditioning; supervising; prepares correspondence; evaluates significance of data.

For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if the supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation in the case of a radio operator.

Rating scale: 1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty. 2. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty. 3. Performs this duty acceptably. 4. Performs this duty in a competent manner. 5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job. 6. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs. 7. Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Descriptive Rating Number. Specific duty: Provide FF support and guidance to field. Rating number: 5. Specific duty: Be and use language and area knowledge. Rating number: 6.

Specific duty: Originate FF material and ideas for field. Rating number: 6. Specific duty: Prepare and handle Eqs.-field copy. on FF and related matters. Rating number: 5.

Specific duty: Co-ordinate with other Eqs. compensate on FF and related matters. Rating number: 5. Specific duty: Prepare project outlines, reprints etc. Rating number: 5.

5. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Directions: Strengthen and弱ify, particularly those which affect development on present job.
