Appointment Affidavits

Information for Appointee

Note.—Before he can be appointed, an applicant for a Federal position must meet certain requirements over and above the requirement that he be able to do the work he is employed to do. On the attached form you are to swear (or affirm) that you meet these requirements. In addition, there are certain restrictions upon your conduct as a Federal employee. They are set forth on this sheet. You should familiarize yourself with these restrictions and be guided by them. Detach this portion of the form and retain it for your information and guidance.

I. Information About Appointments

Persons selected from competitive registers will receive either a temporary or a probational appointment.

For persons receiving a probational appointment, the first year of service is a probationary period unless a shorter period is fixed for the position by the Civil Service Commission. Satisfactory completion of probation is required for absolute appointment.

The completion of probation is required when a person who is reinstated or transferred has not previously completed a probationary period.

Persons receiving probational appointments are included under the Civil Service Retirement Act.

Appointments specifically limited to 1 year or less are usually considered temporary appointments.

For excepted appointments, a trial period may be required at the discretion of the employing agency.

II. Members-of-Family Restriction

Except for persons entitled to veteran preference, no person may be professionally appointed to a position in the competitive service if there are two or more members of his family already serving in the competitive service under probational or permanent appointments. A family is defined by the Attorney General as persons who live under the same roof with the head of the family and form part of his residence. When they branch out and become heads of new establishments, they cease to be part of the old family. Minors do not establish another family merely by living at an address different from that of their parents. An appointment is illegal if the appointee is disqualified by the members-of-family restriction.

III. Appointments Are Subject to Investigation

All probational appointments, reappointments, reinstatements, conversions to competitive appointments, inter-agency transfers, and certain temporary appointments are “subject to investigation” for an 18-month period. During this period, the Civil Service Commission has authority to instruct an agency to separate an employee for any of the reasons given below except that the Commission’s authority is not limited by the 18-month period in cases described under Items 4, 5, and 8 below. The condition “subject to investigation” expires automatically at the end of 18 months of service unless an appeal on loyalty matters is pending. However, an employing agency may remove an employee for any of the reasons given below at any time.

Any of the following reasons constitutes sufficient cause for the removal of an employee from the service:

1. Conduct or capacity of such a nature that removal will promote the efficiency of the service.

2. Physical or mental unfitness for the position he holds.

3. Criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct.

4. Establishment of the fact that the employee has made intentional false statements or engaged in deception or fraud in examination or appointment.

5. Refusal to furnish testimony to the Civil Service Commission or its authorized representatives in regard to matters inquired of arising under the Civil Service Act, Rules, and Regulations.

6. Habitual use of intoxicating beverages to excess.

7. Reasonable grounds exist for belief that the person involved is disloyal to the Government of the United States (see Section IV).

8. Any legal or other disqualification which makes the applicant unfit for Federal employment.

IV. Subversive Activity and Affiliation

Section 9A of Public Law 252, 76th Congress, approved August 2, 1959, otherwise known as the “Hatch Act,” provides:

“(1) It shall be unlawful for any person employed in any capacity by any agency of the Federal Government, whose compensation, or any part thereof, is paid from funds authorized or appropriated by any act of Congress, to have membership in any political party or organization which advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government in the United States.

“(2) Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be immediately removed from the position or office held by him, and thereafter no part of the funds appropriated by any act of Congress for such position or office shall be used to pay the compensation of such person;”

Executive Order 9835 of May 21, 1947, provides:

“1. The standard for the refusal of employment or
