Federal Bureau of Investigation  
United States Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20537

Applicant

To Obtain Classifiable Fingerprints:

1. Use black paper or ink.

2. Distribute only on inmobile slab.

3. Wash and dry handly thoroughly.

4. Roll finger thoroughly over all, and avoid allowing fingers to slip.

5. Be sure impression is made correct order.

6. If an amount is lacking, or quality makes it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that end. If the memorial pinger block.

7. If some physical impression makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be gotten with a memo stapled to the card explaining the circumstances.

8. Examine the corrected prints to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that most fingerprints fall into the patterns shown on this card. Other patterns occur frequently and are not shown here.

This Card for Use By:

1. Law enforcement agents in fingerprinting applicants for limit or incorporation positions.

2. Officials of state and local officers for purpose of identification, using only instead of DNA, as authorized by statute, and attached by the Attorney General of the country grate, U.S.A., and county credit management unless a partially taken up in applicable state statutes to do so, as may be required thereon.

3. U.S. government agents in connection with clearances.

4. Officials of permanent chartered or disbursed banks, institutions to promote or maintain the security of those institutions.

Instructions:

1. Use only the type prepared in through the approved size. If two different types, use the biggest.

2. On the back of each form, write in full name of individual, age, and date of birth. If any individual is a minor, specify by age, when and what period.

3. Do not use this card for the following purposes: to be an identity, to be a notice of a prosecutor, to be a notice of a criminal commissioner, to be a reference, to be a transmitting number, or to be a reference for a telephone call.

4. If any information on this card is lost, the owner may be delayed in getting it back.

The lines between center of loop and delta must show.

2. Whorl.

3. Arch.

Lines running between delta must be clear.

4. Arch.

Lines within this card must be clear.
