Cuban Support of External Subversive Activities—continued.

The embassy stated that “everything leads to the belief that” the arms recently discovered in Venezuela had come from Cuba. According to one of the Chilean Embassy’s sources, two ships had left Cuba at an unspecified date en route to British Guiana with “packages consigned as machinery consigned to an industrialist of known Communist tendencies whose property is adjacent to the Venezuelan border.” Various of the Chilean Embassy sources “accept the rumor” that the arms are of Belgian and British (sic) make and that the shipments have been made from various Cuban ports. The embassy report also expressed the belief that Cuba not only sends arms to various points in South America, but also Cuban guerrilla leaders. (NSA 3/0/CLD/T1129-63, 5 December)

Havana Radio announced yesterday that pro-Castro guerrillas have established “six operational zones” in the mountains around Santiago and Puerto Plata in the Dominican Republic. The Havana radiobroadcast credited the announcement to “the first communiqué issued by the command.” Meanwhile, press dispatches from Miami report that most Cuban exiles feel that the Havana announcement is an attempt to cover up the failure of Castro terrorists to stop Venezuela’s presidential elections last Sunday. Other exile sources predict that the announcement and the setback in Venezuela mean that the Castro regime will launch a concerted terrorist campaign against the military-installed provisional regime in Santo Domingo. Batista Falla, leader of the Cuban exile Christian Democratic Movement (MCD), said yesterday in Miami that the failure of terrorism in Venezuela “has put Castro in a difficult position and damages his chances in the rest of Latin America.” He added that he expects Castro to “make desperate attempts to picture terrorism as successful, despite its miserable failure in Venezuela.”

All reporting by the Dominican Government indicates that its forces are in effective control of the areas of guerrilla activity. About 40 insurgents of the outlawed pro-Castro 14th of June Political Group (APCJ) are said to have been captured, with only isolated bands yet to be apprehended. (UPI, Miami, A-11, 6 December, Background Information)

Cuba is reportedly making preparations to recognize a Venezuelan government-in-exile, according to an official West German service from a fairly reliable source with contacts in Havana. Reportedly, the Cuban Foreign Ministry is consulting the USSR and other bloc countries to induce them to recognize this government-in-exile. The Cubans, according to the source, do not expect the USSR and other countries to agree to this; nevertheless, the attempt is being made.
