1. Indicate the approximate number of months the rated employee has been under the individual's personal care: 18.

8. Comments concerning potentials: A fine junior officer who will certainly continue to progress upward in factory markings analytic competence and responsibility. His personal flexibility and breadth to develop into a competent senior intelligence officer of reasonably broad scope.

Mail Room.

Section M. Future Plans.

1. Training or other developmental experience planned for the individual: Mr. Fox's development program will continue to be in increasing his capabilities in factory markings analysis and exploitation. A training course in supervision will be considered.

2. Note other factors, including personal circumstances, to be taken into account in individual's future assumptions.

Section I. Description of Individual Directions.

This section is provided as an aid to describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret the words literally. On the page below are a series of statements that apply in such degree to most people. To the left of each statement is a box under the heading “category.” Read each statement and insert in the box the category number which best tells how much the statement applies to the person speeded by this report.

Category number: X. Have not observed this; hence can give no opinion as to how the description applies to the individual. 1. Applies to the individual to the least possible degree. 2. Applies to individual to a limited degree. 3. Applies to individual to an average degree. 4. Applies to individual to an above average degree. 5. Applies to individual to an outstanding degree.

Category 4: 1. Able to see and understand point of view. Category 4: 10. Was high standards of accomplishment. Category 4: 21. Is effective in showing with associates.

Category 4: 2. Can make decisions on his own when needs aren't. Category 4: 12. Shows originality. Category 4: 4. Implements decisions with carbon of own feelings.

Category 5: 3. Was initiative. Category 5: 13. Accepts responsibility. Category 4: 28. Is thoughtful of others.

Category 5: 4. Is analytic in his thoughts. Category 4: 14. Adjusts his feelings. Category 2.
