Attachment to DO/HS Memorandum dated 26 August 1964.

Attachment No. 1 to DO/HS memorandum dated 26 August 1964.

Information

1. Subject was mentioned in two KAPOK Dispatches by the Chief of Station, San Juan, Puerto Rico, as a possible candidate through whom leads to persons in the Dominican Republic could be developed and targeted against the intelligence service and the ruling circles there. In HPSA-1223 and HPSA-941, both dated 11 September 1956, Subject is mentioned as a good person for the beginning of covert operations in the Dominican Republic because he was well known and considered discreet by those who know him. Because of his businesses in the U.S. and the Caribbean area, Subject had many persons working for him over a period of years who owed him some allegiance. Subject's companies did much business in the Dominican Republic. SKEDADILE, the station's contact, was instructed to approach him indirectly through a cut-out who was Angel FONSECA Jimenez, a personal friend of SKEDADILE, a member of the Puerto Rican legislature, a senior member of the Republican (Statehood) Party, and very close to Subject.

2. Information in Subject's PRO II revealed that he was assigned the cryptonym SKEYER/1. The case officer was introduced to Subject by one Francisco A. LOPEZ Dominguez, the U.S. Collector of Customs-in-Charge in Puerto Rico, on a strictly social basis in March 1950 (this was to be Subject's cover, and there was no monetary remuneration). Since Subject was considered a loyal U.S. citizen, he was made witting of KURAKK's interest in persons in the Dominican Republic who might lead to the target. He accepted to assist KURAKK in this endeavor enthusiastically. Although it was known that Subject once served as an honorary Vice Consul for Sweden, a common practice for prominent businessmen in Latin America, he was not known to have any connections with a foreign intelligence service. His value to KURAKK lay in his personal knowledge of persons and facts in the Dominican Republic, particularly individuals who travelled there for legal reasons, as well as his social and political status. The case officer described Subject as “intelligent,” “well educated,” and “a political leader whose real strength is in his being a salientized capitalist.” Because he was (and is) so prominent, and could not withstand too much weakening of his position, he should not be used “directly” in any operation (in the opinion of the case officer who wrote the PRO evaluation).
