5. Predication for investigation

In all cases handled under the provisions of this section, the first communication prepared for outside dissemination (report or LHM) should show specifically the statute upon which the investigation is based together with necessary supporting facts. Where investigation has been specifically requested by Department, this should be indicated. The following examples are illustrative; however, the basis for each individual case must be tailored to the circumstances of such case.

a. “This investigation is based on information that the subject's activities could involve violation of T 18, USC, § 2383 (Rebellion or Insurrection), and § 2384 (Seditious Conspiracy). A source whose reliability has not been determined has informed that the subject is planning, along with others, to travel to Washington, D. C., on April 30, 1971, to participate in planned violent demonstrations during the first week in May, 1971, to ‘shut down the Government.’ Demonstration plans include the blocking of streets and highways, destruction of personal and Government property, and physical obstruction to prevent Government employees from reporting to work.”

b. “This investigation is based on information that the subject's activities could involve a violation of T 18, USC, § 2385 (Advocating the overthrow of the Government). The subject is an admitted member (or has been identified as a member by a confidential source who has provided reliable information in the past) of (name of group). The (name of group) in its public statements and publications advocates the desirability and necessity of overthrowing the U. S. Government by force or violence, and the assassination of U. S. Government officers. The same source has reported that the subject actively supports these positions.”

Where possible, the first intra-Bureau communication prepared which indicates that investigation is being initiated (intraoffice memorandum, letter, airtel, teletype, etc.) should specifically indicate the statutory basis for the investigation. However, there may be occasions involving individuals or groups in contact with known subversive elements where the purpose of the contact is not initially known and where a preliminary inquiry must be made to determine whether a statutory basis exists for full investigation. In these instances, a preliminary inquiry may be undertaken, through established sources, for a period not to exceed 90 days, without specifically indicating the specific statutory basis for the inquiry. If after the conclusion of 90 days it has not been possible to establish a statutory basis but further inquiry appears necessary, FBIHQ must be furnished a succinct summary of the facts by letter together with specific recommendations as to further action. In all cases, of course, investigations must be based on indications that subject may be engaged in subversive activity, whether or not a specific statutory basis is cited.

In the event preliminary inquiries fail to establish a sound basis for investigation, the case should be promptly closed and there is no need to advise FBIHQ (unless FBIHQ has been previously advised of the inquiry). Nor is there any need to prepare an LHM or report where no pertinent subversive derogatory information has been developed.

If the statutory basis for an investigation should change or be expanded to include an additional statute or statutes, the first communication prepared subsequent to such change or expansion should specifically show such changes. Similarly, this information should be included in the next report or LHM prepared in the case.
