K. Informant Files

1. Opening

a. When active investigation is initiated regarding a potential informant or confidential source who is not the subject of a security-type file, open a 134 file.

b. If an individual is the subject of a security case and, after being interviewed, appears to have potential as an informant, open a separate 134 file to follow informant development. In espionage and foreign nationality matters, the existing file may be used if this is practical.

c. Maintain individual files on all active informants as pending active files.

2. Monthly Administrative Report

Include files on potential informants and informants in tabulations and calculations of delinquencies in the monthly administrative report.

3. Assignment and Tickler Cards

Maintain assignment and tickler cards, but do not show the true name of an informant, potential informant, panel source, or confidential source on such cards.

4. Subfiles

a. A subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters, where a subfile is necessary only in those instances involving possible prosecution. File in this subfile the original of each statement, whether personally written by the informant or furnished orally and reduced to writing by the contacting Agent. Staple an executed Form FD-306 or channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items on Form FD-306 to the original of each such statement.

b. Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any portion of the statements or notations thereon.

5. Channelization

Include excerpts from an informant's statement in the regular investigative case report when information of value is submitted. Form FD-306 may be used to disseminate this information to the case file in lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed for channelization and staple one copy to each copy of the informant's statement being channelized. Channelization should be noted on the original FD-306 and all copies.

6. Channelizing Memoranda—Destruction of

See Manual of Rules and Regulations.

7. Correspondence

Correspondence in security informant and potential security informant matters should be strictly limited to the administrative handling of the informant and should not contain information more properly furnished under a substantive case caption.

8. Maintenance of Files

a. Maintain all symbol number informant files, pending and closed, under lock and key under the personal supervision of the SAC, ASAC, field supervisor, or responsible employee designated by the SAC.

b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in the open files section, provided there is no disclosure of the informant's identity on the statements.

c. Maintain informant files so that all information furnished by the informant will be immediately available when needed.

d. In addition, maintain these files so that the identities of cases in which an informant has furnished competent evidence can be obtained immediately by simply referring to the informant's file and without extensive research.
