There is doubt as to which office should be origin; request FBIHQ to designate office of origin.

e. Title of communications

Normally, only one subject should be carried in the title of each report or LHM, and separate reports should be submitted for each subject regardless of relationship. However, when reporting virtually identical information concerning two related individuals (e.g., travel data concerning a husband and wife), an exception can be made and a single LHM or report submitted. In such cases, dual captions should be used and an extra copy of the communication provided.

f. Classification - 100

g. Character

(1) The designation “Subversive Matter” (or abbreviation SM) should be used in all cases. Add organizational affiliation when the chief group with which the subject is connected is under current investigation or has approved characterization.

Example: Subversive Matter - CPUSA  
Subversive Matter - SWP

(2) Where meaningful organizational affiliation cannot be shown, use the caption “Subversive Matter.”

h. Copies of reports or LHMs

In all instances, furnish four copies to FBIHQ to cover dissemination to the Department (2) and Secret Service (1). Where it appears dissemination will be made to other agencies at FBIHQ level, furnish one additional copy for each such agency involved.

i. Status

Carry cases as pending until logical inquiries aimed at resolving the purpose of the investigation have been completed. As a minimum, the case should be kept pending until essential background data regarding the subject has been secured and sufficient information developed to present a good picture of the nature and extent of subversive activities engaged in by the subject.

j. Closing and reopening of cases

If it is determined that the subject’s current activities do not involve an actual or potential violation of one or more of the statutes enumerated in A. 1. above, the case should be closed.

The case may be reopened at a later date if additional information is received which indicates the subject’s subsequent activities involve or may result in a violation of the statutes cited in A. 1.

k. Subject traveling abroad (also see section 105G, Volume IV, of this manual).

Take the following action when information is received that the subject of a current investigation intends to travel abroad or has departed on foreign travel, except where travel is of brief duration and is known to be for an innocuous purpose, such as vacation:

(1) Immediately notify FBIHQ of available details concerning travel, including places and dates of departure and intended return, destination, itinerary, purpose of trip, and pertinent passport data. Include a full description of the subject, including aliases. Set out a concise résumé of available subversive data regarding the subject. Do not delay advising FBIHQ while developing details if time is of the essence.
