3. Investigative procedures and suggestions regarding communist front organizations. To accurately and clearly show the true nature of communist front groups, data concerning the following topics, where applicable, should be fully developed and reported on:

a. Origin and scope

Date of formation. Circumstances under which founded.

Determine who in the Communist Party instructed the organization to be set up; whether the decision to set up the group was made at a meeting of party functionaries and, if so, identify functionaries present; identity of the individual or individuals responsible for organizing the group. Identify all known chapters, if any, and their locations.

b. Whether incorporated

Many organizations are incorporated, requiring filing of incorporation papers with appropriate state officials.

c. Aims and purposes

d. Location of headquarters

e. Officers

List principal officers, board of directors, etc., and appropriate characterization of each, showing communist affiliation.

The cover pages of the report should state that all persons named as officers or leaders of the organization and who reside within the area covered by the reporting office are listed in the security index or are informants or sources. Exceptions should be named and information furnished concerning the status of their investigations.

f. Membership

Ascertain estimated membership. Whenever possible, secure membership lists, mailing lists, or other records showing affiliation with the organization. Usually obtainable through informant coverage or utilization of various investigative techniques. Secure an accurate description of all lists to make sure there is no confusion as to the exact identity or significance of the list being reported on.

g. Official organ, if any, and other literature

(1) May be obtained through confidential mailbox, panel sources, and confidential informants.

(2) All such literature should be appropriately identified.

(3) At least one copy of each pertinent piece of literature should be promptly furnished to the Bureau.

h. General activities

i. Finances

Special efforts must be made to locate and monitor bank accounts of organizations. Location of bank accounts is frequently obtainable through confidential informants, credit records, public utility records, records of rental agents, and monitoring of other organizations' bank accounts.

j. Support given to the Communist Party

Preponderance of evidence should be developed showing support, financial or otherwise, given by the organization to the Communist Party.

k. Support received from the Communist Party

Preponderance of evidence should be developed showing support, financial or otherwise, received by the organization from the Communist Party.

l. Implementation of Communist Party line

Can usually be shown through comparison of programs and literature of the organization with those of the Communist Party during any particular period.

Data concerning the above topics can usually be secured through the following sources: confidential informants, incorporation records, bank records, literature and publications of organization, newspapers, public meetings and rallies, confidential investigative techniques, various types of public records, panel sources, confidential sources and other sources of information, interviews with past or present.

10-13-66
