Sec. 21. Chronological History (continued).

Accrued as a result of the above-mentioned employment contract expired October 16, 1946.

Employer: Self. Title of job: Attorney. Address: City, state, and number; state; country. Duties and specialty: General law practice. Kind of business. Name of supervisor: John Smith. From: June 1946. To: Present. Salary: $15,000 per year. Reasons for leaving: Not applicable.

Employer: Not applicable. Title of job. Address: City, state, and number; state; country. Duties and specialty. Kind of business. Name of supervisor. From: 1-7. To: 1-8. Salary: $ per year. Reasons for leaving.

Sec. 22. Residences for the Past Ten Years.

I live in Hancock, Tenn., and have been living here since 1936. From 1927 to 1929 I was a student at the University of Tennessee. In 1929 I graduated from the University of Tennessee with the degree of Bachelor of Science. Since then I have been working as a professional photographer. In 1931 I moved to New York City, where I have been ever since. My father was a partner in a firm of law in New York for many years, and I have been working under him ever since. He retired last year, and I have been working independently since then. In 1937 I began to act as a stockbroker, and as a rule I never make a living as a broker, but try to do all the work myself. In 1938 I began to act as a real estate agent, and so far I have made no loss. I have also been acting as a代理 in sales of property for several real estate agents, and have made a lot of money that way. I have also been acting as a loan broker for several banks, and have made a lot of money that way also. As you can see, my father has left me no option. I am the only child, excepting two sisters who died young, and he has no property. If he had left me some small amount, say a million dollars, I should have invested it safely, and should be rich today. But as it is, my father has left me nothing. I have made a lot of money, and should be富 enough to live a very comfortable life if he would only leave me some small amount. The truth is, I don't want anything from any one. I have no use for money. I have no疾病. I have no liabilities. I have no debts. I have no expenses. I have no dependents. I have no property. I have no liabilities. I have not made any promises. I have not given anything. I have not received anything. I have not borrowed anything. I have not lent anything. I have not received anything from any one, and I will not make any promise in the future. I have not given anything, and I will not receive anything from any one in the future. My father has not left me any option. He has not given anything to me, and he will not give anything in the future. If he had left me a million dollars, I should have invested it safely, and should be rich today. But as it is, my father has not left me any option. He has not given anything to me, and he will not give anything in the future. If he had left me a million dollars, I should have invested it safely, and should be rich today. But as it is, my father has not left me any option. He has not given anything to me, and he will not give anything in the future. If he had left me a million dollars, I should have invested it safely, and should be rich today. But as it is, my father has not left me any option. He has not given anything to me, and he will not give anything in the future. If he had left me a million dollars, I should have invested it safely, and should be rich today. But as it is, my father has not left me any option. He has not given anything to me, and he will not give anything in the future. If he had left me a million dollars, I should have invested it safely, and should be rich today. But as it is, my father has not left me any option. He has not given anything to me, and he will
