District of Columbia (or State of).

I do solemnly swear (or affirm)—

(1) That I am a citizen of the United States;

(2) That my acceptance and holding of office or employment with the U.S. House of Representatives does not or, if this affidavit is executed by me prior to my acceptance of such office or employment, will not constitute a violation of the first section of the Act of August 9, 1955 (5 U.S.C. 7311), which reads as follows:

No person shall accept or hold office or employment in the Government of the United States or any agency thereof, including wholly owned Government corporations, who—

(1) advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government in the United States;

(2) is a member of an organization that advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government in the United States, knowing that such organization so advocates;

(3) participates in any strike or asserts the right to strike against the Government of the United States or such agency; or

(4) is a member of an organization of Government employees that asserts the right to strike against the Government of the United States or such agencies, knowing that such organization asserts such right;

(3) That I am not receiving a pension, annuity, or retired pay from the United States Government. If so, please furnish source and claim number.

Name and location of administering agency.

Claim number.

(4) That this Payroll Information Form and Personnel Affidavit is complete, true, and correct;

(5) That I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter. So help me God.

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 31st day of July 1978.

Signature of employee.

Notary Public.

State of.

My commission expires 9-15-82.

Notary seal.
