Commitments to him regarding a house is more explicitly documented in a 14 August 1972 memorandum for the file from the Deputy Chief, Security Research Group, which quotes PDDONOR/1 as saying that he "considers that the assistance in purchasing furniture, a house, etc. which he has been given since 1969 should be considered as cancelling the matter of the $50,000." (Emphasis added).

6. Therefore, from all of the above, it must be concluded that, contrary to PDDONOR/1's assertions, CIA has long since fulfilled any promises which Agency representatives made to him prior to his defection concerning his housing in this country. Further, the available evidence clearly tends to indicate that PDDONOR/1 fully understood and accepted the fact that these obligations had been fully met at the time that he signed his quitclaim in July 1973. Thus, since the terms and scope of the quitclaim are fully controlling on the claim which PDDONOR/1 is asserting, we have determined that the Agency has no legal obligation whatsoever to pay him the $20,000 which he seeks.

7. As a final note, this Office recognizes that, notwithstanding the absence of any legal obligations, the particularly sensitive status of PDDONOR/1 within CIA may nevertheless give rise to an understandable desire in some quarters to make the $20,000 payment to him on security and/or moral grounds. We do not necessarily quarrel with such a view, nor do we mean to imply that CIA is legally precluded from, in effect, "waiving" the terms of the quit-claim if it so chooses. At the same time, it must be remembered that this Office was asked to prepare the quitclaim at issue in 1973 precisely in anticipation of a situation such as the one before us now. It is respectfully submitted that such documents will cease to have any future efficacy or credibility whatsoever if individuals such as PDDONOR/1 who are ostensibly bound by them perceive a willingness on the part of CIA to set aside these carefully worded and legally binding documents whenever a claim (no matter how ill-founded) is advanced. In short, we hope and trust that any decision to pay PDDONOR/1 the $20,000 at issue despite the quitclaim and documented evidence to the contrary will be based on truly compelling security or moral considerations.

John A. Rizzo
