Federal Bureau of Investigation

8/23/71

Reverend Nilo Maric; Billman, white male American, born April 20, 1934, Sharon Center (Maron Center), Ohio, residing at 21 North 4th Street, Odena, N.J., was again advised of the identity of the arresting and interviewing agents, and also again advised of the fact that he was being arrested for conspiracy in connection with the break-in of the Selective Service System Office in the Post Office Building at Camden, N.J. Mr. Billman was then presented an Interrogation Advice of Rights form and asked if he was able to read and write the English language. Mr. Billman advised he was able to read and write the English language and he advised he was a college graduate, having completed four years of post-graduate work. Mr. Billman then read the advice of rights and waiver of rights form as presented to him by SA Donald Rex Egelston. Mr. Billman was asked if he thoroughly understood what his rights were and he advised, “I understand what my rights are.” He was then asked, “Are you sure you understand?” and Mr. Billman advised that he did understand what his rights were.

Mr. Billman was then asked by SA Donald Rex Egelston whether he would acknowledge that he had been advised of his rights by agents of the FBI, and he advised, “Yes, I have been advised.” Mr. Billman advised that he did not wish to sign the advice of rights waiver form and he requested that he be able to make a telephone call to his attorney. Mr. Billman was advised by SA Egelston that immediately upon receipt of information from Special Agent in Charge Roy K. Moore that the building had been secured and that agents’ and suspects’ safety could be assured, he would be allowed to make any number of telephone calls which he wished, including those calls to his family or to his attorney. Mr. Billman advised that he understood this. Billman stated he did not wish to discuss the break-in.

Mr. Billman was then asked by SA Egelston if he had made prior arrangements with his wife as to what should be done in the event he was arrested. Mr. Billman advised that he had expected that he might be arrested for either

On 8/22/71 at Camden (Caden), N.J. File # Philadelphia (Philadelphio) (6-5-71)

SA Philip E. Brown and SA Donald (Dovald) Rex Egelston, dated 8/23/71. Date dictated 8/23/71.

This document contains name, recommendations no. 3,298,952, et seq.
