McCord met next with Wiley in Washington, D. C., for two days, ending on 1 December 1955. By that time, Wiley had indexed 150,000 names of the Daily Worker covering January 1934 through June 1936. Wiley stated that the FBI in New York City and the American Legion were already making “extensive use” of the index cards. Wiley stated that one of his purposes in being in Washington was to secure financing for the index continuation. He stated that his $5000-a-year grant from the American Legion Americanism Committee would expire at the end of December 1955, and if negotiations with that body were unsuccessful, he would attempt to secure financing from the Senate and House Investigating Committees. Wiley stated that the FBI had indicated the strongest desire that he continue the indexing but that in his discussion with Mr. DeLoach (Cartha DeLoach, an FBI senior official), no indication of forthcoming financial support from the Bureau for this work was indicated.

In recording this contact with Wiley, McCord opined:

“I think it is obvious that the index which Wiley is working on would be of considerable value to the Security Office and to CIA, particularly since the Communist Party membership and activities during the 1934–40 period were for the most part very open and extensively advertised in the Daily Worker. An example of how open their activities were is indicated in the fact that Elizabeth Bentley’s name was mentioned in a 1935 issue of the Daily Worker at a time prior to her going underground and acquiring a RIS (Russian Intelligence Service) mission. If the Daily Worker thus bears a record of Communist Party activities of an individual such as Bentley, who later became so prominent in RIS activities in the United States, then the possibility always exists that the names of persons later connected with OSS (Office of Strategic Services) and other governmental activity may also be mentioned in the 1934–40 Daily Worker issues, which have heretofore never been indexed by any government agency.”
