b. Unless we were indefinitely to occupy Cuba militarily, the only solution to the Cuban problem is necessarily the elimination of a Cuban leadership willing to aid, capable of governing the country along lines acceptable to the Cuban people and consistent with basic U.S. policy with respect to Latin America. This will take time. On the one hand, it is doubtful that any Cuban Government which re-established itself from U.S. control or other overt intervention could long survive our withdrawal. On the other, despite our own long-attending negotiations concerning Castro, it is an inadmissible fact that he came into power with overwhelming support not only in Cuba but elsewhere in the hemisphere, including in this country. Although that support has largely evaporated in the United States—and, to a lesser extent, in responsible eyes in the other Latin American Republics—Castro and, particularly, his reform program still enjoy very considerable support in his country. Cubans, even those disillusioned with Castro, have yet to find an alternative leadership which they believe would actually carry out the reforms which political opinion still demands. Opposition elements tainted with collaboration with the Batista (Elitea) regimes are still politically unacceptable and could not establish a stable government. Opposition groups that might be acceptable to Cubans are beginning to organize more effectively but, at best, it will be months before they are ready for vigorous action.

c. The primary objective of U.S. policy should be the realization of the goal of an effective, patriotic, non-communist, friendly to the United States and strong Cuba, able to counter Cuba's current trend. The first task is to secure, indeed as we are able to do so, a climate in which responsible and friendly Cubans would find it worthwhile to oppose Castro policies which help the Communists and unreasonably hinder good U.S.-Cuban relations. On the positive side, we should and are taking actions and making statements which would encourage each element to organize more effectively and to expect our support and collaboration in their efforts to achieve political and economic progress for Cuba by taking a different road than the present Cuban regime's. At the last briefing, we gave an indication of the effort underway towards this end, to tell us an indication of the extensive coordinated effort which has been underway for over a year to identify and expose to public opinion throughout the hemisphere the Communist aims of the Cuban problem. On the negative side, our policies are backed by the principle that opposition to Castro's policies in Cuba will institute.
