Office Memorandum, United States Government

To: A. H. Belmont  
From: S. B. Donahoe  
Date: 9-2-58

Subject: Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of Friendly Foreign Nations (Brazil)

WFO on 8-22-58 advised that although Brazil's President has recently indicated a stronger stand in favor of the U.S., various news media have reported that politically powerful nationalist and leftist groups do exist in Brazil and that until recently Brazil's President had avoided offending such groups.

Anti-U.S. feelings and demonstrations were exhibited in Brazil during the South American trip of Vice President and Mrs. Nixon, and although the demonstrations did not attain the violence exhibited in some of the other South American countries, the demonstrations indicated the work of well-organized group or groups opposed to the U.S.

On 7-8-58, Wilson Velloso, Press Attaché, Brazilian Embassy, who admitted former membership in the Communist Party of Brazil, upon interview at his request, stated that he had attempted to discuss his Communist Party activities with Brazilian officials, but they indicated indifference to such information in 1951.

Velloso supposed the reason for the indifference was that his information was common knowledge; however, another explanation would be sanction of the Communist Party on the part of Brazilian officials, even though the Communist Party has been outlawed there. Velloso stated he knew of no communist influence at the Brazilian Embassy but stated that it was the tendency of Latin American countries at this time to play communist countries against noncommunist countries in an effort to obtain all they could in the nature of aid and assistance, inferring that the Brazilian Embassy would also attempt this practice. Velloso commented that he did not believe that such negotiations on the part of Latin American countries necessarily indicated that they were procommunist.

WFO noted a confidential source has advised that many South American countries were aligned with Russia in opposing the establishment of a European common market and that Brazil had indicated a strong opposition to the market. The source also advised that the Russian Embassy had indicated a strong interest in Latin America recently and had indicated a desire to establish diplomatic or economic relations with Brazil.
