Paul Rothermel, a former FBI agent who was Director of Security for the Hunt Oil Company in Dallas at that time, has recalled that he distinctly remembers Braden visiting the Hunt offices on November 21 in the company of three other men. Rothermel has stated that the office log for November 21 showed that Roger Bauman (Braden’s (Brading’s) old Mafia friend), Morgan Brown, and Duane Nowlin “and friend” visited the Hunt office that afternoon. Rothermel states that Braden was definitely the “friend.”

Security chief Paul Rothermel was later fired by H.L. Hunt’s sons after reports allegedly surfaced that Rothermel was “suspicious” of a possible Hunt connection to the assassination. Following his termination by the Hunts, Rothermel found that he was being illegally wiretapped. Rothermel filed suit against Lamar Hunt and another of H.L. Hunt’s sons, charging them with the wiretapping and asking for several million dollars in damages. The suit, which has produced very damaging evidence against the Hunt brothers, is still in the courts.

Also on November 21, the day before the assassination, according to a conclusion of the Warren Commission, Jack Ruby was also on his way to the H.L. Hunt offices in Dallas. The Warren Commission concluded that Jack Ruby drove a woman friend of his to the Hunt offices sometime that same afternoon. The woman, who had declined work in Ruby’s nightclub as a stripper, drove with Ruby to the Hunt offices, apparently in search of employment. This does coincide with Braden’s visit to the same offices that same afternoon.

The Warren Commission investigated several other possible links of Jack Ruby to the Hunts, including the still unexplained fact that Lamar Hunt’s name was found inside one of Ruby’s notebooks. But of these possible links, the Warren Commission concluded only that evidence did indicate that Ruby had driven to the Hunt offices on November 21.

Thus, a possible Ruby-Braden connection on the day before the President’s assassination does indeed arise.
