Agent Report (AR 381-130; FM 30-17).

1. Name of subject or title of incident: Griggs, Kenneth C., PFC, RA 19 772 378 (C). DPOB: 25 December 1946, Korea.

2. Date submitted: 24 January 1968.

3. Control symbol or file number: 8008-9182. SSAN: 519-46-94.

4. Report of findings.

On 23 January 1968, Mr. Cecil L. Griggs, retired dairyman, residing at 2615 North 30th Street, Boise, Idaho, was interviewed at his home concerning letters received in reference to his adopted son, Kenneth C. Griggs, and stated substantially as follows:

Source stated that he had received two letters concerning subject from Philip LaChapelle Jr., 1724 North Linder, Chicago, Illinois, who claimed to have been the Security and Intelligence clerk with the 191st Ordnance (Ordinance) Battalion, Vietnam, but was presently out of the U.S. Army. LaChapelle, in his first letter dated 8 November 1967, indicated to source that, being subject’s closest friend in Vietnam, he felt that he should write to source, giving some history and facts concerning the period prior to subject’s defection. LaChapelle indicated sympathy and concern over subject’s defection. LaChapelle stated that he believed the Army had suppressed information to cover up mistakes. LaChapelle told source about subject being beaten and shunned by his companions during his assignment with the 191st Ordnance (Ordinance) Battalion and that he was subject’s only friend. LaChapelle stated that he had also written to subject, but had received no answer. A copy of the letter written by LaChapelle dated 8 November 1967 is attached as Exhibit II.

On 16 November 1967, source answered the letter of 8 November 1967, thanking LaChapelle for the communication. Source indicated that he had very little knowledge of subject’s philosophy or plans and requested further information from LaChapelle, since he was apparently more knowledgeable concerning these aspects. Source asked four specific questions of LaChapelle: first, about subject’s view of the world, as known by LaChapelle; secondly, LaChapelle’s view on why subject felt that his conscience-dictated decision was a solution to any problems that he envisioned; thirdly, whether subject was encouraged by a third party to defect; and lastly, whether subject’s defection was motivated by resentment about his treatment by other Army personnel. Source indicated that LaChapelle’s tone in his letter indicated a certain feeling of bitterness about the way the incident was handled by the U.S. Army. Source requested a reply because the information would be of interest to source. A copy of the letter by source dated 16 November 1967 is attached as Exhibit II.

LaChapelle again wrote to source on 20 November 1967, indicating interest in the letter written by source on 16 November 1967. LaChapelle stated that he was bitter because the Army took no remedial action concerning the mental state of subject, and indicated to source that subject had a medical history of emotional disturbance. LaChapelle stated that he had been the Security and Intelligence Clerk, 191st Ordnance (Ordinance) Battalion, Vietnam, and subject’s personnel records had passed over his desk after the defection. LaChapelle indicated that the records had been classified to conceal any embarrassing incidents. LaChapelle commented on national security in reference to the classification of subject’s records. LaChapelle indicated that subject’s view of the world was that he was simply bitter and thought it was going in the wrong direction.

5. Typed name and organization of special agent: Floyd R. Beery, 115th MI.

6. Signature of special agent.
