HHB 230-1

S. Special Administrative Expense Policy

(1) Travel and subsistence expenses incurred on behalf of the instrumentality by authorized representatives will be paid on the basis of actual and necessary expenses. When actual and necessary expenses exceed the maximum allowable rate established for reimbursement for actual expenses under HR 22-7, the claimant will provide detailed justification. Authorized representatives may include stockholders, officers, directors, employees, any individual retained in a professional or independent contractor capacity on a fee basis, and staff agent or contract personnel wholly integrated into the project. Air transportation less costly than first-class will be used to the extent practicable. When first-class fares are paid, such payment will be justified in writing in the files of the instrumentality.

(2) Operational entertainment expenses incurred by any of the above personnel will be reimbursed on an actual cost basis in accordance with HHB 30-1, chapter IX, to the extent that such expenses are reasonable and necessary to the accomplishment of operational objectives.

(3) Directors of instrumentalities may be paid up to $50 per day, and travel and subsistence expenses for their attendance at directors' meetings, except that the payment of $50 per day will not be allowed to directors having an employment relationship with the Agency or with the instrumentality.

(4) Expenditures authorized in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) above will be reviewed at periodic intervals by the responsible case officer to evaluate the necessity for such expenditures and their reasonableness.

T. Termination and Liquidation

(1) The Administrative Plan will provide that when a proprietary project or part thereof ceases to have operational value or will cease to have such value in the immediate future, the responsible Operating Official will prepare and submit to the Deputy Director concerned for his approval a proposal to terminate the project or a part thereof.

(2) The proposal will set forth any conditions or considerations that have a bearing on the decision to discontinue the project or a part thereof and include the date that it is recommended operations cease.

(3) The liquidation plan will be prepared in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 below.

Revised: 29 October 1974
