VII. Subject's arrest record and disposition of charges; any information indicating a propensity for violence.

VIII. What is expected to be gained by interview?

List above items by number, but headings need not be restated. If no pertinent data is available concerning a particular item, so indicate.

(b) Submit one copy of letter and an additional copy of the first page only, which can be returned by FBIHQ stamped “Approved.”

(5) If interview is not conducted within 60 days, submit a letter advising FBIHQ:

(a) Reason interview was not conducted.

(b) Any new information pertinent to desirability of interview.

(c) Whether efforts to interview subject will be pursued. Thereafter, keep FBIHQ advised at least every 60 days as to progress of matter.

(6) Conduct of interview.

(a) Interviews of subjects entitled to the warning and waiver shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements set forth in Volume I, Manual of Instructions, Section 2B, page 15. If the interview is being conducted for intelligence information rather than an admission or confession of guilt, no warning is required. Moreover, if the investigation has failed to develop information indicating a possible violation of Federal law by the subject, it would be permissible to interview the subject without a warning, as he does not fit the criteria of those entitled to a warning of rights. Carefully plan the interview so there will be no compromise of sources, sensitive techniques, or interviewing personnel. An overriding consideration to always bear in mind is that the interview should elicit information from, not provide information to, the subject.

(b) Interview at subject's place of employment should be avoided if possible. If an attorney or aide is present during the interview, the interview must be conducted by two Agents.

(c) If, during conduct of interview, subject desires that his attorney or aide be present, the interview should be tactfully terminated, and FBIHQ should be informed with a recommendation whether or not to resume the interview.

(d) In all other instances, SAC has responsibility and the option of deciding when two Agents should handle the interview. Safety of Agents is the first priority to consider.

(7) Direction of subject's activities.

Prior FBIHQ approval is required before taking any steps to direct the subject's activities, even though he may appear to be cooperative during the interview.

(8) Reporting results of interview.

(a) Record results of interview on FD-302.

(b) Pertinent results of interview should be included in the next report or LHM unless circumstances indicate the need for more expeditious reporting. In the cover letter or administrative pages, include observations of interviewing Agents as to subject's cooperativeness, any relevant information concerning subject's appearance or characteristics, and an assessment of information developed by interview in light of other data known to your office.
