Applicant.

1. Loop  
2. Whorl  
3. Arch

The lines between center of loop and delta must show.

To obtain classifiable fingerprints:

1. Use black printer's ink.
2. Distribute in eyelight on inking slab.
3. Wash and dry fingers thoroughly.
4. Roll fingers from nail to nail, and avoid allowing fingers to slip.
5. Be sure impressions are recorded in correct order.
6. If an amputation or deformity makes it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that effect in the individual finger block.
7. If some physical condition makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be obtained with a memo stapled to the card explaining the circumstances.
8. Examine the completed prints to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that most fingerprints fall into the patterns shown on this card. Other patterns occur infrequently and are not shown here.

This card for use by:

1. Applicants for law enforcement positions.
2. Officials of state and local governments for purposes of employment, licensing, and permits, as authorized by statute and approved by the Attorney General of the United States, local and county ordinances, unless specifically based upon applicable statute. Statutes do not limit the requirements of Industrial Safety Act.
3. U.S. government agents in connection with clearances.
4. Officials of generally chartered or chartered banking institutions to produce or maintain the security of those institutions.

Instructions:

1. Prints must be checked through the approved private state industrial security fingerprint. Each individual has been found likely to be subject to FBI search.
2. Privacy Act (data policy): Data collected, stored, used, shared or disclosed under this policy is subject to the collection, use and dissemination of the person who collected, used or disclosed it.
3. Identity disguise: The name of a card to be used in a particular situation.
4. Feel free: If you are able to enter, exit or dispose of a threat, do it immediately.

If the apparent space, airbewiless, or insufficiency could result in impairing your security, card no. is 10-28-77, do not use.

Please return this card by:

Leave this space blank.

Animals have no deltas.
