Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

This employee was new to WH and served only about three months under the supervision of the undersigned. He brought wide experience and background in CA work to the branch due to his past experience in other components of KUBARK. He was applying himself industriously to the task of learning about the WH area and specifically Venezuela, for which country he was the desk officer responsible for FI as well as CA work. His performance was excellent and can be expected to improve with more familiarization with the area.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

By employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this report.

Date: 4 April 1962. Signature of employer: [Signature].

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report is not being made at this time, give reason. Report made within last 90 days. Other (specify).

Date: 26 March 1962. Official title of supervisor: C/AS/1. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Edwin H. Terrell.

By reviewing official.

I would have given this employee a sane evaluation.

I would have given this employee a more evaluation.

I would have given this employee a less evaluation.

I cannot judge three evaluations: I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

During the period from the rating officer's departure in Oct 1961 until Mr. Smith was reassigned to another Branch in Feb 1962 in preparation for an overseas assignment, he demonstrated high competence in all of his duties, thereby confirming the rating officer's expectations in the last sentence of Section 2. On the basis of this fine performance, I would upgrade his rating in Section C from 4 to 5.

Date: 4 April 1962. Official title of reviewing official: AC/VG/1. Typed or printed name and signature: R. Reynolds.
