Betsy Palmer

Miscellaneous documents not in files.

8. Information Report—Cuba/Dominican Republic

Subject: Purchase of a Boston Whaler for Manuel Ray Rivero, leader of the Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE).

Date: 18 September 1964.

Source: Naturalized American citizen, formerly in shipping business in Cuba; well-trained and experienced debriefer.

On 14 September 1964, a Miami yacht builder firm purchased a 13-foot, six-inch Boston Whaler for Ray. The purchaser, Angel Aixala Pertierra, said he planned to go to Santo Domingo to get permission to operate the Whaler in Dominican waters and, once this had been granted, would deliver the boat to Ray. It was on Aixala's catamaran CT 1208 D that Ray made his ill-fated initial attempt to enter Cuba. Aixala is not a member of JURE.

9. Classified Message to Director, from Paris

Date: 8 June 1963.

Ray and Emilio (Emio) Guede arrived in Paris, and Ray was contacted by Nauman on 7 June. The plan for Franqui recruitment in place was reviewed. Ray was urged to take immediate action before his presence in Paris was leaked. Guede tried to contact Franqui by phone, and on all occasions the phone was answered by Smith Sorel or her roommate, Helene Pulish (phonetic). Guede left a message each time, and on the last call was told Franqui was going to Brussels and may have already left. On 7 June, Guede saw Franqui at the opening of his exhibition and talked to him. Franqui listened to him but made no responses to his veiled overtures. Guede surmised Franqui was not interested—he thought Franqui was incapable of defending the regime but not willing or capable of breaking with it. Grovery and JERVAY met Ray. They felt this was important regarding possible future use of Ray in Europe. Paris support excellent. (C/S comment: HQS has reason to believe there is no obstacle to convincing Ray to push for Franqui's return for a period to be the eyes and ears of the anti-Castro conspiracy.)

10. Cable Report to Director, from Paris

Date: 14 June 1963.

Ray and party traveled to Brussels on 11 June, and Ray continued his efforts to recruit an agent in place for CIA. He contacted Guillermo Cabrera and surmised Cabrera had held back from a break due to his concern for a brother inside who was ill. Ray asked Cabrera to arrange a meeting with Gustave Arcos, but Cabrera was unable to do so since Arcos was leaving for a few days. Ray extended his trip. He contacted Nauman, who told Ray it was not possible to resolve all the personal problems of those he had contacted and Ray must show them the wisdom and practicality of working in place as a means of eliminating the regime. Ray was willing to settle for defection, as he believed this had an impact on the regime. The report stated that Ray was extremely active, moved fast and purposefully, and gave an impression of frank cooperation. He volunteered to assign a man to be station contact, but felt UNRUMBLE 2 was too young, though he should be aware of whomever was designated.
