Persons/Entities: Hansen, Bureau of Budget; Executive Director of CIA; Lodge; Richardson. Date: October 24, 1963. Category: Diem.

Occurrence:

On October 24, 1963, there was a meeting between the executive director of CIA and Kenneth Hansen, Bureau of the Budget, wherein Hansen detailed charges made by Lodge at his initial meeting with Lodge. The memorandum for the record prepared by the Executive Director details the following charges made by Lodge: 1. CIA was improperly dealing with NHU; 2. CIA was reluctant to turn over to the military its operation among the hill tribes; 3. CIA had inadequate penetrations of the GVN and the Buddhist and was caught by surprise; 4. Richardson had a palatial mansion and entertained government officials there; 5. the CIA station was too large and too visible; 6. CIA acted on its own initiative without coordination and without control either at the Ambassador or Washington. Hansen said he later reported to Lodge that he thought Lodge's charges were erroneous. He said he was convinced that everything the CIA had done in Vietnam had been approved in Washington, coordinated with and carried out under the directions of the Ambassador, and had been carried out with good judgment and with a high quality of performance.

Hansen noted that at the time of his first meeting with Lodge, Lodge had not yet had a full briefing on what the Agency was doing. This took place a few days later. (This appears to be a record by the CIA of a source which it had in the Bureau of the Budget for finding out what Lodge's thinking was at this time.)

IG Report 1967 (CIA), page 34.

Persons/Entities: Don, General; Harkins, General; Conein. Date: October 24, 1963. Category: Diem.

Occurrence:

In an entry of October 24, 1963, in the Saigon station's “History of the Vietnamese Generals Coup,” it is noted that Conein held two meetings with General Don on 24 October. Don reported he had been informed by General Harkens (Harkins) that the U.S. military would not thwart any coup plans. Don said the coup plans were complete; the necessary military units were available; and that the coup would occur no later than 2 November. At the second meeting, Don said the coup committee refused to turn over the political plan but authorized Don to outline its substance, which he did.

Source: IG Report 1967 (CIA), page 35.

Staff: Dawson. Date: 6/27/75.
