Fitness Report (Part II) Potential.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer. Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor. This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor, and to appropriate career management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is not to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision for at least 90 days. If less than 90 days, hold and complete after the 90 days has elapsed. If this is the initial performance on the employee, however, it must be completed and forwarded to the (C no later than 30 days after the due date indicated in item 8 of Section 7 below.

Section E. General.

1. Name: Noel, James A. Date of birth: 19 March 1911.

9. Office/Division/Branch of Assignment: DDP/MH/Branch I. Official position title: Area Cps Officer (Branch Chief).

7. Grade: GS-15. 8. Date report due in OP: 4 November 1956. 9. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 11 October 1955 - 20 October 1956.

10. Type of report (check one): Initial; Resignant-Supervisor; X Annual; Resignant-Employee.

Section F. Certification.

1. For the rater: I certify that this report represents my best judgement of the individual being rated.

2. This date: 9 DEC 1956. 3. Type or print name and signature of supervisor: Franklin H Holcomb. 4. Supervisor's official title: Deputy Chief / AED.

2. For the reviewing officer: I have reviewed this report and noted any difference of opinion in a minute mentioned.

3. This date: 4 Jul '57. 4. Type or print name and signature of reviewing officer: J. C. King. 5. Official title of reviewing officer: Chief WJ.

Section G. Estimate of Potential.

1. Potential to Assume Greater Responsibilities.

Directions: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee's potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

3. Rating Number: I. Already above the level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.
