Other Activity, 1965–1974

There are handwritten notes of conversations with Wiley dated 7, 14, 18, 19, and 24 May 1965. The gist is that Wiley was apparently planning a trip to the Midwest and then later to Algiers in North Africa. During the 19 May 1965 conversation between Morse Allen and Wiley, “Allen talked to Charles re Miss M’s (Mendoza’s) comments that Charles had not complied with instructions re vouchers. He (Wiley) claimed misunderstanding and that he could not accurately furnish desired info on vouchers she presently held. Allen told Charles to use his memory and any notes he had and to fill in desired info per the written instructions given him by Miss M. (Ethel Mendoza). He said he would do so. Allen then told him to explicitly follow written instructions from Miss M. (Ethel Mendoza) or vouchers could not be accepted.... Charles was also reminded of reports due which he should get out prior to leaving on his speaking tour. He agreed.” Apparently, the trip was to start on 23 May, lasting until 1 June 1965, and the Young Americans for Freedom were picking up all expenses. Wiley was going to Cleveland, Milwaukee, Chicago, and Minneapolis.

There are notes of conversation with Wiley dated 2, 7, 10, 15, 17, 22, 25, and 28 June; 2, 6, and 9 July; and 27 July 1965. Apparently Wiley was having trouble with his back at this time and could not sit down and bend for typing. He was given the name of Dr. David S. Baldwin, 20 East 68th St., N.W., to contact. Regarding his travels, Wiley was told he would have to submit detailed reports of contacts to show what he was doing, etc. Apparently, the Midwest speaking tour was partially geared to gather funds for the Algerian trip.

There is a note in the file, to wit:

“For Wiley

“Why not get the American Legion magazine to publish an article ‘Chaos in Our Colleges’ with a hard attack on the weak-kneed college and university advisers that permit violence, disruptions, waste of college and taxpayers’ money, phony students—what about the decent students who want to study, etc.” This note was apparently written by Morse Allen.

CIA

1975
