Evidence that the ambassador would strongly object to Agency support for IIEE propaganda activities. In addition, of a total annual budget of $16,000, $6,000 goes for the salary of a U.S. businessman cutout (LINOFF-1), while $6,000 goes to the support of KRO and $4,000 to support other activities of the IIEE. This is an incredibly high sum for the services of a cutout in proportion to the total cost of the proposed project. These points, taken together, constitute a valid basis for terminating operations in connection with LINOFF.

It is recommended that:

No. 70

The Chief, VI Division, disapprove the proposal of Chief of Station, Mexico, for Project LINOFF and direct him to terminate operations in connection therewith.

18. The station has a highly successful project directed at the rural and peasant targets. The principal agent is a Catholic priest through whose efforts an extensive network of regional organizations have been established, including youth groups, credit unions, agricultural co-ops and peasant unions. Some 26 regional centers of the Mexican Institute for Social Studies, a project mechanism, have been set up and 12,000 people were enrolled in special training courses during the year. This operation is now largely self-sufficient, but the station should continue to give it support and direction. The project shows promise of expanding into Guatemala, where the Archbishop of Guatemala has asked for assistance and training to set up a similar organization. In view of the present lack of Agency-sponsored peasant projects in Guatemala, every effort should be made to exploit this possibility.

It is recommended that:

No. 71

The Chief, VI Division, expand Project LIMONNE to include assistance in establishing a similar covert action project targeted on peasant groups in Guatemala.

Soviet Operations

19. Mexico is one of the four Latin American countries which maintain diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union, thereby permitting the establishment of diplomatic installations in these
