Senator MUSKIE. Are you planning that?

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. Very well. This chart may be received as exhibit No. 45 and we will direct it be printed in the record if it can be, as far as it can be. The title of it is “The Mafia Organization in the Tampa, Fla., Area.”

(The document referred to was marked “Exhibit No. 45” for reference and faces this page.)

The CHAIRMAN. Would you say the operations of this organized group are not confined just to the city limits of Tampa, but they are in the area?

Mr. BROWN. By all means; the entire area.

The CHAIRMAN. All right. This chart is now a part of the record and, if you wish to comment about it, we will proceed with your statement.

Mr. BROWN. The chart is keyed to show only the criminal, business, and familial interrelationships and activities of the persons named, although other criteria figured in our categorization of these persons. Of course, this chart cannot be considered as a definitive “table of organization” of the Tampa Mafia, because it is but a simplified representation of an organization that is in a constant state of flux, and about which we know we still have many things to learn.

However, I believe it is completely accurate in showing that Santo Trafficante is the boss of this criminal group. Indeed, it is to Santo Trafficante that Tampa owes the dubious distinction of having been represented at the notorious crime convention at Apalachin, N.Y., in November 1957.

The CHAIRMAN. I notice you designate or refer to this group as the Mafia. Would you say that it is the same group that has been referred to by the famous witness, Joe Valachi?

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir; it is.

The CHAIRMAN. Whether he calls it Cosa Nostra or the Mafia makes no difference. This is the organized crime group to which you referred?

Mr. BROWN. That is correct, Senator; this is the group.

Senator MUSKIE. May I ask a question there?

Under this group, there is another group which you describe as nonmember associates and employees. Is that intended to suggest that the people who are so described know nothing about the identity of their employers and the organization of which they are a part?

Mr. BROWN. Senator, that is a part of the insulation of the group. They have many employees, and as we go into the statement, to show how in this gambling operation the seller is non-Sicilian in most cases, and he reports to another member up the ladder, and so on up. Many of these people are nonmembers of the Mafia as it is.

Senator MUSKIE. Do they know they are engaged in criminal activities?

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.

Senator MUSKIE. They know they are a part of a criminal organization?

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.

Senator MUSKIE. But they are not members?

Mr. BROWN. That is correct.
