Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 059198.

Section A. General. Name: Kent, William M. Official position title: Operations Officer. Type of appointment: Career. Reporting period: 1 January 1966–29 July 1966.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

W – Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A – Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P – Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S – Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O – Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Provide advice and assistance to WH Case Officers in discharging their responsibilities in the media/propaganda and youth/student fields. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Originate, coordinate and monitor regional and country propaganda guidances and campaigns by WH assets. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Review, assess and evaluate the development, conduct and effectiveness of WH media, youth/student, D&TO, and support projects, and projects of other Agency components operating in the WH area. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Liaise with the CA Staff and other Agency components on propaganda, youth/student, and other operations in the WH area. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 5. Rating letter.
