Notes from Briefing of ARRB Staff on Stations  
(11 October 1995 – ARRB conference room)

CIA Attendees: Bill McNair; Lee Carle; John Goins; Chuck Briggs; Hal Bean; Barry Harrelson.

Bill re Stations:

No problem with release of COS, fact we have overseas locations, CIA representatives in specific countries—the problem comes with officially acknowledging the stations, thereby putting the host government and service in a position of explaining why it is allowing a foreign espionage unit to operate in the country. This may become a serious political issue for the government, especially in countries where the government does not acknowledge its own service. Also can be perceived as “rubbing their nose in it” and can affect the trust between the Agency and the host service (violated agreement of confidentiality).

Marwell pointed out that this information was 30 years old and asked what was the impact of acknowledging a station presence in 1963 on current operations or relations.

Bill responded, “opened up old sores,” and cited Rome and the sensitivity to our involvement in past elections. Mentioned the reaction to the announcement on covert actions by DCI.

Gunn asked if stations = liaison relationship; Bill said the other service cannot say it did not know the CIA was operating in its own country—it would look incompetent.

Mary asked about changes in government: Bill responded that intelligence types tend to stay in a revolving door where a goodwill government is back in power at some point.

Bill comments on specific stations.

It is important to the story, such as Mexico City and the surrounding stations which were involved in the cable exchanges re Oswald, then will release.

“Don’t take it away from us for little or no gain to the story,” i.e., if not critical to the story let us protect.

He indicated he could live with opening the stations for short windows if important to the story, but also said it created a problem about protecting other activities in that window.
