United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: Legal Counsel

Subject: SENSTUDY 75

Date: 4-10-75

"The Washington Post," Thursday, 4-10-75, edition on page A31 contains an article reporting an interview of Senator Frank Church, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities. Senator Church, according to this article, stated that the Committee is reserving the right to make public eventually any documents it gets and is accepting nothing with "strings attached."

Inasmuch as this Committee is also the Committee which the FBI is furnishing information to, it is believed a clarification of Senator Church's statement must be obtained and in the interim we should furnish the Senate Select Committee only those documents which do not have a caveat such as classified documents or documents bearing the property stamp.

Section Chief William O. Cregar advised that he had contacted Dr. John M. Clarke, Associate Deputy to the DCI for the Intelligence Committee concerning Senator Church's reported statement. Clarke stated that CIA Director William E. Colby was highly upset at Church's remark and that this statement would be a topic of a discussion of the Executive Committee meeting of the Ad Hoc Coordinating Group on Congressional Review the morning of 4-11-75. We will be represented at that conference by Section Chief William O. Cregar and Assistant Director John A. Mintz. Clarke indicated the position that the CIA will apparently take regarding this problem is that the White House should obtain the clarification although CIA Director Colby initially was prepared to send a letter over his signature to Senator Church to obtain such clarification.

EX-110

REC. 46 2 - 11/6 395 - TB

Inasmuch as the request by this Committee was forwarded through the Department, Senator Church's statement was brought to the attention of Douglas Marvin, Assistant to the Attorney General, who has been handling all FBI responses to Senate Select Committee requests. Marvin indicated he was concerned at Church's statement and stated it was the Attorney General's desire that he be advised of any Bureau response to the Committee concerning this matter.

Enc.

1 - Mr. Adams; 1 - Mr. Farrington; 1 - Mr. Wannall; 1 - Mr. Hotis; 1 - Mr. Mintz; 1 - Mr. Daly; 1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar (Gregar)

PVD:dkg (9)

Recommendation continued over.
