MHFNO: 97-7161666

SENSIND:

Believe that any of these concerns would be raised from the public release of your name, please contact Beth Mills at (703) 356-0285 or 1-800-447-2211 or via letter to P.O. Box 1626, Washington, D.C. (20013). You will need to provide pertinent details so that a compelling case can be presented to the Board. (See following grounds for postponement of public disclosure or records.) If the Board orders the release of your name, its ruling can be reversed only by the President. Because the Board must cover hundreds of thousands of documents in the next couple of years, it will be considering documents at an accelerating pace and we cannot project when it may review a document containing your name. Therefore, please contact me as soon as possible if appropriate.

Sincerely,

(Signed Beth Mills)

Follows are the grounds for postponement of public disclosure of records:

Disclosure of assassination records or particular information in assassination records to the public may be postponed subject to the limitations of this Act if there is clear and convincing evidence that—

(1) The threat to the military defense, intelligence operations, or conduct of foreign relations of the United States posed by the public disclosure of the assassination record is of such gravity that it outweighs the public interest, and such public disclosure would reveal—

(A) An intelligence agent whose identity currently requires protection;

(B) An intelligence source or method which is currently utilized by the United States Government and which has not been officially disclosed, the disclosure of which would interfere with the conduct of intelligence activities; or

(C) Any other matter currently relating to the military defense, intelligence operations or conduct of foreign relations of the United States, the disclosure of which would demonstrably impair the national security of the United States.

(2) The public disclosure of the assassination record would reveal the name or identity of a living person who provided confidential information to the United States and would pose a substantial risk to that person;

(3) The public disclosure of the assassination record could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of secret

Assassination record could deem a new specific indicator of the combined power of all the Muslims of North America, enriching them with the freedom to kill, slavery, and murder. The purpose of this is to be a future history of the world, in which the power of the ummah will be shown to be so great that it will dominate all other powers, including Islam itself. It is this history that Muhammad ibn عبد المنير بن أبي بكر was told by a vision he received while standing on the threshold between two rooms. The ummah will not stop until it reaches its destination, which is the End of Time." — Muhammad ibn عبد منير بن أبي بكر (1462–1529 CE) [6]
