Regulations after considering public comment received in writing and through testimony at public hearings convened by the Review Board.

Effective date: Those interpretative regulations are effective June 28, 1995.

For further information contact: T. Jeremy Gunn, Acting General Counsel, Assassination Records Review Board, 600 E Street, N.W., 2nd Floor, Washington, D.C. 20530, (202) 724-0088, fax (202) 724-0457.

Supplementary Information

Background and Statutory Authority

The President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44 U.S.C. 2107 (as amended) (JFK Act), established the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection (JFK Assassination Records Collection) at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). In establishing a process for public disclosure of all records relating to the assassination, Congress created an independent Federal agency, the Assassination Records Review Board, that consists of five citizens appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate in 1994. Under the JFK Act, the Review Board is empowered to decide “whether a record constitutes an assassination record,” 44 U.S.C. 2107.7(i)(2)(A). Congress intended that the Review Board “issue guidance to assist in articulating the scope or universe of assassination records.” President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, S. Rep. 102-328, 102d Cong. 2d Sess. (1992) at 21. These final interpretive regulations, a proposed version of which were published at 60 FR 7506–7508 (Feb. 8, 1995), comply with that mandate.

The Review Board’s goal in issuing this guidance is to implement congressional intent that the JFK Collection contain “the most comprehensive disclosure of records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.” S. Rep. 102-328, supra at 18. The Board is also mindful of Congress’s instruction that the Board apply a “broad and encompassing” working definition of “assassination record” in order to achieve the goal of assembling the fullest historical record on this tragic event in American history and on the investigations that were undertaken in the assassination’s aftermath. The Board recognizes that many agencies began to organize and review records responsive to the JFK Act even before the Board was appointed and began its work. Nevertheless, the Board’s aim is that this guidance will aid in the ultimate assembly and public disclosure of the fullest possible historical record on this tragedy and on subsequent investigations and inquiries into it.

The final interpretive regulations are intended to identify comprehensively the range of records reasonably related to the assassination of President Kennedy and investigations undertaken in its aftermath. The final interpretive regulations are also intended to aid in the consistent, effective, and efficient implementation of the JFK Act and to establish procedures for including assassination records in the JFK Assassination Records Collection established by Congress and housed at NARA’s facility in College Park, Maryland.

Notice and Comment Process

The Review Board sought public comment on its proposed interpretive regulations and set a thirty-day period, which ended on March 10, 1995, for the purpose of receiving written comments. The Review Board also heard testimony at public hearings on aspects of the proposed interpretive regulations. In addition, the Review Board sent copies of the proposed interpretive regulations to agencies known to have an interest in and to be affected by the Review Board’s work, particularly those that either created or now hold assassination records, and to the appropriate oversight committees in Congress. The Review Board also sent notices of the proposed interpretive regulations and request for comments to many organizations and individuals who have demonstrated an interest in the release of materials under the JFK Act or who have engaged in research into the assassination of President Kennedy.

The Review Board received written comments on the proposed interpretive regulations from four Federal agencies, three state and local government entities, and twenty-one private individuals and organizations with an interest in the Review Board’s work. Federal agencies providing written comments include the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), NARA, and the Department of State. State or local government entities providing written comments include the Dallas (Texas) County Commissioner’s Court, the Dallas County Historical Foundation, and the City of Dallas Records Management Division of the City of Dallas.
