Advise Bureau promptly by LHM of subject's return from travel abroad. If such individual has traveled behind Iron Curtain, also furnish Bureau recommendations as to interview and state whether additional investigation is contemplated.

3. File reviews

Check office indices and review files thoroughly for pertinent information showing background and subversive activity. Include information in initial report. After each check and review of files has been made, consolidate reference cards pertaining to subject in indices.

4. Security informants

Information developed through security informants is unsurpassed in value both for intelligence purposes and as admissible evidence.

5. Physical surveillances

Physical surveillances should be used when, in opinion of SAC, information of sufficient value might be obtained to justify their use in light of existing circumstances and available manpower.

a. When information is received that meetings of subversive organizations are to take place, physical surveillances should be considered to corroborate such information and identify participants.

b. Surveillances of individuals in leadership or underground capacities serve to identify others within movement.

c. Success of surveillances depends upon resourcefulness of Agents who must at all times exercise sound judgment and discretion. Be alert to observe activity of subject and countersurveillances which may be used to identify Agents and embarrass Bureau.

6. Photographic surveillances

Photographic evidence of meetings between individuals or which shows subjects entering or leaving meeting places of subversive organizations affords convincing and admissible evidence to establish subversive activities. Prior Bureau authority is needed for photographic surveillances of meetings and they must be properly correlated with other investigative techniques to obtain maximum evidence. Conceal equipment to avoid detection by subjects or other individuals in proximity of surveillance.

7. Public sources

Make use of all logical public sources of information. Obtain background and lineage data from birth records and local bureaus of vital statistics, credit agencies, state records, public utility records, and school records. Credit check of individual should be limited to obtaining identifying information only (name, address, former address, employment, former employment). Obtain and index as reference material publications of subversive organizations and records of state and Federal committees which have conducted hearings concerning subversive activities.

8. Records of private firms

Where pertinent information is available in records of private firms, such as past or present employers, insurance companies, and merchants, contact such firms provided it will not jeopardize investigation.

9. Channelizing of information to case files

Membership or activity in subversive organizations should be channelized to main case files of individuals involved. Mimeographed form FD-306 may be used provided it is limited to reporting attendance at meetings. When information from informants or surveillances is channelized to individual case files, it must be documented. Coordinate information retrieved from informants and confidential sources with active investigation.
