I. Educational Background

A. Undergraduate

1. Student at Harvard College, 1940–43.
   a. Held tuition scholarships granted from various funds.
   b. Activities included Crimson (assistant editorial chairman), dramatics, and radio (Harvard Radio Workshop).
   c. Completed requirements for A.B. degree (cum laude) in two and one-half years.

2. Field of concentration:
   a. History, Government, Economics.
      1) 12 hours American history, 12 hours European history, 6 hours ancient history.
      2) Honors thesis: Andrew Jackson and the Tribunician Theory of the President.
         a) An analysis of the concept of the powers of the president held by Jackson and his lieutenants, including an attempt to trace their origin in the democratic movement of the 1830s.
      3) Other subjects studied: 12 hours government, 6 hours economics, 6 hours sociology, 6 hours geology, 3 hours political philosophy.

B. Military Training

1. Student at Yale University, 1943–44.
   a. 36 hours Japanese and history and politics of the Far East.
   b. 18 hours Japanese and 18 hours history of China and Japan.
      1) Emphasis placed on analysis of society of these countries.
         a) Research in the political organization of modern Japan and modern China.
         b) Study of the military organization of Japan and China.
         c) Some study of personalities.

2. Student at University of Michigan, 1944–45.
   a. 12 hours graduate credit for study of Japan and Japanese.
   b. Hours divided between study of written and spoken Japanese and history of Japan.
      1) Emphasis placed on history and politics in the study of the language in addition to special study of political organization.
         a) Example: study of recent Japanese history in Japanese.

3. Fort Snelling, Minnesota, MIS Japanese Language School.
   a. Major emphasis on Japanese military organization, e.g., units of Japanese army, navy, weapons, and equipment.

C. Graduate Study

1. Johns Hopkins University, 1947–48.
   a. International relations and seminar in political geography.
