The aim of the Executive order, September 4, 1924, under which this examination is made, is to obtain information as to the physical condition of appointees to the classified civil service with a view to promoting efficiency and minimizing accidents and claims under United States employees' compensation laws.

Notes for Examining Physician

Weight.—Males, without clothing, and also in ordinary clothing without overcoat or hat (weigh twice); females, clothed, but without wrap or hat. If overweight, state whether due to bone and muscle or to fat.

Hernia.—Without boots or shoes, observe that no appliances are used to increase.

The examination should include the following observations:

1. Eyes.—Pfung; discharge; corneal scar; pterygium. In recording distant vision consider 20 feet as normal and report all vision as a fraction with 20 feet as numerator and the smallest type read at 20 feet as denominator. If glasses are used, record for each eye the finding with and without glasses. Near vision must be reported. In testing vision without glasses the applicant or appointee should be instructed to remove the glasses at least one-half hour before testing uncorrected vision.

2. Ears.—Evidence of middle ear or mastoid disease; condition of drums; discharge. In recording hearing, record 20 feet as normal distance for conventional voice and record deviation from normal as fraction with 20 as denominator and actual distance as numerator.

3. Nostrils.—Ability to blow through each nostril. If free, a speculum examination would not be indicated.

4. Mouth and throat.—Missing teeth, pyorrhea; tonsillitis, hypertrophy or disease.

5. Gastro-intestinal.—Ulcers, inflammations, etc.

6. Thyroid.—Presence of tumor in neck and tremor, exophthalmos; nervous high-strung disposition, especially in women.

7. Heart.—Murmurs. State whether functional or organic. If valvular disease exists, state whether or not it is fully compensated. Arteriosclerosis.

8. Lungs.—It is necessary that the auscultatory cough be used. If tuberculosis is present, state whether active or arrested; if auscultated, state your opinion as to how far it has been quiescent. Sputum to be examined for tubercle bacilli in all suspected cases.

9. Hernia.—Give details as to size, location, etc., and whether well-fitting truss is worn. Inguinal hernia exists when ring is enlarged and on coughing visceral impulse is felt which follows the finger on withdrawal.

10. Varicocele.—If varicocele is present, state approximate size—e.g., size of walnut, lemon, etc.

11. Flat foot.—Of such a nature as to incapacitate or become aggravated by work or be alleged later to have been caused by accident or occupation. By “flat foot,” as used in this form, is meant a foot so weak with impaired function, the foot being equivalent to “fallen or misplaced arch,” an abnormal condition. Impairment of function is the point to be noted. An anatomically flat foot, but strong, is not disqualifying.

12 and 13. Scar, deformity, atrophy, and paralysis should be noted, but it is not important that small insignificant scars or blemishes which might be referred to as marks of identification be recorded.

14. This entry should include symptoms and full history of any mental or nervous abnormality.

15. Urinalysis to be made in case of persons over 40, and in all cases where arteriosclerosis, nephritis, or diabetes is suspected, and when obesity is found on examination.

Record of urinalysis, if made: Bp. gr. Albumin Sugar Cholesterol.

If tachycardia is present, give pulse rate: Sitting; immediately after exercise; two minutes after exercise; cardiac reserve (good, fair, or poor).

I have found this applicant abnormal under the following headings:

In my opinion, applicant is capable of performing duties involving considered physical exertion (anxious, moderate, or light).

Remarks:

Helmy of melaleuca, sent recommendation 1922.

(Biggest of applicant) Birth D.O. Neal.

This space is to be filled as a matter of identification, by the applicant, in own handwriting and in ink, in the presence of the physician.

Weissman D.C. The examining physician must be a duly licensed doctor of medicine (M.D.).

Place of examination

February 11, 1947

Date of obtaining the

Signature of examiner

Full time? Part time
