i. Finances

Special efforts must be made to locate and monitor bank accounts of organizations. Emphasis must be placed on determining if funds are being furnished organizations from foreign sources and if there is any rapport between the organizations and organizations in foreign countries.

j. Support given to or received from CPUSA or other communist group

Develop evidence showing support, financial or otherwise, given by organization to CPUSA or other communist group or received by organization from CPUSA or other communist group.

k. Implementation of CPUSA line or that of other communist group

Usually shown through comparison of programs and literature of organization with those of CPUSA or other communist group during any particular period.

l. Accuracy of identifications

Use extreme care to assure statements relating to affiliations or membership in subversive organizations are accurate in all respects. Show exact basis, plus corroboration wherever possible, for identification of suspected organizations or individuals with information of a possible subversive nature. Never refer to a person as a “known communist” unless he is publicly known as such.

m. Specific requirements for CPUSA investigations

Follow previously established reporting format. New York is responsible, in addition to reporting activities of New York District, for investigating and reporting separately on national committee meetings, national training schools, and other important national meetings.

n. Socialist Workers Party (SWP) and other Marxist-Leninist or Trotskyist groups

All offices submit semiannual reports and carry as pending inactive, except New York whose report on SWP activities on national basis should be designated pending. New York also submit report on local SWP activities. Indicate in cover pages whether all persons identified in report as members of SWP or as members of other Marxist-Leninist or Trotskyist groups who reside within area covered by reporting office are listed in Administrative Index (ADEX), or are informants or sources. List any exception by name and show status of investigation and state whether name has been furnished Bureau for indexing.

Data concerning above topics can usually be secured through following sources: confidential informants, incorporation records, bank records, literature and publications of organization, newspapers, public meetings and rallies, confidential investigative techniques, various public records, panel sources, confidential sources and other sources of information, interviews with past or present CPUSA members, review of field office files, pretext interviews, surveillances, Agents attending mass meetings, etc.

4. Dissemination of information to Secret Service regarding plots against President

On 11-26-71, an “Agreement Between the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Secret Service Concerning Protective Responsibilities” was signed and became effective. This agreement is set out in its entirety in section 102, volume IV, of this manual. Agreement provides that FBI, in its investigations of organizations whose activities are inimical to welfare of U. S., will be alert to and promptly notify Secret Service of any information indicating plot against person of the President. It is responsibility of Secret Service to initiate necessary action to neutralize such plot.

a. Be alert during investigation of organization for information implicating plot against person of President. Upon receipt, immediately furnish complete details to nearest office of Secret Service and appropriate local law enforcement agencies and advise Bureau by teletype, or telephone if facts warrant, of information furnished and fact it has been so disseminated. Attempt immediately to verify information, but do not attempt evaluation of information.
