The Notebook on Common Sense, Elementary and Advanced is devoted to development, exposition, and illustration of what may be the most important of all fields of knowledge: what is generally true and important.

Purposes: to help you avoid pitfalls; to prevent mistakes before they happen; to display new paths around old obstacles; to point out new solutions to old problems; to stimulate your resourcefulness; to increase your accomplishments; to improve your capacities; to help you solve problems; to give you more tools to think with.

Reasons to be interested in the field of common sense, wisdom, and general science:

Computers are important—but the computer field is over 25 years old. Here is a new field where you can get in on the ground floor to make your mark.

Mathematics is important—but this field is more important than mathematics, because common sense, wisdom, and general science have more applications.

Wisdom is important—this field can be reasonably called “the engineering of wisdom.”

Common sense is important—this field includes the systematic study and development of common sense.

Science is important—this field includes what is common to all the sciences, what is generally true and important in the sciences.

Mistakes are costly and to be avoided—this field includes the systematic study of the prevention of mistakes.

Money is important—the systematic prevention of mistakes in your organization might save 10 to 20% of its expenses per year.

Opportunity is important—if you enter or renew your subscription to both Computers and Automation and the Notebook on Common Sense at the same time, direct to us, you may take off $2.00 per year from the total cost.

Topic: The Systematic Prevention of Mistakes.

Already published: Preventing mistakes from failure to understand, forgetting, unforeseen hazards, placidity.

To come: Preventing mistakes from bias, camouflage, interpretation, distraction, gullibility, failure to observe, failure to inspect, prejudice, ...

Topic: Systematic Examination of General Concepts.

Already published: The concept of expert, rationalizing, feedback, model, black box, evolution, niche.

To come: Strategy, understanding, teachable moment, indeterminacy, system, operational definition, ...

(May be copied on any piece of paper.)

To: Computers and Automation, 815 Washington St., Newtonville, Mass. 02160.

Yes, please enter my subscription to The Notebook on Common Sense, Elementary and Advanced at $12 a year (24 issues), plus extras. I understand that you always begin at the beginning and so I shall not miss any issues.

Please send me as free premiums for subscribing:

1. Right Answers—A Short Guide to Obtaining Them.
2. The Empty Column.
3. The Golden Trumpets of Yap Yap.

I enclose $________.

Please bill my organization.

Returnable in 7 days for full refund if not satisfactory.

How can you lose?

Name. Organization. Address (including zip). Signature. Purchase Order No.
