It becomes clear from the review of files on these defectors that debriefing of defectors was in fact somewhat of a random reinsurance. However, as the agency appears, there were some instances where the agency did choose to debrief returning defectors, without necessarily knowing why he would be interested in such topics of general interest regarding life in certain areas of the S.U. Let us regard 300 — Where are you of the S.U.? Is there any reason for this? Where are you going? What is your plan of action? The people who were debriefed were similar to those that stayed in the defector’s area; the same general time period was spent there, in the S.U., in areas of interest to the CIA.

More active debriefings were conducted of the other two defectors, e.g., W., a plastic impact with a D.C. whose defection to the S.U. in 1959 was highly publicized, etc., to the U.S. in June 1963. When he had been employed in the S.U. at the Sen. State, last of Polytrol. Elstics. shortly after his return, he was debriefed in his home territory by a low-level officer from O/C, SR/6, and the R.F. It was decided that a more active debriefing was in order; i.e., W. was subsequently brought to Washington, where he was debriefed for a period of two weeks. The defector reports included a chart of W.’s life and the CIA’s assessment of him, as well as a large body of information regarding life in the S.U. W.’s work there was a significant source of information on persons he had met during his residence, etc.

Likewise, Bernardelle, who had lived in the S.U. for nearly four years, was contacted subsequently for purposes of debriefing shortly after his return to the U.S. in late June 1963. His initial debriefing included such subjects as his motivation to defect to the U.S.S.R., as well as activities engaged in during his Moscow stay, relocation from Moscow to Krasnoyarsk, and general aspects of defection such as residence controls and costs. The agency felt that they would be interested in showing more information regarding life in the S.U., such as cost of living, medical care, consumer goods, slightly higher wages, transportation, and restrictions versus Krasnoyarsk.

While the CIA felt it was unfeasible to debrief R. more thoroughly due to his current status of trying to regain U.S. citizenship, the agency felt it...

Ref: 7/69

Ref: 6/25/63
