For Independent Use Only. U.S. Department Report.

1. Name of subject or title of incident: MARTI, Manuel NMN.  
2. Date submitted: 18 November 1968.  
PVT E-1, US 52 737 780. DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico.  
3. Control symbol or file number: 8240-6019; 093 36 4601.

Report of Findings.

(Neighborhood check.) On 24 October 1968, Alexander Castillo, student, Bronx High School of Science, Bronx, New York, who resides in Apartment 5B, 905 East 167th Street, Bronx, New York 10459, was interviewed in his residence concerning Manuel Marti. Source, who has known the subject since approximately 1950, stated substantially as follows:

Source met the subject in 1950 when he and his parents moved into the apartment building at the above address, where the subject was then residing with his parents. Source's mother was a close friend of Marti's mother, and Source became quite friendly with the subject and his brother, Ivan, and visited the subject's apartment on the average of four times weekly until 1965, when the Marti family moved from the neighborhood. Source had seen the subject on a few occasions since he moved from the neighborhood, the last time being about three or four months ago.

The subject grew up in the neighborhood of East 167th Street, Bronx, New York, and came from a very respectable home. In addition to his older brother, Ivan, the subject also has a young sister, Blanca. He was graduated from high school in Bronx, New York; further details unknown. Source believed that he was working for an insurance company in New York City; further details unknown. The subject's mother died in early 1967. Source believes that the subject is still single, and he resided at an unknown address in upper Manhattan after moving from the neighborhood of East 167th Street.

The subject is a very quiet, mannerly, respectable young man of good moral character and personal behavior. He was never known to be adversely involved with law enforcement agencies, nor to engage in any activities inimical to the best interest of the United States. The subject's parents, whom Source knew as Mr. and Mrs. Marti, were very strict and did not allow the subject to associate with any neighborhood gangs. Most of his spare time was spent at home with his studies and with his hobbies of stamp collecting and the rearing of birds and fish. The subject and his brother were influential in starting Source in the hobby of stamp collecting. The subject is considered to be an honest, trustworthy, discreet, and financially responsible young man. He is considered to be a loyal United States citizen, and neither he nor any other member of his family was ever heard to make any statements against the United States or to express sympathy for the Communist philosophy. The subject had no known organizational affiliations, and he was not known to travel outside of the United States. Source was unable to suggest anyone who may have knowledge of the subject.

Castillo recommends that Marti be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

5. Typed name and organization of special agent: ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB).  
6. Signature of special agent: Kober C. Stoeffer.
