Members who did not speak English and hoped provisions would be in place to enable them to participate fully in the scheduled multilateral meetings. Hurrying to a reception shortly after arrival following a long flight, he did not wish to be late but neither did he want to leave other delegates far behind. When it was mentioned that they would hurry once they saw he was ready, he commented—without any hint of regret—that everyone was democratic now and it no longer worked that way.

2. He evidently has a great interest in, and respect for, the Japanese, referring to them as a special civilization. At the reception, he and Japanese delegates agreed to meet later that night for further discussions in spite of some badly needed rest.

3. A person who likes to establish a one-on-one rapport, he expressed a regret at not speaking Spanish since Latin America is one of his main areas of responsibility. He noted that Latin Americans do not really open up when speaking through interpreters. Time constraints prevent him from learning Spanish at present.

4. Ecology—A special concern: Mamedov showed a particular concern for ecology and noted that Russia would need help in dealing with its problems in this area. He ruefully commented that man was the only creature that would despoil his environment. The problem was a global one and required concerted cooperation on an international level.

5. Problem areas for Russia: According to Mamedov, Russia’s current open borders make the country vulnerable to terrorist incursions (Iran and Afghanistan were mentioned) and to the overflow onto Russian territory of border conflicts. When problems began in Azerbaijan, Iran sent fighting units across the border to assist Azeris; Russia was not notified. The proximity of the conflict in former Yugoslavia and its possible escalation is very worrisome. The civil war in Chechnya has the potential of becoming more serious and is a very troublesome issue.

6. The economic transition: Mamedov assesses that international relations, particularly with Canada and the United States, will be strengthened through commercial ties. Economic developments in Russia still have 50% government involvement. The banking sector is making progress towards international-style banking. Young managers (mid-30s) are introducing new ideas, while older experienced staff provide the necessary administrative support. The current period in which Russia is being robbed by some is symptomatic of transitional upheaval and is comparable to the post-Civil War era in the United States when a number of its citizens acquired wealth. In the 1960s, the U.S. went through a stage of militant labor unionism associated with mob activities. A case in point, the activities of Hoffa and his alleged ordering of the assassination of President Kennedy offers an illustrative example.
