PART II

SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS

2. Requesting authority for release

a. By teletype

At least four hours before the time of release, developments in the case, an outline of the release, and statement release are to be furnished the Bureau.

b. By telephone where time is of the essence

Confer with division head having supervision of the matter for investigative clearance and with the office of the division head of the Crime Records Division for final press clearance. While good judgment must prevail, in important cases in which a local newspaper deadline is approaching, it may be advisable to telephone the Bureau for clearance.

3. Press releases are to be made personally only by the SAC or in his absence by the ASAC.

4. Releases are to be made both at headquarters and in the local area affected by developments. All material prepared for the public must be reviewed word for word. It is not to contain words or phrases which might be regarded as objectionable or offensive to a member of any race, creed, or religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized wherever possible, and all press releases should be coordinated to eliminate any avoidable delays.

5. In the absence of an overriding consideration bearing on the public interest, no statement should be put in an announcement to the press to the effect that a subject either has confessed or has admitted his crimes without specific Bureau approval. In case of doubt, consult the Bureau. When the fact that a subject has given a confession is included in a complaint and an inquiry is forthcoming from the press, a “no comment” reply should be given. The complaint is a court record and must be left to speak for itself.

6. On-the-spot announcements by SAC are authorized in emergency situations in which good judgment so dictates. Emergency on-the-spot statements by Agents limited to their official identity and, if known, the identity of fugitive or criminal in gun battle. If badly wanted fugitive apprehended in remote area and SAC absent, Agent may, in rare emergency only and where time is of the essence, furnish bare details. Contact by SAC with press should be effected immediately where press desires further details.

7. In the normal process of issuing press releases, television and radio media should be merely provided with a written copy of the press release, and Bureau personnel should not submit to live, filmed, or tape-recorded interviews of any kind in connection with it. Tact and diplomacy must be exercised in declining to participate in such interviews.

8. In the absence of special circumstances, Bureau Agents should never suggest or request a reporter or another representative of a newspaper or similar publication to withhold the publication of news. In the event that special circumstances do exist, it will be necessary to clear with the Bureau prior to making any such request.

9. In cases involving bombings having an apparent racial or religious basis with the resultant public interest, the SAC should issue a statement to the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en route to actively assist local investigative authorities, making available to them every possible cooperative service of the FBI, including the Bureau’s full laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by handling out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all investigative efforts that may indicate any Federal violation. At no time should this statement indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative jurisdiction of the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility for the incident be assumed or declared. The issuance of this statement requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, and the Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known facts of the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized.

10. Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press release file if it exists.

3-29-65
