Training Evaluation.

Section I: Identifying Information. Name: Woods, James S. Sex: M. Course and beginning date: Phase I—Orientation, 9–19 April 1954. Date of birth: 23 February 1928. EOD: April 1952. Grade or rank: GS-5. Office: FE/FI. Projected assignment or present position: Registry Analyst.

This evaluation is based on a course of 120 hours given over a period of 3 weeks in which there were 89 students. The length of the course, number of students, nature of the course, skills and knowledge taught, and the opportunity for observing the individual student determine which sections of this report are used. These facts must also be considered in interpreting the evaluations which, therefore, should not be used as the sole basis for personnel decisions. This report is intended primarily to furnish information as to how well the student learned the subject matter or skills taught. In addition, observations of interest and importance are reported which can have significance only as they are related to other information. Unless otherwise stated, performance is evaluated in terms of standards set by instructors or in relation to the performance of others who have taken the course. For further information, consult the Training Evaluation Branch, Assessment and Evaluation Staff, Office of Training.

Section II: Knowledge. Introduction to Intelligence, 80 hours: Fail 5; Poor 12; Satisfactory 26*; Excellent 34; Superior 12. Communism and the U.S. R.P., 40 hours: Fail 5; Poor 17; Satisfactory 35#; Excellent 31; Superior 7.

The numbers show how many students received each rating. An asterisk (*) shows the rating this student received.

Section III: Skills.

The “Course Instruction” column contains scores and/or ratings given by the instructional staff for skills which are specifically intended to be outcomes of the course. The “Observation” column contains ratings by instructors and/or students concerning skills which have been observed for every student in a class but which have not been the subject of intensive instruction or practice.

Skill. Hours. Course Instruction: Objective Score; Rating or Evaluation. Observation: Average Rating by Instructors; Average Rating by Students.
