Vice-Intelligence Division, Montgomery County Police Department.

Continuing Investigations Reports.

CARRAFA, Eugene Michael.

Subject/Case Reference: OCR #6-32.

Date: 08-13-76.

According to source F. B. Black, 2700 Virginia Avenue, N.W., The Watergate, is the Fred B. Black, Jr. noted by the Justice Department as an O/C figure with high contacts.

It was further learned that John Roselli (Roseli) has given secret testimony to the Senate subcommittee and one Mario Kolhy, a subject with high O/C connections, recently testified before the same committee. It is speculated that the questions asked by the subcommittee may have indicated what the committee knew, and consequently, who gave them that information—namely, Roselli.

It was further learned that retired Washington, D.C. Police Inspector Joseph Shiman met with John Roselli (Roseli) and Salvatore (Sam) Giancana in a hotel on New York Avenue, Washington, D.C., shortly before Giancana was murdered. It is noted that Roselli's long-distance toll records reveal that he called Joseph Shiman at (301) 453-3479. Writer called this number and asked for Inspector Shiman, and a woman said, “Yes, hold on please.” Another source speculates that Inspector Shiman was Washington, D.C. Police's liaison with the C.I.A.

Another source reveals that F.B.I. Chicago—this is unconfirmed—has photographs of Knohl and/or CARRAFA at Giancana's home last year.

Pat Sherman, AKA Nutsy, missed court today in Upper Marlboro, Md. Sherman is the subject that worked for CARRAFA whom Knohl told CARRAFA to get rid of.

NYCPD O/C also advises that Michael Rizzitello, LCN, formerly of the late Joe Gallo mob, met with Roselli in California last year.

Lt. Garret Kerwin, MPD, advises that Inspector Shiman was the best electronic surveillance man in the Department, he was “dirty,” and his phone book contained the new and old telephone numbers of Sam Giancana. Shiman's notebook also had Mike Grasso's name and telephone number. Mike Grasso is Angelo Bruno's—LCN Philadelphia—nephew; he now resides in Florida, and Santo Trafficante, Jr. is his godfather.

It is further noted that Fred Black was a Capitol Hill lobbyist involved with Bobby Baker and the late President Lyndon Baines (Lydon)
