Cases of all security index subjects must be reopened or placed in a pending status for the purpose of preparing investigative reports in accordance with the schedule outlined in 87D 7f (2) and (7).

Office indices and any material channelized to the case file since the most recent report should be reviewed and the case brought up to date by appropriate investigation to determine the subject's current activities.

Each time that a case is reopened and brought up to date, it should be critically analyzed in light of security index criteria set out in 87D 7b (3) herein. This procedure must be followed on a continuing basis for each security index subject.

(2) Schedule of Submission of Reports

Reports shall be submitted on individuals designated for priority as follows:

(a) Priority I—annually (top functionaries—annually).

(b) Priority II—annually.

(c) Priority III—initial report recommending individual for Priority III of the security index must be a summary-type investigative report. Once the individual is approved for Priority III, subsequent information may be furnished by letterhead memorandum, with no investigative report being required.

Each field office will be responsible, however, to ensure that all pertinent developments regarding Priority III subjects are furnished to the Bureau.

(3) Origin

Office of origin will be that office covering the territory in which the subject's subversive activities occur. In most instances, this will also be the office in whose territory the subject resides and is employed. In those cases in which the subject's subversive activities take place in the territory of an office other than the office covering the place of residence and/or employment, the office of origin shall be that office which can best cover the subject's subversive activities.

(4) Classification

(a) 100—for individuals affiliated with basic revolutionary and front organizations of Marxian ideology.

(b) 105—for members of Puerto Rican nationalist groups or others having nationalistic tendencies of a non-Marxist character.

(c) 157—Nation of Islam and other Black nationalist matters.

(5) Title

Only one subject shall be carried in the title of each report. Separate reports must be submitted for each subject regardless of their relationship; i.e., husband and wife, father and son, etc.
