Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position. [REDACTED] Kent, a dynamic and highly skilled operations officer whose geographic area of specialization was WH and whose professional forte was propaganda (see Covert Action Activity). During his five months’ association with the Washington Base, this officer has continued to maintain a state of exceptional proficiency while establishing himself locally under unofficial commercial. He has done this with his usual high degree of energy, perception, and seriousness. Having laid a firm operational base, it is expected that during the next reporting period the operational “take” from Subject will be equally firm. During his brief Base tour [REDACTED], he has handled several selected operational matters within the area of his greatest competence and during the fall meeting of the OAS acquitted himself with exceptional proficiency. Subject has no supervisory duties at present. He is cost-conscious in all respects. It is expected that [REDACTED] will be able to provide meaningful assistance during the coming year in attacking those areas of priority operational interest assigned to the Base by Headquarters. In order to assist [REDACTED] in this and to enable the Base to utilize his many talents to the optimum, it is planned, when the Base operational climate allows, to have him take the [REDACTED] Soviet Realities course and the CI/CE course. [REDACTED] is well-motivated and does his best to become a meaningful member of the Washington Base.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 31 January 1968. Signature of employee: [REDACTED].

2. By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 5. Date: 31 January 1968. Official title of supervisor: C/OG/Washington Base. Typed or printed name and signature: Rudolph E. Gomez; John H. Furfey.

3. By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: As Reviewing Official I am in full concurrence with the evaluation given this employee as outlined above. Date: 31 January 1968. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Base. Typed or printed name and signature: Rudolph E. Gomez.
