James O. Eastland, Miss., Chairman

John E. McGeehan (John L. McClellan), Ark.  
Sam J. Brown, Jr., N.C.  
Philip A. Hart, Mich.  
Edward H. Kennedy, Mass.  
Dick Bath, Ind.  
Quenton N. Burdick, N. Dak.  
Robert C. Byrd, W. Va.  
John V. Tunney, Calif.

Roman L. Hruska (Moman L. Hruska), Nebr.  
Hiram L. Fong (Jihan L. Fong), Hawaii  
Hugh Scott, Pa.  
Strom Thurmond, S.C.  
Marlow W. Cook, Ky.  
Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., Md.  
Edward J. Gurney, Fla.

Subcommittee:

Edward M. Kennedy (Ard M. Kennedy), Mass., Chairman

Philip A. Hart, Mich.  
Birch Bayh (Birch Bayn), Ind.  
Quentin N. Burdick (Quentin N. Burdick), N. Dak.  
John V. Tunney, Calif.

Strom Thurmond, S.C.  
Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., Md.  
Edward J. Gurney, Fla.

Nathan Leventhal, Chief Counsel

Peter M. Stockett, Jr.  
Chief Counsel and Staff Director

United States Senate

Committee on the Judiciary

Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure

(Pursuant to Sec. 3, S. Res. 55, 94th Congress)

Washington, D.C. 20510

April 10, 1975

Honorable Edward H. Levi  
Attorney General  
Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

A newspaper report in today's Washington Post has raised serious questions as to how many federal agencies engage in electronic surveillance and the extent of such surveillance.

At a hearing on May 23, 1974, before the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure, Attorney General Saxbe testified on this subject. I asked him: “Can you tell us about any other organizations or government departments that are involved in any wiretapping at all today?” The Attorney General replied: “We do not believe that there is anyone else and the penalties are rather severe.” (p. 495) I am enclosing a copy of the hearings for your convenience.

The recent reports raise questions concerning the completeness and clarity of Attorney General Saxbe's earlier testimony. President Johnson's executive memorandum of June 30, 1965, requires that federal agencies engage in wiretapping only with the prior approval of the Attorney General. In order to fully answer the questions that have been raised, I request that you provide the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure with the following information by April 16:

1. A list of all federal departments, agencies, bureaus, divisions, and other units that conduct, have conducted, or have authority to conduct electronic surveillance of any type (including wiretaps, bugs, and other uses of any device or apparatus which can be used to intercept a wire or oral communication).
