(b) In the field office

The active security index in each field office is maintained in four sections: geographical, alphabetical, unavailable, and special sections. In addition, a complete set of each field office's security index is maintained away from headquarters city. This additional set is to be maintained in exactly the same manner as the geographical section security index breakdown, with the unavailable and special section cards filed in back of the geographical section cards.

I. Geographical section

Procedures affecting the geographical section of the security index are set out in 87D 7b (11), pertaining to the priority of apprehension of subjects, and should be read in conjunction with the material noted hereinafter.

After receipt of the three 5- by 8-inch security index cards from the Bureau and after the necessary data have been added to two of the cards, one card shall be filed in the geographical section of the office security index, except special section and unavailable section cards; see III and IV below. One card shall be filed in the duplicate security index maintained away from headquarters city. This section shall be broken down geographically by residence address in accordance with the needs of each office. For example, where such breakdown is logical, it should be broken down by state, county, city and, if conditions in the city so warrant, into boroughs or suburbs and precincts. There will be instances involving routine change of residence in which the security index cards will reflect “unknown” residence. To facilitate filing such cards in the geographical section, a breakdown therein should be utilized, designated “Verification Pending,” to contain the security index cards of (1) subjects whose addresses are listed as “unknown” but leads outstanding are expected to result in the prompt location of those persons within the division and (2) subjects whose whereabouts in another division is actually in the process of verification, the cards bearing the address in the interim as “unknown.” The security index cards in the geographical section shall be filed alphabetically under each geographical breakdown.

The geographical section of the field office security index will be the section to be used should apprehension of the subjects in the index become necessary. Cards contained therein will be withdrawn and used by the apprehending agents.

It may be feasible in offices covering large industrial areas to set up a second geographical section in which the security index cards are filed according to the employment of the subjects. Such procedure may be established only upon receipt of specific Bureau authority. Apprehensions may thus be made by using either the geographical-residence or the geographical-employment sections, the choice depending upon the time of day the apprehensions are initiated.

II. Alphabetic section

Procedures affecting the alphabetical section of the security index are set out in 87D 7b (11), pertaining to the priority of apprehension of subjects, and should be read in conjunction with the material noted hereinafter.

The duplicate card shall be filed in the alphabetical section, which will be maintained in strict alphabetical order with no other breakdown whatsoever.
