Report of Interview

With Mitchell L. WerBell III, on September 16, 1969, at 2:30 p.m., at his residence at RFD #1, Powder Springs, Georgia, by Special Investigators Charles E. Stanfill and Arbie R. Odom, Jr.

This interview was conducted in the presence of Sionics President Fred N. Brown and Secretary-Treasurer Jo Florence. It was conducted in the basement of Mr. WerBell's residence, which is used as a laboratory for research and development for Sionics. Mr. WerBell is Vice-President and Director of Research and Development of Sionics. Sionics currently holds Federal Firearms License Number 58-3742, which expires March 31, 1970, as a manufacturer of firearms other than destructive devices, and License Number 58-6156, which expires May 18, 1970, as an importer of firearms other than destructive devices. Sionics is also holder of Special Occupational Tax Stamp Return Number 1-58611 169 85398, as a Class 1 Manufacturer (Firearms), and Return Number 1-58611 169 85399, as a Class 1 Importer (Firearms), both issued for the period beginning July 1, 1969. Sionics was also holder of a Class 1 Manufacturer Tax Stamp for the previous year; however, they did not hold an Importer's Tax Stamp. According to officials of Sionics, they were a registered importer under the Munitions and Control Act, registered with the State Department. Mr. WerBell stated as follows:

Mr. WerBell said he went to Vietnam in September of 1968 for the purpose of demonstrating “Sound Suppressors” manufactured by Sionics. He stated this trip was authorized by Mr. Stanford of the State Department, Munitions Control, Washington, D.C., who also authorized him to take and send weapons and sound suppressors for demonstrations; however, he has nothing in writing from them. He stated he took some of these weapons with him and sent the rest through the Air Force to Vietnam in care of Col. Fagen. Mr. WerBell stated that in the course of his business and travels, he was able to acquire 12 captured enemy weapons from the date of his arrival through about November of 1968. He said these weapons were given to him by General Dong of the South Vietnamese Army and by other authorized sources. He stated he sent descriptions and serial numbers of the firearms to Sionics in Atlanta, Georgia, with instructions to register them, and then asked Lt. Col. Marriott to ship them to the United States for him. He said he did not think there was anything wrong with this procedure because of the military involvement, and that he did not make application for importation of the firearms for the same reason.
