Universal Fibreglass Corporation

Fraud Against the Government

Following a partial audit by the General Services Administration, we instituted an investigation, at the Department's request, of alleged overcharges to the Government by Universal Fibreglass Corporation (Universal) on a $13 million contract to produce mail delivery trucks. All logical investigation has been completed and reported except the review of the Universal records. Access to the pertinent records was recently achieved through court action, and an extensive audit is now being pressed. Criminal prosecution of several subjects is now indicated.

Congressman H. R. Gross (R-Iowa) has publicized this matter. Press items have indicated that the office of then-Senator Hubert H. Humphrey (Humphries) may have been instrumental in having the contract awarded to Universal.

Youth Pride, Inc.

Fraud Against the Government

In January 1969, following administrative investigations by the General Accounting Office and Department of Labor, the Department requested we review subpoenaed records of Youth Pride, Inc., a Washington, D.C., organization funded by the Labor Department to help underprivileged youths, to identify individuals participating in payroll padding in violation of Fraud Against the Government statutes. The grand jury began hearing witnesses March 10, 1969.

Chromcraft Corporation, et al.

Fraud Against the Government

We conducted an extensive investigation in this case of a multimillion-dollar fraud scheme in which “paper” corporations were formed to act as subcontractors in connection with the production of rocket launchers for the U.S. Navy. Millions of dollars in overcharges to the Navy were channeled by subjects into Swiss bank accounts. On August 7, 1968, two corporations and four individuals, including Francis Rosenbaum, a Washington, D.C., tax attorney, were indicted in Washington, D.C., on charges of conspiring to defraud the Government of more than $4 million. The trial date is set for September 8, 1969. On January 29, 1969, civil suits were filed in Federal courts in Washington, D.C., and St. Louis, Missouri, demanding judgment for double damages arising from the fraud charges in the criminal indictment.
