E. Investigations of Communist Front and Miscellaneous Organizations

1. Purposes

a. To obtain sufficient pertinent data to make possible accurate determination of an organization’s true character.

b. To obtain intelligence data and keep the Department and other interested Government agencies advised regarding the existence and activities of subversive organizations.

c. To obtain legally admissible evidence regarding the subversive nature of such organizations to permit implementation of:

(1) Internal Security Act of 1950  
(2) Registration Act  
(3) Smith Act of 1940  
(4) Executive Order 10450

2. General Policy

a. Newly formed known or suspected subversive organizations

(1) Upon receipt of information concerning formation of such a group, immediately open a case and advise the Bureau at that time.

(2) After conducting sufficient inquiry to determine the true character of the group:

(a) If further investigation is warranted, advise the Bureau through established report-writing procedures.

(b) If further investigation is not warranted, advise the Bureau of the results of the investigation and the specific reasons for the determination in letter form.

b. Established subversive groups

(1) Keep the Bureau currently advised by appropriate communication on pertinent activities, including any changes in principal officers, organizational structure, and forthcoming events.

(2) If no specific leads are outstanding, the case may be placed in pending-active status after submission of the initial report.

(3) Submit reports at least every six months.

(4) In reports concerning Communist front organizations and miscellaneous organizations, such as the Nation of Islam and those affiliated with the New Left movement, leadership in which is grounds for inclusion in the Security Index, include on cover pages a statement that all persons named in the report as officers or leaders who reside within the area covered by the reporting office are listed in the Security Index or are informants or sources. The cover pages of reports concerning those organizations affiliated with the New Left movement should also contain this statement in reference to leading activists in the organizations, as well as their officers or leaders. Exceptions should be named and a statement made as to the status of their investigations.

c. Organizations political in character

(1) Investigation should not be instituted without Bureau approval.

(2) Furnish all pertinent information concerning Communist infiltration, influence, or control of such organizations to the Bureau in letter form.

d. Organizations connected with institutions of learning

(1) No investigation is to be conducted without prior Bureau approval.

(2) If requesting Bureau authority to investigate, submit complete available data and the reason the investigation is desired.

(3) If Bureau authority is granted, it will be permissible to contact all established reliable sources, including those functioning in an administrative capacity with an institution of learning.

(4) Before conducting any interview with a student, graduate student, or professor connected with an institution of learning regarding a security-type investigation of an organization, whether the organization itself has been connected with an institution of learning, Bureau authority must be obtained to conduct such interview. Submit complete justification for the desired interview to the Bureau.

(5) Section 87D 5a (1) of this manual should be read in conjunction with the above instructions.

e. Legitimate noncommunist organizations that are Communist-infiltrated

(1) No investigation should be conducted without prior Bureau approval.
