Date of transcription: 8/20/74

Neil Breen, Lieutenant, Special Services Unit, United Nations (UN) Security and Safety Section, was interviewed in the vicinity of 43rd Street and UN Plaza, New York, New York. Lieutenant Breen furnished the following information:

On Wednesday, August 7, 1974, he was on duty in the UN General Assembly (UNGA) Building when he was notified by Sergeant Kitchell that an explosive device had been discovered in the Meditation Room. Lieutenant Breen advised that he then participated in clearing the UN lobby of all visitors. He advised that the New York City Police Department (NYCPD) Bomb Squad arrived shortly thereafter and removed the explosive device through the UN main entrance.

Lieutenant Breen advised that he then participated with other members of the Special Services Unit in interviewing UN security personnel on duty that morning. Lieutenant Breen advised that the Meditation Room is open only from 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., seven days a week. He advised that the room is normally cleaned daily, usually during the morning hours. He further stated that no smoking is permitted in the Meditation Room and that no packages are allowed to be carried into the room. Lieutenant Breen advised that the room is a small, dark enclosure frequently used for prayer and meditation by both UN delegates and visitors. He added that normally there are three UN security officers on duty in the main lobby of the UN at all times.

Lieutenant Breen stated that the officers on duty are instructed to search incoming packages and that visitors are invited to check packages and related items at the UN main gate prior to entry into the UN Building. He advised that on occasion various ethnic and political groups, during demonstrations at the UN, had staged sit-down strikes, but that there had never been any warning or indication regarding the use of explosives. Lieutenant Breen advised that he could furnish no further information regarding the incident at the present time.

Interviewed on 8/19/74, New York, New York. NY 185-229. SAS James L. Beck and David E. Von Holle. JLB/ss. Date dictated: 8/20/74.
