Pending Issues

As part of the change in process, Marwell wants the Board to focus on outstanding substantive issues as opposed to micromanaging the review. We discussed the following:

1. Nosenko. ARRB staff needs to review the non-related material and make a recommendation to the Board. Marwell leans toward not treating all of Nosenko as assassination-related. Could be a hard sell with some Board members. Should we request that Nosenko meet with the Board? Marwell thinks they would react favorably.

2. Personnel Files. Again, the first step is to have his staff confirm that only a part of a file is related and that those documents are in the released material.

3. Gibson. FBI file issue; we need to present the case to the Board.

4. LI 9. Continuing to protect will be a hard sell given that Newman has published the identity; we need to present the case to the Board.

5. CRC Financial Files. ARRB staff needs to review.

Annual Report and Extension

Marwell asked me to draw your attention to the Annual Report and the request for an extension. He would still like a letter from the Agency, which could be addressed to him, along these lines: “Reviewed Annual Report”; “note that the Board has asked for an extension”; “support the request/feel it is in the interest of the Agency and public,” or something along these lines.

Other issues (not discussed with Marwell/Gunn)

Linda (OGC) says CI Staff has asked Gunn to rewrite his notes and opposes Gunn’s suggestion to release pages from the CI histories he reviewed. Gunn indicated in his notes that some of the pages should be released and might be considered assassination records. We are going to run into similar problems with the other histories. Gunn will be in HQ tomorrow to redo his notes. She will discuss the “pages issue” with the goal of having him drop the request to release. As to the question of designating the pages as assassination records, she will inform him that CI will oppose. If he insists, she will refer back to HRG.
