Novel Rejects Labor Probe Bid

(CA Item Bureau)

BATON ROUGE — Much sought-after witness Gordon Novel has refused to testify before the State Labor Management Commission of Inquiry investigating labor troubles in the Baton Rouge area.

Novel testified at length yesterday before the East Baton Rouge Parish Grand Jury in connection with its probe of organized crime.

Afterwards, East Baton Rouge Parish District Attorney Sargent Pitcher said the jury dismissed Novel and he was free to leave the state. It was not known whether he left immediately, but when the labor probe asked Novel to testify, his attorneys told them the witness’ 48-hour period of immunity from arrest in Louisiana would not stretch long enough to permit such testimony.

Novel, also sought by Orleans Parish DA Jim Garrison in his probe of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, was granted the 48-hour immunity as his condition in return for telling what he knew about organized crime.

Attorneys for Novel and the Labor Probe Commission agreed commission investigators could interview Novel after he leaves the state.

Novel’s grace period was to expire sometime today. If he were still in the state, he was to be liable to arrest on Orleans Parish charges of conspiracy, to commit burglary, and of being a fugitive witness, and on a Terrebonne Parish charge of simple burglary.

The Baton Rouge jury has been studying organized crime, the Hoffa affair and unsolved bombings.

Novel was flanked by five attorneys during the press conference. The five, including Steeple Pittie of New Orleans and Bill Jerry Weiner of Columbus, met frequently outside the jury room with Novel during the day.

The 30-year-old former New Orleans lounge owner would testify for a while, leave the grand jury room for a brief period, tell his attorneys what had transpired, and then return to the room.

He left the grand jury building for about 20 minutes during the day to bring material from his room at a motel near the state capital. Sandwiches were brought into the jury room for lunch.

Novel declared—when asked for specific information on crime and corruption—that an effort had been made by an investigator in New Orleans to get him to provide an affidavit saying Walter Sheridan had used bugging equipment against Hoffa.

Sheridan is a former Justice Department investigator who became an investigative reporter for the National Broadcasting Co. and helped produce a program critical of Garrison.

Novel said both money and withdrawal of charges in New Orleans against him were offered.

Novel, who claims to be a former employee of the Central Intelligence Agency, declined to reveal the source of his income since he left Lowndalans. He said he had money at the time.

He also said he himself is paying his battery of attorneys, one of whom insisted on being let in when brought by the CIA.

When asked what specific evidence he had to support his charge that Garrison’s Kennedy investigation is a fraud, Novel said he had once discussed with the DA the means of obtaining a deceased pilot. Garrison said he was a key part of the suspicion plan.

Garrison proposed a three-part plan to get Ferrie’s testimony.

Much of his information on crime in the state, Novel said, was turned over to Life magazine before his grand jury testimony.

Most of the information on several tapes relates to the Garrison probe “and will be made available at the proper time,” Novel said.

Novel said he would like to testify at the conspiracy trial of Shaw, now scheduled next February.

“This is the trial of the century,” he said of Shaw. Of the probe, he said, “From A to Z it is a fraud.”

Burbank Orders State Vice Cleanup

State Police Superintendent Col. Thomas Burbank says he has notified every Louisiana sheriff to “clean up” any illegal gambling or other vice.

However, Burbank told newsmen yesterday there does not seem to be a lot to clean up—in the way of gambling, anyway.

There is no big syndicate gambling operation dominating Louisiana insofar as the state police know, said Burbank.

His comments came just before he went before the Orleans Parish Grand Jury to report on recent state police investigations of alleged organized crime.

Earlier, the jury heard Dist. Atty. William Calhoun of Nassau.
