EP 65-951

NAGELL advised that he went to Washington, D. C., where he resided until recently. He stated while in Washington, D. C., he had been approached by an individual whom he felt was either a Special Agent of the FBI or a Soviet Espionage Agent. He said he met this person in a bar in Washington, D. C., located at 811 14th Street NW, Washington, D. C. He said this person talked of Domestic Intelligence and also talked of giving him an intelligence assignment. He said the more he thought this matter over, he was positive that this individual worked for the Soviets.

He said that in September 1962, he was invited to attend a reception at the Russian Embassy. He could not identify the individual who invited him to the reception. He advised that he contacted the Central Intelligence Agency at either Langley, Virginia, or Elwood, Virginia, and used the name of JOE CRAMER or KRAMER during this contact with CIA. He said he told them of the above information and wanted some advice as to whether to go through with such an assignment. He said he was to meet this individual who was to give him the assignment at the above-mentioned bar on 14th Street, and in order to be recognized, he was to place three nickels on the bar in line with a dime placed directly over the middle nickel. He said the CIA told him that since this matter involved domestic rather than foreign intelligence, he should refer this information to the FBI.

He stated he went to the above bar and was contacted by the same person and was told to go to Miami, Florida, to a bar and wear a red sweater, where he would be contacted relative to an assignment.

It is to be noted that during the entire interview with NAGELL, he was noted to be in an inebriated condition and was very vague in answering questions. He was unable to identify by name any of the individuals he discussed and was also unable to furnish a physical description of any of these individuals. In addition to being slightly inebriated, he also gave the impression to the interviewing agents of being mentally unbalanced.
