Should be completely filled out as if a first recommendation is being made, and submitted with a current report. If not, the Bureau should be advised of the reasons for not reactivating his security index card. In either case, cancel the inactive card.

(7) Periodic verification of addresses

(a) The data recorded on security index cards shall be in an up-to-date status at all times.

(b) The whereabouts of all security index subjects should be known at all times. The residence and business addresses of security index subjects in priority I must be checked at least once each three months. The residence and business addresses of all other security index subjects must be checked at least once each six months, except those imprisoned and those who were included in the security index because of disaffection for the U. S. (defection to a Sino-Soviet-bloc country, including Cuba since 10-1-60) (see section 105G, item 3, volume IV, of this manual). The residence and employment of those who were included in the security index because of disaffection for the U. S. must be verified every thirty days. The case of any security index subject who is out of the country must be followed at least each six months to determine if he has returned to this country.

Perfect arrangements to be advised on a current basis of any indication that the subject is engaged in subversive activities, is exhibiting violent tendencies, or plans to change his residence or employment. Periodic checks to verify residence or business addresses may be made under appropriate pretext by telephone once each six months for those individuals in priority I and once each year for all other subjects. Pretext means may be utilized during other periodic checks conducted either personally or through appropriate sources.

(c) The physical characteristics and description of each security index subject shall be determined or verified by personal observation and the individual case file of each security index subject shall show that this has been done. If a security index subject has not been personally observed previously, this should be done during the next verification of the subject's residence and/or business addresses.

(d) Use form FD-154 in verifying addresses of security index subjects when its use will facilitate the checking of the addresses. When FD-122 is not used in verifying addresses, a notation must be made on the last FD-154, FD-122, or FD-128 in the subject's case file showing the subject's current residence and business addresses and the date such addresses were verified. This must be done to assure that the file will contain all information concerning the status of the case and that the file will come to the attention of the Agent or field supervisor to determine if additional action is warranted at the time of the verification of addresses. Each time that a security index subject's residence and employment are verified, the case must be reevaluated to assure that the subject is qualified for inclusion in the security index under the criteria for such inclusion. A notation to the effect that the case has been reviewed for this purpose shall be made in the file.

(e) If it is determined that the residence or business address or both have been changed from those appearing on the security index card, FD-122 should be submitted to the Bureau with the current residence or business address shown thereon. In such instances, FD-122 should show only those changes to be made on the security index card. If no changes are to be made on the security index card, PI-122 (FD-122) should be accompanied by form FD-366 for dissemination to Secret Service. Secret Service should be advised locally by dissemination of FD-366.
