3. Investigative procedures regarding subversive organizations, New Left groups, suspected subversive organizations, and communist fronts.

Develop fully and report on the following topics, where applicable:

a. Origin and scope. Date of formation; circumstances under which founded; identify the individual or individuals responsible for organizing the group; identify all chapters and give their locations.

b. Whether incorporated. Determine if the organization has filed incorporation papers with appropriate state officials.

c. Aims and purposes. Determine whether the organization advocates violence, resistance, or unlawful activity.

d. Location of headquarters.

e. Officers. List principal officers, including the board of directors, and give appropriate characterization of each, showing subversive affiliation.

f. Membership.

(1) General. Ascertain estimated membership. Whenever possible, secure membership lists, mailing lists, or other records showing affiliation with the organization. Secure an accurate description of all lists to eliminate confusion as to the exact identity or significance of any list.

(2) CPUSA. Details of semiannual reports are not to contain membership statistics. The following instructions are for cover pages.

(a) Cover pages must contain the latest statistics on total CPUSA members in the district. Set forth on separate page or pages. Offices covering district headquarters should submit the following figures: for the entire district, for individual states, or for the portion of a state covered by the district. Auxiliary offices which have been authorized to submit this data by letter should include membership figures in such letters and submit them to the Bureau and office of origin on April 1 and October 1. The office of origin is responsible for obtaining complete figures from auxiliary offices.

(b) Each office must show for its territory the following: number of Negroes in CPUSA; name and title of each Negro who has a national-level position or who has a district-level position above that of club chairman. When possible, membership totals should be broken down as to nationality, sex, employment, veteran status, and membership in unions.

(c) Include an evaluation of the reliability of figures furnished by each source and of the final figures. Use of only one source is not acceptable unless facts demonstrate such information is the most reliable available. Also include totals of positively identified CPUSA members and tentatively identified members within the six-month period preceding the report.

(d) Explain in detail any increase or decrease in membership. Include results of membership recruiting drives. Endeavor to ascertain results of national registration drives.

(e) Include whether all persons identified as CPUSA members in the report who reside within the area covered by the reporting office are listed in the Administrative Index (ADEX), or are informants or sources. List any exception by name and show status of investigation and whether the name has been furnished to the Bureau for indexing.

g. Official organ, if any, and other literature.

(1) May be obtained through confidential mailboxes, panel sources, and confidential informants.

(2) Appropriately identify all such literature.

(3) Promptly furnish to the Bureau at least one copy of each pertinent piece of literature.

h. General activities.
