Re: Michael Halsey Brown

On January 8, 1965, Mrs. R. S. Lowrey, 1920 Awapuhi Street, Honolulu, advised as follows:

Mrs. S. H. Snodgrass, a woman in her early 60s, has resided next door at 1926 Awapuhi for at least 12 years. Mrs. Lowrey stated she has no idea of Mrs. Snodgrass's background and does not know if she is a divorcee or widow. She related that Mrs. Snodgrass lives a quiet life, has a substantial home, and enjoys a good reputation in the community. She related that Mrs. Snodgrass has a divorced daughter, Mrs. Brown, who is a local school teacher. Mrs. Brown formerly lived on Cahu Avenue and her two children, Mike and Leilani, have occasionally stayed with the grandmother. Mrs. Lowrey stated she believes Leilani Brown is presently in school in England. Mike Brown, about 20 years of age, has recently returned to Honolulu to live with his grandmother. He has been in one of the branches of the armed services for some three years and is now attending the University of Hawaii. Mrs. Lowrey stated Mrs. Snodgrass had expressed relief that her grandson had enrolled at the university, explaining that when he had graduated from high school he had not wanted to go on with his schooling.

On January 13, 1965, HN T-1 advised as follows:

Dr. Dorothy Brown has taught in the English Department of the University of Hawaii at Honolulu for at least 13 years. She is presently Assistant Professor at the university and resides in the Kalia Apartments. Mrs. Brown is a divorcee and has two children, Mike, aged 22, and Leilani, about 17.

During the early 1950s Dorothy Brown resided on campus with her two children. Mike was a large boy for his age and his mother found him a difficult problem as far as discipline was concerned. When he was some 14 years of age he was caught burglarizing the ROTC Armory on the campus. The following year he was sent to Arkansas to live with his maternal grandfather and finish high school there. Mrs. Brown has related in the past that Mike is fond of guns and has been a disciplinary problem and also experienced some trouble in the Army. Mike returned to Honolulu before the fall semester of 1964 and enrolled at the University of Hawaii as a freshman intending to major in political science. In late October 1964 the Associated Students of the University of Hawaii sponsored a political symposium featuring speakers of diverse political views including George Lincoln Rockwell, head of the American Nazi Party, a characterization of which is appended hereto.
