Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff.
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the field administrative or personnel officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmission of this report to headquarters.

To the field supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisor, to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is presumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

It is optional whether or not this fitness report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I.

Leave blank—for headquarters use only.

Name: WHEELER, Robert P. Date of birth: 4 Oct. 1915. Sex: M. Service designation: DI. Grade: GS-14. Station designation (current): Japan Labo. Due date of this report: 30 October 1955. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 31 October 1954 to 30 October 1955.

Section II—to be completed by field supervisor.

Current position: I. O. ( ) (FI). Date assumed responsibility for position: April, May, 1954.

State the specific assignments or tasks which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency):

a. As Acting Chief, FI, has been responsible for supervising all FT activities of the Base, and for coordinating those activities with Chief, PP.

b. With the above duties, has been concurrently Chief of Liaison Section and thus responsible for directing all liaison activities conducted by the Base.

c. Case officer for one important project involving a Japanese agent who is an influential member of the Diet.

By. Date. Posted by Control. Reviewed by FUD.

Section III—to be completed at headquarters only.

Do not complete—for headquarters use only.
