Office of the Deputy Attorney General

Washington, D.C. 20530

June 23, 1975

To: Harold R. Tyler, Jr., Deputy Attorney General

From: K. William O'Connor, Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

Subject: Interpretation of “Demand,” 28 C.F.R., § 16.21, et seq.—Action Memorandum

The meaning of “demand” is not indicated, beyond subpoena, in the C.F.R. sections indicated. This omission creates a need for an interpretation, for purposes of uniform Department of Justice reaction.

Outlines for inquiry proceedings were agreed upon between the White House and the Senate Select Committee on June 13, 1975, and a copy of those procedures was furnished to the Department on June 16, 1975. Under those guidelines, there is a general undertaking by the Committee to identify witnesses to the Agency a reasonable time before the interviews occur. This general rule includes current and former employees; certain exceptions (not clearly defined) are indicated in the guidelines. The Committee is required to provide the witness with a copy of the procedures, and “relevant waivers of secrecy oaths or agreements for the purpose of this inquiry.” The Committee is required to give prior notice of an interview, generally, specifying: (a) subject area; (b) periods of employment; (c) the date set for the interview.

Since these structured procedures, taken with the rules of the Subcommittee, may create a requirement of testimony upon witnesses, it seems to me clear that the paragraphs of 28 C.F.R., § 16.21, et seq., which refer to “demand” should be interpreted to include any request by any Committee staff member to interview any employee, former employee, or other person connected with the Department of Justice.

This interpretation requires certain action: (1) that the witness be authorized to speak under § 16.23 by an appropriate Department official; and (2) that an appropriate Department official be designated. I would think that the appropriate Department official for the FBI should be the Director of the FBI or the FBI General Counsel, in coordination with this office.
