Federal Bureau of Investigation

Date: 6/9/69

On June 4, 1969, Special Agents of the Chicago FBI Office surrounded the Black Panther Party (BPP) Headquarters, 2350 West Madison Street, Chicago, after receiving information that George Sams, Jr., wanted for local charges of murder and other lesser charges at New Haven, Connecticut, was located at that address. A telephone call was made to this headquarters and individuals in the building were subsequently ordered out of the building when they refused to cooperate with FBI Agents after being told over the telephone of the purpose of the action being taken.

Upon being ordered from the building, an individual who identified himself as “O.D.” indicated he was coming out and subsequently did leave the building. This individual was later identified as Patrick Keen and he was brought to the command car where he was permitted to give instructions for his fellow members to leave the building.

Six individuals came out of the BPP Headquarters on instructions of FBI Agents and Patrick Keen. As these individuals left the building, each shouted obscenities at Agents on the street and they all made statements about “the revolution,” with several stating “in the revolution, one wins or dies.” Patrick Keen, during his efforts to get his fellow members from the building, also made the statement that “in the revolution, one wins or dies.” He also stated that people in the building were “true revolutionaries” and would not come out of the building on orders of the FBI or any other law enforcement official but would die before they would obey. He stated they are not subject to “your laws.” He also said over the bullhorn, to his comrades, that they should come out so they could work for the revolution.

In addition to the “O.D.” and the six persons who came from the building, there was an eighth person who was detained as he entered the headquarters. Just prior to the telephone call being made, and he was later

6/4/69

Chicago, Illinois

SAC W. W. Johnson and SAs Ralph D. Harmon, John T. O’Neal and Earnie L. Waldrup made, etc.

6/6/69
