5 September 1963

Memorandum for Record

Subject: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, 5 September 1963

Present: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone.

Mr. FitzGerald was present for Items 1 and 2.  
Mr. Colby was present for Items 3–5.

1. Cuba – Agent Operations

Mr. FitzGerald commented on several reports from inside Cuba, which indicate that the morale of the people was raised considerably as a result of the Santa Lucia and Casilda sabotage operations. He cautioned that some of these reports might be somewhat overdrawn, but it appears certain that the sabotage did have a beneficial effect in this way.

He then discussed with the Group the general philosophy of these operations, and plans for the future within the capabilities of the available agents. Among other things, he pointed out that there is a limited number of targets on or near the coast and that the most attractive ones are, at the same time, the most difficult to attack; the available teams are not yet ready for assignments of this difficulty. On the other hand, smaller and more vulnerable targets are being selected. It is proposed to hit a lumber mill in September.

Mr. FitzGerald went on to say, in connection with the scope and pace of these operations, that it would not be desirable to knock out all available targets in the near future, even if it were possible to do so. This is because this type of attack is designed to stimulate resistance inside Cuba, apart from whatever intrinsic value it might have.

The Group agreed with the approach. They felt that the reaction to the two missions in August was most satisfactory and that it is essential to keep this sort of thing up, selecting a limited number of worthwhile targets. Mr. Bundy commented particularly on the silence that had been maintained by the agents, which has resulted in the noise level being of a different character than might have been expected otherwise. Mr. FitzGerald was authorized to proceed with a relatively soft target, such as a lumber mill.

See special minutes for additional items
