(d) Continued coverage under the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act unless you have previously executed a written waiver of said coverage. This organization is presently authorized to bear a portion of the premium cost; you will bear the remainder. Your financial contribution will be effected either by payroll deduction or by direct remittance at periodic intervals to be established by this organization.

(o) Sick and annual leave equal to and subject to the same rules and regulations applicable to Government-appointed employees. Annual leave may only be taken at times and places approved in advance by appropriate Government representatives. All accrued but unused leave credited to your former account as an appointed employee of this organization will be transferred to the leave account established for you under this agreement.

10. Offset. Emoluments (including benefits in kind) received from or through your cover activities are the property of the U.S. Government. Procedurally, such emoluments will be offset against amounts due you under this agreement and are acknowledged to be payment by the Government hereunder and for Federal income tax purposes. You will render signed reports to this organization every six (6) months, indicating all cover emoluments received during the reporting period. Negative reports covering the same period will be submitted if no cover emoluments are received. Failure to submit timely reports may result in suspension of any contractual payments due you hereunder. If cover emoluments exceed those due you under this contract, you will dispose of the excess amount in conformance with Governmental instructions.

11. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U.S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.

12. Secrecy. (a) You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all classified information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the espionage laws of the United States and other applicable laws and regulations.

(b) In the event you marry or remarry during the term of this contract, you agree to advise this organization at least one hundred twenty (120) days in advance of such contemplated marriage, or otherwise as soon as known, and to furnish such personal history data on your prospective spouse as may be required by this organization. You understand and agree that should this organization determine that your marriage would limit or otherwise impair your usefulness to the Government, this contract may be terminated.
