Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II—Operational Information. PRQ No. JU-232.

Instructions to Case Officer:

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.
2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless the requestor furnishes answers to all questions in PRQ Parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of FR 10-215, paragraphs 6a, 8, 12b, and 17d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215.
3. Three completed copies of PRQ Part I, including a copy in the subject's handwriting if possible, and two completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.
4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRQ format in two copies.
5. Fill in all items if information is obtainable. If an item is not applicable, write “NA.” If additional space is required for an item, use the reverse side of the page keyed to the appropriate item number.

1. Crypto nym: SKEWER//
2. Pseudonym.

Section I—Contact and Development

1. Indicate how, when, where, why, and by whom the subject was first contacted or developed.

Case Officer first met Subject through the aid of Francisco A. LOPEZ Dominguez who, as U.S. Collector of Customs in charge, is vitting of CO's true status. LOPEZ arranged a lunch for three at the Zipperlie Restaurant. There were two purposes: to meet Subject as part of SKIPPER'S general requirement to know outstanding figures, and to pave the way for contact in accordance with the POA that already had been requested. The initial meeting was in March 1960; the POA was received on 24 June 1960 in JW-45.

2. Indicate whether subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

Yes—to any senior officer. Subject is 57 years old.

3. List other case officers who have handled subject or whom he knows or has known, giving names by which they have been known.

Hene.
