They had been called hoodlums and thugs all their lives. Thus, when they heard what the newcomers called the Panthers, they wanted to know what these “hoodlums” were up to, carrying guns. Thus, the Panther message was spread in the black community almost entirely because of press distortions.

As to press accounts calling the Panthers militant and anti-white, these were false charges. The documents below indicate that the Panthers are not a racist organization and will form coalitions with white groups who are willing to support the Panther platform and who will work to end racism.

The Mulford bill was enacted into law as a special bill and has been used, predictably since then, to harass members of the Black Panther Party. Attorneys feel that the bill is clearly unconstitutional. However, as will be shown below, lack of funds, as well as the nature of the court system, prevent the unconstitutionality from being adequately tested. Eight members of the Black Panther Party served jail sentences on the one charge. The rest did not serve time because the district attorney indicated that if eight would serve eight years he would not press charges against the rest. It should be noted that this type of justice is not limited to the Black Panthers. Every day black people are arrested on charges which are false or unsubstantiated. Because of lack of funds many of them serve jail sentences. Many of those who can afford attorneys are found guilty by all-white juries and judges. Since Sacramento, the Panthers have been constantly harassed. See below for further details.

The Murder of Bobby Hutton and the Arrest of the Panther 8

On Sunday, April 7, the Black Panther Party had planned a picnic barbecue to raise money for the defense of Huey P. Newton. Saturday night Eldridge Cleaver, Bobby Hutton, and a number of other Panthers were driving around Oakland to collect food that the sisters had prepared. Their mission was interrupted when several squad cars of Oakland police intercepted and ambushed the Panthers in their own community. Today, Eldridge Cleaver is behind bars, possibly for life. Bobby Hutton is dead—murdered by the Oakland police when he tried to surrender from the gas-filled, burning house. Seven other Panthers plus Cleaver face Grand Jury indictments for attempted murder, indictments based on false information provided by the police and extorted confessions from the imprisoned Panthers.

The following information came out in an interview a San Francisco Chronicle reporter had with Cleaver in jail:

Bobby Hutton, aged 17, was killed by police bullets—he was told to run for a squad car and, while his hands were raised and he was unarmed, officers shot him down.

With one or two exceptions, the arsenal of guns the police claim was taken from the scene of the shoot-out was actually taken from a marked Panther’s car’s locked trunk, miles away, and hours later.

Following the police ambush of the Panthers, cops made no attempt to immediately allow Cleaver and Hutton out of the house they were holed up in. Instead they poured a fusillade of bullets in through its walls.

Eldridge Cleaver was not carrying a gun. “I was never armed,” he said, “because Huey P. Newton had laid down orders that, as a Panther, I should not be armed.”

Although the police and the racist press repeatedly tried to call the ambush a Panther set-up, within two minutes after the police had reached the house...
