The main) organize the library of the Communist throughout Cuba. His uncle told him that Khrushchev promised Fidel Castro that he have missiles in Cuba (this was a few months ago). Also, his uncle said that the Russians have spies in the Pentagon that pull for Fidel Castro, and they have already plenty of agents belonging to the Communists in all branches of importance of the U.S. Government, and even in the CIA. He said that all people in Cuba that worked with the CIA were picked up through their agents and those presently working with same are being watched closely. Kunero told me that he is kind of suspicious of Eugenio, his being Cuban and because a sort of sixth sense, as he calls it.

August 19/61

Bart told me last week that Juez Garceran was the one that sent the letter you received to Carlos Prio, as he recognized the handwriting on both envelopes. The above judge told Bart that some have been given salvo conductos to Mexico and that the Italian Embassy is emptying out same. This judge is the one that made the list of people held up in the Italian Embassy, that you received from Bart. Bart told me that he thought that Alberto Del Junco (MDC), that I in touch with, is getting aid from someone from the U.S. Government. Del Junco's sister saw him this past Friday night at his home and gave him $5,000.00 in U.S. dollars to send through the PO to Cuba to be given to her brother down there. She didn't want to disclose to Bart where and from whom she received the money, and only said that it was from his group (MDC) here. Bart thinks that this is not true. He sent the money down already.

Enclosed, marked in pencil, #7, find photostatic copies of letters sent to Oscar Diaz from former F. Castro President Urrutia and from a Macaroni that Bart knows. It is self-explanatory in Spanish and Bart says that he knows that the airstrips shown on the enclosed map are truly in existence. Bart received these photostatic copies to his suggesting same to Oscar Diaz upon delivery. I couldn't find this letter to you a few nights ago as he had to deliver same in an hour of the time I visited him. However, I suggested his trying to stand by when the letter was opened. Oscar Diaz liked Bart's idea of making photostatic copies of same and Bart asked for one for himself.
