United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W.C. Sullivan  
From: C.D. Brennan  
Date: 1/16/68

Subject: Jeannette Rankin Brigade information concerning (internal security)

Information has previously been disseminated to the White House and other interested agencies concerning the plans of the captioned organization, a nationwide group of women who are opposed to the war in Vietnam, to stage a demonstration in Washington, D.C., on 1/15/68 and present a petition to Congress demanding an end to the Vietnam war. This demonstration was held as scheduled on 1/15/68.

The demonstrators marched from Union Station to Union Square at the foot of Capitol Hill by way of Louisiana Avenue. The group was preceded by several individuals carrying a banner which read “End the War in Vietnam and Social Crisis at Home.” Several women followed the marchers carrying another banner which read “United States Women Unite, End the War in Vietnam.” Initially, the group carried other placards which read “End the War” and “LBJ Eats Imperial Margarine.” However, at the request of authorities, these placards were discarded.

Before the demonstrators left Union Station, a delegation of 15 women, including Jeannette Rankin, drove to the Capitol, where they presented a petition to Representative John W. McCormack, Speaker of the House of Representatives, and to Senator Michael J. Mansfield. The petition, entitled “A Petition to the 90th Congress,” pointed out the opposition of women of the United States to the ruthless slaughter in Vietnam and the persistent neglect of human needs at home, and demanded that Congress, as the first order of business, resolve to end the war in Vietnam and immediately withdraw all American troops. It called for Congress to use its power to help a sick society at home, to make reparations for destruction in Vietnam, and to listen to what the American people are saying and refuse the insatiable demands of the military-industrial complex.

Enclosure sent 1-16-68 H.S.

RHH: skr
