Black Panther Party (BPP), Peoria, Illinois.

United Front as well as the Panthers in order to achieve black leadership in the community. He advised that local Peoria Black Panther Party members Henry Howard and Mark Clark spoke on the Black Panther Party beliefs as well as their platform, program and rules of the party. He advised that the rally was very peaceful and no disturbances or violence arose as a result of the rally.

On September 2, 1969, who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised that at 5:00 PM on August 31, 1969, a rally was held at the Freedom Hall, 321 First Avenue, Peoria, Illinois, which was sponsored and promoted by affiliates of the Black Panther Party. Two members of the Black Panther Party in Peoria, Illinois, Henry Howard and Mark Clark, are currently engaging in recruiting activities for the Black Panthers and are considered vanguards for the Black Panthers to acquaint area Negroes with the purposes and aims of the Black Panthers. He advised that approximately one hundred area Negroes attended the Black Panther Party rally on August 31, 1969. He advised that the first speaker was Reverend Blaine Ramsey of the War Chapel, AME Church, Peoria, Illinois, who spoke about the freedom of speech and assembly but voiced disagreement with the Black Panther philosophy of violence to accomplish Negro equality. Reverend Ramsey remarked, however, that the voice of the Panthers should be heard and that their ideas and thoughts should be considered as long as they face issues on a democratic basis and present common issues in an open and peaceful manner rather than resort to violence and disruption. He advised another speaker at the rally was Horace Jones, a member of the United Front and the Black Student Alliance at Bradley University, Peoria, Illinois. He further advised that he is not aware of any Negro from the Peoria, Illinois area, with the exception of Mark Clark, who has actually joined the Black Panther Party. He advised that Henry Howard is from California and supposedly came to Peoria, Illinois, in order to recruit Negroes into the Black Panther Party. He advised that Clark, a long-time Peoria resident, has been selling the Black Panther paper within the Negro districts of Peoria for approximately two weeks and is concentrating on the Negro youth. He further publicized that if the area Negro organizations such as
