Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in mind their comparative relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations and/or training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Noel has ably administered a large Station and has shown great maturity, good judgment and tact in the day-to-day management and direction of Station activities and personnel. This has been achieved despite the physical location of Station staff personnel in a number of separated office sites.

Under the direction of Mr. Noel, a far-reaching and fruitful major operational program against the high-priority Cuban target has been undertaken, and Madrid Station today is making a substantial contribution in good operations and good intelligence information to the overall Agency effort. Another notable accomplishment directly attributable to Mr. Noel, and in part a reflection of his long years of service in Latin America, has been his professional handling personally of the Station operation involving Juan Peron. Interested CB components have stated categorically that Madrid Station coverage of Juan Peron and his activities is essential in satisfying existing intelligence requirements on Peronism.

Despite the Station's heavy diversion into Cuban and Latin American activities and State Department policy restrictions on internal political activities, Mr. Noel has encouraged the development of a long-range program involving activities against the Spanish Communist Party and clandestine contact with the Spanish political opposition.

Date: 4 Jul 1964. Signature of employee: T. M. H. Vásquez. Signature of employee date: APR 29.

1. By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date. Signature of employee.

2. By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Subject employee is in the field. Report will be shown to him upon his return to Headquarters. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature. Date. Official title: DC/WE. Name and signature: R. L. E. Billo.

3. By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: Concerns in the above assessment. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature. Official title: C/WE. Name and signature: William D. O'Ryan.

Date: 25 Apr 1965. Official title of reviewing official: C/WE. Typed or printed name and signature: WILLIAM D. O'Ryan.
