United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W.R. Wannall

From: H.C. Flemister, Jr.

Subject: Morton Halperin Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Request

Mr. Adams; Mr. Jenkins; Mr. McDermott; Mr. Mintz.

Date: 5/7/75

Mr. Wannall; Mr. J.C. Farrington; Mr. Cregar; Mr. Flemister; Mr. Schwartz.

This memorandum sets forth results of liaison contact with Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) concerning Halperin's request to be provided with a copy of a 1948 memorandum of understanding between the FBI and the CIA. Halperin has made this request of both CIA and the Bureau.

On 4/30/75 Mr. James Garrison, CIA, advised that after considerable research in CIA files, the following documents (copies attached) were located which pertain to Halperin's request. Copies have also been located in Bufiles:

(1) Memorandum for the Record dated 9/22/48 entitled “Cooperation and Liaison Between Federal Bureau of Investigation and Office of Policy Coordination, CIA,” which was prepared by CIA and originally classified Top Secret. This document has recently been downgraded by CIA to a classification of Secret.

(2) Letter dated 9/22/48 from Frank G. Wisner, Assistant Director for Policy Coordination, CIA, to Mr. D. Milton Ladd, Assistant to the Director, FBI, which forwarded as an enclosure the 9/22/48 memorandum described above. This item was also originally classified Top Secret but has been downgraded by CIA to Secret.

(3) Letter dated 10/2/48 from NOT RECORDED to Wisner which acknowledges that the arrangement set forth in the memorandum of 9/22/48 is satisfactory to the Bureau. This item was not classified in accordance with current classification standards but bears the marking “Personal and Confidential.”

Enclosures – 3

LFS:tdp (10)

Enclosure

Enclosure

Enclosure

Continued – Over

cc in 62-116395

Forwarding the arrangement set forth in the memorandum of 9/22/48 to be effective in accordance with current classification standards but bears the marking “Personal and Confidential.”
