Appendix

Organization of Afro-American Unity, Incorporated (OAAU)

On June 28, 1964, Malcolm X Little, founder and leader of the Muslim Mosque, Incorporated (MMI), publicly announced the formation of a new, all-Negro, militant civil rights action group to be known as the Organization of Afro-American Unity (OAAU), with himself as chairman. This announcement was made at a public rally held by the MMI in the Audubon Ballroom, Broadway and 166th Street, New York City.

A printed and published statement of basic OAAU aims read by Malcolm X at this meeting indicates that it shall include “all” people of African descent in the Western Hemisphere, as well as “our” brothers and sisters on the African continent. It is patterned after the “letter and spirit” of the Organization of African Unity established by African heads of state at Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in May 1963.

A recording of the remarks of Malcolm X at this meeting indicates that the aim of the OAAU is to eliminate differences between Negroes so they can work together for “human rights,” while the initial objective is to “internationalize” the American civil rights movement by taking it to the United Nations. Little condemned the nonviolent civil rights movement and claimed that Negroes should be taught to protect themselves when and if necessary. The OAAU will sponsor a program for Negroes in education, politics, culture, economics, and social reform.

Malcolm X was assassinated on February 21, 1965, while addressing an OAAU rally at the Audubon Ballroom, New York City.

On April 13, 1965, a confidential source advised that on March 26, 1965, the OAAU filed a Certificate of Incorporation with the Department of State, State of New York, Albany, New York, and henceforth, the organization’s true name will be Organization of Afro-American Unity, Incorporated.

On April 29, 1968, a second confidential source advised that the president and head of the OAAU is Ella Collins, a half-sister of the late Malcolm X, who resides a great majority of the time in Boston, Massachusetts.

On April 28, 1968, this same source advised that the OAAU headquarters is still located at 224 West 139th Street, New York, New York. Meetings have not been held in several months, and the organization appears to be breaking up and no longer functioning.
