Subject: Frederick C. Wickham, Jr. (Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.)

And for files on the cryptonyms cited in this document and searched for HMMA 20307 and other cables or dispatches cited in this document. As previously explained, the cryptonyms in HMMW 12454 have been researched. The dispatch was apparently written in haste and in truncated language without correct knowledge of the operational cryptonyms for the specific operations in Mexico City. The cryptonyms in the dispatch are the more generic cryptonyms for teltap operations, not for the then-current operations in Mexico City, which are in question.

There has been considerable interest over the years in locating any electronic surveillance tapes that would have been made during the period that Oswald visited Mexico (26 September–2 October 1963). A thorough search has been conducted of the DO’s record system as well as the index to retired records in an attempt to locate any tapes and/or find documentation to resolve their disposition. We have discussed this issue with operational experts, and their professional opinion is that most likely tapes such as these were never returned to Headquarters for retention. It was normal practice to recycle audio tapes after they had been listened to by transcribers and their transcripts made.

Messages between field stations and headquarters used operational jargon and shortened sentence structures that can sometimes allow for misinterpretations. Thus, possible confusion was created when references to what was being sent to headquarters referred to “tapes” but really intended “information” from tapes.

In our search efforts, we did locate approximately 185 audio surveillance tapes of the Cuban and Soviet embassies in Mexico City that were recorded during the immediate time following the assassination (22 November 1963 to January 1964). The fact that these tapes were retained and returned to Headquarters could account for the fact that some people recall that some tapes existed which were sent to Headquarters.
