Agency Report (AR 381-130; FM 30-17).

1. Name of subject or title of incident: MARTI, Manuel NMN. PVT E-1, US 52 737 780. DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

2. Date submitted: 18 November 1968.

3. Control symbol or file number: 8240-6019. 093 36 4601.

4. Report of findings.

(Developed character reference) On 20 October 1968, Lucien Todman, Computer Operator, Mutual Insurance Advisory Association (MIAA), 733 3rd Avenue, New York, New York, who resides in Apartment 4A, 1660 Andrews Avenue, Bronx, New York 10453, was interviewed at his residence concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has known subject slightly over two years stated substantially as follows:

Source and subject met in July 1966 when Source went to work at MIAA and was introduced to subject who gave Source his orientation regarding operations within the data processing at MIAA. Source and subject became good friends and rode to and from work together since they resided in the same general neighborhood. Subject visited Source's home socially on a few occasions, and they made visits to the United Nations and other cultural sites together. Source had not seen subject since May 1968 when he was drafted into the United States Army.

Subject is a native of Puerto Rico, but Source assumed that he moved to New York City when he was very young inasmuch as his knowledge of his native island was very limited, and he frequently queried Source, a Virgin Islander, concerning conditions in Puerto Rico. Source met subject's father, his sister, and his brother, names unknown, on the occasion of the death of subject's mother in early 1967, when Source attended the funeral. Subject appeared to be very much attached to his mother and until her death most of his time was spent between work and visiting his mother at the hospital. Subject never mentioned his father, and Source was not aware of his existence until they met briefly at the funeral of subject's mother. Subject's brother was in the military service at the time of his mother's death and is believed to have traveled from Germany for the funeral. Source believes that subject received a deferment from military service because of his mother's illness and the fact that his other brother was on active military duty. This gave Source the impression that subject was the family's main support. Subject is an avid reader and has a keen interest in history. He is a high school graduate and college night for a short period. Source believed that he attended New York City College and took courses in history. Subject is not known to have any organizational affiliations. He and Source have held many discussions concerning local and world politics and MARTI has always staunchly defended the basic democratic philosophy of the United States Government. They have also discussed the subject of Puerto Rico's welfare, independence or statehood and MARTI has expressed the view that Puerto Rico's welfare and that of its people is best served under the island's present commonwealth status. Subject is a very intelligent, friendly, industrious and responsible young man. He appears to be very mature in his thoughts and actions, and has had no known difficulty with creditors or law enforcement agencies. Source.

5. Typed name and or
