Office Memorandum, United Government.

To: Mr. A. H. Belmont  
From: Mr. W. A. Branigan  
Subject: Samuel Adason Jaffe, aka  
Date: November 20, 1958

Jaffe is Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) news reporter in New York who has had extensive contact with Soviets as representative of news-gathering media since 1951. He desired to travel to Red China and Soviet Russia as representative of “Life” and “Time” magazines in 1954. He contacted representatives of the Soviet Embassy on this occasion, and a representative of “Time” and “Life” indicated Jaffe had thought that he had been surveilled by the FBI. On 2-23-55, Jaffe corresponded with the State Department on the letterhead of “The Nation” concerning proposed travel. On 9-5-55, Jaffe indicated to a confidential source that he was permanent correspondent of “The Nation” on the West Coast. On 1-3-56, Jaffe was interviewed by Bureau Agents at his request and furnished information concerning his efforts to travel to China and Russia. There is no indication that Jaffe made this trip as the result of his contacts with the Soviets at that time.

On 10-30-57, Jaffe and a CBS camera crew made a feature film in our New York Office, which was telecast in two parts over certain CBS affiliate stations on 11-13 and 14-57. Jaffe was in charge of making this film. He reciprocated the cooperation shown him by the Bureau in making this film.

On 7-23-58, Jaffe contacted our New York Office and advised that he was inviting two Soviets to dinner that date. Informant advised at that time that Jaffe was in frequent contact with the Protocol Officer of the Soviet Delegation to the United Nations (UN). By letter dated 8-28-58, the Bureau approved a preliminary interview of Jaffe to determine his attitude toward the Bureau for cooperation in connection with his knowledge of and contacts with Soviets in New York.

Jaffe was interviewed 9-12-58 and was extremely cooperative. He talked at length concerning his association with and knowledge of five Soviets, two of whom are known intelligence agents and one considered a potential defector. Jaffe advised that his uncle, an actor, Samuel Charles Jaffe, was active on behalf of Russian war relief and sympathized with what proved to be communist-inspired organizations.

He has been interviewed by Bureau Agents. He was cooperative, denying membership in the Communist Party, but admitted membership in 14 communist front organizations.

Enclosure.

105-28333  
LML:hrt
