Agency Report (AR 381-130; FM 30-17).

Name of subject or title of incident: TRINKALA, Victor L. Date submitted: 22 April 1970. DPOB: 28 November 1950, Rochester, Pa. Control symbol or file number: PVT 186 42 1155; 9321. 6006.

4. Report of Findings.

(Military Service) On 22 April 1970, James Hutchinson, Sergeant, United States Army, Personnel Interviewer, Personal Action Branch (PAB), Overseas Replacement Station (ORS), United States Army Personnel Center (USAPC), Oakland Army Base (OAB), Oakland, California, was interviewed concerning Victor L. TRINKALA. Hutchinson, who interviewed TRINKALA several times prior to his discharge, stated substantially the following:

Hutchinson first met TRINKALA on 8 November 1969, when he requested to be interviewed by the PAB, ORS, because he was seventeen years old and did not want to go to the Republic of Viet Nam (RVN). A copy of the interview request is attached to the original copy of this agent's report as Exhibit ____. Subject stated that he had lied about his age to get into the Army, had changed his mind about the Army, and did not want to go to RVN. Source was of the impression that Subject had heard from someone that if he were under 18 years old, he would not have to go to RVN. Subject was told by Source that even though he was under 18 years old, he would be sent to RVN after his 18th birthday, which was just 20 days away. Subject was questioned by Source as to how he managed to get into the Army when he was under 18 years old without parental consent. Subject stated that the US Army Recruiter was knowledgeable of his age but assured Subject that he could “fix it up” so that he could enlist without parental consent. Subject was told by Source that he would have to provide conclusive evidence that he was under 18 years old; otherwise, he would be shipped to RVN. The interview was terminated at this point, and Subject was to return on 10 November 1969, pending verification of his age.

On 13 November 1969, Source received a message from Sixth Army Headquarter (Headquarters) (Exhibit ____) through the Message Center (MC), USAPC, OAB, requesting that Subject's orders to RVN be cancelled pending advisement from the Department of the Army and at the request of one R. C. Nagell, former Captain, Special Agent, Counter Intelligence Corps. This message was sent to Sixth Army Headquarters by way of Western Union Telegraph Company (WUTC) from New York, New York, by R. C. Nagell. Source was not too concerned with this request because Subject was already on “hold status” pending verification of his age. This was the first time Source had heard of R. C. Nagell.

On 14 November 1969, Source received a message from the MC, USAPC, that was sent by way of WUTC from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, from Subject's mother, Mrs. Dorothy Trinkala, 202 Basco Street, Pittsburgh, a copy of which is attached to this agent's report as Exhibit ____. The message stated that Subject was not of age and his mother did not give her consent for him to join the Army. Subject was then called in for another interview and he was asked to have a registered letter sent to USAFC with his birth certificate.

5. Typed name and organization of special agent.
