Field Reassignment Questionnaire.

Name of employee: [REDACTED]. Date: 27 Dec. 65. Name of supervisor: Michael Tanes. Date: 28 Dec. 1965.

Authentication of signatures and verification of items 1 through 7, below. Name and signature of official at headquarters authorized to authenticate signatures and verify data in items Nos. 1 through 7, below: [REDACTED].

To be completed by employee.

1. Date of birth: 16/6/21.  
2. Grade: 14.  
3. Current position title and grade: Operations Officer.  
4. Service designation (if known): D.  
5. Current station or field base: Stevensburg.  
7A. Date of PCS arrival in field on this tour: 21-8-64.  
7B. Expected date of departure from field: 20 Mar.  
7C. Expected date of arrival at headquarters PCS: 20107/26.

Other duty stations or field bases during current tour.

Description of major duties during the current tour of duty:

a. Case officer for a large-scale liaison activity in the CA field.  
b. Station-functional officer for media activity.  
c. Station functional officer for university and university student field.  
d. Supervises staff agent concerned with university targets.  
e. Case officer for two unilateral media operations.  
f. Case officer for a political action research project.

Preference for next assignment.

Write a brief description of the type of work you would prefer for your next assignment if it differs from that indicated in item No. 8 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choices.

I list the choices in Question 9 because of the limited opportunity for achievement in operations. One choice is to continue to work for the same agency. In other public service, I have five-year college funding, a 10-year, which should be used to OER; I have maintained law, political and business contacts which experienced students can use. Effective to 3.10; my educational background is operational since I hold public utility to DDI.

Indicate that training you believe you should need in order to increase your value to the organization.
