Training Evaluation—Basic Orientation. Course No. 21.

Section I: Identifying Information. Name of student: FOX, Jorise. Date of birth: 9 October 1928. Sex: SE. Date of course: 6–23 September 1955. No. of students: 120. Grade or range: CS-7. Office: WR. EOD date: June ’55. Identification Specialist.

Section II: Characteristics of the Course. Material in this course is presented primarily by lecture and exhibit; several speakers and discussions are also held. The rating on Introduction to Intelligence is determined by the results of one multiple choice test, based on lecture material; the rating on Communism and the USSR is determined by one multiple choice test covering the lecture and readings.

Section III: Objectives.

A. The Basic Orientation Course is designed to provide the student with information in the following areas:

1. Introduction to Intelligence.

a. Organization for national security, with emphasis on the intelligence community and the organization and mission of CIA as it fits into the whole national security effort.

b. The principles and methods of intelligence, emphasizing the substantive components of CIA, considering the types of information, and the collecting, processing, and disseminating functions.

c. An introduction to clandestine activity, with emphasis on the functions of the clandestine services.

2. Communism and the USSR. This deals with Marxist theory, the history of Socialism and Communism, Communist activities outside the USSR, history and geography of Russia, political structure of the USSR, Soviet foreign policy, and potentialities and vulnerabilities of the USSR.

B. Throughout the three weeks of the course discussions and conferences deal with the American Theaks.

Section IV: Student Achievement Ratings. The numbers placed in the columns below show how many students received each rating. An asterisk (*) shows the rating this student received.

Introduction to Intelligence: 64 hours; Poor: 4; Average: 9; Satisfactory: 30; Excellent: 45*; Superior: 32.

Communism and the USSR: 56 hours; Poor: 2; Average: 14; Satisfactory: 40*; Excellent: 37; Superior: 29.

Section V: Comments. Indicate any strong and weak points of the student, on anything that may have influenced his performance in the course. Continue comments on deceived time. For the Director of Training: signature of Chief Instructor.
