Section C. Narrative Comments.

The comments noted in Mr. Fox's previous Fitness Report to the effect that a little more experience with the Indonesian Desk (to which he was assigned in mid-October 1967) should make him a strong member have been more than amply justified during this period. With minimum supervision or direction, Mr. Fox undertook the task of absorbing and systematizing the complexities of Djakarta Station operations against communists and other left-wing elements. The result has been increased comprehension on the part of Headquarters regarding these efforts.

Mr. Fox also contributed materially in the way of preliminary operational research, support, recommendations and follow-through on two operational ploys conducted by Headquarters: one, an attempted recruitment of a communist functionary in a third country; and the other the turnover of a former Djakarta Station asset now in the U.S. to another agency. Mr. Fox was further involved in studies to determine the feasibility of capitalizing on other agency assets for entrees to the communist movement not only in Indonesia but also the Philippines, Malaysia, and Singapore. His performance in these functions was characterized by thoroughness and imagination.

Mr. Fox is an extremely capable, intelligent officer with whom it is a genuine pleasure to serve, both professionally and personally. He is intellectually.

Certification and Comments by Employee. I certify that I have spent Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 25 May 1967. Signature of employee: J. Khamis Jr.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: Three. Date: 25 May 1967. Official title of supervisor: Acting Chief, FE/PMI/I. William T. Makino.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I would have rated Mr. Fox about the same. He at times suffers from an inability to articulate his thoughts clearly. There is no question of his professional grasp of his field, however. His feel for CP penetration operations unusually sharp and he is capable of playing a significant ops role in a field assignment.

Date: 23 May 1967. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, FE/PMI. Type or printed name and signature: Clyde R. McAvoy.
