Section E. General.

Name: Noel, James A. Date of birth: 19 March 1957. Sex: M. Service designation: DI. Official position title: Area Ops Ofcr—Branch Chief. Grade: 08-15. Date report due in OP: 9 Nov 1957. Period covered by this report: 21 Oct 56–20 Oct 57. Type of report: Initial; Reassignment—Supervisor; Manual; Reassignment—Employee; Special (specify).

Section F. Certification.

For the rater: I certify that this report represents my best judgment of the individual being rated. Supervisor's official titles: ABC/WB. This date: 14 Oct 57. Rating number: Yes; No.

The reviewing official: I have reviewed this report and noted any difference of opinion in attached memo. This date: 15 Oct 57. Official title of reviewing official: J. C. King, JCKing, Chief, WLB.

Estimate of potential.

1. Potential to Assume Greater Responsibilities

Directions: Consider the abilities of this individual and type of assignment, rate the employee's potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

1. Already above the level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

2. Has reached the highest level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

3. Making progress... but needs more time before he can be trained to assume greater responsibilities.

4. Ready for training in assuming greater responsibilities?

5. Will probably adjust quickly to more responsible duties without further training.

6. Already assuming more responsibilities than expected at his present level.

7. An exceptional person who is one of the few who should be considered for early assumption of higher level responsibilities.

2. Supervisory Potential

Directions: Answer this question: Is this person the ability to be a supervisor? Yes. No. If your answer is Yes, indicate below your opinion or guess of the level of supervisory ability this person will reach after suitable training. Indicate your opinion by placing the number of the descriptive rating below which comes closest to expressing your opinion in the appropriate column. If your rating is based on observing him supervise, note your rating in the “actual” column. If based on opinion of his potential, note the rating in the “potential” column.

Descriptive Ratings. Number.

0. Have no opinion on his supervisory potential in this situation.

1. Believe individual would be a weak supervisor in this.
