Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance: Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate strengths made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. Kent's greatest strengths are a good analytical mind, skillful handling of agent personnel, fluency in languages, intimate background knowledge of targets and assets, strong loyalty up and down, good sense of humor. He has the ambition to go on to do jobs calling for greater responsibility, and he has amply demonstrated his readiness to move on to such jobs.

On occasion he may forget that good staff work includes not only defining problems but recommending sound solutions as well. This is only a transitory weakness that will be corrected by more experience and training.

The undersigned would be happy to have Mr. Kent as a colleague during any future assignment.

Certification and Comments.

By employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report. Date: 1 August 1961. Signature of employee: William M. Kent.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Mr. Kent departed JMWAVE prior to the preparation of this report. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Other (Specify). Report made within last 90 days. Date: 2 August 1961. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Base, JMWAVE. Typed or printed name and signature: R. K. Reynolds.

By reviewing official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official. Date: 2 August 1961. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WH/4. Typed or printed name and signature: R. K. Davis.
