24. If you are a veteran, are you a registered veteran in the United States or territory of the United States? (If yes, provide the specific qualifications and evidence that you do not meet to be registered.)

Full name: Gordon B. Dunlap. Present address: 321 Corona Street, San Antonio, Texas. Business or occupation: Motion picture distributor.

Full name: Lee R. Bloma. Present address: 903 N. Canal, Carlsbad, New Mexico. Business or occupation: Retired PSO.

Full name: H. B. Gregory. Present address: 1700 Shroyer Road, Dayton, 9, Ohio. Business or occupation: Official, Nat. Cash Register.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing X in proper column.

23. Was it made of your present employer regarding your civilian qualifications, etc.? Answer: Yes.

28. Are you a citizen of or do you owe allegiance to the United States? Answer: Yes.

27. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party, or any Communist organization?

29. Are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization, activity, committee, group, or combination of persons which advocates or approves the use of military acts of force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or seeks to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means? Answer: Yes.

If your answer to question 27, 28, or 29 above is “Yes,” state in Item 39 the names of all such organizations, associations, movements, groups, or combinations of persons and dates of membership. Give complete details of your activities therein and make any explanation you desire regarding your membership or activities therein.

30. Since your birthday, have you ever been arrested, indicted, convicted, as a defendant in a criminal proceeding, committed, injured, or imprisoned, or placed on probation, or have you been ordered to deposit, bail, or collateral for the violation of any law, police regulation, or ordinance, excluding minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $25 or less was incurred?

If your answer is “Yes,” list all such cases under Item 39 below. Give in each case (1) the date, (2) the nature of the offense or violation, (3) the name and location of the court, and (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If appointed, your fingerprints will be taken. Answer: Yes.

31. Have you ever been discharged or forced to resign, for reasons involving dynamite or gun factory service, from any position?

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 39 the name and address
