Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I–VIII

April 24, 1978

Volume VII, July 1962–August 1962

1. Cable dated July 2, 1962, to Director from San Juan. Clear that Manolo Ray was looked upon with great favor by the Puerto Rican government. No evidence, however, that the Puerto Rican government is supporting the MRP. Believe record will show that while our past contact with Ray has not always been a happy one, it has always revealed Ray's intentions.

2. Memorandum for Chief, Task Force W, from Alfonso Rodriguez, dated 12 July 1962. Subject: Manolo Ray Rivero.

“Ray has indicated to WAVE sources that whereas he is not persona grata with the Agency, he has important political connections in Washington and is thus kept informed of much of the Agency's activities. Ray's new organization is not to be military or engage in military thrusts against Cuba because military activity is presently controlled by the Agency and cannot be wrested from it at this time. Ray's new organization will cooperate with the Consejo and attempt to move in on it with the ultimate aim of taking over and dominating it.”

3. Memorandum for Chief, Task Force W, from Alfonso Rodriguez (Alfonson Rodriguez), dated 25 July 1962. Subject: Manolo Ray meeting in New York.

Ray was sorry he joined FRD prior to the April invasion. Let the tide of time suck him in and take him along. Obvious to him that the show was run in good faith but with bad judgment. Ray discusses hope that JURE will be a long-lasting organization in Cuba. Ray's political views are assessed as democratically oriented, and if he became ruler of Cuba, his greatest preoccupation would be with economic progress. Rodriguez says Ray is not to be underestimated. Commands respect because he is well educated and has something to contribute.

4. Ray begins to give information about possible defectors from Castro. Cable dated 25 July 1962 reports that Ray told Willard R. Nauman that Armando Hart Davalos is a feasible target.

Former manager, King's Ranch, Cuba.

5. Additional information to a July 1962 memorandum from Jack Malone, named on interoffice route slip. Information obtained from different sources, from persons close to Ray, and their views are completely reliable. Ray did not leave Castro's cabinet because of ideological or policy discrepancies with Castro but because of a heated discussion with the Minister of Labor, Martinez Sanchez, who almost shot Ray after a Cabinet meeting. The sources of information agree that Ray is not any different than Castro. Some of them believe he may not have completely severed his relations with Castro and think he may still be in contact with him. Diplomatic relations were suspended but recognition was not withdrawn.

6. Memorandum from Jack Malone, dated July 16, 1962. Cover letter addressed to C. Mechen: Says Ray's ethics are poor and he is capable of sacrificing his own kin and friends if such sacrifice turns out in favor of his personal plans. Claims Ray is irresponsible and ignorant of present international conditions and particularly of the Cuban social and economic reality.
