Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggested ways to improve work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide basis for determining future personnel actions.

Notice has been in charge of station registry since 21 Aug. This has been a period of dramatic change in the station and especially in our paper management. He has responded well to these changes and shows a degree of adaptability that beyond all others. His handling of our recent “holdings” inventory, his increasing efforts to reduce unnecessary holdings, and his knowledge of his business (R) have made him a valued addition to our shrinking team. In this short rating period there has been little opportunity for me to observe his supervisory abilities, but the lack of any problem on this count coming to my attention means to me that he is doing well. Another six months should tell us more on this score.

Certification and Comments.

1. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report. By employee. Signature of employee. 6 Oct. 61. Mailed 01-14-61.

2. Months employer has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation. By supervisor.

Employer under my supervision less than 50 days. Report made within last 50 days.

Other (specify). Date: 6 Oct 61. Official title of supervisor: Uda Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: Wheeler, Robert P.

By reviewing official.

I would have given this employer about the same evaluation. I would have given this employer a higher evaluation. I would have given this employer a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employer’s performance. Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 6 Oct 61. Official title of reviewing official: Uda Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: Wheeler, Robert P.
