Each priority III security index case must be opened for verification of residence and employment on an annual basis. In connection with this verification, the case file must be thoroughly reviewed for any necessary action, including a reevaluation of the subject's status. This will include removal from priority III or possible redesignation as a priority I or priority II security index subject.

Where necessary, pertinent information may be submitted to the Bureau or other field offices through preparation of a letterhead memorandum. When pertinent information is submitted to the Bureau for dissemination to interested agencies of the executive branch of the U.S. Government, forms FD-305 and FD-376 should accompany the cover communication transmitting the letterhead memorandum. Refer to 87D 7a (3) (a) IV (D) for instructions regarding change of office of origin.

(d) Cases of subjects recommended for security index.

I. Pending inactive.

(A) If all active investigation is completed at the time FD-122 is forwarded to the Bureau.

(B) Set forth lead to follow the Bureau for security index card and, if approved, for dissemination of report to Secret Service.

II. Closed.

(A) Upon receipt of security index card from the Bureau and dissemination to Secret Service.

(B) Thereafter follow by administrative tickler for investigative report as in (c) above.

(e) Subjects not in security index who are not to be included therein.

I. Closed.

(A) Prior to closing, instructions under 87D 6b (7) pertaining to interview must be complied with.

(8) Content.

(a) In order to insure completeness of investigation, the following items should be considered pertinent to an investigation, and subsequent reporting of such should be handled under topical headings where appropriate.

I. Background.

(A) Birth date.

(B) Citizenship status.

(C) Education.

(D) Marital status.

(E) Military service record, domestic or foreign, including type of discharge, citations, etc.

(F) Identification record.

(G) Employment.

(H) Residence.

(I) Status of health, if known.

II. Connections with Communist Party, other basic revolutionary groups, front groups, black nationalist extremist groups, and/or other subversive organizations or unorganized groups.

(A) Information concerning admission to revolutionary group, including sponsors, etc.

(B) History of activity in, attendance at meetings of, and positions held in subversive movement with which subject is identified.
