Fitness Report (Part II) Potential.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor, and to appropriate career management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is not to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision for at least 90 days. If less than 90 days, hold and complete after the 90 days have elapsed. If this is the initial recent on the employee, however, it must be completed and forwarded to the OF no later than 30 days after the due date indicated in item 8 of Section E below.

Section E. General.

1. Name: Wheeler, Robert P.  
2. Date of birth: 4 Oct 1915.  
3. Sex: M. DI.  
B. Office/Division/Branch of Assignment: DDP/FE/FI/Hqs.  
7. Grade: GS-15.  
8. Official position title: Chief, FE/FI. (To be filled by the initial R.E.)  
D. Date report due in OF: Dec 1957–Aug 1958.  
10. Type of report: Initial, X. Assignment-Supervisor. Special (Specify).

Certification.

For the rater: I certify that this report is based upon my best judgement of the individual being rated.

A. This date: 2 Sept 1958.  
Rating and number: William V. Broe.  
C. Supervisor's official title: Deputy Chief, FE Division.

B. For the reviewing official: I have revised this report and noted any difference of opinion in attached memo.

A. This date: 2 Sept 1958.  
Rating and number: Alfred C. Ulmer, Jr.  
C. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, FE Division.

Estimate of Potential.

1. Potential to Assume Greater Responsibilities.

Directions: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee's potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

1. Already above the level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.
