U.S. Department Select Committee on Investigative Activities

Re: Interview of foreign assistant to the Director John P. Work by SEC staff members

Mr. Uhr (Uahr) was also questioned about the procedures he followed in securing Mr. J. Edgar Hoover's office after Mr. Hoover's death. Mr. Uhr (Uahr) told the staff members that the article, which appeared in The Washington Star by columnist Jeremiah O'Leary, was an accurate recording of what took place following Mr. Hoover's death. The staff members requested Mr. Uhr (Uahr) review in considerable detail exactly what he did to secure Mr. Hoover's office following his death.

The question of former Associate Director Clyde Tolson's will was also raised by staff members. Mr. Uhr (Uahr) advised the interviewers that Hillery Tolson, brother of Clyde Tolson, had not decided at that time whether he was going to contest the will.

Mr. Uehr (Uhr) was also asked about the whereabouts of Miss Helen Candy, former Executive Assistant to Mr. Hoover. He advised that he did know her whereabouts and telephone number but promised he would not reveal them to anyone. Mr. Uhr (Uahr) was asked whether Miss Candy would agree to being interviewed by staff members of the SEC. He advised that he would attempt to persuade Miss Candy to agree to being interviewed on the condition he be allowed to be present during the entire interview. The staff members interposed no objection to that arrangement, and Mr. Uehr (Uhr) indicated that he would advise Mr. Gitenstein of Miss Candy's desires under the conditions stipulated above.

On May 12, 1975, Mr. Uhr (Uahr) telephonically advised that he recalled some additional topics covered during the interview of May 9, 1975, which he desired to furnish to the FBI. Specifically, Mr. Uhr (Uahr) recalled that he was asked if he knew who prepared the “surprising letters” the Bureau had raffled in the Socialist Workers Party case. Mr. Uhr (Uahr) advised the staff members that he did not know but presumed these letters were prepared in the Document Section of the FBI Laboratory.
