Central Intelligence Agency, Washington 25, D.C.

FBI info.

To: Director [REDACTED]. Federal Bureau of Investigation (JFK). Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich.

From: Deputy Director, Plans.

Subject: Eduardo Espinosa y Prieto, born 24 January 1909 in Mexico City, Mexico.

1. This Agency was queried recently by the BfV (Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz—Federal Agency for the Protection of the Constitution), Germany, for information on Subject. A German citizen in Bremen, suspected of Polish Intelligence Service activities, received a $1,000.00 deposit in his account from Espinosa.

2. Your permission is requested to pass the following information, some of which was obtained from your files, to the German authorities:

Eduardo Espinosa (S), born 24 January 1909, Mexico City, Mexico, appointed Mexican Ambassador to Warsaw during the summer of 1960. August 1957 to summer 1960 accredited to the United Nations Headquarters in New York City with the rank of Ambassador as an Alternate Permanent Delegate. During his New York City tenure, he was known to write bank drafts to persons known to be active Communist workers. It was suggested that he was used as a means of financing Communist Party activities. He appears to be a Soviet contact, and his wife, one Tamara Espinosa, née Pechkurova, native Russian, was reported to have been an agent of the Soviet security services. She was admitted to Mexico in September 1947. When Espinosa y Prieto was in Mexico, he was in close touch with the Soviet Embassy and expedited visas for Soviet delegations. The couple were particularly friendly with Soviet Ambassador Kapustin during 1953. Mrs. Espinosa's brother died in a Soviet prison in 1953, and her mother still resides in the USSR.

These facts might indicate a Soviet hold over Espinosa. Various opinions collected from persons who knew Espinosa, when he served in Shanghai, Bogota, Mexico, Caracas, Togoland, and the U.S., vary from basically friendly to the U.S. to the following: that he had been a penetration agent in the Axis group in Shanghai on behalf of the CIA.
