Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject remains the eager, aggressive, and intelligent individual described in his last Fitness Report. During the year under review, Subject was assigned case-officership of two agents taken over from an officer who departed PCS. One of these agents is in an area new to Subject—economic action and economic reporting. In total, Subject is case officer of four active projects plus one that is temporarily inactive as the agent is absent from Argentina. Also, Subject is the supervisor of one American Staff Agent under deep cover. Subject handles these varied assignments with a high degree of competence and indicates a versatility of high degree. Subject's project management is good and his formal reporting to both his supervisor and Headquarters is kept current and done in depth.

This officer has consistently shown a cost consciousness during the period he has been at this Station (24 months). In addition he has an ability to relate cost to production which has resulted in almost halving funds spent for his CA liaison project while at the same time improving the product—and with the cooperation of the local service.

Subject's language competence (Spanish) is sufficiently fluent to permit him to engage in extended professional conversations with agents and others who have no English.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 22 May 1964. Signature of employee: H.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 20. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 22 May 1964. Official title of supervisor: Operations Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /S/ Frederick Larkin.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

I generally concur with the Supervisor's ratings on Subject and on his general comments. In direct dealings with this officer I find him an aggressive and well-rounded officer who carries a full load of projects and liaison activity. He is making a significant contribution to the Station's mission.

Date: 22 May 1964. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /S/ J. Foster Collins.
