Question 3 — What was the function of the Office of Security/Security Research Staff (OS/SRS)? Why were defector records kept in this component?

The Security Research Staff (SRS) was the component responsible for collecting, developing, and evaluating information of a counterintelligence nature to detect and/or prevent penetration of the Agency's organization, employees, and activities by foreign or domestic organizations or individuals. SRS conducted research in connection with employee loyalty cases and maintained records identifying personalities, environments, and personal traits of individuals who had been of counterintelligence interest over the years. SRS maintained liaison with various government agencies in connection with counterintelligence activities and coordinated the counterintelligence effort throughout OS. SRS reported directly to the Director of Security.

Question 4 — In the OS/SRS memo of October 31, 1960, written by Marguerite D. Stevens, the file numbers of several defectors are listed. What do the MS and EE file prefixes designate? How are these designations assigned?

As noted in question 1, records were categorized according to the type, and the older file numbers reflected the file category. “M” designated a miscellaneous record; “S” designated a Security Research Staff record. Therefore, “MS” most likely referred to a miscellaneous record of interest to the Security Research Staff. “E” or “EE” designations covered subjects of interest to the Domestic Contacts Division for information/intelligence purposes. It appears that at least some of these alpha designations were converted to numerical values circa 1964.

Question 5 — Does OS process security clearances for non-employees (e.g., sources) to receive access to classified information? What kind of files are created by this process? How long are these files maintained?

Security clearances per se are not processed for non-employees (sources/contacts). The Office of Security conducts appropriate national agency checks to try to determine the reliability of those individuals who are of interest for contact purposes because of their foreign travels, specific scientific information, etc. In a few instances, an ad hoc clearance/validation may be requested in the event some classified information would be revealed in the course of acquiring intelligence from these sources. The validation period is normally five years, and any files created are maintained in the individual's name for a period of ten years after the validation period has expired. The DO would most likely have further information on a particular source.
