February 8, 1960

Henry Winston  
Internal Security – Communist  
Smith Act of 1940

Henry Winston was one of the eleven functionaries of the Communist Party, USA, who were convicted on October 14, 1949, on a charge of conspiracy to teach and advocate the violent overthrow of the United States Government in violation of the Smith Act of 1940. Sentenced to five years in prison and fined $10,000, Winston failed to surrender on July 2, 1951, to begin serving his sentence. He surrendered on March 5, 1956, and received an additional three-year contempt sentence, both sentences to be served in the U.S. Penitentiary at Terre Haute, Indiana.

Since that time, the Communist Party, USA, has been conducting a continuous campaign to effect Winston's release either through parole, executive clemency, or amnesty. Recently, this campaign was accelerated because Winston was alleged to be suffering from a brain tumor. On January 22, 1960, Winston was transferred to the U.S. Medical Center, Springfield, Missouri, where the presence of the brain tumor was confirmed. On January 30, 1960, he was removed under guard to the Montefiore Hospital, New York City, where he underwent surgery on February 2, 1960. The tumor was removed, but as yet there has been no statement as to malignancy. The last hospital bulletin indicates his condition is satisfactory and his eyesight is improving.

On January 26, 1960, a parole hearing for Winston was held before the U.S. Board of Parole in Washington, D.C., and several known Communists and Communist sympathizers appeared at this hearing in Winston's behalf. Since the attorney representing Winston claimed that his briefcase containing petitions and signatures had been stolen, the Parole Board agreed to postpone the hearing for one week to enable him to duplicate the petitions.

Among the individuals appearing at the parole hearing was Reverend Elder G. Hawkins of New York City, a strong supporter of Communist front organizations. Bureau files show that since 1940, Rev. Hawkins has been affiliated with, or has lent support to, ten organizations designated by the Attorney General pursuant to Executive Order 10450, as well as three other Communist front organizations. Following Rev. Hawkins' return to New York, information was received that he plans to contact Reverend Edward L. R. Elson, the President's minister, to urge Rev. Elson to talk with the President regarding the possibility of a full parole for Winston. It was indicated that although Rev. Elson may not want to yield, Rev. Hawkins will “put the pressure on.” Liaison has been instructed to advise Rev. Elson of this possible contact by Rev. Hawkins and to confidentially advise him of Hawkins' subversive background.
