February 8, 1960

Crash of National Airlines Flight 967, Gulf of Mexico, November 16, 1959

Destruction of Aircraft or Motor Vehicles

Interstate Transportation of Stolen Motor Vehicle

On November 16, 1959, a plane with 42 persons aboard, owned by Delta Air Lines but staffed with a National Airlines crew, plunged into the Gulf of Mexico while on a flight from Tampa, Florida, to New Orleans, Louisiana. Only ten of the victims were identified and the other bodies have not been recovered.

On January 17, 1960, we initiated a full-scale investigation in this matter. It had been alleged that Dr. Robert V. Spears, an ex-convict with a long criminal record who had been reported as a passenger on the plane, had induced his friend and former partner in crime, William Allen Taylor of Tampa, Florida, to board the plane in his place. Spears had over $100,000 worth of insurance with his wife as beneficiary and Taylor purchased $37,500 worth of flight insurance just prior to the trip with his son as beneficiary.

From the first, our investigation was directed at finding Spears or Taylor since this appeared to be a key point in our investigation. Spears was located by Bureau Agents in Phoenix, Arizona, on January 20, 1960, and charged with the Interstate Transportation of a Stolen Motor Vehicle (ITSMV). Spears admitted Taylor took his place on the ill-fated plane and that following the crash he, Spears, tried to conceal his identity. He took Taylor's car, with his alleged permission, but admitted he had no authority to take it to Arizona and that he and his friend, Dr. William Turska, removed the identification number from it and tried to get a fraudulent title for the car. Spears, with Turska, contacted Mrs. Spears in Dallas, Texas, about January 7, 1960, and Mrs. Spears admitted that her husband persuaded her not to reveal the fact that he was alive so that the insurance policies could be paid to her as beneficiary.

On January 20, 1960, when Spears was arrested in Phoenix, Arizona, he was charged with the Interstate Transportation of a Stolen Motor Vehicle for taking Taylor's car from Florida to Arizona. He was taken to the U.S. Commissioner in Phoenix on that date and held on $35,000 bond. On February 1, 1960, Spears was brought before the U.S. District Judge in Phoenix and
