Date submitted: 4 February 1972.

Report of findings:

(U) On 1 February 1972, Peter D. Herpst, PFC, 475-54-6972, Clerk, C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln (LC8424), Federal Republic of Germany, APO New York 09078, was interviewed at his place of duty concerning an incident of possible counter-intelligence interest, and stated substantially as follows:

(G) About two or three weeks ago, just before a scheduled exchange of warheads at C Team, Source was approached in a Datteln bar, the Stadtschaenke, by a man who identified himself as John Dee Jay. John was the disc jockey at another bar in Datteln, the Lord Nelson. Source thought that Dee Jay was only a nickname and not John's real name. John asked Source and other Americans in the bar if they knew where some of the former members of the unit are presently stationed. Source could recall only one name John had asked about, Cristobal Pimentel-Davilla. John told Source, “If you see Pimentel, tell him I have the package for him.” Source knew that John had called the unit that night asking for Pimentel-Davilla. John at one time asked Source to tell him who the security sergeant of the unit was, but Source refused to answer the question. Source described John as follows: Height: six feet to six feet one inch tall; weight: 200–210 pounds; age: 22–24 years old; build: stocky; hair: dark; dress: wore furry coat and shoes, possibly camel hair. Source had not met John before and has not seen him since and gave negative responses to all questions posed by him.

(W) Remarks: Source felt that the package John mentioned that he had for Pimentel-Davilla was probably drugs, either hashish or marijuana. Source knew that Pimentel-Davilla used both drugs and may have been selling them to other members of the unit.

(Y) Agent's notes: Full identification of Pimentel-Davilla was as follows: Pimentel-Davilla, Cristobal, SP6, 582-58-9662, departed C Team on 20 January 1972 on a permanent change of station to Fort Eustis, Virginia.

Typed name and organization of special agent: Heinz E. Ickert, 66th MI Group. Signature of special agent: Kenny E. Ickert.
