Certain secrets from disclosure. See 44 U.S.C. 2107(6) (1994) (identifying the grounds on which the Review Board may postpone release of assassination materials); Sanders & Zaid, supra note 62, at 419 (explaining the Board's obligations when it decides to postpone release of a document).

See DuVal, supra note 14, at 668–71 (identifying 10 justifications for nondisclosure).

See id. at 621–22 (observing that maintaining secrecy of advice, recommendations, and opinions allows officials to “propose, comment, and criticize without concern that their comments may seem foolish or contrary to popular sentiment” and to compromise “without loss of face”).

United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 705 (1974) (footnote omitted).

Secrecy in the High Court is a practice, a matter of the Court's culture and traditions, not of law. See Bob Woodward & Scott Armstrong, The Brethren xi (1979) (“The Court has developed certain traditions and rules, largely unwritten, that are designed to preserve the secrecy of its deliberations.”). The Justice who tells what took place in conference is indiscreet and is likely to forfeit the respect of other Justices, but he breaks no law and neither do his law clerks. See id. Indeed, one of the arguments raised in the wake of opening the papers of Justice Thurgood Marshall was that his written commentary on his colleagues may have made it more difficult for them to deal with one another, now knowing that the public understood the reasons that they held certain positions. See id. at xii (observing that, because Justices are not elected but are appointed for life, they are not disposed to allow their decisionmaking to become public). The matter is posed differently, however, in Great Britain. The Official Secrets Acts make it unlawful for a government employee to make an unauthorized disclosure of official information or for anyone who has received the information in violation of the Act to communicate it to anyone else. Official Secrets Act, 1911, 1 & 2 Geo. 5 ch. 28, 2.

The virtues of openness in government, therefore, can be and often are overstated, especially by a self-interested press and media. Openness does mean that bad advice can be challenged, but the consequence may be that good decisions are never reached. Open records and “sunshine laws” may only drive people to less easily documented forms of communication, such as the telephone. Although the costs and benefits of secrecy and openness in government are not easily calculated, we do know that loose lips still sink ships, even in our own thermonuclear age.

See Kreimer, supra note 115.

See Patricia M. Wald, The Freedom of Information Act: A Short Case Study in the Perils and Paybacks of Legislating Democratic Values, 33 Emory L.J. 649, 664 (1984) (observing that “to some degree creative government officials and bureaucrats will always be able to devise ways to abort FOIA's disclosure requirements”).
