If typewriter is not available, bear down with ball-point pen to make legible copies.

Health Benefits Registration Form. Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. Read instructions on back of page 3.

New Carrier’s Control No. Old Carrier’s Control No.

To employing office: Show old carrier’s control number only if election is to cancel enrollment or to change options or type of enrollment in the same plan.

Part A. All who register must fill in this part.

1. Name (last). Your mailing address (number and street), (city), (state), (ZIP code).

2. Date of birth. Use numbers: month, day, year.

3. Are you now married? Yes 1. No 2.

5. Social Security account number.

6. Sex. Male 1. Female 2.

Important: It is illegal for an employee or a member of his family to be covered under more than one enrollment. If you are already covered through the family enrollment of another Federal or District of Columbia employee or annuitant, you must register not to enroll or the other enrollment must be canceled or changed to self only. Similarly, if a family member listed by you in Part B is covered through his or her own enrollment, you cannot elect a family enrollment unless the family member cancels his or her enrollment. Also see back of pages 2 and 3.

Part B. Fill in this part if you wish to enroll or change your enrollment in a health benefits plan.

If enrollment is for Self Only, answer item 1. If enrollment is for Self and Family, also answer item 2.

If you are changing your enrollment, also fill in Part D.

1. I elect to enroll in a health benefits plan as shown below. I authorize deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to cover my share of the cost of the enrollment. Copy the information requested below from the back page of the brochure of the plan you select.

Name of plan. Option (high or low). Enrollment code number.

2. In the space below, list all eligible family members without exception: List your wife or husband first, then your unmarried children under age 22, including legally adopted children, stepchildren, foster children, and illegitimate children who live with you in a regular parent-child relationship. Include also any unmarried child over 22 who became disabled before age 22 and who, because of the disability, is incapable of self-support. Attach a doctor’s certificate for a disabled child age 22 or over, if one is not already on file. Do not list parents or others who are not eligible family members. They will not receive benefits, even if they are dependent on you and are listed.

Names of family members. Date of birth (month, day, year). Names of family members. Date of birth (month, day, year).

Wife or Husband 1
