Vice-Intelligence Division, Montgomery County Police Department.

Continuing Investigations Reports.

CARRAFA, Eugene Michael

Subject/Case Reference.

08-08-76: Telephone interview with Det. Adorjian, Chicago P.D., Area 6, Homicide, reference OD death of Janice Mae Piccerelli w/F 7-11-40, 7-11-38.

Det. Adorjian: 900 N. Rush. I don't know if you've got this information.

Alban: 900 N. Rush.

Det. Adorjian: Maryland Hotel, Apt. 1305. Now they've got quite a few dates here. I guess she checked in on the 15th to the 21st date occurred. I don't know if she has been found in the bathroom. One of the beat guys or uniform men assigned to DOA Maryland Hotel Apt. 1305. Investigation disclosed the following: victim was found lying on right side in bathroom on arrival. Victim was last seen Thursday, 15th July at 1100 hours. Reporting officers requested evaluation due to suspect nature of death. Crime lab in Area 6 Homicide requested. Crime lab came, Area 6 on scene. Homicide transported to Henrode and then transported to Cook County Morgue. Room was sealed.

OK—I’ll read you the investigation of the primary stages of decomposition: face, back, and associated discoloration with blistering and skin slippage. She was there for a while. Apparent accidental overdose. Photographs taken. Identified by personal papers in victim's room. Manager (Manger) of hotel identified and interviewed. Nelson Berralli, psychiatrist, interviewed also. Somebody notified by name of George Hanley from Wilkesbury, Pa., victim's ex-husband.

Reporting investigators were assigned this death investigation at such and such time, proceeded to scene, Room 1305. Crime lab was taking pictures, and the victim was observed lying on her back with her head in the bathroom and feet in hallway. It was ascertained that she was lying first on her face on the bathroom floor and, prior to arrival of the police, she was turned over for the purpose of examining the body for injuries. The victim was observed to be wearing only a black pair of panties, and on the bathroom floor were various body fluids and decomposition states. I guess she was cooking there for a while. The living room of the apartment contained several dressers, a bed, two end tables, chairs (charis), and a closet. Window of apartment was slightly open, and on the nightstand was observed a bottle of
