Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject's strengths lie in his ability to analyze a problem quickly and skillfully, to strip it of unnecessary detail and to render a decision without waste of motion. He has contributed greatly to the efficiency of the Branch by eliminating unproductive ventures, counseling the members and promoting the principles of correct tradecraft. He has been successful in resolving complicated problems involving control of an unruly group. He has a strong personality and firm convictions about the proper manner of carrying on covert operations and voices his convictions without fear. He is an excellent supervisor and is respected by the members of the branch for his forthrightness and his sober judgment and sound advice. His handling of agents and contacts on the outside both directly and indirectly mixes to a proper extent firmness and friendliness. In short he is a distinct asset to the clandestine services both administratively and operationally.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 19 Jan 63. Signature of employee: /s/ Walter D. NEWBY (signed on Field Transmittal).

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 10 months.

Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Robert K. TROUCHARD (signed on Field Transmittal).

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: Subject is an unusually competent officer in the field of covert action operations in that he blends a flair for this activity with sound tradecraft principles and a firm adherence to valid reporting techniques. Subject is dedicated and hard working and he has proven by performance that he is willing to work long hours in order to accomplish his operational objectives. Subject's overall performance warrants an evaluation of “strong”. Subject has growth potential both as an intelligence officer and as a first echelon supervisor of individuals doing a basic intelligence task. Subject's activities come to the attention of the reviewing officer on a weekly basis.

Date: Feb 15 1963. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station, JMWAVE. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Andrew K. REUTEMAN (signed on Field Transmittal).
