Section C. Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject has been under the supervision of Branch 6 since August 1966. In August Subject was transferred PCS to New Orleans where he was responsible for all aspects of the operation of proprietary foundation JMCLIPPER. During the reporting period, he has consistently demonstrated a high degree of enthusiasm and operational initiative. Although operating under instructions not to expand foundation activities too rapidly, he has not waited for an official “go-ahead” but has shown unflagging energy in planning operations for the period when JMCLIPPER could expand activities. He has shown an unusually keen perception of areas of CA operational needs and of imaginative thinking on how to fill these needs.

Subject has shown himself fully capable of exercising the self-discipline and self-motivation necessary in an unofficial cover position. His proficiency in Spanish has been useful in meeting and entertaining Latin American travelers of potential operational interest passing through his city. He has handled his cover situation well. The cover office has been well run with no significant financial, administrative, or personnel problems having arisen during the period. Subject has exhibited an above-average cost consciousness.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 5. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Subject is assigned outside of the Washington area. Official title of supervisor: DC/WH/6. Name and signature: Lee E. Patton.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I agree with the rating officer’s judgement that Mr. Kent’s performance has been characterized by exceptional efficiency. He demonstrated unusual energy and imagination in developing plans for expansion of JMCLIPPER activities. His detailed reporting was also commendable. Name and signature: Paul E. Oberst.
