Records Control Schedule. Continuation Sheet. Classification (41).

Old schedule and item no. 11; new item no. 9. Files identification: Regulations Files. Duplicate copies of all Agency Regulations and Notices used for reference. Regulations Control Branch is the Office of Record. Non-Record. Disposition instructions: Temporary. Destroy when obsolete, superseded, or no longer needed. Return empty binders to Regulations Control Branch.

New item no. 10. Files identification: Inspector General Research Records and Index. Record copies on Agency personnel and other individuals whose names appear in documents assembled primarily from other Agency records systems by the IG in relation to an Executive commission and Legislative committee reviews of Agency activities conducted between 1972 and 1976 and CIA documents that are pertinent thereto. Used by Agency officials for reference use in connection with Executive and Legislative reviews of Agency activities. Storage: paper. Retrievability: name or subject. Published in the Federal Register, Notification of Systems of Records, Privacy Act of 1974. The Federal Register must be amended if this system changed or discontinued. Disposition instructions: Permanent. Transfer to the Agency Records Center when no longer needed.

New item no. 11. Files identification: FOI Record Copies—Sanitized Version and Justification(s). Record copies of the final sanitized version and justification(s) for denying portion not released. These are created in reply to FOI requests to disclose information. They are filed with the full text record to provide background for appeals, judicial action, and future requests for the same record. IPS case file copies are only temporary request processing records. Custodian is the Office of Record. Disposition instructions: Record copies assume the disposition of the full text document. Destroy sanitized version and applicable justification(s) if full text is subsequently disclosed in its entirety or after superseded by new expanded version and justification. (GRS 14-9b).
