Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

As Chief of the Tokyo Station Registry, this employee has performed at a level of exceptional proficiency for the past year. He welcomes hard work, is able to fill in for any absent member of his unit and keep up his own work as well. He continues to bring up ideas for the improvement of his unit. These have been particularly welcome during the past year in view of the impending move of the Registry to a new location at Fuchū Air Station. The slight tendency to be arbitrary mentioned in the last fitness report has been eliminated during this reporting period. In view of this employee's strong performance over the past year, he is being recommended for promotion to GS-10.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Signature of employee: /s/ James S. Woods.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 10 Sept. 63. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Ops Support Staff. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Frederick Randall.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

I concur in this rating and add that this employee has not let the very serious personal problems thrust upon him during this period interfere in any way with his consistently dependable performance. In this key role, in any station of this size, dependability, reliability, and confidence are "musts" and while there are quite naturally small aggravating incidents of mis-routing or mis-direction of documents, I have been struck by the lack of them here, because ratee has the "must" qualities. His performance certainly warrants favorable consideration of the projected promotion action.

Date: 11 September 63. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert Wheeler L/L.
