At the same time, however, the record shows that the Special Group Augmented turned away from proposed sabotage and similar violent action throughout 1962, including the period of the Missile Crisis. (See p. above.) Thus, Helms noted in a memorandum of a meeting on October 16, 1962, that Robert Kennedy, in expressing the “general dissatisfaction of the President” with Mongoose, “pointed out that (Mongoose) had been underway for a year...that there had been no acts of sabotage and that even the one which had been attempted had failed twice.” (Memorandum by Helms, October 16, 1962, p. 1.) Similarly, a memorandum to Helms by his Executive Assistant, who spent full time on Cuba matters, which reviewed the Mongoose program in the aftermath of the Missile Crisis, stated:

“During the past year, while one of the options of the project was to create internal dissension and resistance leading to eventual U.S. intervention, a review shows that policymakers not only shied away from the military intervention aspect but were generally apprehensive of sabotage proposals.” (McManus, Ex. 2, p. 1, McManus, p. 11).

Harvey testified that this assessment of the Special Group Augmented’s position was an accurate one. (Harvey, 6/25, p. ). This is also borne out by the record of Mongoose activity. For example, after Lansdale’s initial six-phase plan to overthrow Castro by the fall of 1962, the single phase approved for January-August 1962 was described by Lansdale as “essentially an intelligence collection” effort. (Memorandum, April 11, 1962, by Lansdale). Indeed, the guidelines for Operation Mongoose, approved on March 5, 1962, stated that the acquisition of intelligence was the “immediate priority objective of U.S. efforts in the coming months.” (Taylor Ex. 3, p. 2, Guidelines for Operation Mongoose, March 14, 1962). The Guidelines further stated that although other covert actions would be undertaken concurrently with intelligence collection, these were to be on a scale “short of those reasonably calculated to inspire a revolt” in Cuba. (Id., p. 2). And the Special Group stipulated that Mongoose action beyond the acquisition of intelligence “must be inconspicuous.” (Memorandum, 3/2/62, Lansdale, p. 3).
