The imperialistic or capitalistic system occupies areas. It occupies Vietnam now. They occupy them by sending soldiers there, by sending policemen there. The policemen or soldiers are only a gun in the establishment's hand. They make the racist secure in his racism. The gun in the establishment's hand makes the establishment secure in its exploitation. The first problem, it seems, is to remove the gun from the establishment's hand. Until lately, the white radical has seen no reason to come into conflict with the policemen in his own community. The reason I said until recently is because there is friction now in the mother country between the young white revolutionaries and the police. Because now the white revolutionaries are attempting to put some of their ideas into action, and there's the rub. We say that it should be a permanent thing.

Black people are being oppressed in the colony by white policemen, by white racists. We are saying they must withdraw. We realize that it is not only the Oakland Police Department but rather the security forces in general. On April 6 it wasn't just the Oakland Police Department who ambushed the Panthers. It was the Oakland Police Department, the Emeryville Police Department, and I wouldn't be surprised if there were others. When the white revolutionaries went down to close up the Army terminal in October 1965, it wasn't the Oakland police by themselves who tried to stop them. It was the Oakland police, the Berkeley police, the Highway Patrol, the Sheriff's (Sherriff's) Department, and the National Guard was standing by. So we see that they're all part of one organization. They're all a part of the security force to protect the status quo, to make sure that the institutions carry out their goals. They're here to protect the system.

As far as I'm concerned, the only reasonable conclusion would be to first realize the enemy, realize the plan, and then when something happens in the black colony—when we're attacked and ambushed in the black colony—then the white revolutionary students and intellectuals and all the other whites who support the colony should respond by defending us, by attacking the enemy in their community. Every time that we're attacked in our community there should be a reaction by the white revolutionaries; they should respond by defending us, by attacking part of the security force. Part of that security force that is determined to carry out the racist ends of the American institutions.

As far as our party is concerned, the Black Panther Party is an all-black party, because we feel as Malcolm X felt that there can be no black-white unity until:

“We don't hate white people, we hate the oppressor: If the oppressor happens to be white, then we hate him.”
