United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: Legal Counsel

Subject: SENSTUDY 75

Date: 7-10-75

Attached is a copy of a Departmental memorandum which interprets “demand” under 28 Code of Federal Regulations, Section 16.21 et seq. for the purpose of dealing with the Senate Select Committee. The provisions of 16 Code of Federal Regulations, Section 16.21 et seq. require Departmental approval in those instances where a current or former employee, in response to a demand of a court or authority, is required to furnish material contained in Departmental files or disclose information contained therein.

The Department decision as set forth in the attachment characterizes all requests by Senate Select Committee staff members as a demand which requires a waiver from the Department prior to the employee’s submission to the Committee request.

According to the Departmental position concerning demand, the Director or “the FBI General Counsel,” in coordination with the Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination of the Department, may waive the provision of 28 Code of Federal Regulations, Section 16.21 et seq. This is in accordance with the provision of Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, Section 16.23.

Upon receipt of the attached documents, SA Paul V. Daly and Inspector John B. Hotis of this Division sought clarification concerning the Departmental interpretation of “demand” as set forth in the attachment, including whether this interpretation applied to the General Accounting Office (GAO) inquiry into the Bureau. K. William O’Connor, Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, stated he believed this might also apply to GAO; however, he had not really thought out this point. He was also asked what was meant by the phrase, “in coordination with this office.” Mr. O’Connor indicated that he wanted to be notified of requests for interviews, and that was what he meant by the phrase, “in coordination with this office.”

Mr. Wannall — Enclosure

Mr. Mintz — Enclosure

Mr. Cregar — Enclosure

Mr. Finzel — Enclosure

Mr. Hotis — Enclosure

Mr. Daly — Enclosure

PVD:kjs (8)
