1. Committee to End U. S. Foreign Intervention, also known as Committee to End U. S. Foreign Aggression; Committee to End American Intervention in Viet-Nam (Ad Hoc); Committee to End United States Intervention in Viet-Nam (Ad Hoc); Committee to End United States Imperialism.

This Committee was organized as the Committee to End American Intervention in Viet-Nam (Ad Hoc), March 29, 1964, in San Francisco, California, at the instigation of and by members of the W.E.B. DuBois Club of San Francisco, a Marxist youth group, which has promoted the organization's activities among the various groups in the San Francisco area interested in peace and disarmament. Its announced aims have included American withdrawal from Viet-Nam, self-determination for the South Viet-Namese people, and adherence of the United States to the 1954 Geneva Convention. Demonstrations, along with the distribution and exhibition of propaganda, comprise its program. A flyer advertising a forum of September 15, 1964, in San Francisco on “World Wide Movements—for Freedom” referred to “Cuba—Harlem—Congo—Viet Nam” and listed the Committee to End U. S. Foreign Intervention as sponsor. One of the two sources which provided the information on the Committee's organization has advised that it is the same committee. According to this source, on October 9, 1964, this Committee's proper name is “Committee to End U. S. Foreign Aggression,” but it is a loose-knit organization and exactness of title or name is of little concern to the officials and members. The other source advised on June 28, 1964, that an Executive Committee of five members was elected in June 1964, but no new officers were otherwise elected.

Another source advised on September 17, 1964, that the original officers were John W. Thomas, Chairman; Beverly D. Radcliffe, Treasurer; and Margaret Driggs, Secretary. The signatures of two of these are still required for checks written.

One source mentioned above currently advises that no headquarters is maintained by the Committee; meetings are infrequent and poorly attended, ranging from eight to twenty members. The last reported membership total was approximately twenty in June 1964.

Appendix
