Anti-Communist International  
U.S.A. Office: 2188 Broadway, New York

Mail address: P. O. Box 1095, New York, N.Y. 1001  
Phone: 0X-76895

February 19, 1967

F. Wm. Glaskow, Chairman  
R. K. Jeric, Treasurer  
Krawec, Publishing Department  
Harvey Schieber, General Secretary

Reception to welcome His Excellency Bui Diem, South Vietnamese Ambassador to the United States, at the Park Sheraton Hotel in New York City.

To all friends of the Anti-Communist International and participating guests and organizations:

This important event was successful.

Messages of greeting and support arrived from U.S. Senators: Thomas J. Dodd, J. W. Fulbright, Joseph Tydings, H. A. Williams Jr., Peter H. Dominick, Edward W. Brooke, Russell B. Long, and James B. Pearson; Congressmen: Daniel J. Flood, Herman T. Schneebeli, John J. Rhodes, Robert J. Corbett, Joseph P. Addabbo, Charles E. Bennett, William L. Dickinson, Porter Hardy Jr., Joe Pool, William S. Mailliard, and James B. Utt; Governors: John H. Chafee, Claude R. Kirk, Winthrop Rockefeller, Dan Moore, George Romney, Richard J. Hughes, and Lieutenant Governor Malcolm Wilson; President of the Council of the City of New York Frank D. O'Connor; Presidents of the N.Y.C. Boroughs of Manhattan, Bronx, and Queens Percy E. Sutton, Herman Badillo, and Mario J. Cariello; also from the Permanent Missions to the U.N. of Malta and New Zealand.

A large number of representatives of civic, patriotic, and anti-communist organizations were there.

The Honorable Hamilton Fish, a congressman of 40 years, who originated the House Committee on Un-American Activities, was chairman of the event.

These people spoke on behalf of their organizations:

Edward Rorer for American Patriots for Freedom;

Arnold McCullogh for Peter Fechter Brigade;

Lee S. Sterling for American Property Rights Association;

Maxwell-Miller for CHIP (Community Housing Improvement Program, Inc.);

Juan Lugo of Local 6 of the Hotel and Club Employees' Union;

General Dico Dimitroff of the Bulgarian political exiles;

Prof. Dr. Nakashidze of Columbia University, Captive Nations Committee, Buenos Aires, Argentina;

Thomas Veteska, general secretary of the Union of Slovak Combatants;

Cathryn Dorney of the American Education Association;

Captain James Jones (Janes Jones), recently returned from long service in Vietnam.

In the name of the Anti-Communist International spoke:

Dr. Wm. Glaskow ("Soviet Russia is fighting the Vietnam war by proxy")

A. R. K. Jeric ("Communism in practice is a one-man-monopoly-owner-chi-
