2.

A sort of stringer in reporting on economic developments. Subject replied that he understood and did not see that such a task would be too difficult.

5. Rowton (Nowton) then asked Subject how he was coming in locating a new apartment/studio. Subject replied that he had found a desirable place near Chapultepec, and hoped to be able to move soon. Rowton (Nowton) then commented that he might have to leave for Paris in the next few days and would be away for about two weeks on business. He stated that he might be able to help Subject with the rent on his studio provided it had a phone. Rowton (Nowton) explained that he was at present paying 350 pesos monthly for secretarial service and could just as well pay Subject something for taking telephone messages. Subject replied that he would be glad to be of service to Rowton (Nowton) without compensation (“mi casa es suya”) on such a matter.

6. Rowton (Nowton) then turned the conversation to Subject's wife and family. Subject revealed that his wife's maiden name (apelido) was the Chinese translation of “Flor de Durazno.” He pronounced it in Chinese for Rowton (Nowton), but Rowton (Nowton) made no attempt to transliterate it and at this point cannot recall the phonetic pronunciation. Subject added that Chichay is a Cuban corruption of the Chinese given name. In reply to Rowton's (Nowton's) direct query, Subject stated that his wife's mother is in Cuba but her father is in New York. He added that her father did not agree with the revolution and left, but the rest of the family remained. He also stated that her mother has not remarried and lives with her brothers and sisters. Subject added that his wife felt no bitterness toward her father and in fact the father writes regularly—once a week from New York. Rowton (Nowton) did not press for an address at the time, feeling that it would be more discreet to wait for an opening at a subsequent meeting, when he could allege that he was planning to stop over in New York.

7. Rowton (Nowton) took the occasion of his alleged impending departure to ask for Subject's home address so that he could write from Europe. Subject stated that since he might move, it would be better for Rowton (Nowton) to write to him care of the Salon rather than to his present address.

8. On leaving, Subject, Rowton (Nowton) promised to pass by the Salon again before he left so that he could say goodbye to Subject.

Wallace B. Rowton
