DAVID G. MARWELL

Biographical Information

On July 1, 1994, the Berlin Document Center (BDC) was transferred to the German Federal Archives (Bundesarchiv), marking the end of nearly 48 years of American control of this unique organization. With an estimated 25 million Nazi-era personnel-related files, the BDC was once a crucial source of evidence for the Nuremberg Trials and is today an incalculably important source for the study of the Third Reich. The transfer also marked the end of David Marwell's tenure as Director of the BDC.

A well-trained scholar with a Ph.D. in History, Marwell came to Berlin in 1988 from the Office of Special Investigations (OSI), U.S. Department of Justice, where he held the position of Chief of Investigative Research. At OSI, he was involved in researching and preparing cases against accused Nazi war criminals residing in the United States. In addition, he was selected to participate in the Klaus Barbie Investigation (1983) and played a major role in the Josef Mengele investigation (1985), both of which received international attention.

In connection with the Joseph Mengele and Klaus Barbie investigations, Marwell was in charge of assembling all relevant documentary evidence relating to any possible connection between these individuals and U.S. institutions or personnel. The investigations were two of the most unusual ever undertaken, and through them he gained significant experience in identifying and locating documentary resources. The former Director of OSI, Allan A. Ryan, Jr., in his book Quiet Neighbors: Prosecuting Nazi War Criminals in America, described Marwell as “an experienced and careful historian who could find documents in archives when no one else could.”

When Marwell arrived at the Document Center, the institution had been rocked by a scandal involving a significant theft of documents. The resulting focus on the Center revealed that it had been neglected in many areas for many years and suffered from an outmoded administrative structure, a disaffected and undertrained staff, and a lack of professional guidance. It was Marwell's job to bring the Center up to standard and prepare it for turnover to the German government.

The challenges facing Marwell were not only to manage a complex institution, with an annual budget of eight million deutschmarks, and repair past deficiencies, but also to define a future for an institution in transition. He prepared a “five year plan” for the BDC that set five goals, developed a corresponding program to meet each goal, and designed a system to monitor progress. In achieving all of the goals, Marwell:

Introduced computer technology—there was not a single computer at the BDC when he arrived—and developed a sophisticated, integrated information retrieval system that has been described as a model for archive administration.

Created a fully professional document conservation and restoration program.

Developed a staff of 50 Germans and 20 Americans.
