Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and greatest responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide a best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is an excellent records officer. He is enthusiastic about his specialty and works hard at it, putting a great deal of energy into his work.

He is quick and understands records thoroughly. Because of this, he is at times inclined to jump ahead of others in records discussions and should attempt to slow down his approach to the subject to meet the level of persons who do not have the same records background.

Subject could fill any position in the records management field, and should advance quickly. He is interested in developing his capabilities and is at present enrolled in the Writing Workshop with this in mind.

This report has been prepared in accordance with FE Division standards which recognize the value of seeing the individual against the group. Thus an “average” rating reflects an entirely satisfactory performance.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 29 Oct 59. Signature of employee: James S. Stodd (St odd).

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 7.

If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employer under my supervision less than 60 days. Report made within last 60 days. Other (specify):

Date: 27 October 1959. Official title of supervisor: C/FE/ESEC. Typed or printed name and signature: Harriet Weiler.

3. By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficient.
