Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Kent came to this branch from a non-official cover job which had little in common with the duties of a country desk chief. Moreover, he found himself in the sometimes difficult situation of taking over a position just vacated by the newly appointed deputy branch chief. Despite these, to him, minor obstacles, he called upon his close association with Latin American affairs for many years, his wealth of experience on WH country desks, and his inherent ability to deal successfully with people and situations in asserting leadership and quickly bringing the Peru Desk under his own independent control.

During the year that Mr. Kent served as Peru Desk Chief he demonstrated conclusively that he is equally talented in all fields of clandestine activity. There is little question that Covert Action is what he likes and does the best, as once more evidenced by a written commendation he received for this type of work while part of a special WH task force in September and October 1970; however, it should be equally noted that the FI and CI aspects of his job on the Peru Desk also received full interest and attention during his tenure. He is a good personnel manager and maintained high morale in his unit while working it hard and demanding high standards. He is not at all afraid of responsibility, he meets all deadlines without prompting,

(continued)

1. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 8 April 1971. Signature of employee: William H. Keane.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 10 1/2 months. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 8 April 1971. Official title of supervisor: Acting Chief, WH/3. Typed or printed name and signature: Richard L. Conolly.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

I have little to add to this comprehensive narrative with which I fully agree. I, too, have worked very closely with Bill for most of the period under review, which witnessed rather hectic days in the life of the Lima Station: it was comforting to be able to rely on his keen perception of latent trouble, clear analysis of events, and sound and/or imaginative, as the case demanded, proposals for approaching problems. Because he has the potential for career advancement, I would strongly recommend that he be soon transferred back to a “line” position, again with managerial responsibilities.

Date: 8 April 1971. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WH/3.
