United States Department of Justice  
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Copy to: Departmental Attorney Guy Goodwin.

Report of: Elmer E. Sussman.  
Date: September 1, 1971.  
Office: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.  
Field Office File No.: 52-7165 Sub S.  
Bureau File No.: 52-94527.

Title: Camden Action: Jayma Ann Abdoo; Dr. William Albert Joseph Anderson; Reverend Milo Marion Billman; Terry Edward Buckalew; Dale S. Cunningham; Paul Bernard Couming; Eugene F. Dixon; Father Michael J. Doyle; Ann Grant Dunham; Father Peter Donald Fordi; Deith William Forsyth; XXXXX Michael John Giocondo; Robert Glenn Good; John Peter Grady; Margaret Mary Inness; Francis Mel Madden; Reverend Edward J. McGowan; Lianne Marie Moccia; Reverend Edward J. Murphy; Barry James Musi; Frank Pommersheim; Joan Mary Reilly; Rosemary Reilly; Anita L. Ricci; Kathleen Mary Ridolfi; Martha Shemeley; John Robert Swinglish; Sarah Jane Tosi; Robert William Williamson.

Character: Crime on a government reservation; theft of government property; destruction of government property; mutilation of public records; interference with the administration of Selective Service Act of 1967; conspiracy; assaulting federal officer; obstruction of justice.

Synopsis: Special Agent Robert H. Waller was assaulted by Dale S. Cunningham on August 27, 1971, while performing official duty. Cunningham was arrested that date, and an authorized complaint and warrant were filed charging Cunningham with violation of Title 18, U.S. Code, Sections 111 and 1505. Cunningham was arraigned before the U.S. Magistrate, Camden, New Jersey, on August 27, 1971, and held in lieu of $50,000 bond. Bail was reduced to $10,000 on August 30, 1971, by the U.S. District Judge, Camden, New Jersey. Cunningham failed to make bond and was remanded into the custody of the U.S. Marshal.

Details:

On August 27, 1971, Special Agents of the FBI went to 126 North 4th Street, Camden, New Jersey, identified themselves to the occupant, Dale S. Cunningham, and advised him that reliable information indicated that Reverend Edward J. McGowan, a Federal.
