Declaration of Appointee.

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty. Answer all questions. Any false statement in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal after appointment. Impersonation is a criminal offense and will be prosecuted accordingly.

Present address: Street and number, city and State. Date of birth: 9 May 1929. Place of birth: City or town and State or country.

In case of emergency please notify: Dorothy B. Kent. Relationship: Wife. Telephone No.: JE 3-3899.

Does the United States Government employ, in a civilian capacity, any relative of yours, either by blood or marriage, with whom you live or have lived within the past 24 months? No.

For each such relative, fill in the blanks below. If additional space is necessary, complete under Item 10.

Name. Post office address. Position; temporary or not; department or agency in which employed. Relationship. Married.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing “X” in proper column.

You are a citizen of or do you owe allegiance to the United States? Yes.

Are you an official or employee of any State, Territory, county, or census division?

If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 10.

Do you receive any annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act, or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service?

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 10 the reason for retirement, if it is by reason of age, optional disability, or voluntary or involuntary separation after five years’ service; amount of payment, and under what retirement act; and rating, if rated from military or naval service. No.

Have you, since you filed application resulting in this appointment, been discharged or forced to resign for misconduct or unsatisfactory service from any position? No.

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 10 the name and address of employer, date, and reason in each case.

Have you been arrested, not including traffic violations for an out-of-state offense or less, or forfeited collateral of $25 or since you filed application resulting in this appointment?
