MHFNO: 96-5328306. SENSIND: EO RYBAT.

Remember it), it was decided that C/O should visit Whitten at his home, hear him out and then inform him that contact should be dropped for both his and C/O's security unless an emergency arose. Further, C/O was to try and put Whitten in contact with the Embassy Consular Section. After making arrangements, C/O visited Whitten's home on the morning of 28 August. During a highly emotional two-hour and forty-five-minute discussion, Whitten recounted all of the details of his domestic problems, many of them quite personal and including accusations and counter-accusations involving his wife and his children, reminisced on his past work experiences, and spoke of his resolve to commit suicide. As it turns out, he drove himself with great difficulty to the Netherlands in January of this year with the intent of having himself euthanatised. He changed his mind, however, after having realized that he had, in fact, made the trip by himself; when he returned home, however, the problems between he and his spouse began in earnest (she, apparently, did not approve of the euthanasia plan).

4. During the discussion, in which Whitten broke down in tears several times, he also expressed his determination not to move back to the U.S. According to him, should he do so his family would have him placed in a nursing home—a fate which he is absolutely not willing to accept; as an alternative, his wife has indicated to him that his family may instead be able to arrange for a small apartment for him in which to live, but that she would pay only occasional visits and would not live with him. (The latter remarks were made by his wife during an unannounced trip back to Austria in ca. June 96. At that time, the wife did not inform Whitten of her presence in the country, but Whitten learned of it through a family friend. After a confrontation in which Whitten begged her to stay, his wife broke down, took some momentos from the apartment and left.) This second arrangement was also not suitable to Whitten.

5. After collecting the information that Whitten had (which Station believes will be of little or no useful value), C/O explained to Whitten that for security considerations, it would be best if he no longer contacted C/O except in the event of an emergency, but instead dealt with Embassy Consular Section. C/O said that he was sorry he had to do this as he had enjoyed getting to know Whitten, but that the Consular Section was better equipped to deal with these kinds of problems. Whitten responded by saying that C/O need go no further in talking about security as he himself was a “stickler” on the subject during his career and completely understood the nature of C/O's remarks. That having been said, he indicated that the Consular Section had already been in contact with him regarding the jewelry theft at the request of Whitten's daughter. Although the deputy there had infuriated Whitten by making certain remarks to his daughter, Whitten has apparently already established some rapport with the congen and had an appointment to see him in the near future.

6. Whitten was concerned, however, that he may have more “confidential” information to pass along, and asked what actions he should take in the event he has something of value for Station. At his own suggestion, he sa
