Fitness Report.

Note: Supervisor or Reviewing Official may assign a higher classification if classification is not adequate for the report when completed.

Section A. General Information.

Employee number: 059198. Name: Kent, William M. Date of birth: 9 May 29. Sex: M. Grade: GS-15. SD: DYB.

Official position title: Operations Officer, Ch.

Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDO/OED/NOC.

Current station: Hqs.

Type of appointment: Career. Reporting period: 4 Dec 77–19 May 78. Date report due in O.P.: ASAP.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory. Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal. Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial action taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient. Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Significant. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise.

Specific duty No. 1: Deputy Chief of OED/NOC Staff. Rating: S.

Specific duty No. 2: As head of the Branch's Referral Section, develops and implements a centralized system for locating suitable new-hire NOC personnel to fill specific NOC needs by area divisions; also does the same for unassigned NOC personnel as coordinator between area divisions. Rating: O.

Specific duty No. 3: Maintains effective working relationship with various Agency components including Office of Personnel, Office of Medical Services, Office of Security, etc., as well as serving as Branch senior officer in dealing with CCS concerning assignment and appropriate cover for personnel under nonofficial cover. Rating: S.

Specific duty No. 4: In charge of our Branch data bank on availability of NOC personnel and applicants by nationality, language skills, professional skills and specialties, foreign area experience, etc. Rating: O.
