The next group will number approximately 100 men, and they will receive instructions in Algeria, North Vietnam, Laos, and China. The top leader of the Peruvian group has told his lieutenants that he will soon go to Algeria to start arrangements for this training.

15. The MILK has planned four fronts in Peru in its proposed revolution. One is in the south with headquarters in Quito, another is in the central region in the Sierra, a third is in Lima, and the fourth is in northern Peru. The agent has named the leaders in charge of each of the four fronts.

16. Our asset makes frequent reference to internal disputes in the MILK between the old-line Communists and those referred to as Trotskyites. The MILK leaders in Cuba felt that some of their own groups had joined with the Trotskyites, and they discussed this problem with Fidel Castro. Castro promised not to let the so-called Trotskyites return to Peru until the others were already in place and in command of the several fronts. Some of the avowed Trotskyites were among the first to be sent back, however, and the MILK leaders are highly incensed. The leaders fear that the Trotskyites will endanger the movement, and they have been especially disturbed to find that two Cuban officers, who are known to be Trotskyites, had accompanied them from Cuba.

17. The Agency asset had first estimated that it would take at least two months for all of the Peruvians to return. The re-entry program had fallen approximately a month behind schedule because of unexpected problems of transferring funds and obtaining documents. Moreover, a Communist group in one of the neighboring countries which was to help them began to charge exorbitant amounts for its assistance. The Peruvians were obliged to wait until additional money was brought to them by courier.

18. The agent also estimated that at least another month or two would be required to complete plans for the revolution after all of the trainees were back. The leaders of the trainees complained that the MILK had not made adequate plans to receive the groups and had not developed its revolutionary plans soundly.

19. Recently, however, the operation has been increasing in tempo. The leaders of the MILK have been putting additional pressure on our asset and on others in the chain to speed up re-entry. A number of the trainees have spread out to small neighboring towns, ready to cross the border into Peru clandestinely. False documentation of these nearby countries is also being procured to assist others to cross into Peru “legally.”
