Request for Records Disposition Authority. To: General Services Administration, National Archives and Records Service, Washington, DC 20408.

Job: NC1-263-80-1. Date received: June 3, 1980. Notification to agency: In accordance with the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 3303(a), the disposal request, including amendments, is approved except for items that may be signatures of the architects S-10.

Permanent retention of records not required for approval of.

From agency or establishment: Central Intelligence Agency. Major subdivision: Office of Legislative Counsel (08-76). Minor subdivision. Name of person with whom to confer: Elizabeth S. Lancer, Jon E. Wolfe, David W. Landram. Telephone extension: 351-7776. Title: Associate Records Management Officer.

Certificate of agency representative: I hereby certify that I am authorized to act for this agency in matters pertaining to the disposal of the agency's records; that the records proposed for disposal in this Request of 2 page(s) are not now needed for the business of this agency or will not be needed after the retention periods specified.

A. Request for immediate disposal.

Date: 5/23/80. Signature of agency representative: Edgar T. McHenry. Title: Associate Records Management Officer.

Item 1. Material held by CIA relating to the House Select Committee on Assassinations investigations. Consists of all substantive documents and other materials created or reviewed as the result of inquiries made of the CIA by the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) during its investigations into the deaths of President Kennedy and Martin Luther King... The collection includes all CIA files requested for review, documents generated by the HSCA as the result of its reviews, correspondence exchanged between the CIA and the HSCA, and pertinent supporting documentation. The bulk of the collection consists of CIA files reviewed by the Committee and is primarily in the form of 16mm roll film produced, stored, and inspected in accordance with Federal standards for archival microfilm. The microfilming was done in those instances when it was necessary to return the paper files to their original locations. Each paper file microfilmed will be maintained or disposed of in accordance with approved records control schedules covering the record series of which the file is a part.

1. Silver original 16mm microfilm produced, stored, and inspected in accordance with T...
