The document may be found in the Chairman's [inaudible]. Mr. O'Donnell. Little detail as to which will be given.

The Chairman says the summary. That is what Mr. Brown. The Chairman exhibits 4, your Mr. Brown. The Chairman says Mr. Brown. The Chairman says Mr. Brown. The Chairman. Exhibit 48 is 1, Mr. Brown. The Chairman on the chart? Mr. Brown. The Chairman. Mr. Brown.

The Chairman. The documents may be found in the Chairman.

You may proceed to Mr. Brown.

Mr. Brown. The task to obtain even more members, because they have been reluctant, their fear of the Mafia, that the Mafia does the relatively infrequent successful prose. We have categorized 1928 to the present circumstances of its use of murder to disqualify code violators, its code and goals and activities and goals solved. A ratio of particular murder was an argument, although the argument. It though the killer was an alarming context. An examination of 1962 shows that we unsolved, a solution through 1962, all 8.

Senator Muskie. Reference to a national organization in the Mafia. Was it referred to as such?

Mr. Brown. This is the information as Wall has reported: that it consisted of a national board.

Senator Muskie. Do you know who he identified as members of the national board?

Mr. Brown. Well, Joe Profaci and Vincent Mangano were two of the members of the national board.

The Chairman. They are shown to be leaders of families, both of them.

Senator Muskie. But those same people are leaders of families in New York, as testified by Valachi.

Mr. Brown. Yes, sir.

The Chairman. So it is your impression that the heads of the New York families made up a national board that had jurisdiction over Tampa, among other places?

Mr. Brown. That is correct; yes, sir.

Wall declared that there were approximately 40 members of the Mafia living in the Tampa area, and he believed that Trafficante's share of proceeds of their gambling operation was being divided with other members of the Mafia.

Information in our files from another confidential source confirms Wall's statement. In addition, it reveals that Antonio Diecidue made annual trips to Miami for the purpose of renting a house for Vincent Mangano, who came down from New York every year to spend 2 or 3 months in Miami. This source stated that many important members of the Mafia visited Mangano in Florida, but that Trafficante never appeared.

Senator Muskie. May I ask another question on the national board? Was it your impression that the national board members shared in the proceeds of the criminal activities in Tampa?

Mr. Brown. Yes, sir; they had a percentage.

Senator Muskie. Have you any idea what that percentage was?

Mr. Brown. No, sir; I have no idea.

The gray shadings on our chart depict the influence of each of these men. To me, it appears to be no small coincidence that in Tampa the Diecidue family lost stature from at least the early 1950s, when Vincent Mangano disappeared; nor that Trafficante, Jr., the Profaci man, was in the immediate vicinity when Albert Anastasia was murdered in 1957.

Sergeant de la Llana's intelligence unit has prepared summaries of the men in Trafficante's organization, along with a commentary of relevant facts about each of them. So that our information may be available not only to the subcommittee, but to all police units to whom your reports are so valuable, I wish to submit these summaries and commentary for the record, as our exhibits 3A through T and exhibit 4.

The Chairman. The summary to which you have referred may be received as exhibit 48.

Mr. O'Donnell. Chief, as I understand it, these are summations, very brief summations, of the 19 individuals that are on the chart insofar as their criminal activity, their mode of business, their criminal history, et cetera; is that correct?

Mr. Brown. That is correct.

The Chairman. It may be received as exhibit No. 48.
