SECTION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS

e. Employment in key facilities

Individual employed in or having access to key facility who is alleged to have been at any time member of any basic revolutionary organization.

f. Other individuals with revolutionary beliefs

Individuals who, because of anarchist or revolutionary beliefs, are likely to seize upon national emergency to endanger public safety and welfare. Membership or affiliation in basic revolutionary or front groups not prerequisite.

Falling within above category are leaders of Nation of Islam (NOI). Conduct security investigation of all individuals reported to be functionaries or leaders of NOI or active participants carrying out aims of organization. Investigation should not be initiated based on mere membership. During investigation be alert for violation of Selective Service Act.

Above standards are not all-inclusive. Resolve doubts in interest of security and conduct investigation. Cases should be investigated so as to permit determination for possible inclusion in security index.

Complaints from anonymous sources alleging subversive activities should be considered as basis for investigation.

Security cases must be evaluated continually to determine if we are fulfilling responsibilities in internal security field and those cases not warranting further investigation should be closed promptly.

5. Restrictions upon investigations of individuals

Do not institute investigations because of membership in organizations which do not advocate use of force to bring about changes in existing Government; e.g., Socialist Party, Independent Workers of the World, and Independence Party of Puerto Rico.

a. Investigations of and interviews with individuals connected with institutions of learning

1. Prior Bureau authority required to institute investigation of faculty members.

Bureau authority not needed for student or nonacademic employee provided no unusual circumstances exist which would require advice from Bureau prior to investigation and there is sound basis for investigation. In requests for Bureau authority, identify subject, his position, and basis for investigation.

2. Contacts during investigation

(a) After Bureau authority granted, it is permissible to contact:

I. Established sources functioning in an administrative capacity, such as registrar, director of admissions, dean of men, dean of women, and security officers and their subordinates. Contacts may be made on campus. Other established sources and informants must be contacted away from campus.

II. All individuals not connected with institutions of learning who, consistent with discretion, would be contacted in security case, such as neighbors and past employers.

(b) No contacts are to be made with students, graduate students, and professors (other than sources outlined above) at educational institutions without prior Bureau authority. When requesting authority, give full justification, individual's name, position, and statement concerning his discretion and reliability.

(c) Superiors of faculty members should not be contacted.

3. Receiving voluntary information

These instructions must not deter immediate interview of any person connected with institution of learning who desires to furnish information to FBI or be contacted by an Agent.
