Vice-Intelligence Division  
Montgomery County Police Department

Continuing Investigations Reports

XXKHB# 6-32

Subject/Case Reference: Carrafa

Date Observations/Investigation Conducted/Expenses

Wendel Clayson, 73 Dixon Avenue, Aberdeen, Maryland, phone 301-272-3145, and Wayne Ratcliff, employed at Greir Chevrolet, Stewartstown, Pennsylvania, rented the rear portion of Gino's building for a short period of time. They did body work and operated under the business name of W & W Body Shop. Allegedly, they did some work for Gino. Although unconfirmed, information has been received that Clayson stated Gino always talked about being a hit man.

Ben Addison, the owner of J & J Furniture Refinishing, located next door to Gino's, advised that on Monday, 8-2-76, he observed three subjects in Gino's building. They had the door opened and acted as if they belonged there. They loaded some cars onto the trailer being pulled by the brown International truck owned by Gino. The trailer had “Horseless Carriage Carrier” written on the side. Two white males left Gino's in the truck, and a black male followed them operating an antique car.

On 08-13-76, Doris Duafala, Gino's girlfriend, was questioned about whether she observed a vehicle following the truck the day, Monday, she saw it traveling east on Route #40. She stated she believed she saw a black guy operating an antique car following the truck, but she was not real certain. She further added that Gino had no black people working for him. He hated black people because one was supposed to have shot him accidentally in the arm while in the Marines.

According to information received, Gino was not seen at the business very often. The place was not open all the time. Up until a couple of months ago, a person by the name of Pat acted as a watchman. At the beginning of the year, Gino used to spend more time at the shop working. Lately, more expensive cars would be in the shop. Carrafa seemed to be a nice guy. He wasn't a flashy dresser. He usually was in work clothes. He didn't seem to be the drinking type. He was friendly, but not too close.

Sgt. S. Michaleski
