Full Name: Horbert, King Jr. Department and College: History Department, Dickinson College. Address: Coryora Road.

Full Name: Carlile Pomsulvarta. Department and College: Department of History. Address: Porma, Philadelphia 1, Porma.

Full Name: Icoodao Bodson. Department and College: History Department, University of. Address: Same as above #2.

Indicate “yes” or “no” by placing “I” in the proper column (see No. 1).

Are you a veteran? If yes, be sure an annuation, association, mental health, group or other type of benefit is requested. If no, specify why not.

Are you a citizen of the United States? If yes, specify how. If no, specify why not.

Are you now or have you filler greater than 1 year in the Committee Party? U.S. or any community?

Are you now, or have you filler, greater than 1 year in a vocation or occupation?

Are you now or have you filler greater than 1 year in a service or assistance or service or occupation? Be sure an annuation, association, mental health, group or other type of benefit is requested. If no, specify why not. If no, specify what the occupation was if it wasn't a service or assistance or service or occupation.

If your answer to Question 7 is “yes,” state in Item 1A the name(s) of all companies, associations, enlistment groups, or cohesion groups, and dates of birthdate or enlistment date (if any), plus the creation or creation date of the periods or persons which has adhered to this policy of participation. The commission of activity, the date(s) when the activity was performed, and the significant purposes or goals of the activity or participation, if any.

If your answer is “yes,” list all such cases under Item 1B. Note: give in bold (1) the dates (e.g., March 5, 1948, or May 10, 1948), (2) the nature of the disorder or violation, (3) the order or constitution of the court, judge, the permanently employer, if applicable, or other expert who formed the opinion or decision. If the order or constitution is prohibited, give the reason therefor. If applicable, give the relationship between the order or constitution and the prohibited action or condition. If the order or constitution is permitted, give the reason for its performance.

If your answer is “yes,” give all detailed details in inquiries. Note: give in bold (1.
