Section D. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or exploit ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper. July 0 11 29 AM ’75.

During the 6 months under review, Mr. Woods has continued to fulfill his responsibilities in the same excellent manner which has been documented in his last two fitness reports and which led to his promotion to GS-12. Mr. Woods’s surefootedness as a records officer and manager of people, together with ability to take necessary initiatives where actions are required and his maturity and sound judgment, make him an ideal chief of this very active and complex registry and records management office. I dread to think that eventual rotation will deprive me of the services of this extraordinarily competent and effective officer.

Section E. Certification and Comments.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 1 year, 9 months. Date: 7 July 1975. Official title of supervisor: Chief, CCS. Type or printed name and signature: Erich W. Isenstead.

Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance. Have attached. Have not attached. Date: 7 July 1975. Signature of employee: James S. Woods.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: There is no one in the chain of command who could act as reviewing officer.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Type or printed name and signature.

4. By Employee.

I certify that I have been the entered in all sections of this report. Date: 7 July 1975. Signature of employee: James S. Woods.
