Association with the American Nazi Party or with the National Socialist White Peoples Party.

DRAPER advised he knows no one in Illinois associated with the American Nazi Party or the National Socialist White Peoples Party, and the name DAX DRAPER means little to him. He does recall DRAPER writing to his fill, but stated DENNIS was not at Nazi Party Headquarters in Arlington during the same period that he served there.

He advised that he knows no one in the Phoenix, Arizona area since the death of WILDEBOCK PAID (phonetic). He knows of no right-wing activity in that area, but he did recall that in the past he communicated with a Nazi Party member there, although he no longer recalls this individual's name.

DRAPER stated that all of his travels are basically politically motivated and that the rain philosophy of his WAL is victory for white Christianity and a return to the natural order. He feels that the white race was placed on this earth as the “gifted race” and that a geographical separation of the races is necessary to prevent interbreeding of the races. He attributes the basis of his beliefs to the writings of HUTTER, but stated that many of the ancient philosophers preached the same white supremacy philosophy. He believes that interbreeding of the races will eventually lead to the degeneration of our society and its eventual downfall.

DRAPER stated that in the event the political system fails as a means for the right-wing groups in this country to save the country from its external and internal enemies, then any other means necessary will be used to achieve their goals. He feels that if the Government will not act to save the country, then right-wing organizations must act to do so.

DRAPER stressed the danger of an internal enemy in the form of an overly suppressive Government that would no longer act for the well-being of the average white American. Although he stated again that the right-wing extremist organizations will attempt to gain power by legislating political process, if this process should break down, any method, including that of violence, would be used to accomplish their goals. He stated the targets of the right wing would be any suppressive.
