Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I–XVIII  
April 24, 1978

Volume IX — January 1963–July 1963

1. Cable to Director from Caracas, dated February 22, 1963

Francisco Suarez Quinones wishes to travel to Miami (Maimi) to attend JURE rally 24 February. In view of reference B (WAVE 2462) information that Suarez is communist and also MRP member, DCM has asked if there is any information that Suarez was undercover agent for MRP or if he may be a double agent working for Castro.

2. Report dated June 3, 1963

Title: Plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Infiltrate the Ranks of the Central Intelligence Agency

On 30 April 1963, Rogelio Cisneros reported on a meeting of the JURE executive board in his home attended by, among others, Antonio Arias. During the meeting, Cisneros said it was mentioned that Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of any plans with regard to Cuba and, if possible, infiltrate this man into Cuba. Cisneros also said JURE was planning a leaflet drop into Cuba which would include such matters as Ray’s manifesto against the U.S. Government and against the CIA.

3. Cable to Director from Paris, dated June 19, 1963, #7727Z

Ray in Paris—contacted by Jervay. Ray was driven to the airport by Alberto Baez, with whom Ray spent much time and who seems to be closest to Ray among his contacts in Paris. Ray is in Paris and Brussels for the purpose of turning Franqui and Arcos into agents in place, or for defection. Also Cabrera. Ray is convinced Cubans here are disillusioned with Castro. He asks for an update of the list of personnel and addresses of all Cuban embassies in Europe to be passed to him in San Juan and UNRUMBLE 6 in Paris. He wants to be trained in a short-wave system between himself and UNRUMBLE 6, and the station felt these were good ideas and could be done.

4. Memo for the Record from Alfonso Rodriguez (Rodreguez), dated June 19, 1963

Subject: Manolo Ray

Ray’s attitude toward CIA—he feels that the Agency has in the past purposely and actively attempted to destroy him as a political leader and has proof that at least one CIA officer plotted with certain MRP officials to remove him from the MRP as a condition for CIA assistance to that organization.

Ray cannot be overlooked in the struggle for Cuban freedom. “Of all the Cubans I have met, he is the most purposeful, methodical, as well as the most experienced clandestine operator…”

5. Report dated June 27, 1963

Re: Creation of an Intelligence Corps within JURE

Reliable information from former Rebel Army member (F), active in clandestine movements. At a JURE meeting about 30 March 1963 at the home of journalist Antonio Arias, it was said that the JURE national executive board had created an Intelligence Corps within JURE whose function was to infiltrate JURE members into various.
