4. Four-month evaluation of informants not paid on Bureau authority

If the informant is not being paid on Bureau authorization, a communication must be transmitted to the Bureau every four months after the date of designation containing the same information set out above in subsection 3b except those items concerning payments. Recommendation of SAC regarding continuance of informant should also be set forth.

In espionage and foreign nationality cases comment is necessary regarding only those applicable items in subsection 3b.

5. Receipts

When payments are made to anyone for information or assistance on security matters, either on the SAC's authority or on prior Bureau approval, receipts must be obtained in every instance in which it is possible to do so.

a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce the receipts in evidence during the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate to other documents or files.

b. Receipts should clearly show:

(1) Date on which payment was made.

(2) Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis.

(3) Total amount paid, broken down into separate amounts for services or expenses where these items are pertinent.

(4) Name of Agent making payment.

(5) Signature of person receiving the money.

c. When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses to the Bureau, they should be stapled directly to the blue slip, leaving a margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to avoid contact with the Acco fastener punch. The staples should be placed in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on the receipt will not be mutilated and all information on the receipt can be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Care must be taken that receipts are of such a nature that they clearly show payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary material contained in Bupfiles.

6. Income tax returns

a. Informants who receive compensation for their services to the Bureau should be advised that such compensation must be reported as income when filing an income tax return.

b. Since all informants are considered independent contractors, the income they receive from the Bureau is self-employment income but, since the Bureau does not consider their activity as the carrying on of a trade or business, they may consider dispensing with the filing of a Schedule C as part of Form 1040 if they so desire.

c. The informant's own personal situation, however, should be taken into consideration as he may receive income from other sources as an independent contractor which would require the deduction of self-employment tax, regardless of any Bureau income he may receive.

d. In considering the filing of a tax on self-employment income, such a return is based upon net earnings from self-employment of $400 or more. If an informant receives less than $400 from the Bureau and has no other self-employment income, this money in any event is not subject to the self-employment tax. If the informant receives $4800 or more from outside employment subject to Social Security tax, again the self-employment tax requirements do not apply.

e. Bureau income should be set forth under item 10 on page one of the Federal income tax return, Form 1040, as “Other Income” and explained under Schedule H(3) on page three of the return as income received from other sources for personal services rendered through a private enterprise or similar general term applicable to informant's position and station in life.
