MHFNO: 96-2899456. SENSIND: RYBAT.

Group, and the former husband of a group member, of being Cuban security sources or penetrations. The leaders of the dissident group did not have any specific evidence that the individuals were connected to Cuban security, but incidents in which each of these individuals were involved led the leadership to become suspicious of them.

Text:

1. As of mid August 1995, the leadership of the Cuban dissident group, Cuban Civic Current (Corriente Civica Cubana - CCC), was certain that the Cuban human rights and dissident movements had attracted the attention of Cuban security, primarily the Ministry of Interior (MININT), and they believed that MININT was trying to penetrate dissident organizations. CCC members concerned over the group's security tagged four individuals who exhibited behavior or activities in the human rights or dissident organizations that suggested that they were associated with MININT. The individuals were Jorge Gonzalez (Gon­zales), Vladimiro Roca Atunez, Guillermo Fernandez Donates, and Rafael Alcides.

2. The CCC leadership was virtually certain that Jorge Gonzalez, of the Christian Liberation Movement (Movimiento Cristiano Liberacion), headed by Osvaldo Paya Sardinas, was a Cuban security penetration. Directors of the CCC noted that his questions were usually so penetrating as to suggest inside knowledge. A trusted member of the CCC was directed against Gonzalez, providing him with mostly bogus information known only to the CCC member and the CCC leadership. Records of the date the information was passed were kept by the CCC. The information later surfaced through MININT during the course of MININT interviews of detained CCC leaders. The CCC leadership believed that Gonzalez might have been in Venezuela as of mid August 1995.

3. Vladimiro Roca of the Cuban Democratic Socialist Current (Corriente Socialista Democratica Cubana), who is one of the closest associates of Elizardo Sanchez Santacruz of the Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation (Comision Cubana de Derechos Humanos y Reconciliacion Nacional), came under CCC suspicion after an incident in 1992. In that year, shortly after the letter by Cuban professionals to the Iberian American Summit was presented, CCC Chief Assistant Director Vladimir Martinez-Amores Alvarez was visited at his home by two MININT officers. The two officers were named “Marcial” and “Daniel.” The senior of the two, Daniel, remarked that Elizardo Sanchez was a U.S. intelligence agent. In due course this information was passed by Martinez-Amores to Sanchez in the presence of Vladimiro Roca. Around December 1992, during an “interview” by MININT of a CCC member, Marcial made a statement that indicated that he knew that his initial remarks to Martinez-Amores about Sanchez had been passed to Sanchez. When it was reported to Sanchez that MININT had made this statement, he attributed it to technical coverage in his home associated with an LP opposite his home. The CCC was not convinced by this explanation and thereafter kept Roca at a distance, as they assumed that it was Roca who had pas
