1. Preference for next assignment (continued).

C. Indicate your preference for next assignment by inserting numbers 1, 2, and 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in the boxes below:

Return to my current station.

Be assigned to Headquarters for a tour of duty. With respect to possible assignment in Headquarters, indicate choice of component.

1st choice: UAR. 2nd choice. 3rd choice.

Be assigned to another field station. With respect to possible reassignment to another field station, indicate choice of geographic area or specific station, based on qualifications.

1st choice. 2nd choice. 3rd choice.

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments? Indicate number of work days: 10.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents who will be traveling or moving with you: Wife and two children; ages: 42, 13, 6.

11A. Indicate any change in your personal or family situation which should be considered in determining your next assignment: Desire to be in the United States for the senior year and a transition from college of her other daughter.

12. Signature. Complete item No. 3-1 transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form.

To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. If consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training:

The Station concurs in Subject's request for his next assignment. Based on the capabilities that he has demonstrated during his present tour of duty, we have every reason to believe that he will perform in a professional and highly competent manner in either one of the three areas that he has selected. If Subject is considered for another field assignment, it is strongly recommended that he be afforded official cover status.

14. Signature. Complete item No. 3-2, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form.

To be completed by appropriate career service officer or personnel officer at Headquarters.

15. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his
