Agent Report (AR 381-130; FM 30-17).

1. Name of subject or title of incident: MARTI, Emanuel NMN. PVT E-1, US 52 737 780. DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

2. Date submitted: 18 November 1968.

3. Control symbol or file number: 8250-6019; 093 36 4601.

4. Report of Findings.

(Neighborhood check) On 24 October 1968, Hortense Mosko, housewife, who resides at 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, New York 10452, was interviewed in her residence concerning Manuel MARTI. Source, who has known subject for approximately three years, stated substantially as follows:

Source has been casually acquainted with subject and his family as neighbors since 1965, when MARTI and his parents moved into apartment 1E adjacent to source; however, her contact with subject and his family had been limited to a neighborly greeting whenever they met in the hallways of the building. Source saw subject frequently prior to his induction in the United States Army.

Subject and his family were described as very quiet, friendly neighbors whose conduct in the neighborhood was above reproach. Source had no knowledge concerning subject's educational background, employment, or previous residence.

MARTI appears to be of excellent character, and source knew of nothing which would reflect adversely on subject's character, integrity, discretion, honesty, or financial responsibility. He was not known to have any difficulty with law enforcement agencies. Subject's mother, given name unknown, died almost two years ago. The members of subject's family keep very much to themselves and do not associate with any of the other neighbors in the building. Neither subject nor the other members of his family were known to engage in any questionable political or other activity in the neighborhood, and source had no reason to doubt or question subject's loyalty to the United States. Source had no knowledge of subject's organizational affiliations or foreign travels. Source was unable to suggest anyone who may have knowledge of subject.

Mosko recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

Name and organization of special agent: ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB). Signature of special agent: Foster C. Steagler.
