14. References: List three persons living in the United States or Territories of the United States who are not related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which you are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Item 10 (Experience).

References: Robert Hadlich. Present birthplace or current address: Box 659, Grand Forks, N. Dak.; 521 Eagle Ave., Grand Forks, N. Dak.; N. Dak. Business or occupation: Teacher. Calmer Hovland. Present birthplace or current address: 618 Cottonwood St., Grand Forks. Hertland W. Berg.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” by placing “X” in the proper column.

29. Inquiry made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc.

35. Are you an official or employee of any state, territory, county, or municipality? X.

28. Are you a citizen of or do you owe allegiance to the United States? X.

36. Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours by blood or marriage with whom you live or have lived within the past 24 months? X. If your answer is “Yes,” show in Item 39 for each such relative: (1) full name, (2) present address, (3) relationship, (4) department or agency by which employed, and (5) kind of appointment.

27. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party, U.S.A., or any Communist organization?

28. Are you now or have you ever been a member of a Fascist organization?

29. Are you now or have you ever been a member of an organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government, or of an organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which has adopted a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States or of seeking to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means?

If your answer to question 27, 28, or 29 above is “Yes,” state in Item 39 the names of all such organizations, associations, movements, groups, or combinations of persons and dates of membership. Give complete details.
