Section C. Narrative Comments.

Be sure significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Magnet of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personal space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This is Subject's final Fitness Report as Chief, Registry at Vietnam Station. He has worked long and hard but can look with pride at the many accomplishments that he has effected during his tenure. He will depart leaving a sound and well-functioning organization. His planning has been effective and his cross-training and development of the personnel under his supervision have been fully productive.

During this period, his unit has experienced heavy increases in workload and assumed new or additional functions with no reduction in the service provided to Station components.

Subject has been responsible for many work saving innovations, procedural changes and a thorough updating and revamping of the highly important registry reference records.

The personnel under his supervision display enthusiasm and dedication in their work. Their pleasant manner is a reflection of Subject's management ability.

Subject performs his managerial and supervisory duties in a highly professional manner. He knows systems, writes lucid and concise procedures and reacts positively to situations. He is a "Doer".

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 21 Sept 1968. Signature of employer: /s/James S. Woods. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation: 14. Official title of supervisor: Records Admin Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/John K. Smith.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur in the ratings and comments of the Rating Officer. Subject has been most amenable and responsive to positive direction. Date: 21 Sept 1968. Official title of reviewing official: Crs Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/Vincent M. Lockhart.
