Number, agency having security responsibility, and interested agencies can be included on FD-128 submitted by old office of origin.

V. Where security index flash notice has been placed with Identification Division, notation to that effect must appear on FD-128 and extra copy of FD-128 must be specifically designated for Bureau marked “Attention Identification Division” so that those records will reflect new office controlling existing security index flash notice.

VI. The old office of origin will submit current report.

Submission of FD-128 should not be delayed solely for preparation of reports when office of origin is to be changed, but notation should be made on FD-128 that old office of origin is preparing report.

Case will remain pending in both old and new offices of origin until report is submitted by old office of origin. The new office of origin is responsible to follow the matter until the report is submitted.

VII. The new office of origin is to review the pertinent material received with FD-128, as well as pertinent information in the files of the new office, to determine whether additional investigation is warranted. If no additional investigation is warranted, advise Bureau by letter that the case is being placed in a closed status.

VIII. Upon receipt of FD-128, office covering new address of subject will be office of origin with no other communication necessary in this regard. New office of origin will place its file number on security index cards received and place them in security index of that office.

IX. Upon receipt of new security index cards from Bureau with copy of FD-128, new office of origin is to transfer information from reverse side of old geographical cards to two of the new cards, appropriately file new cards, and destroy old cards.

(b) Key figures and top functionaries

Mechanics of transferring cases for all security index subjects as described above shall apply to key figures and top functionaries. Additional procedures in these categories are:

I. Notification to Bureau of deletion of subject as key figure or top functionary in old office of origin will be handled merely by designation in space provided on FD-128 that subject was key figure or top functionary.

II. Upon receipt of form FD-128, new office of origin shall automatically designate subject a key figure or top functionary and continue case in an assigned pending-inactive status if no further investigation is to be conducted at that time and necessary summary report has been submitted. Within six months in cases of key figures or within three months in cases of top functionaries, new office of origin is to conduct active investigation, submit investigative report on subject, and advise Bureau concerning continued designation of subject in these categories.
