Agent Report.

Name of subject or title of incident: TRINKALA, Victor L. DPOB: 28 November 1950, Rochester, Pa. PVT 186 42 1155. Date submitted: 22 April 1970. Control symbol or file number: 9321 6006.

Report of findings.

or positive evidence of HIS age. SUBJECT stated that HE would comply with this request and the interview was terminated.

On 18 November 1969, Source received a telephone call from LTC Parker, Chief of Military Personnel Division, Sixth Army Headquarters, Presidio of San Francisco, California, stating that one Nagell, former Captain, Special Agent, with Counter Intelligence, urged that SUBJECT'S orders to RVN be cancelled. Parker did not explain why. Nagell wanted the orders to be cancelled. Source was instructed to find out who Nagell was by talking to SUBJECT. SUBJECT was consequently called in for another interview by the former Officer In Charge, CWO Walter Girvin, 456-48-8128, 22d Administration Company (Finance), American Division, APO San Francisco 96374. Source was not positive if Girvin ever talked to SUBJECT. Source interviewed SUBJECT and asked him who Nagell was. SUBJECT replied that Nagell was a relative and a former Army Captain. SUBJECT was apprehensive when talking about Nagell.

On 24 or 25 November 1969, Source received a registered letter from SUBJECT'S mother. The letter contained a copy of SUBJECT'S birth certificate and a note in long hand, apparently written by HIS mother, stating that she did not want SUBJECT to go to RVN nor remain in the Army. The birth certificate was a copy of the original and Source did not remember seeing a raised seal of any kind on the certificate. The copy of the birth certificate was apparently considered to be official, because SUBJECT was transferred to Transient Company to be discharged. Source was confident that the correspondence from Nagell played no part in SUBJECT getting discharged, although it did confuse the matter and brought it to the attention of the personnel working in PAB, ORS, USAPO.

Typed name and organization of special agent: JACK A. REYNOLDS, 115th NII-GR (I AL). Signature of special agent: Jack A Reynolds.
