A. Rosen to Mr. Belmont Memo

Re: President's Commission

The Commission, in questioning Kellerman, made specific reference to the underscored portions of the above paragraph, as it contradicts some of Kellerman's testimony. Kellerman claims he did not hear the President nor Mrs. Kennedy say these things and had never told our agents that he had. In part of Kellerman's denial, he stated, “I don't know where they got those quotes.”

Observations:

Kellerman is claiming our agents furnished inaccurate accounts of a conversation with him. It is to be remembered that at the time this conversation with our agents reportedly took place, 11-22-63, Kellerman had been a security guard in the President's car and more than likely was upset and feeling remorse over the day's episode. In his testimony before the Commission, he endeavored to give the impression that he acted calmly and immediately took command, issuing logical instructions after the President was hit. The conversation reported by our agents made it appear Kellerman reacted normally to the tragedy and not dramatically as indicated in his testimony, as he didn't order the driver to the hospital until after the President had so directed.

It is felt our agents reported accurately what Kellerman told them on 11-22-63, and that Kellerman's testimony 3½ months later is the result of considered deliberation on his part to paint the most favorable picture possible, under the circumstances, for the Secret Service.

Consideration has been given to discussing this matter with Chief Rowley of the Secret Service; however, since it is the word of our agents against Kellerman's, it is not felt any good purpose would be served by this course of action.

Recommendation:

Affidavits are being obtained from our agents Sibert and O'Neill attesting to the accuracy of their report and refuting Kellerman, so that we will be in a position to show any future inquirer that we recognized this contradiction and did something about it.

FBI
