4. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters where contact is maintained on a periodic basis dependent on circumstances, contact potential informants personally at least once every two weeks.

5. Advise Bureau of progress being made at least every six months. Submit letters (FD-401) concerning potential informants who are not being paid on Bureau authorization on UACB basis; include summary of information furnished during past six months and certifications regarding stability and indoctrination against disclosure. Follow form indicated under § 107L, item 3b, below, except those items concerning payments.

6. Post record of all contacts with potential informants.

7. During contacts with potential informants, if it develops individual does not have necessary capabilities, discontinue efforts.

8. Informants may raise a question concerning their position if it becomes known publicly they are affiliated with subversive organization. In such case, he may be told that his cooperation is matter of record in FBI and if some question arises concerning his loyalty we will consider making facts of his cooperation known to his employer or to responsible individuals. Before taking steps to advise anyone of potential informant's or informant's cooperation, obtain Bureau authority.

9. From first interview with potential informant through development and until discontinued, use extreme caution at all times to be certain he is not a plant.

10. When potential informant begins to furnish current information and otherwise qualifies for designation as informant, advise Bureau. This communication must be personally initialed by SAC or ASAC acting in his absence. Individual's background must be thoroughly reviewed at this time, keeping in mind possibility of using informant as witness. If individual has any weaknesses, set forth safeguards being followed to insure security and prevent embarrassment to Bureau.

E. Bureau Policy

1. Development of military personnel. Do not develop informants among military personnel on military reservations, establishments, etc., unless specifically approved by Bureau.

2. Contacts by designated agents. Contacts with informant or potential informant should only be made by agent or agents specifically designated to contact him.

3. Divulging information to informant. No information should be divulged to potential informant or informant concerning any of Bureau's investigative activity other than that which is essential to his proper operation.

4. Recording investigative activity. All investigative activity must be made matter of record in field office files with all sources of information being completely identified. Agents must not have and use informants known only to individual agents personally.

F. Indoctrination, Direction, and Control of Informants

1. Caution against divulging relationship. During initial development and consistently thereafter, impress upon informant absolute necessity that he refrain from divulging his relationship with Bureau. These instructions must be properly phrased to prevent possibility of Bureau's being accused of attempting to impose censorship.

2. Developing additional background. During development of informant, additional data concerning his background should be continuously obtained from informant. Be alert for data revealing he is mentally or emotionally unstable, or has some personal problem which would make him a risk.

3. Indications of instability. Immediately furnish details of any indications of instability to Bureau, with recommendations as to informant's continuance and comments as to any steps being taken to prevent embarrassment to Bureau.
