Who are outraged by the ruthless slaughter in Vietnam and the persistent neglect of human needs at home.

To Come to Washington, January 15, as Congress opens.

Support Jeannette Rankin as she leads a representative delegation of American women to the Capitol to demand that:

Congress, as its first order of business, resolve to end the war in Vietnam and immediately arrange for the withdrawal of all American troops.

Congress use its power to heal a sick society at home.

Congress use its power to make reparation for the ravaged land we leave behind in Vietnam.

Congress listen to what the American people are saying and refuse the insatiable demands of the military-industrial complex.

Program: Live, St. Louis; Saturday evening, January 13; ahead planning sessions Sunday.

Women of America, our power is unlimited. On January 15 American women will:

Petition the United States Congress.

Convene a Congress of American Women that afternoon to develop programs to meet the crisis in America—programs which will express our political power, reason and conscience.

Let us declare our intention to return to our communities, and mobilize women on all levels of activity, dedicated to reshaping American society and restoring our country to a position of honor in the community of nations.

Partial List of Sponsors:

Muriel Adams  
Mia Aurbakken Adjoli  
Donna Allen  
Carol Anderson  
Ellen Aurbakken  
Helen Becker  
Norma Becker  
Mrs. Harry Belafonte (Belafonts)  
Mrs. John C. Bennett  
Rebecca Berman  
Peggy Billings  
Kay Boyle  
Nikki Bridges  
Jane Buchenholz  
Catherine L. Comie  
Twila Lytton Cavert  
Mary Clarke  
Eva Rubinstein Coffin  
Mrs. Martin Luther King, Jr.  
Jessica Milford  
Nelle Morton  
Grace Mora Newman  
Dorothy Nyland  
Mrs. Joseph Popp  
Rosa Parks (Rosco Parks)  
Mrs. Benjamin Spock  
Susan Sontag (Sonlag)  
Dagmar Wilson  
Florence Criley  
Elsie Thomas Culver  
Polly Cuthbertson  
Ruby Dee  
Mrs. Ann Eaton  
Judith Morse Eaton  
Grace Loucks Elliott

To All American Women,

I am proud of the fact that my first vote cast in Congress was a vote against war. It was the first opportunity for a woman to vote because I was the first woman to be elected to Congress.

I believed then as I do today that women are the ones, but must be concerned with the needs and development of the human race. I have always fought for the dignity of all.
