Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

During the past year Mr. Kent continued to direct the CA Section of the Chile Branch in the same highly effective manner noted in the previous fitness report. In this position he was responsible for directing the Headquarters support for WH Division's largest and most active covert action program. This program is generally credited with having achieved a number of successes during the past year in a wide variety of activities against the Chilean target.

Mr. Kent possesses an unusual combination of talent, language capability and experience that makes him one of the top CA officers in the Division. He is particularly effective in conducting propaganda work and his imaginative exploitation of the Chilean situation has been superb. As a result of his efforts, the Branch has been able to conduct a continuous and effective hemisphere-wide propaganda campaign against the Allende government during the past year. In addition, he has brought in key European stations to assist in this program on numerous occasions.

Among the more significant contributions made by Mr. Kent have been his activities in the economic field. He has successfully carried out a number of operations designed to damage the Allende government...

Section D: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 15 Nov. 1972. Signature of employee: William M. Kent.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 12 months.

Date: 15 November 1972. Official title of supervisor: DC/WH/6. Typed or printed name and signature: Albert D. Wedemeyer.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: I concur with this evaluation. Subject's ability in the propaganda field particularly is exceptional. Blessed with a fertile imagination, he has an uncanny talent for coming up with an appropriate CA remedy to almost any problem. His knowledge and experience in the CA field is wide and deep, making him undoubtedly one of the best officers in this speciality in the Agency. The Branch is indeed fortunate to have his services.

Date: 15 NOV 1972. Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/6. Typed or printed name and signature: Stewart D. Burton.
