(4) Office preparing summary report may include information originally obtained by another office but may not have necessary documentation. If the office preparing the report has copies of documents obtained by another office and the identity of the source, date of activity, date received, and receiving Agent are known, it is not necessary to obtain the file number of the original. Pertinent documentation, other than the file number, should be obtained from the auxiliary office.

(5) When a report includes references to known subversives who have associated with the subject, identify the source of the characterization in cover pages without further documentation.

(6) When it is necessary to obtain a thumbnail sketch, place it in the thumbnail sketch file so it will be readily available for future use.

10. Channelizing memoranda. Destruction of channelizing memoranda may follow submission of reports. Copies of informant's statements designated for 100 classification files of informants may be destroyed when one year old. (See instructions for destruction of channelizing memoranda in Manual of Rules and Regulations, part II, section 3D, item 8.)

I. Dissemination of Data Developed in Security Investigations

1. Policy

Proper utilization of information received is foremost among the Bureau's responsibilities. Information obtained during investigations should be forwarded to other interested agencies in the executive branch unless there are compelling reasons not to do so. Delimitations Agreement and Presidential directives provide for dissemination to other agencies which have present or potential interest in information relating to espionage, sabotage, subversive activities, and related matters.

2. Bureau requirements

Because all conceivable situations cannot be anticipated, the data below pertains to representative situations which occur frequently. The basic rule is that security information must be furnished promptly to interested agencies in the executive branch. The term “interested agency” must be interpreted in light of reason and common sense. Bring any unusual situations to the Bureau's attention promptly for consideration.

Considerations affecting national defense in Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico necessitate the broadest possible construction of requirements for dissemination to intelligence services in those areas. See Manual of Rules and Regulations, part II, section 5, pertaining to the Bureau's overall responsibilities, policies, and exceptions in dissemination.

a. Members of armed forces

Delimitations Agreement between the FBI and armed forces intelligence agencies (see section 102B, volume IV, of this manual) requires each agency to exchange freely and directly with other subscribing agencies all information of mutual interest. Any information developed concerning members of military services must be referred immediately to the appropriate military branch having primary responsibility, even though allegations have not been fully resolved or verified. Specifically point out in such instances that the information has not been verified. When it is determined that a security subject is a member of the armed services, discontinue investigation immediately, advise the Bureau, and disseminate pertinent reports locally to the appropriate intelligence agency. Dissemination regarding military personnel is not confined to subjects of security investigations but extends to any subversive data developed against a member of the armed services during FBI investigations. If a member of the armed forces has been in contact with a security subject or any individual or group with security implications, immediately advise the appropriate local intelligence service, even though the security aspects of the contact have not been resolved. Point out in such instances that the information is unverified and transmit any additional developments immediately.
