LIFE' REPORTER GRANTED STAY

October 1967

Court Holds Up Grand Jury Appearance

An order staying the appearance of David L. Chandler, a Life Magazine writer, before the Orleans Parish Grand Jury was issued about 1:20 p.m. Wednesday, 10 minutes before his scheduled appearance.

The Louisiana Supreme Court issued the stay order until further order of the court and gave Chandler five days to file necessary documents in support of his application.

Also, self-admitted former Ku Klux Klan leader Jules Kimble testified before the East Baton Rouge Parish Grand Jury, which is investigating both the May bombing of the home of AFL-CIO president Victor Bussie and allegations that organized crime is being conducted in Louisiana.

Kimble has said he can name three persons who plotted to bomb Bussie's Baton Rouge home and the Port Allen home of a Negro school teacher active in civil rights work.

JUDGE TESTIFIES

In New Orleans, Municipal Court Judge Andrew G. Bucaro was locked in with the grand jury here for about an hour. The jury adjourned for the day shortly after 4 p.m. but did not report as a judge.

Cicero C. Sessions, Chandler's lawyer, appealed to the Supreme Court after Criminal District Court Judge Matthew S. Braniff overruled a motion to quash Chandler's subpoena.

Judge Braniff gave Chandler's attorneys until 11 a.m. Monday to file an appeal, but in the meantime reissued the stay of the matter.

He originally set a deadline of 11 a.m. Friday, but changed the date when he learned Chandler was under another subpoena to appear in Vidalia at 9 a.m. Friday before the Concordia Parish Grand Jury.

Chandler's attorney also filed a motion that Chandler be allowed to have his lawyer present in the grand jury session. Other motions filed for Chandler were to recuse District Attorney Jim Garrison and his staff, to compel Garrison and the grand jury foreman to state in open court the crime under investigation, to quash Chandler's grand jury subpoena, and to obtain a copy of questions and answers elicited from Chandler during questioning by Assistant District Attorney Charles Ward on Jan. 26.

REFUSAL ALLEGED

Ward reacted sharply to Chandler's attempt to avoid a grand jury appearance, saying that in effect Chandler “has refused to testify and tell the truth, claiming that the truth would tend to incriminate him.”

“It is unbelievable that a man who is directly responsible for charging that organized crime is flourishing in New Orleans should claim the 5th Amendment just as a common criminal would.”

Chandler told The Times-Picayune late Wednesday afternoon that, although the Concordia Parish subpoena was served on him, he “talked it over” with the Concordia district attorney and was actually going to appear voluntarily.

“We (Chandler and his attorney) don't mind testifying before grand juries in cases where threats have not been made,” said Chandler. He claimed that threats were made against him by Garrison as a result of references to organized crime in New Orleans made in the Life articles.

The motion to recuse said Life stories on organized crime and other stories concerning Garrison's investigation of the assassination of President Kennedy have been publicly denied by Garrison or members of his staff.

This showed personal animosity on Garrison's part, it said, “which is inconsistent with the impartial administration of justice.”

It charged the district attorney had his office illegally misuse the grand jury's subpoena power by having Chandler subpoenaed to appear before the jury Jan. 26 when he was not actually wanted by the jury.

OATH ALLEGED

The motion said Chandler was required to make a sworn statement to Ward, “who castigated him for his investigation and threatened him with criminal prosecution.”

It charged Garrison wants to get Chandler in front of the grand jury to entrap him and then prosecute him for perjury. It also alleged that Garrison is pursuing a scheme to prevent Chandler “from pursuing his privilege under the First Amendment to investigate crime” as a news reporter.

The third motion said Chandler was informed that the district attorney said he is going to arrest Chandler and prosecute him criminally.

It said the subpoena violates Chandler's right to remain silent and not give evidence against himself.

The Supreme Court, after granting the stay order and five days for Chandler to answer, gave the district attorney three days after that to file a return with the court.

The twin Orleans-East Baton Rouge probes Wednesday included questioning by investigators of C. H. Downs, aide to Gov. John J. McKelthen, about a Capitol telephone which allegedly was used for conversations between rackets figure Carlos Marcello and former Keithen aide Aubrey Young.

Before Kimble's testimony he was transported to Baton Rouge from New Orleans, where he was under $5,000 bond in Parish Prison on charges of impersonating a state
