Agency Report (AR 381-130; FM 30-17). Amendment note: amr.

Name of subject or title of incident: MARTI, Manuel NMN. Private E-1, US 52 737 780. Date and place of birth: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

4. Report of findings.

(Employment supervisor) On 24 September 1968, George J. Ferraro, Production Manager, Mutual Insurance Advisory Association (MIAA), 733 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10017, who resides at 47-19 216th Street, Bayside, New York 11361, a former supervisor of Manuel MARTI, was interviewed at his place of employment concerning subject. Ferraro stated substantially as follows:

Source first met subject on 5 April 1965 when MARTI started to work under Source's supervision at MIAA, and he had daily business contact with subject until MARTI left MIAA to enter the United States Army on or about 20 May 1968. Source had no social contact with subject during the period of association. MARTI was originally employed as a Utility Clerk in Source's department, and because of his keen intelligence and willingness to resume responsibility the position of Utility Clerk Supervisor was created for him. He was subsequently trained within the section and promoted to Tabulating Machine Operator, the position which he held at the time of his departure. Subject was well liked and respected by his co-workers, and Source considered him to be the best employee in his section. Ferraro would be happy to have subject return to work under his supervision.

Subject is of Puerto Rican descent, and was single and resided with his parents in Bronx, New York, exact address unknown. Subject's mother was ailing for some time after his employment at MIAA and she died on or about 9 January 1967. Subject has a younger sister, name unknown, and a brother, name unknown, who is also in the United States military service. While at MIAA subject was given a deferment by his draft board because his brother was in the military service and he was the sole support of his parents. Subject is a high school graduate, and is believed to have attended college at night, further details unknown. Source had no knowledge concerning subject's employment prior to MIAA.

MARTI is a dependable, industrious, cooperative, and aggressive individual who exercises considerable initiative in his work. His moral character and discretion are above reproach, and he manifested no undesirable personal habits during the period of association. Subject is honest, trustworthy, mature and emotionally stable, and he has had no known difficulty with creditors or law enforcement agencies. Source had no knowledge concerning the degree of influence exercised over subject by his father. MARTI firmly believes in the principles of a free democratic society, and Source considers him loyal to the United States. Subject had no known organizational affiliations, and Source had no knowledge concerning his foreign travels, relatives residing abroad, or business interests in foreign countries. Source suggested Lucien Todman, 1660 Andrews Avenue, Bronx, New York, as a close.

5. Typed name and organization of special agent: ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB).
