Fitness Report. Employer serial number: 007894.

Section A. General.

1. Name: Smith, Joseph B. 2. Date of birth: 16 Jun 21. 3. Sex: M. 4. Grade: GS-14. 5. SO: D. B. Official position title: Operations Officer. 7. Officer/branch of assignment: DDP/WH/1. C. Current status: Mexico City.

9. Check (A) type of appointment: X Career; X Reserve; X Temporary. Initial. Annual. Special (Specify). Reassignment supervisor. Reassignment employee. Special (Specify).

11. Date and report due in O.P.: 31 December 1972.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory. Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal. Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for ongoing this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient. Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Serious. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is to exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List all six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Supervises a section that is responsible for CA, Political, and Exile activities. This includes supervision over two officers, 1 NOC, one IA and one secretary. Rating letter: 6.

Specific Duty No. 2: Supervises operations for the collection of intelligence on selected targets in the Mexican government and political arena. Rating letter: 6.

Specific Duty No. 3: Develops new contacts and operations to improve the output of Station third country targeted propaganda. Rating letter: 6.

Specific Duty No. 4: Develops new contacts for producing intelligence on significant targets in the Mexican political and intellectual community. Rating letter: 6.

Specific Dut
