Banners carried, other than the one lead-off Jeannette Rankin Brigade banner. We will, of course, all adhere to this.

3. Press aides will be beside the Jeannette Rankin Brigade banner.

4. Please, no litter! Do not discard this or any other papers on the streets.

5. The address of the Shoreham Hotel, where the Congress is to be held, is 2500 Calvert Street, N.W. We will convene in the Regency and Ambassador Ballrooms.

6. Our route is from Union Station down Louisiana Avenue to Union Square, i.e. Grant Square. We must all remain on the west sidewalk, following the lead of our Jeannette Rankin Brigade banner. Capitol Police will direct traffic.

7. The Jeannette Rankin Brigade Office phone number is 362-9219. The phone number for Housing is 234-0700. Ask for the Regency Ballroom Hospitality Table.

8. As we have agreed, prior to arriving in Washington, this is to be a quiet, peaceful vigil. We will have no conversation with one another or with onlookers as we proceed in orderly fashion from Union Station to Union Square, i.e. Grant Square.

9. While we are quietly assembled at Union Square, i.e. Grant Square, Viveca Lindfors will read to us the petition being presented by our delegation to Congress.

10. The buses taking us from Union Square, i.e. Grant Square, to the Shoreham Hotel will be located on Madison Drive and on Washington Drive, from Third Street to Seventh Street. Monitors will guide us to our buses.

11. All of those who have not paid their bus fare from Union Square, i.e. Grant Square, to the Shoreham Hotel are asked to pay 50¢ at the Women’s Congress at the Shoreham.

12. Please do not distribute any materials during the March or at Union Square, i.e. Grant Square. Free literature may be placed on tables at the Shoreham Hotel. No literature may be sold or hand-distributed. The only item to be sold is the Jeannette Rankin Brigade button.

13. All of these instructions, as well as all of the decisions regarding the day’s activities, have been made by a National Steering Committee representing the entire coalition.
