U. S. Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC)

Re: Interview of former Assistant to the Director John P. Mohr (Johnt P. Mohr) by SSC Staff

All information contained hereto is not classified. Date: 5-19-75. By: [Signature]

Set out below is information voluntarily furnished to the FBI by Mr. Mohr following his interview by representatives of the Staff of the SSC in Washington, D. C., on May 9, 1975.

Mr. Mohr was interviewed by Staff Members Mark Gitenstein, Lester B. Seidel, and Thomas Pawson from approximately 10:20 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. He was not placed under oath and he was not advised of his rights or that he could be represented by personal counsel.

At the outset of the interview, it was apparent that its purpose was to assist the SSC Staff Members in trying to understand how the flow of rail proceeded in the FBI under Mr. Hoover's directorship. For example, Mr. Mohr was shown FBI documents relating to the Socialist Workers Party as well as CONTROLPRO documents which were obtained by Mr. Carl Stern under the Freedom of Information Act. No substantive questions were directed to Mr. Mohr regarding these documents but were shown to him in order that Mr. Mohr might identify who the final authority was in approving such documents.

Associate Director. Deputy Associate Director, Administration. Deputy Associate Director, Investigations.

Assistant Directors: Administration; Computer Systems; External Affairs; Files and Communications; General Investigations; Identification; Inspection; Intelligence; Laboratory; Planning and Evaluation; Special Investigations; Training.

Legal Counsel. Telephone Room. Director's Secretary.

In addition to the above, the Staff Members asked Mr. Mohr to explain the difference between an SAC letter and a letter to all SACs. They also asked Mr. Mohr if the Bureau maintained a separate file on all SAC letters.

1 - 67- (Personnel File of John P. Mohr)

WOC:ekw Ekw

Mail Room. TTY Unit.

Enclosure

May 23, 1975

1 - Mr. P. V. Daly  
1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar
