Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 017974.

Section A — General.

1. Name: Fox, Jerome.
2. Date of birth: 9 October 1928.
3. Sex: M.
4. Official position title: Operations Officer.
5. Grade: GS-12 D.
6. Type of appointment: Career; Annual.

13. Reporting period: 7 April 1967–31 December 1967.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W — Work: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment, or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Headquarters Desk Officer for several Manila Station operational activities. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Study and familiarization of the situation in the Philippines in preparation for an assignment in that country. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Contacts various operating units and staffs in the furtherance of operational assignments. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Prepares operational correspondence to the field in connection with his assigned responsibilities. Rating letter: P.
