Robert M. McNamara, Jr., Esq.

July 15, 1998

Non-duplicate documents within the hardcopy set of the CIA-House Select Committee on Assassinations (“HSCA”) Sequestered Collection (i.e., CIA files that were reviewed by the HSCA for its investigation of the JFK assassination and which were sequestered pursuant to agreement of the CIA and HSCA).

Non-duplicate documents within the microfilm version of the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection (the microfilm version is a more expansive set of records than the hardcopy set of the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection in that it contains complete underlying files, not just the specific records reviewed by the HSCA).

Lee Harvey Oswald’s 201 File. CIA has placed this file into the JFK Collection. As for the microfilm copy of the Oswald 201 file (which we assume duplicates the original Oswald 201 file processed by the CIA), we request that it be placed in the protected portion of the JFK Collection by September 1998 (after Review Board examination). Certain recently discovered documents relating to Oswald also must be added to the JFK Collection.

Lee Harvey Oswald’s Office of Security File. CIA has placed this file into the JFK Collection.

Marina Oswald’s 201 File. While Marina Oswald’s 201 file has been processed for the JFK Collection (as part of the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection), we request that the original file be transferred to the protected portion of the JFK Collection.

As CIA has reported, the hardcopy and microfilm versions of the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection were first placed into the JFK Collection in 1993 and 1994. See CIA Initial Statement of Compliance (dated March 19, 1998), at 2. Documents from those collections are being re-processed, however, to the extent that the Review Board has mandated that such documents be opened up to a greater extent.

NARA reports that it does not have the computerized version of the record identification forms (“RIFs”) for documents in the microfilm Sequestered Collection. CIA explained that it must first complete the processing of non-duplicates and update the computer data before that data is transferred to NARA. CIA anticipates that this will be done sometime after October 1998.

However, NARA reports that many documents do not have the proper RIFs attached. CIA will coordinate with NARA to correct this.
