Subject: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

11. LITAMIL-9 was a CIA penetration of the Cuban Embassy. Unfortunately, his identity was indirectly and inadvertently released in 1993 and, as a result, he was identified in true name as a CIA agent in John Newman's book, *Oswald and the CIA*. As of 1993, LITAMIL-9 was still alive and living in Mexico City with family in Cuba. To date, the ARRB Board has agreed to protect his identity and crypt and delay the release of his 201 file until the Agency could make some judgments about the potential damage created by the release on additional documents with his name/crypt in them. That will now occur at the May meeting of the Board. It is, however, unlikely that the Board would agree to delay release until 2017 although there is precedent for delaying release of records on individuals for shorter periods or until death.

Issue 6 — Richard Gibson (CIA Asset)

12. Richard Gibson, who presently lives in England, is a left wing journalist who was associated with the Fair Play For Cuba Committee (FPFCC), an entity to which Oswald wrote letters and claimed to be a member. Gibson did not become an Agency asset until after the assassination; however, he had been of interest to the FBI when he headed the FPFCC. Unfortunately, a combination of previous releases led to press reports in 1994/1995 about his relationship with the CIA. At that time, CIA officers were dispatched to advise him about the possible compromise and promise him the very best attempt at protecting the relationship.

13. Since then, the ARRB has agreed to delay the release of any additional information until the Agency and FBI had determined the full extent of the files on Gibson and the potential damage. The issue is scheduled for ARRB action at the May meeting and our objective is to release Gibson's role in the JFK assassination story while protecting his relationship with the Agency; however, the FBI has a four volume file which covers both FBI interest and Gibson's relationship with the Agency. We will be working in detail with the ARRB staff and the FBI on this approach.
