I. Accused of Refusing to Investigate 50-Million ‘Theft’ at H.L. Hunt Concert

After the Hunts were charged, one of their attorneys, Philip Hirshkop (Hirshhop) of Alexandria, Va., asked the federal courts to require the Justice Department to investigate the thefts from H.L.H.

Warned of Investigation

In response to a statement from Federal District Judge R. O. Woodward in 1973 that he would dismiss cases against the firemen if “some agency does not investigate,” Hunt officials “once again laid out the whole situation to the F.B.I.” and other Justice Department officials, Mr. Whitaker said.

Two former employees of H.L.H., John L. Brown, were sued in federal court for taking the money to obtain H.L.H. firemen who were fired and placed on probation. A third former employee, Paul D. Northamptom, who had been chief of security for Hunt Oil Company, was given immunity from prosecution by the Government, but an agent was never called to verify this at any trial.

The three men said that H. L. Hunt had given them permission to act as food brokers to sell H. L. H. products, a state magic system designed by the late billionaire Henry P. W.3

In his effort to show that Mr. Mikes were being prosecuted because they refused to cooperate with the C.A.C., Mr. Hirshkop (Hirshhop) added both the agency and the FBI for any CIA information they had on his client.

Three Men

The three of 13 items that the C.A.C. would release to Mr. Hirshkop (Hirshhop) were a biography of Bunker Hunt and a copy of a memo.

Gradually that recommendation that Bunker Hunt be asked to be “operating” and copies of attacks made on Bunker Hunt by Tripoli Radio.

Bunker Hunt said that in 1968, the C.A.C. asked him to get into what was Liberian, of open hands as a cover for C.I.A. agents in the Middle East, but that he refused.

The December 1968 memorandum on Bunker Hunt said that the C.I.A. had “had good cooperation” on our routine reports but “have no way of fearing possible reaction to operations” requests. Our estimate is that we can no reason we should not make a conclusion approach.

At an artificial hearing, Hunt said, the only opposition the C.I.A. has to the Justice Department and the Justice Department of the Justice Department in America.

Print No Instructions

Judge Woodward (Woodard) excluded reports from six CIAs (CLAs) on the Investigation Unit on all three units from the National Security Council, but ruled that they did not have relevance to the wiring case and would not allow the Hunt unit to see the documents.

Thomas Hunt said that the State Department also had become involved, urging Bunker Hunt to pay $43 million still owed to the LIBYA Government on the 1973 taxes. These taxes were withheld after Libya seized Mr. Hunt’s oil interests in that country in 1973.

Mr. Hunt said that this advice had been rejected.

Tripoli Radio said in June 1973 that Bunker Hunt’s half-share in an estimated 10 billion barrels of oil in a desert field in Libya had been settled because Mr. Hunt was “an adventurist and broker seeking gains and profits without carrying out any activity or bearing any risk.”

“He did not even have a positive attitude toward the wishes of the people,” the broadcast said.

Thomas Hunt said that the Hunt oil interests had been paying about $160 million in taxes to the Libyan Government before Mr. Hunt was ousted from the country.

Thomas Hunt said that H.L.H. Food Products Division of Hunt Oil Company had been reimbursed and was now showing a profit.

On Ideas From Hanoi

SAIGON, South Vietnam, Sept. 21 (Agence France-Presse)—The Viet group of high school students to take final exams yesterday since the Communists took over here had a choice of writing papers analyzing the thoughts of either Ho Chi Minh, the late North Vietnam leader, or the current Premier Pham Van Dong.

The first choice was an excerpt from Ho Chi Minh’s “Call to the Nation” of July 17, 1968, when American bombers started attacking North Vietnam.

The other was a passage from Mr. Dong’s speech when he presented his Government to the last segment of the North Vietnamese National Assembly.
