Fitness Report.

Section A: General Information.

Employee number: 010052. Name: Woods, James S. Date of birth: 02/20/28. Sex: N. Grade: GS-11. DD. Official position title: Records Admin of CH (RGORDS ADMIN OF CH). Office/division/service of assignment: DDO/CCS/Registry. Current station: Headquarters. Code: X MOS DF.

Type of appointment: X Career. Type of report: X Annual.

Reporting period: 1 June 1973–31 May 1974. Date report due in O.P.: 30 June 1974.

Section B: Qualifications Update. No.

If Qualifications Update Form is being submitted with changes, and is attached to this report, place the word “Yes” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “No” in the box at right.

Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is sufficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Overall Performance in Current Position.

Specific Duty No. 1: Chief of Registry Section—supervises seven employees. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Records Management Officer—responsible for the overall CCS records management program, ensuring that it is in conformity with DDO and Agency records management policy and procedures. Rating letter: O.
