United States Department of Justice. Federal Bureau of Investigation.

In reply, please refer to file no.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Washington, D.C. 20535.

Date:

Training Agreement

In consideration for the following specialized training, which will result in considerable time and expense to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), I agree to remain in the service of the FBI (or Department of Justice, as to the final item below) for the time specified, contingent upon my maintaining a satisfactory work record.

So that I may receive training in classifying, searching, and filing fingerprints, I agree to remain in the service of the FBI performing fingerprint duties for at least one year from this date. I understand that I may be assigned, consistent with the demands of the service, to work at night.

So that I may receive training in stenographic or typing skills, I agree to remain in the FBI for a minimum of one year after completion of training. In addition, I agree to accept any assignment in any division at FBI Headquarters or the Washington Field Office consistent with such needs for my services.

So that I may receive training in automatic data processing equipment or cryptanalytics, I agree to remain in the FBI for one year after completion of formal training.

So that I may receive training in a foreign language, I agree to remain in the FBI for three years after I successfully complete this training.

So that I may receive advanced training in maintenance and repair of FM radio equipment, I agree to remain in the service of the FBI for at least one year following completion of the training.

So that I may receive training under the Government Employees Training Act, to be given me at, I agree to remain in the Department of Justice for a minimum of after completion of training. If I voluntarily leave the Department before expiration of that period, I will pay the Government the amount of the additional expenses paid by it for the above-mentioned training.

Signature
