Field Information Report.

Country: Cuba. Subject: Assassination of Lt. Col. Antonio Blanco Rico solved. Place acquired: Habana. Report No. HKH-1385. Date of information: 28–29 November 1956. Date acquired: 29 November 1956. Date of report: 30 November 1956. Source and source evaluation: Cuban government official (B). Appraisal of content: 3.

1. Agents of the Servicio de Inteligencia Militar (SIM, Cuban Military Intelligence Service) are reported to have identified definitely the assassins of Lt. Col. Antonio Blanco Rico, former chief of SIM killed on 22 October 1956 at the Montmartre nightclub. On 29 November 1956 SIM agents interrogated Dr. Armando Cardenas Aranguren, instructor of pathology at the University of Habana, and succeeded in obtaining an admission from Cardenas that Juan Pedro Carbo Servid and Rolando Cubelas Secades had sought refuge at his house after the assassination of Blanco Rico and had remained there approximately three or four days. Cardenas stated during interrogation that Carbo had arrived at his house carrying a sub-machine gun. On the basis of Cardenas' admissions, SIM officials are convinced that Carbo and Cubelas were the ones who killed Blanco Rico.

2. Implication of Cardenas and Cubelas resulted from the interception of a cable by SIM sent from Miami, Florida, by a friend of Cubelas to Virginia Secades, mother of Cubelas, in Habana. On 27 November 1956 Virginia Secades was arrested by SIM and taken to SIM headquarters for questioning concerning her son's participation in the assassination of Blanco Rico. SIM agents were unable to obtain any information from Secades concerning her son's role in the killing but succeeded in learning that Cardenas was a close friend of her son. On 29 November 1956 SIM agents picked up Cardenas, who, under pressure, admitted that he was a homosexual, that Cubelas was his intimate friend, and that he had hidden Cubelas and Carbo in his home for about four days. These admissions were made at SIM headquarters in the presence of Colonel Irenaldo Garcia Baez, deputy chief of SIM, Lt. Col. Marcelo Tasernilla, who was wounded during the shooting of Blanco Rico, and other high SIM officials.

3. Interrogation of Cardenas failed to reveal the destination of Carbo and Cubelas after they left the home of Cardenas. On the basis of the intercepted cable, dated 23 November 1956, however, SIM officials believe that Carbo and Cubelas fled to the United States by ship, since both possessed visas to the United States which were still valid. Carbo and Cubelas are believed to be in Miami at the present time.
