United States Government Memorandum

To: Director, FBI (157-8589)

From: SAC, Chicago (100-44963)

Subject: DEMCON

Date: 8/23/68

On August 12, 1968, USA Thomas A. Foran (THOMAS A.FORAN) contacted SAC, Chicago, advising that Warren Christopher (WARREN CHRISTOPHER), Deputy U.S. Attorney General, desired to meet with the SAC, Chicago.

As a result of the above request, SAC, Chicago, and Supervisor Richard L. Strain (RICHARD L. STRAIN) met briefly with Mr. Warren Christopher (WARREN CHRISTOPHER) and Mr. Wes Pomeroy (WES POMEROY) of the U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, D.C., in the presence of USA Foran (FORAN) in his offices.

Mr. Christopher was most congenial and expressed his high regard for the FBI and asked for a current evaluation of activities in the Chicago area which could possibly affect the Democratic National Convention (DNC) being held the last week of August, 1968. Mr. Christopher was advised that all information has been previously furnished to him by letterhead memoranda and was in his possession and he was assured all information coming to our attention would be immediately furnished to the Department and to the USA in Chicago. A brief discussion of current trends followed relative to current intelligence regarding the activities of anti-war and Negro militant organizations which have proposed disruptive tactics at the DNC.

At one point in the discussion mention was made of the fact that the Youth International Party, aka Yippies, was currently holding talks with the city administration in an effort to obtain necessary park permits to have their followers live and sleep in one of the Chicago area parks during the week of the convention and hold a “happening” which the Yippies referred to as the “Festival of Life.” During this discussion USA Foran (FORAN) confidentially advised that when he had received the FBI’s notification of the anticipated plans on the part of the Yippies, he had contacted certain city officials known to him and attempted to persuade them against the issuance of such a permit in view of the known moral conduct of such groups. USA Foran (FORAN) advised he had been assured that such permits would not be granted. He stated these permits have as yet not been granted and that his sources have indicated no serious consideration has been given to the request by responsible Chicago city officials.

157-2410 DEMCON.
