Who Are the Real Conspirators

“As a Black Man in America, I can't get a fair trial in a RACIST COURT” — Chairman Bobby Seale

This was the theme of the court proceedings of the Conspiracy Eight. From the hand-picked jury (eight middle aged, white suburbanites, two house negroes, and two big businessmen—all registered voters) to the constant denial by Julius “Adolph Eichman” Hoffman of all the defense motions.

Before the selection of the racist, Nazi-judge was made, they were allowed to read newspapers in the ceremonial courtroom. Later, Hoffman, pig Nixon's chief fund raiser and right-hand lackey in Illinois, told the prospective jurors not to read newspapers, listen to TV, or talk with each other.

The special category of jurors, all registered voters, were in contradiction to the political morals of the defendants. The defendants demonstrated against the bourgeois political process, and a socialist revolutionary, an advocate of the people's dictatorship (proletarian democracy, are going to be tried by people who support and participate in that some bourgeois political process). This unrepresentative, illegal and unconstitutional jury is illustrative of the court proceedings here in Fascist America. THE BLACK PANTHERS PARTY demands that all defendants be tried in a court by a jury of their peer group and not lily white suburbs, night-writers, black laggards, and capitalist businessmen. This overt misrepresentation of the community illustrates the conspiracy against the defendants in general, and the Chairman in particular—within the only conspiracy was spent on dismissing prospective Black judges or working class people. The commonality became evident as the government, at least, began to finance the conspiracy.

Billions of dollars have been dropping to me in the past. Your spirit is strong. It's like that over-pounding bell tolling the souls of Black people which says, their spirit will never die, because you, Bobby, and Huey P. Newton started a fire within the masses, that the pigs will never put out.

Judge Julius J. Hoffman

Your other half.  
Artie
