SF 65-4257

The World Trade Division, San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, maintains a file containing news releases concerning trade with Red China. An article appearing in the “San Francisco Chronicle,” Sunday, June 9, 1957, by Jack Foisie, entitled “Local Traders Want to End Red China Ban.” The first paragraph of this article is as follows: “This City’s 730 foreign traders are mounting pressure on the Eisenhower Administration to end, or at least relax, the embargo against trade with Communist China, import-export leaders said yesterday.” Paragraph nine of this article states George E. Talmage, Jr., Vice President of Pacific Transport Line—States Lines, speaking as President of the San Francisco Area World Trade Association, favors trade with Red China.

Another release dated Thursday, 4/11/57, stated: “Relaxation of the U.S. Government’s embargo policy regarding trade with Red China was urged today by Malcolm W. Boyd, Assistant Publisher of the Pacific Wharf, at a luncheon held at the Fairmont Hotel by the San Francisco Area World Trade Association, San Francisco Chamber of Commerce affiliate.”

“Boyd charged, ‘There is too much emotion involved in the Government’s policy in Eastern Asia. It’s a question which should be decided on fact, not emotion.’

“‘The present policy may or may not be a correct one,’ he added, ‘but the decision about it should not be based on likes and dislikes.’

“Boyd said ‘the electorate of the country’ is entitled to more accurate information from U.S. Government sources. ‘We are too dependent on Chinese propaganda and reports of foreign businessmen touring China because the State Department won’t allow American newsmen to enter the country.’

“We should put the heat on our own Government to get non-military facts about what is going on in China.”

“The State and Defense Departments won’t tell us the extent of shipping calling at Chinese ports,” he continued, “consequently, we’re fumbling in the dark for the facts.”

“Boyd said that the list of European and Japanese shipping companies doing business in Chinese Mainland ports ‘reads like a maritime blue book.’ He warned that a continued U.S. embargo means ‘forfeiture of trade to the British and Scandinavians if and when the time comes that the embargo is lifted, at least for non-strategic materials.’”
