DRAFT

Frank Church, Idaho, Chairman  
John G. Tower, Texas, Vice Chairman

Philip A. Hart, Mich.  
William F. Mendale, Minn.  
Walter D. Huddleston, Ky.  
Robert Morgan, N.C.  
Gary Hart, Colo.

Howard H. Davidson, Tenn.  
Barry Goldwagh  
Charles McC. Moores, Jr., Md.  
Richard S. Schweiker, Pa.

William G. Miller, Staff Director  
Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel  
Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel

United States Senate

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (Pursuant to S. Res. 21, 94th Congress)

Washington, D.C. 20510

June 25, 1975

The Honorable Edward H. Levi  
The Attorney General  
U.S. Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

Enclosed with this letter are notifications concerning certain matters currently under investigation by the Select Committee which relate to government entities under your jurisdiction.

These notifications are submitted pursuant to an agreement between the Committee, the various intelligence entities, and the White House. Pursuant to that agreement, the various entities in the Executive Branch have agreed not only to make available the pertinent witnesses, but also to submit in response all information and material which they possess that is relevant to the areas and cases which the Committee wishes to investigate. The response should include all relevant underlying documentation and other information, including documents which may not have come to the Committee's attention and which the Committee has not specifically requested, and all material relating to any prior Executive Branch inquiry into the matter. In addition, we would welcome a current analysis of the particular questions raised by the Committee and any other observations on the subject that you believe would be helpful.

We welcome the promise of cooperation and full disclosure that underlies that agreement. Success in fulfilling the full disclosure policy contained in the agreement is indispensable to the Committee's analysis and to the formulation of our ultimate findings, conclusions, and recommendations.

Within the Committee mandate, contained in S. Res. 21, there are four broad subjects relating to the intelligence community which we are required to investigate and study in order to determine the facts and ultimately to decide whether to make recommendations for legislative or other changes. They are:

Enclosure
