Through the many years of failure for the Right Wing, no one has succeeded in stopping the Zionist-Jew-Communist revolution that has taken place throughout the world. In this time, the politicians have deserted us, our Presidents have sold us out for more power for themselves, and our money has been consumed by the very sows who are chewing away at our society.

Our cities are almost completely destroyed by junkies, queers, and degenerates of unimaginable sorts. There is the smell of a hospital in the air, as a conglomeration of sick people gathers in the hearts of our once beautiful cities.

Most young people have just dropped out. They're not Communist; they are just nothing! What have we offered them for a replacement for Communism, for Capitalism, which has become subservient to free enterprise and the master of our people rather than the vehicle to maintain freedom?

Our youth are looking for something, as we all know, but they are right in the middle of a huge power struggle in which every side is saying, “This is what you are looking for.” Each side knows that victory lies in the youth, so they must give the youth a reason to fight and tell them who should be opposed. They are constantly hitting our youth with negatives and rarely, if ever, anything positive or constructive.

Now that our youth have been supplied with nothing but negative philosophies and solutions from all sides, they've come up with a logical conclusion: that the world, or at least civilization as we know it, is coming to an end, so “To hell with it all and let’s get what we want while we still can.”

The common attitude of American people is: “Who cares what is happening as long as it doesn't affect me personally?” When a group robs a bank or absconds with large sums of money, one might hear a law-abiding citizen make the following statement: “Boy, what will they do next? Wish I had all that money. I hope they don't get caught because it was a well-planned robbery,” and so forth. Usually, no cry of “Stop the thieves,” only sympathy. Recent noisy groups of anti-civilization Reds have gotten the attention of the youth but not their sympathy because our noise-making Reds do not have anything to offer them. Our youth want more than noise and WE WILL GIVE IT TO THEM! We pledge to eliminate such noisy criminal Red gangs that now abound the entire state of California.

We must eliminate certain prejudices in the Right Wing. I constantly hear Right Wingers paralleling Reds with long hair. If a youth group began calling all short-haired people Reds, few people would think much of that group's opinion. Because long hair came about due to a high left-wing compulsion does not mean that all long-haired people are Reds. Making such rash statements not only separates our youth from the Right Wing, thus eliminating the remotest possibility of creating a conversation with the youth, but it also drives them even further from the Right side.
