“Have you ever deliberately given classified information on documents to any unauthorized person?”

In explanation, Subject said he was bothered by this idea, but that he had no knowledge of any particular situation wherein he had divulged information to anyone who was unauthorized to receive it or who would have used it against the Agency's interest. On the test administered on 22 May 1964 to resolve any possible compromise to communist or foreign intelligence organizations, it was determined that there were no significant reactions to relevant questions in this area.

II. It should be especially noted that the polygraph operator, during the 4 April 1964 interview, detected an odd smell on Subject's breath and noted his flushed face, frequent silly grins and lethargic movements, suggesting that the Subject may have been slightly intoxicated. The operator did not ask during this interview whether the Subject had taken any drug or alcohol prior to the interview but recalled an incident wherein the Subject when arrested for drunken driving in 1963 had produced evidence that he was a diabetic and had taken medication prior to the incident. Consequently, during the second interview on 22 May 1964, Subject was questioned regarding his physical health. He replied that he had stopped taking medication for diabetes in November 1963. He explained that he took three or four diuretic pills. He specifically denied that he had taken any other drug, narcotic or alcohol. When this question was asked during interrogation, he reflected reaction indicative of deception and then admitted that for breakfast he had taken one glass of vodka with some orange juice. He stated that he drank vodka for breakfast sometimes whenever he was tense or nervous over anything.

12. The polygraph operator in his report concluded that the “validity of final test charts is held in question and there is no strong evidence that the specific areas of concern have been conclusively resolved at this time. It is recommended that a further study be conducted on this case and that information resulting from such a study be sent to IRD for possible reinterview of the Subject and polygraph resolution”.

13. SLOSS has indicated reactions indicative of deception during the polygraph examinations. In one specific question where these reactions were present, he admitted to lying. This was in the question as to whether or not he had taken any alcohol prior to the examination.
