PART II

6L–M

SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS

3. Persons to be contacted shortly after the arrival of the SAC include:

a. Federal judges  
b. U.S. Attorneys  
c. Only outstanding state judges  
d. Governors  
e. Leading state and county prosecutors  
f. State attorneys general  
g. Officers of the National Association of County and Prosecuting Attorneys  
h. Executive secretary of state chamber of commerce  
i. In the principal cities: Mayors; chiefs of police; officials of newspapers, including publishers, managing editors, and city editors of leading newspapers, and heads of newspaper wire services; managers or owners of leading and most important radio and television stations; heads of outstanding or more important civic clubs, such as Kiwanis, Rotary, and Lions; executive secretary or director of chambers of commerce; heads of Federal intelligence agencies; outstanding leaders of Government and business; heads of larger universities; outstanding religious leaders of any faith, such as the Bishop of a diocese of any faith or the leading Rabbi; top representatives of airlines; managers of leading airports; top representatives of railroads; managers of leading railroad stations; top representatives of telephone companies; top representatives of Western Union; managers of the most outstanding and important hotels; heads of better business bureaus; heads of leading banks; influential minority leaders.

M. NEWS MEDIA CONTACTS

As indicated in subsection L, paragraph 3i, (3), above, officials of leading newspapers including minority-oriented newspapers, must be contacted by SACs. Smaller newspapers and other news media are not to be neglected, however, and, throughout his tenure in a field office, the SAC must insure that his press contacts are continuously effective. The number of contacts made by him and representatives of his office and the material furnished news media will be considered in appraising the maximum effectiveness of this program.
