Since a man's thoughts reflect his attitude and his thoughts mirror both, we as politically aware individuals will have this so-called inflammatory literature in our possession one hundred percent of the time. This week five brothers were taken off the yard: James Ellison, Kenny Favre, Charles Augustine, J.P. Trotter, and Eddie Chillies. All were charged with having revolutionary material in their possession. There was once a time when we would run to our cells and destroy all writings in hope that we could keep the bust from coming down on us. That time has passed. Now we realize that this pig has no laws which we as oppressed people are bound to respect. We cannot stifle our thoughts in order to slow up historical inevitable revolution—liberation. We say damn him and all of his reactionary, fascist running dogs, because we will continue to write and educate whenever we are among the masses and regardless of the repressive measures and repercussion happening behind it. It is time that we as people stand up and fight off this pig power structure. We are right; history has proven beyond a shadow of a doubt that we are morally, intellectually, and spiritually justified in taking our freedom by the most drastic means available.

The lines have been drawn (DRAKEN) and to the pigs we say come on, for history and unborn generations are watching our action closely. If we do not take a stand for liberation now, then we do not deserve to breathe the oxygen we inhale, or the space we take up. This is the year of the youth, so we must give the youth the proper tools to fight and destroy this system of racism, fascism, and imperialism. The tools needed are bravery, loyalty to the cause of liberation, and faith in the people. We cannot give them anything to fight with, if we allow ourselves to be backed into a corner without putting up any struggle. If we do not give the youth anything but a fleeting glance at a revolutionary act, that is much better than four hundred years of tomism and Step n' Fetch It, footshut fling, spineless commandice.

Once we as men are recognized (RECONCIZED) as what we are, political prisoners, a new situation develops. The corrupt prison official, the governor, the State Department, and the world look at us as political prisoners and treat us in accord with the Geneva Convention's mandate for the treatment of the political prisoner and the prisoner of war. As of now we are not treated any better than animals in a cage. Once our people, the sensible people of the country, realize the nature of a political prisoner, they will demand our humane treatment, until they build up the necessary forces to do just what the French people did to the Bastille in the 18th century. They will not sit around and wait for the courts or the parole boards or any of the other sharps of judicial mockery to release us. The people will and must do it themselves. You out there, mold yourselves into a political and military unit; and once all oppressed people unite around the banner of liberation, no force in the world can stop the natural course of history. The French could not stop the oppressed people, the Vietnamese or Algerian people; the Japanese and the reactionary Chinese could not stop the oppressed people of China; Max Smith (LAX SMITH) and his apartheid partners will not stop the people of Rhodesia, South Africa, or Southwest Africa from gaining their freedom.

The pigs in this country, regardless of the tech
