Collections of scientific, humanistic and engineering talent, that either already exist in the aerospace companies, universities and think tanks, or can be collected there. In essence, this bill solves one aspect of the problem. It replaces small or local or single-commodity marketplaces with a national marketplace based on national needs. I suspect that the new agency will find that big aerospace companies usually do not have the necessary mix of talents, although they probably do have the necessary organization. The universities, on the other hand, probably do have the necessary mix of talents, but probably do not have the proper organization. It seems, however, to be a logical first step, and the sooner the bill becomes law, the sooner we can begin to solve our problems.

International Institute of Applied Systems Analysis

An example of the international approach is the recently established International Institute of Applied Systems Analysis in Vienna as a joint venture of our National Academy of Sciences and the Soviet Academy, among others. Since they will operate on about three-and-a-half million dollars a year (the Civil Science part of the National Science Policy and Priorities Act allots an average of 270 million per year for three years) it is unreasonable to expect anything more than papers for publication to come out of Vienna. The international effort will result in more knowledge and wisdom; on the proposed national budget we could become virtuous as well.

In Order to be Virtuous One Must be Wise and Knowing

One final caution. I hope you have not heard me suggest that only scientists and engineers are capable of leading us out of the thicket of difficulties we are in. I am not advocating technocracy, that totalitarian philosophy which says that only engineers can lead us. I do not believe that for one moment, nor does anyone who knows enough engineers and scientists. There is no reason to believe that they, as a class, are any more capable of leading our people than, say, the lawyers.

I would rather that you heard me say that no longer is it virtue merely to do it, but rather that in order to be virtuous one must also be wise and also knowing.

Our Leaders Must Be Part Scientist, Part Humanist, and Part Engineer

We will need new kinds of agencies and organizations to define “the public interest” and to find ways of organizing the talents that may solve some of our problems. But organizations—universities and corporations and public agencies—are built by people, led by other people. So our leaders must be part scientist, part humanist, and part engineer, and they must use what they have, not in response to some particular marketplace, but in the true public interest. Not nearly enough people will be born with these characteristics. They will have to be educated.

If this sounds like a very tall order to put to an education system—it is.

But we should be encouraged to redesign our education systems to help produce such people, not only because we have to (God knows we do) if mankind is to survive—but also because we know it is possible.

NUMBLES

Neil Macdonald  
Assistant Editor  
Computers and Automation

A “numble” is an arithmetical problem in which digits have been replaced by capital letters; and there are two messages, one which can be read right away and a second one in the digit cipher. The problem is to solve for the digits.

Each capital letter in the arithmetical problem stands for just one digit 0 to 9. A digit may be represented by more than one letter. The second message, which is expressed in numerical digits, is to be translated (using the same key) into letters so that it may be read; but the spelling uses puns or is otherwise irregular, to discourage cryptanalytic methods of deciphering.

We invite our readers to send us solutions, together with human programs or computer programs which will produce the solutions.

NUMBLE 7311

IF YU × GIVE = YLUYIT

YOTRUO, with GV = CU

EUEUUE

TYCUOR

CTUIOUOVT = 327897972
