Organizing Self Defense

6. On Revolvers

Precautions:

Check to see if the gun is loaded. You do this on a revolver by swinging out the cylinder. Pull back on the cylinder latch and push out on the cylinder. (See unloaded revolver photo #2.)

Keep your finger off the trigger unless practicing trigger squeeze or firing.

Point your gun away from where someone could be harmed by the shot. Point at the ceiling or the ground, but wherever you point, make sure no one is in the way and can be harmed.

Never leave the hammer cocked on a revolver. (Explanation later on cocking a revolver.)

Types of Revolvers:

Snubnose (Subnose): This gun has only a 2-inch barrel and shoots .38s. It is very easy to conceal.

Special: Has a 4-inch barrel and shoots .38s.

Magnum: This is the type of handgun the carries. The ammunition for this is .357 Magnum. Piercing bullets will pierce an engine. This is the best type of revolver.

.44 Magnums (.44 Magmuns) have more knockdown than a .357 Magnum. The Highway Patrol uses these to shoot through car doors. A .357 will go through a car door also. .357 ammunition is more plentiful.

Unloading:

Holding the gun in your left hand, pointed in a safe direction, release the cylinder latch with your right hand (#3). Push out the cylinder with the fingers of your left hand (#2). Now that you have swung out the cylinder and the bullets are visible, gently push down on the extractor and let the bullets drop out into your right hand (#1).

Loading:

To load, simply follow the same steps in unlatching the cylinder. Then drop bullets into the chambers of your cylinder. Gently push the cylinder closed, and you are ready to fire. Do not slam the cylinder closed; this causes extra wear on your gun.

Cocking a Revolver:

Put the tip of your thumb on the hammer, holding the revolver steady in the palm of your hand. Do not put your finger on the trigger. Pull straight back steadily on your hammer spur until your hammer locks back. Your gun is ready to fire. After cocking the hammer, place your thumb directly on the frame beside the hammer, resting the tip of your thumb on the cylinder latch. (Photo #4.) Your forefinger should be placed on the other side of the gun, straight out just above the trigger guard until ready to fire. Every time you cock the hammer before firing, this is called single-action firing.

Parts of a Revolver:

Photo #1

Revolver Terms
