This document is prepared for your request and is not a formal statement of facts. Its purpose is to provide information outside your Committee. It may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBN.

To: Mr. Belmont  
From: C. A. Evans  
Date: November 27, 1963

Subject: Assassination of President Kennedy

Deputy Attorney General Katzenbach telephoned at 10:50 a.m. He said he had just completed talking on the telephone with Alexis Johnson, Deputy Under Secretary of State. Johnson told Katzenbach that insofar as the investigation of this matter in Mexico is concerned, the State Department felt this should be coordinated and directed by the FBI. State took the position that the President's directive to the FBI extended to any activity outside of the United States, as well as within the country. Insofar as the Ambassador in Mexico is concerned, Johnson believed he should be kept informed of any pertinent developments but that the Ambassador should not be running the investigation.

As to current developments, Katzenbach said that the last thing he would want would be for the FBI to take agents away from their investigative duties to prepare reports. He requested, however, that if there were any pertinent developments he be orally briefed.

With further reference to his conversation with Alexis Johnson, Katzenbach said he had been asked whether the State Department should make a formal inquiry of the Soviet Government for information concerning Oswald and his wife, particularly as to their activities in Russia. He asked that this question be considered by the Director, as Katzenbach felt his views most important.

In thinking about the matter himself, Katzenbach noted if we did not ask the Soviets for information there would be no answer should the question of Oswald's stay in Russia be raised, other than to admit we had made no inquiry. On the other hand, he observed that we could not place any reliance on anything the Soviets said.

Recommended action: REC-18.
