Federal Bureau of Investigation  
United States Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20537

Applicant

To obtain classifiable fingerprints:

1. Use black printer’s ink.
2. Distribute ink only on inking slab.
3. Wash and dry fingers thoroughly.
4. Eroll fingers from mail to mail, and avoid allowing fingers to slip.
5. Be sure impressions are registered in correct order.
6. If an amputation or defect makes it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that effect in the individual finger block.
7. If some physical difference makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be obtained with a memo stapled to the card explaining the circumstances.
8. Examine the completion to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that last fingerprints fall into the pattern of this card (other patterns occur independently and are not shown here).

Within this card for use by:

1. Law enforcement agencies in fingerprinting application for law enforcement positions.
2. Officials of state and local governments for purposes of employment, licensing and permits as authorized by state statutes and approved by the Attorney General of the United States. Local and county governments, unless specifically granted on applicable state matters, do not lay upon the record of any person.
3. U.S. government agents in connection with clearance.
4. Civilian police or certified officer to bank the invoice for the custody of the particular fingers.
5. The following information is hereby given under government force no., port, registry number, name and age, date of birth, degree of enlistment, status, service period, current unit, tier, and position.
6. The above information is hereby given under force no., port no., registry number, name and age, date of birth, degree of enlistment, status, service period, current unit, tier, and position.
7. The above information is hereby given under the following conditions: All personnel do not enter the center until direct order has been received by the superintendent of police, and will be subject to inspection, interview, and possible exploitation, as well as to be held subject to civilian police surveillance.
8. The above information is hereby given under the following conditions: All personnel do not enter the center until direct order has been received by the superintendent of police, and will be subject to inspection, interview, and possible exploitation, as well as to be held subject to civanic police surveillance.
