II. Whenever reports relating to security index subjects contain data affecting material included on a subject’s existing security index card, the cover pages accompanying the report shall include as the last page Form FD-305, appropriately checked. The form contains items pertaining to the following:

(A) That the subject is included in the security index.

(B) That data appearing on the security index card is current or requires change.

(C) That FD-122 has been submitted to the Bureau where security index card changes are necessary.

(D) That a suitable photograph is or is not available.

(E) That consideration has been given to the use of T symbols.

(F) That the subject is employed in a key facility and that agencies interested in that facility are specified.

(G) Reason for classifying report.

(H) Dates the subject was previously interviewed and reason for not reinterviewing the subject.

(I) That the subject no longer meets security index criteria and a letter has been directed to the Bureau recommending cancellation of the security index card.

(J) That the subject’s case has been re-evaluated and reasons are set forth as to why the subject’s activities continue to fall within security index criteria.

(K) That the subject’s security index card is or is not tabbed DETCOM and that the subject’s activities do or do not warrant DETCOM tabbing.

(b) Documentation of reports

I. Deleted.

II. If information necessary for complete documentation is not available in the subject’s case file, necessary review of other office files should be made. If not obtainable, this fact must be indicated in the cover page or pages accompanying the report to the Bureau.

III. Extensive investigation should not be conducted to further identify and locate outside individuals who have in the past furnished background information or to obtain documentary evidence of background information. For example, if previous investigation revealed that the subject, according to reliable records such as birth records, school records, or records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, was born at a certain place on a certain date, such information will be sufficient for inclusion in the report. Further verification will not be necessary.

IV. During the preparation of summary reports it is often found that information being incorporated into a report was originally obtained by another office and all of the necessary information for complete documentation will not be in the possession of the office preparing the report. In such an instance, if the office preparing the report is in possession of Photostats of documents obtained by the other offices and the identity
