Subject: Extracts from Monthly Counterintelligence Report, OBI, AAC.

Source: DIR OBI, AAC.

Date of information: 1–30 April 1956.

Date of report: 14 May 1956.

Extracts of interest taken from the OBI Monthly Counterintelligence Report are as follows:

Synopsis: Former CP member arrives in Alaska. CP member confined in Federal Jail at Anchorage for nonsupport. Activities of possible subversives set forth. Alaskan Labor Defender starts publication again.

1. An aircraft passenger list from the Juneau Daily Empire revealed AKFILU arrived in that city from Seattle, Washington, on 3 March 1956 and departed for Anchorage on 5 March 1956. A later list in the same newspaper revealed AKFILU again flew to Anchorage on 23 March 1956. When interviewed by the FBI in 1951, AKFILU admitted being a member of the Ketchikan (Kechikamn) branch of the Communist Party from 1956 to 1958.

2. Another passenger list in the Juneau Empire revealed HUNTER S. MUNSON departed Juneau for Anchorage on 27 March 1956. Information at this office indicated MUNSON'S comradery was the last to return to Alaska from the AK during the latter part of March 1956. Further inquiry by this office has disclosed MUNSON'S comradery in the Federal Jail in Anchorage, charged with nonsupport of his former wife. MUNSON was released on 29 April 1956 when he was charged to pay the stipulated amount and is reportedly planning on working as a self-employed contractor in the Anchorage area.

3. EUGEN PAREGON was recently reported as attorney for Anchorage Mayor, NEL QUINTIN, in the latter's dispute with the City Council over a paving contract. As an indication of BOMB's activities, he has recently represented the following companies and/or individuals in highly controversial issues: Challenger Electrical Association, Matsumura Bus Lines, Matsumura Electric Association, Patrick FEB, Cooper Valley Electric Association, and the JAGDAHARU tax case. In connection with the NAMERI case, a local newspaper reported that a CHALLENGE team started a fundraising activity which was termed the “Canary Island Defense Fund.”
