Memorandum of Oral Commitments

Date: 25 September 1962

To: Chief, Finance Division  
Via: Contract Approving Officer  
From: Chief of Station, Mexico City  
Subject: Engagement of L10001 as Independent Contractor.

1. Term and Project Charge: The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under Project and is chargeable to Headquarters. The effective date of the oral contract is subject to termination by ODYOKE upon days’ actual notice.

2. Security Approval: The appropriate security approval for subject’s use has been obtained. Type OA. Date: 31 August 1962.

3. Citizenship: The subject is or is not a foreign national.

4. Compensation: The subject will be paid $50.00 per week. The approximate equivalent of this amount in PBRIME currency is dollars. The subject will or will not receive a Christmas bonus equivalent to one month’s. Other compensation in the nature of bonus commitments, gifts, paid vacations, etc. include:

5. Taxes: The subject is subject to PBRIME income taxes. If subject to PBRIME income taxes, payments and/or deductions will be made in the following manner: if deducted, $45.00.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence: The subject will not be reimbursed for quarters and/or subsistence allowances. The following commitments have been made regarding additional compensation to authentic quarters and/or subsistence allowances: expenses.

7. Operational Expenses: The subject will be reimbursed for operational travel. The subject will or will not be reimbursed for operational expenses. State the nature of any operational expenses for which the subject will be reimbursed: is approved by Case Officer and Chief of Station.

8. Contingent Obligations: The following have not been promised the individual but may have to be met by ODYOKE. Give reason for each contingent obligation.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

Reviewed: Contract Approving Officer.

Approved: Myles H. C. Cusby, Field Contracting Officer (COS).

Distribution: Three authentic copies to Headquarters; one file copy; one Admin Office.

Instructions to Case Officers:

1. Prepare the original and four copies for distribution as above. Extra copies as needed.

2. Prior Headquarters approval is required before any commitments can be made regarding the following special benefits: death; disability; missing in action; resettlement; and citizenship or emergency assistance.

3. The dispatch sending copies to Headquarters should provide, among other things, the following: (a) statement regarding the primary functions of the individual and the cover under which he will operate; (b) pay instructions if to be paid by Headquarters; and (c) if cover income is to be offset, the amount of such income and date of first payment by the cover organization.
