Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in mind an appropriate perspective of their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given on Question B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

1. This employee has been under the supervision of a PROGRASING officer for a period of four months. During that time he has displayed the professional qualities of a competent and knowledgeable operations officer. September 28, 1966.

2. During his tour at this Station, Subject was responsible for the initiation and development of a highly sensitive and productive FI/CI operation. His management of this project in its early stages, which has included its evolution into a unilateral activity, has been performed in a highly commendable manner, and the Project has now reached the point where its future potential appears to be substantial. Subject has demonstrated his capability in the area of unilateral agent recruitment and management through the recruitment of three unilateral agents during his present tour. He has carried out a variety of liaison duties with various elements of the National Police efficiently and capably. July 28, 1966.

3. Subject has shown the capacity properly to place his own activities within the perspective of the Station's mission. In this respect he has devoted considerable effort to acquiring a solid background of area familiarization and knowledge which has enabled him to function in a highly effective fashion.

4. This employee has shown a high degree of cost consciousness in his approach to his duties. Employee has not had supervisory responsibilities.

5. Subject has sometimes shown a lack of sufficient emphasis in properly recording the progress of his operational activities through the normal reporting procedures. Subject is now aware of this, and it is believed that this will not be a problem in the future.

6. This employee is a well-motivated, highly capable officer with excellent career potential. This supervisor would be pleased to serve with him again.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 8 July 1966. Signature of employee: Jerome Fox (s).

2. By supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Typed or printed name and signature.

Date: 8 July 1966. Official title of supervisor. Michael F. Stern (s). Our
