2. The unclassified SAE, coordinated in draft with CCS/OSB, is as follows:

Summary: Trilingual Senior Executive Service officer (Department of State, 1962–1990) with extensive experience working with the U.S. Congress, and more than 16 years working and living in Latin America (Ecuador, Uruguay, Argentina, Brazil, Peru, and Mexico). Eleven of those years were in supervisory and senior management positions. Received a Senior Executive Service award for having made outstanding contributions to overall relations with the various House committees concerned with foreign policy, including the House Armed Services, Appropriations, Select Committee on Intelligence, Select Committee on Narcotics, and Foreign Affairs committees. This was complemented by individual letters of commendation from majority as well as minority members of those committees. In Mexico, maintained fruitful contact with cabinet members and was a major player in the dialogue and policy-guidance building up to, inter alia, the debt negotiations agreement and ensuing commercial openings.

Details:

Top Secret and special compartmented clearances.

Drafter and/or coordinator on myriad policy, position, and guidance papers impacting U.S. public- and private-sector relationships with Mexico. Major player in ensuring that the highest levels of the USG fully understood the complexities of the evolving political and economic situation in Mexico.

Daily interlocutor with Mexican cabinet officers during slightly less than four years in Mexico City.

In a previous Washington assignment, dealt extensively with the full range of foreign-policy elements of the USG. Gave in-house as well as numerous interagency speeches on a variety of matters of mutual concern.

1980–1984: Flagged the then-emerging Sendero Luminoso as a serious threat to Peruvian security and was the first senior official to insist that Peruvian coca production was ten times the previous estimates. Sadly, both observations have turned out to be altogether accurate.

In the 1978–1980 period, worked for the Office of Legislative Affairs with responsibilities for overall relations with all committees of the House of Representatives. Received a Senior Executive Service award and effusive letters of appreciation from members of six committees.

In various management positions, twice was in charge of units that exceeded two hundred persons. Hired, fired, negotiated, and provided advice, guidance, and direction as appropriate.
