Since it appears as if Charles Zemach was to travel to the U.S.S.R. and contact his relatives there, San Francisco should conduct investigations of Charles Zemach and Mary St. John Zemach to determine whether they are engaged in activities injurious to the security of the United States. Investigation should include determination of their employment, whether they have access to classified data or restricted areas, and whether they have traveled to the U.S.S.R. After investigations, make recommendations recording interviews. Results of investigations should be submitted in a form suitable for dissemination.

Los Angeles should request the case on Miriam Zemach to determine whether she has traveled to the U.S.S.R. recently and whether she is engaged in activities injurious to the security of the United States. Make recommendation regarding an interview. Submit results of investigation in a form suitable for dissemination.

San Francisco and Los Angeles should request Washington Field to check records of the Central Intelligence Agency and Department of State regarding subjects.

The following additional information is submitted for your information in connection with these investigations.

The following additional information has been advised: During the above-mentioned contact in June 1964, Miriam Goldina implied that she had been born (had born) in the U.S.S.R. recently. She indicated that Nyusya (LII) would go to a rest home and Fanechka (LHI), Dr. Goldina, and Nina (LHU) would go to a dacha. C.

McDermott complained to Dr. Goldina (Goldinna) that work was slack in the film industry in the U.S.; she had changed agents and would like to have a Soviet invitation to play a film role. She declared that her focus is on making money and a trip to the U.S.S.R. C.

Subject: Miriam Goldina asked Dr. Goldina for the “receipt” of hair-removing medication for Fanechka’s nieces, unidentified, which she sent with Rosa Vaneteg.

The informant has advised that Rosa Vaneteg, Item 18, believed to have been a U.S. tourist who visited the U.S.S.R. Nufilaa contain no record of Rosa Vaneteg or Dr. Mariya Zosifovna Goldina.
