07JRC-1

On 16 October 1969, Mr. William A. Bangert, Assistant Director for Support Management, Office of the Secretary of Defense (Defence), Advanced Research Projects Agency (USD/ARPA), was interviewed by SA Gerald A. Trimele and the writer at Bangkok, Thailand. Bangert elected to execute a signed, sworn statement, the body of which is quoted verbatim as follows:

“This statement is made in response to inquiry by Special Agent Mr. Richard H. Gorman, Office of the Special Investigations, The Inspector General, USAF, concerning the person of one Mr. Mitchell L. WerBell, and, specifically, the shipment of two boxes containing assorted firearms from Bangkok, Thailand, to Eglin (Belin) Air Force Base, Florida. Only information based on first-hand knowledge and available records is contained in this statement.

“Statement: 1. Mr. Mitchell WerBell

“During the month of January 1969 (exact date unknown), I was introduced to Mr. Mitchell L. WerBell by Col. John V. Patterson, the former Deputy Director, MRDC-T, in the latter’s office. Col. Patterson stated that Mr. WerBell was representing the STONICS Corporation and the purpose of his visit was to show to the Thai and U.S. staff of the Military Research and Development Center (MRDC) an assortment of special weapons. I attended one of several so-called indoor demonstrations given by Mr. WerBell when I noticed approximately 3–4 custom-made, suitcase-type containers in which these weapons were transported. When I casually questioned Mr. WerBell how he got these weapons into Thailand, he answered that they were flown in from Vietnam by a Thai Royal Air Force transport plane at the request of Air Chief Marshal Dawee, Supreme Command Armed Forces. Concurrently, Mr. WerBell produced a set of official U.S. Government travel orders approved by the American Embassy in Saigon and authorized by the Counselor for Administration, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok. As I recall, these orders specified travel by U.S. military aircraft authorized between Bangkok and Saigon and small arms and automatic weapons to accompany passenger.

“2. Shipment of Box No. 1

“Also during the month of January 1969, I received information from the Battelle Memorial Institute Laboratory Support Manager (BMI/LSM), Mr. Ross B. Young, that a box containing special weapons had been received in the MRDC warehouse. The box in question had been shipped via military aircraft by the U.S. Embassy in Saigon to RDC-T Bangkok, Attn: Mr. WerBell, STONICS. The Transportation and Movement Document DD Form 1384 listed the contents of the box as ‘official equipment.’

“On 28 January 1969, I notified Mr. Ross B. Young (BMI/LSM) in writing that RDC-T had no contractual connections with the STONICS Corporation, did not desire to store the equipment shipped by the U.S. Embassy in Saigon, and therefore requested that the shipment be returned to the vendor via the Transportation Officer, Dobbins Air Force Base, Marietta, Georgia.”
