A conference planned for February 1969 at McGill University is designed to influence President Nixon's Administration to vote for United Nations admission of Communist China and to recognize it diplomatically. Canadian and U.S. participants will include LIN and Sorensen. If initially successful, a follow-up conference to include Chinese Communist representatives is planned.

We are targeting a top-level informant against LIN to develop further information.

Israeli Intelligence

The FBI currently has under investigation Dr. Zalman Mordecai Shapiro, head of Nuclear Materials and Equipment Corporation (NUMEC), Apollo, Pennsylvania. NUMEC processes uranium-235 for nuclear reactors and has Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) contracts. Shapiro has an AEC-approved clearance which entitles him to access to “Top Secret” atomic energy information.

During May 1968, we instituted investigation of Shapiro following a request made by the Central Intelligence Agency of the Attorney General. Our purpose was to ascertain his connections with Israeli officials and, in particular, whether he is in contact with Israeli intelligence agents in this country. We learned that Shapiro actually is in contact with at least one Israeli intelligence agent assigned to the Israeli Embassy, Washington, D.C., as well as with one senior official of Israeli military intelligence; with individuals associated with the Israeli Atomic Energy Commission; and with a number of United States citizens sympathetic towards Israel. We have definitely shown Shapiro’s loyalty toward Israel and, in fact, he has considered whether to move to that country in order to assist Israel. Shapiro has commented that he will fight for Israel and frequently travels there and meets with Israeli Atomic Energy Commission officials as well as with other Israeli Government leaders.

It is anticipated that our investigation of Shapiro will be completed in the very near future, at which time we contemplate advising AEC, requesting that agency to advise this Bureau what administrative action it intends to take against Shapiro, bearing in mind he has the highest clearance for access to classified information granted by AEC and his company has AEC contracts.
