Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 007894.

Section A. General.

I. Name: Smith, Joseph B.  
II. Official Position Title: Operations Officer.  
III. Check (A) Type of Appointment: Career.

11. Date Report Due in O.P.  
12. Reporting Period (Phase 1-4): April 1970 - 31 March 1971.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Sufficient: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Supervises the CA section of the station which includes one station case officer, one senior outside career agent and part-time services of one senior contract agent. Rating letter: 0.

Specific Duty No. 2: Supervises operations for the collection of intelligence on selected targets in the Mexican government and political arena. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Develops new contacts and operations to improve the output of station third country targeted propaganda. Rating letter: 0.

Specific Duty No. 4: Develops new contacts for producing intelligence on significant targets in the Mexican intellectual community. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 5: Uses his language capability in the conduct of above-mentioned operational activity, especially 3 and 4. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 6.
