Continuation of dispatch. Dispatch symbol and number: HOMA-34688.

B. Attachment B: Letter from Heiner Bastian, 1415 Kearny St., San Francisco, California 94135, signed Heiner and Celine. Bastian has made arrangements with the editor-in-chief of Akzente to publish works of revolutionary poets, and he asks Margaret’s help in collecting them. Bastian says that he is going to Berlin about 1 July, to Prague in early autumn for a “Group 47 meeting,” and to Cuba in early November.

C. Attachment C: Letter from Jaime Carrero, Art Department of the Interamerican University in San German, Puerto Rico. Carrero has apparently sent Margaret a series of drawings based on Dr. Martin Luther King’s assassination. He describes them as “poetic...but full with guts and disgust.” He says there is a possibility CBS will do a program on his paintings and the work in his Art Department. Carrero is going to Columbia University in the summer of 1968 to study and plans to distribute El Corno there.

D. Attachment D: Letter from Susan Sherman, 305 E. 6th St., No. 3, New York, N.Y. (see HMMA-33837). She tells of her plans to go to Stony Brook on 23 April to speak about the conference during their week of protest activities. She tells Margaret that there are three people in Cuba she thinks would be interested in “The Hippie Book.” They are José Bell Lara, of Calle J #556, Vedado, Habana, who is connected with Pensamiento Crítico; Cuban psychologist Gustavo Torroella, Ave. 3A #22, Marianao, Habana; and Lohania Aruca, 99-4722, MINREX-Dirección de Organismos Internacionales, Depto. ONU 516, La Habana.

E. Attachment E: Margaret got a letter from someone associated with Caterpillar. He is thinking of getting married to Marie Benoit in England this summer when he goes there to work in applied philosophy. Therefore, he tells Margaret he cannot go to Cuba as planned.

2. Attachment F: An interesting development was the fact that Margaret Randall received a letter from Moscow from Luis Suardiaz, whose return address was given as the Cuban Embassy, Moscow, URSS. Suardiaz asks for Susan Sherman (see paragraph 1D above). Suardiaz says he will be working as Cultural Counselor in the Cuban Embassy and hopes Margaret will keep in touch with him and send him things of interest in a literary line.

3. In attachment G, Sergio Mondragon, Subject’s husband, indicates that Margaret Randall is planning to travel to Venezuela from 15 to 30 June. It is suggested that Headquarters may wish to send Venezuela some background information on Margaret, with suggestions for action by the Venezuela Station.
