Priority III cases must be opened for verification of residence and employment on an annual basis. Review the case file for any necessary action, including re-evaluation of the subject's status or possible redelegation as Priority I or II.

When pertinent information is submitted to the Bureau for dissemination, FD-305 and FD-376 should accompany the cover communication.

d. Subjects recommended for security index

(1) Pending inactive

If all active investigation has been completed when FD-122 is forwarded to the Bureau, set forth the lead to follow for security index approval and dissemination of the report to the Secret Service.

(2) Closed

After the security index is approved and dissemination to the Secret Service is completed, follow with an administrative tickler for a periodic report.

e. Subject not being recommended for index

Closed—prior to closing, comply with instructions pertaining to interviews.

8. Content

a. Include the following and handle under topical headings where appropriate.

(1) Background

(a) Birth data

(b) Citizenship status

(c) Education

(d) Marital status

(e) Military service record (domestic or foreign, including type of discharge, citations, etc.)

(f) Identification record

(g) Employment

(h) Residence

(i) Status of health (if known)

(2) Connections with Communist Party, other basic revolutionary groups, front groups, black nationalist extremist groups, and/or other subversive organizations or unorganized groups

(a) Information concerning admission into revolutionary groups, including sponsors, etc.

(b) History of activity in, attendance at meetings of, and positions held in subversive movements

(3) Revolutionary statements by subject

(a) Determine each statement and full details surrounding it.

(b) Determine all statements showing adherence to principles of Marxism-Leninism or other revolutionary doctrines.

(4) Other activities indicating furtherance of the program of subversive organizations

(a) Speeches and writings

(b) Organizational directives and/or educational outlines signed by or issued by the subject, or issued while the subject was an officer of an organization

(c) Pertinent contacts between the subject and leaders of organizations

(d) Details concerning the subject's attendance at or connection with subversive training schools

(5) False statements made by subjects, including aliases

Evidence may be obtained from passports, tax returns, and voting, marital, employment, and selective service records.

(6) Miscellaneous

Pertinent items not falling under the above categories

b. Reports on individuals should be confined to:

(1) Proof of membership and activity in basic revolutionary organizations, front organizations, and/or other organizations or unorganized groups
