Resume — Joan Talbert Thornell

January–October 1972 — Staff Director, The National Black Political Convention, Inc. Administrative follow-up to the Gary Convention; publication of “The National Black Political Agenda.”

February–April 1972 — Fellow, The Joint Center for Political Studies, serving as Staff Coordinator, Platform Committee of The National Black Political Convention, Gary, Indiana. Platform Committee Chairman: Hon. Walter E. Fauntroy (Del., D.C.).

September 1971–January 1972 — Staff Director, Hon. D’Army Bailey and Hon. Ira Simmons, City Council, Berkeley, California. Coordinating staff of researchers and clerical workers; supervision of three staff members and fifty volunteers.

January–June 1971 — Director, District Office of Hon. Willie L. Brown, Jr., State Assemblyman and Chairman, Ways and Means Committee, San Francisco, California. Liaison with Sacramento office; administration of district office with four employees and over 100 volunteers.

March–December 1970 — Consultant, self-employed, New York City. Speech writing, editing and research; program planning, development and evaluation. Manager for Cecil P. Taylor, pianist and composer.

January 1969–March 1970 — New York Urban Coalition. Special Assistant to the Executive Vice President for Education and Manpower, Lincoln O. Lynch. Staff supervision (8 employees), research, speech writing and publication design. Assistant to the Executive Director, Coalition JOBS, William Kaufmann. Conference coordination and staff supervision (52 employees).

January–November 1968 — Volunteer Community Work, New Haven, Connecticut. Chairman, Black Women of Greater New Haven. Board of Directors, Black Coalition of New Haven. Executive Committee, Board of Directors, Community Housing, Inc., nonprofit housing development corporation. Board of Directors, Yale Upward Bound. Board of Directors, Perspectives, a program for high school students.

April–December 1967 — Director, Harvard-Yale-Columbia Intensive Summer Studies Program, New Haven, Connecticut. Program purpose: to recruit, select, train and place students from predominantly Black southern colleges in the graduate programs of the three cooperating universities and other graduate schools. Staff of four; faculty of fifty; 150 students.
