Black Panther Medical Center

’60s Open Despite City Threats

By Toni Anthony

The Black Panther Medical Center, 1350–52 W. 18th St., remains open to serve the people who have been left out by the City Health Department to use the new facility.

Officially named the Spurgeon (Spur-geon) Jake Winters People’s Medical Care Center, in memory of Jake Winters, the 10-year-old Panther Party member killed in the Nov. 13, 1969 (1989) shootout with Chicago police in Chicago and Calumet, the medical center is the realization of Illinois Black Panther Party Chairman Fred Hampton’s (Hamp-n’s) dream—free medical service to the poor.

The Panther Medical Center opened its doors to the public Jan. 5. It is staffed by volunteer professional nurses and doctors, who are specialists in their respective fields.

The young men and women at 1350–52 W. 18th St. are dedicated to the forgotten Americans: the unhealthy and infirm, and to the prevention and eradication of disease in the ghetto. The government says it can’t do one thing at a time. These youthful volunteers, doctors and nurses say one can, and are proving it. In fact, it is one of the most unique medical centers in the nation—the Spurgeon (Spur-geon) Jake Winters People’s Medical Center, staffed and directed by the Black Panther Party of Illinois.

While Chicago and the federal government are locked in battle over the welfare state, preoccupied with submitting commissions to study the Panther Party, with inadequate funds and incomplete medical facilities, the center is “dealing” with the problem.

Health and devastating diseases are stark realities for Lawndale residents, many of whom have never seen a physician in their adult lives.

The Panther Medical Center, located in the heart of this countryside, represents a city of hope for these discouraged and hopeless citizens—an opportunity for some young man to realize the promise of maturity as a result of the dedication of these young men to the people,” the manifestation of Fred Hampton’s dream.

The Panther center operates on a seven-day basis. Some parents bring their children for treatment, and others come in to be treated themselves. The doctors see every kind of problem—from trauma and infectious diseases to psychiatric and female problems.

Community residents serve as clerks, and some are training to become laboratory technicians. The most unique job in the medical center is that of “The People’s Advocate,” which is similar to the function of a caseworker and is provided by the Panther Party to guide patients through the procedures of the center, making sure that they receive the medical attention they need, and to solve any nonmedical problem patients may have, from finding housing to tracking down delinquent welfare checks.

The doctors who staff the center are enthusiastic about “the People’s Advocate.” Said one doctor, “In most hospitals the patient has to fend for himself. If he doesn’t make it for his appointment, or can’t find the pharmacy, he’s left by the wayside. What’s different and exciting to me here is that the party provides a person who makes sure that the patient’s interests are served.”

However, the City Health Department has challenged the center’s right to operate, ostensibly because it lacks a city permit, and officials have been summoned to appear in circuit court Feb. 5 to show cause why they don’t need a license.

Donald “Dee” Satchel, one of the chief organizers of the center, denies that his facility is either a clinic or dispensary, which he feels exempts them from a city license requirement. Satchel called the center “an extension of our volunteer, licensed physicians’ private practice. Under the law, these doctors can dispense drugs in their names,” added Satchel. “Official sources have subtly passed the word to community residents that the medical center is closed. It is not, and remains open daily to the public.”

Dr. Quentin Young, a physician at the center and a member of the Medical Committee for Human Rights, expressed “anger and outrage” at the City Health Department’s tactics. “The Board of Health has now been transformed into a police agency,” exclaimed Dr. Young. “I fear that Dr. Brown (City Health Commissioner) has become a political tool of the Mayor’s office.”

Dr. Young said that he and other volunteer doctors worked from 7 p.m. to 12 midnight last week, immunizing 3,000 people against diphtheria. “We’re pleased to serve the people,” said Young. “It’s an absolute catastrophe that this should occur.”
