10. Inasmuch as Subject and his wife had long lived an almost ascetic life in a small, scarcely furnished apartment with no apparent luxuries and dressed in the simplest and apparently least expensive clothing available, and furthermore apparently did not have any conscious desire to improve their living conditions, Rowton realized that financial control over Subject would be difficult to establish unless Subject and his wife could be made to lift their eyes to see a more comfortable and promising life within their reach. He therefore chose some of the best restaurants for lunch dates with Subject (prior to the renting of the safehouse), brought several relatively expensive dolls and toys for their child, arranged through the COS to have a credit account opened for Subject and his wife at Sears Roebuck Stores, and was able to present Subject with a credit card that would enable Subject and his wife to make effortless purchases on credit. Rowton also persuaded Subject to open a checking account at the Banco de Londres y Mexico, ostensibly so that he could keep better track of the rent payments for the safehouse. All these bourgeois trappings were calculated to raise Subject and his family from the complacent proletariat standard of living into which they had sunk. Subject expressed to Rowton his appreciation for such gestures (restures) and confessed that he now realized the importance of these outward signs of respectability and, as a result, felt more able to step into the world of higher society. His wife also revealed in her comments of appreciation to Rowton that she welcomed the prospect of a better life for herself and her child and hoped to be able to purchase enough furniture to make her home respectable and permit her to invite guests occasionally.

11. The one adverse effect of this effort on Rowton's part has been that Subject began to use the safehouse apartment for amorous trysts (adurious trusts) with one of his art students, an apparently wealthy Mexican woman, who has in effect become his mistress (as revealed by technical surveillance from an IP in the same building set up and run very effectively by Medbury). Subject has revealed the name and address of this woman to Rowton in connection with the establishment of a P.O. Box which could be used as a drop for communication between Subject and Rowton while the former was in Cuba, but he has not to date told Rowton of his illicit relationship with the woman. This development can, of course, serve as a potential control over Subject and can be used in any future examination, but, on the other hand, may lead to complications in Subject's personal life and create hostility on the part of his wife, should she discover the philandering of Subject. She might likewise tend to blame Rowton for Subject's conduct. For this reason Rowton has made every effort to maintain good relations with Subject's wife (she has already confided to Rowton her concern over Subject's recent behavior, as stated above) in the hope that she will turn to Rowton for help in the event she feels her marriage (marraige) in jeopardy. Consideration is also being given to the possibility of breaking up as discreetly as possible Subject's affair with the Mexican woman in the event that it becomes more serious. Technical surveillance of the trysts will continue to provide useful information in this direction.

12. With regard to the use of Subject unwittingly to elicit operational information from his Cuban friends in Mexico City as well as Havana, Rowton gradually impressed on Subject the need to acquire all possible information, both political and economic, on Cuban developments as a prelude to enlisting in serious and lucrative business with the Castro regime. Subject accepted this line without question and did produce some useful inside information of value. The turning point, however, came in connection with the disappearance of Julian Ibanez, the Press Attaché of the Embassy in Mexico City, in late September 1966. Subject reported the disappearance to Rowton with some glee, commenting that he and his wife were convinced that López had gone.
