Federal Bureau of Investigation  
United States Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20537

Applicant

To obtain classifiable fingerprints:

1. Use black printer's ink.
2. Distribute ink evenly on inking slab.
3. Wash and dry fingers thoroughly.
4. Roll finger from nail to nail, and avoid allowing fingers to slip.
5. Be sure impression is clear and correct in order.
6. If an amputation or deformity makes it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that effect in the individual finger block.
7. If some physical difference makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be obtained with a memo stapled to the card explaining the grounds.
8. Examine the combined prints to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that most fingerprints fall into the patterns shown on this card. Other patterns occur infrequently and are not shown here.

1. Loop  
2. Whorl  
3. Arch

This card for use by:

Leave this space blank.

1. Law enforcement agencies in fingerprinting applicants for law enforcement positions.

2. Officials of state and local governments for purposes of employment, licensing, and permits, as authorized by state statutes and approved by the Attorney General of the United States, local and county delegates, local judges, criminal judges, and criminal safety counsel.

Notice: Especially based on preferred state statute, joint policy, and requirements of the appropriate state.

3. U.S. Customs and [illegible] in connection with clearance.

4. Secretary of Labor, Southern Columbia Office, Federal Custodian Bank.

The follow-up checks on the security of all identifications must be completed:

1. Doctor has been seen at the [illegible].
2. New study is due and will be finished late, but as long as possible for February.
3. Please help us with the list of persons we are looking for.
4. Please check all that fit.
5. If a paper or document is received that fits in, please mark it as fitting for index or archive.
6. If a paper or document is not fitting for index or archive, please put in index or archive the others that fit.
7. If a paper or document is not fitting for index or archive, please put in index or archive the others that do not fit.
8. If a paper or document is not fitting for index or archive, please put in index or archive the others that do not fit.
9. If a paper or document is not fitting for index or archive, please put in index or archive the others that do not fit.
9a. If a paper or document is not fitting for index or archive, please put in index or archive the others that do not fit.
9b. If a paper or document is not fitting for index or archive, please put in index or archive the others that do not fit.

Recorded: August 10, 1977.  
Ident. Div. 58.
