Office Memorandum, United States Government

To: Mr. R. R. Roach

Date: November 10, 1958

From: Mr. S. J. Papich

Subject: Coverage of Noncommunist Diplomatic Establishments of Friendly Foreign Nations

Reference is made to information recently furnished to the Bureau by a highly sensitive source being handled by the Washington Field Office (WFO) indicating that Soviet and satellite intelligence representatives have a keen interest in assistance being rendered by our “friends.” They were referring to attaches from India, Indonesia, and United Arab Republic who apparently have been collecting certain types of information for the Soviet and satellite representatives.

The foregoing again confirms that the Soviets and the satellites realize that representatives of noncommunist diplomatic establishments can be of tremendous value to them. Naturally, a representative of the Indian Embassy has access to U.S. institutions and areas not usually accessible to the Soviets and satellites. Furthermore, a representative of such an embassy can mix in circles and have access to Americans and others without being placed under any particular suspicions. If such an individual is recruited by the Soviets, he can operate with an excellent cover. We previously have seen instances where the Soviets have taken an interest in representatives of Latin American countries apparently for the purpose of recruiting them as agents.

It is suggested that we might desire to re-examine our position with regard to the extent and nature of Soviet and satellite utilization of the personnel of other diplomatic establishments. Although we already have a certain degree of technical coverage, we might wish to give serious consideration to an expansion of the same. This may not be an appropriate time for suggesting such a project, but we cannot overlook a possible gap in our overall counterintelligence coverage.

It is believed that an expansion of coverage of so-called friendly diplomatic establishments on a selective and flexible basis would be of extreme value to the Bureau because of the following:

1. Information developed could lead to the possible identity of important Soviet agents.

See addendum, page 2.
