2515 N.W. 122nd Street  
Miami, Florida 33167

7 May 1976

Mr. Gene Wilson  
Information and Privacy Coordinator  
Central Intelligence Agency  
Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: Pre-freedom of information request notice of charges

Dear Mr. Wilson:

Before exercising my right to a freedom of information request for copies of any and all available, in accordance with the declassification processes stipulated in Executive Order 11652 and its amendment of January 1974, files of records and documents, both computerized and manual, apposite of me and my activities under my present and former names and pseudonyms, I hereby request the complete and final estimate of charges for search and duplication services.

As regards the charges for these services, two matters may be worthy of consideration. The first of them is that, given the proper access codes, the execution of a computer search is neither difficult nor costly. And the second is that in light of the controversial nature of my past, a waiver or reduction of charges may conduce to the furtherance of the public interest. I therefore respectfully request that these factors be considered in the making of a decision as to the cost of services.

In compliance with your request for identity verification, pursuant to provisions of the 1974 Privacy Act, section 552, subsections b and d, I hereby swear before a notary public as to my name and former names, my present address, my date as well as place of birth, and my citizenship. Thanking you for your cooperation, I am

State of Florida  
County of Dade

Before me personally appeared Frank Sturgis, to me well known and known to me to be the person described in and who executed the foregoing instrument for the purposes therein expressed.

Witness my hand and official seal this 19th day of May, A.D. 1976.

A.k.a.: Frank Angelo Fiorino; Frank Angelo Fiorini; Frank A. Fiorini; Frank Anthony Sturgis; Frank A. Sturgis; Frank Sturgis; Frank Bonnelli; Frank Campbell.

Code names: Federini; Barbarossa; Samson.

Notary Public, State of Florida at Large.

My commission expires August 22, 1978.

Notary Public, State of Florida at Large. My commission expires August 22, 1978.

Bonded thru General Insurance Underwriters.

Born 9 December 1924 in Norfolk, Va.

United States of American citizenship.
