Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Section E: Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 18 May 1977. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature.

2. By Employee. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance. Date. Signature of employee. Have attached: Y. Date: 18 May 1977.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I am in basic agreement with these comments and with the overall rating of Strong. Unfortunately, due to the physical separation of my office and that where Mr. Kent labors, I find it difficult to provide meaningful substantive comments. I have served as C/CMS only since 1 October 1976 and, while individual branches within CMS are widely dispersed, I have been lucky in having each managed and run by a senior experienced officer of supergrade rank. This was true in CMS/NOC and I am more than willing to accept C/CMS/NOC's evaluation of Mr. Kent. In my own dealings with Kent, I have found him to be responsive, informed, articulate and an excellent team player. I am also aware of certain innovations developed by him and implemented within CMS/NOC which have beneficially contributed to the Directorate's NOG program. Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature. A good, solid officer with additional growth potential. Date: 31 May 1977. Official title: Chief, CMS. Name: Robert D. Brown Jr.

4. By Employee. I certify that I have been the entries in all sections of this report. Date: June 1977.
