Date of transcription: 7/29/74

James Keith, inmate, Burlington County Jail, was made known the identity of the interviewing agent by a show of credentials and was advised the FBI was inquiring of him any information he had regarding the activities of William Eric Carroll, Frank August Drager, and a group called the National Revolutionary Army.

Keith stated he has known Frank Drager for approximately two years. He was introduced to Drager by a James Broderick, who was described by him to be his best friend. Keith advised he personally has no political philosophy, and more specifically is not involved in any form or phase with Drager or his right wing extremist activities.

On June 11, 1974, two days before his arrest with William Eric Carroll, known to him as Jake, Jake and Drager appeared at his apartment at 125 Dye Street, Trenton, N.J., requesting his help in efforts to find an apartment. He stated Broderick had given Drager his address. Drager and Jake stayed at his apartment for one night. Drager stated he needed a place to lay low for two weeks inasmuch as he planned to travel to Washington, D.C., to blow up the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) building at Washington, D.C. Keith advised he felt Drager was a braggart and did not believe Drager would actually blow up the IRS Building. Drager stated that they were presently operating a stolen motor vehicle and were wanted by the FBI. Keith stated he found an apartment on the corner of Hamilton and Chambers Streets in Trenton, N.J., but Drager refused this inasmuch as it was on the third floor rather than the first floor. That next evening, on the 12th of June, they visited a close friend of Keith's by the name of Vinny Rampone, 545 Hamilton Avenue, and requested of Rampone a garage in which to hide the stolen motor vehicle. He stated he did not tell Rampone specifically the nature of the request inasmuch as he felt Rampone might call the police if he knew the car was stolen. Keith advised he knew Drager had numerous weapons concealed in the vehicle. Keith stated that he did not wish Drager and Jake to stay with him, so he recommended they obtain an

Interviewed on 7/17/74 at Mt. Holly, N.J. File No. NK 157-2011

By SA Charles F. Moffett /mla. Date dictated 7/23/74
