United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: W. O. Cregar  
Subject: SENSTUDY 75  
Date: 3/31/75

This memorandum reports the results of a meeting of the Ad Hoc Coordinating Group on Congressional Review of the Intelligence Community (hereafter referred to as the Group), held at CIA Headquarters on the afternoon of 3/25/75.

This meeting was chaired by Mr. Colby in his role as the Director of Central Intelligence. In attendance were Mr. Philip Buchen, Counsel to the President; the then Deputy AG Laurence Silberman, Associate Deputy AG James Wilderotter; Mr. John Clarke, as well as officials from Defense, Treasury, National Security Council, Office of Management and Budget, and the Energy Research and Development Administration.

The following items of interest were discussed:

Mr. William G. Miller, Staff Director of the Senate Select Committee (SSC), and the Committee's Counsel, Mr. F.A.O. Schwarz, III, visited CIA Headquarters to discuss SSC business. Mr. Miller suggested that a tactic the SSC was considering is the identification of several key issues that the Committee could look into in-depth. For example, the SSC might propose to identify two or three covert actions engaged in by CIA and examine them in-depth rather than try to cover each and every covert action CIA might identify. Colby advised that this appeared to be an encouraging development and possibly each agency of the Intelligence Community might be asked to provide a series of key issues from which the Select Committee could select one or two for an in-depth study.

EX104 REC-10 6-116395-51

The question of the SSC staff signing a Secrecy Agreement is still not settled. The Staff Director raised some constitutional questions regarding the Secrecy Agreement. Mr. Schwarz admitted, however, that some type of arrangement would have to be made to insure that the Intelligence Community had some protection against unauthorized disclosures by staff members of the SSC.

Enclosures

WOC:ebc

(7)

Continued — Over

Enclosure

April 14, 1975
