Donald Denesley worked in the FDD in the South Branch of the Directorate of Intelligence in 1962 until the HSCA, when he specifically recalled collecting intelligence information regarding the Pearl Radio Plant. In fact, Denesley claimed that, during the summer of 1962, he reviewed a contact report from a source based on AFB reports from the CIA's New York field office, who interviewed a former Marine who had also worked at the Pearl Radio Plant following his defection to the USSR. This person, who Denesley believes may have been Oswald, had been working with his family in Moscow. Denesley advised the Committee that the contact report was filed in a volume concerning the Pearl Radio Plant, which should be retrievable from the Industrial Registry Branch, which, in 1962, was a component of the OEC.

The HSCA requested a copy of the CIN. The HSCA requested that the CIA provide the Committee all above-described contact reports and the volume of materials concerning the Pearl Radio Plant (see attached files). Also provided was a review of the 资料. In the volume of the M.R.P. file, it stated that no such files were reviewed as a result of this review. In addition, the volume concerning the M.R.P. contained no contact report in that file (OCE). The file review did indicate that in 1975, Daniel Sekov had made a similar request about the files from State Security and was informed by the CIN that no request was made for them.

The Agency was not able to locate the 29 persons requested; none appeared to have a file for one index. In the case of both indices, the file review did not indicate that they ever returned to the U.S.

The HSCA received the CIA's registration files on the indices. Those who fit the above-described criteria were provided files on the basis of the 29, 28 indices on whom they maintained records. Nos. 201–204 were reviewed, as well as any existing files regarding these indices. In the case of both indices, there is no indication in their files that they ever returned to the U.S. There were occasional reports from sources who observed or spoke with these persons while in the S.U., but there is no indication of direct contact with them by the CIA.

In regard to the other 23 defectors, there is no record of direct CIA contact with 18 of them. Again, some of these files contain a report from a source who reported
