The chosen group of American voters are gone... but we are an unrepresentative majority! We find our government responding to its military-industrial advisors while it turns a deaf ear to us. Oh yes, we have heard and read the stirring speeches against the Vietnam war, made on the floor of Congress. But most of these great orators (men who were put into office with the help of women) proceed to vote for the billion dollar appropriations that make this war possible, while millions of Americans are robbed of their rights to decent housing, health services, education and employment.

We have vested interests too!.. Our homes and our families. They are being destroyed by these strawmen who do nothing to end this insane war, and do nothing to take care of the neglect of human needs at home.

We are tired of talking to strawmen! In Los Angeles on January 15th, we will speak to women—because women care and women will listen!

The Jeannette Rankin Brigade will be descending on Washington, D.C. on January 15th to demand that Congress listen to what American women are saying.

The hand that rocks the cradle is going to rock the boat!! With our vote! In cities and towns across this nation, women will be mobilizing in local supportive actions. This is the launching of the first broad coalition of women for political power in 1968. This is our opportunity to work together to put into office only those candidates who truly represent us and to turn out the strawmen.

Join with us here in Los Angeles.

The time:  
The place:

9:30 AM — Old State Building, 217 West 1st St., LA

11:30 AM — City Hall, 200 North Spring

1:00 PM — Board of Education, 450 North Grand

Be on time! We will march from place to place leafleting women. Placards will be provided.

All women are urged to wear black.

I will:

Go to Washington, D.C. on Jan. 15th. (Plane fare round trip $216.00).

Help work in the local action in Southern California.

Contribute 3 ______ for local action, or $ ______ to send a woman to Wash. D.C.

Name:  
Address:  
City:  
Phone No:  
Zip:

Please tear off and mail to WSP at address above.
