United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. A. H. Belmont  
Date: 11/27/64  
Re: 23

From: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

Subject: “Communism and the Negro Movement—A Current Analysis”

1. Mr. Belmont  
1. Mr. Mohr  
1. Mr. DeLoach  
1. Mr. Evans

Date: 11/27/64  
Re: 23

1. Mr. Rosen  
1. Mr. Sullivan  
1. Liaison  
1. Mr. J. F. Bland  
1. Mr. F. J. Baumgardner  
1. Mr. S. F. Phillips

My memorandum to you 11/22/64 submitted for approval a paper, captioned as above, which depicts the communist influence in the Negro movement with emphasis on Martin Luther King, Jr. We have added information on the last four lines, page four, top paragraph, to show that on 11/24/64 King contacted Clarence Jones and asked that Jones and Stanley Levison submit five-minute speeches which King could use in accepting the Nobel Peace Prize. King would select the best material from these speeches. Jones and Levison are key advisors to King.

I have checked with Mr. Mohr and Mr. DeLoach, who have advised that they have read this paper.

It is contemplated that dissemination will be made under Monday’s date (11/30/64), if approved, to the following individuals:

The Honorable Bill D. Moyers, Special Assistant to the President, The White House

The Acting Attorney General, with copies to the Deputy Attorney General, Mr. Burke Marshall, Assistant Attorney General, and Mr. J. Walter Yeagley, Assistant Attorney General

The Honorable Dean Rusk, The Secretary of State

The Honorable John A. McCone, Director of Central Intelligence Agency

The Honorable Carl T. Rowan, Director of United States Information Agency

The Honorable Robert S. McNamara, The Secretary of Defense

Major General Edgar C. Doleman, Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Department of the Army

Rear Admiral Rufus L. Taylor, Director of Naval Intelligence, Department of the Navy

Colonel Joseph J. Cappucci, Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General, Department of the Air Force

Lieutenant General Joseph F. Carroll, Director, Defense Intelligence Agency

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.

100-442529

Enclosures

SFP:jad:fhd
