DRAFT

22 September 1948

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Cooperation and Liaison Between Federal Bureau of Investigation and Office of Policy Coordination, CIA

1. This memorandum records an understanding which has been arrived at in conversations between Mr. D. Milton Ladd, Assistant to the Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Mr. Frank G. Wisner, Assistant Director, and Chief of the Office of Policy Coordination, of CIA. The conversations in question were duly authorized by the Associate Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and by the Director and Deputy Director of CIA and were arranged by the Executive Secretary of the National Security Council on behalf of the White House. The purpose of the understanding is to provide a basis for cooperation and liaison between the FBI and the Office of Policy Coordination, CIA, and the following points summarize the essential elements of the understanding:

a. In view of the distinctive character of the activities of the Office of Policy Coordination, it is considered advisable that separate and direct liaison be established between that office and the FBI. For this purpose the FBI will provide a special liaison officer who will be nominated by the FBI within the near future. (This arrangement has been specifically approved by the Deputy Director, CIA, in the absence of the Director.)

b. It is understood that in the discharge of the duties and obligations laid upon the Office of Policy Coordination by the National Security Council, it is necessary for this Office to have dealings with individuals and groups of foreign nationalities, within and without the United States and to sponsor the movement from time to time of such individuals and representatives of such groups between the United States and foreign countries. The Office of Policy Coordination recognizes the primary responsibility of the FBI in the field of United States domestic security, and the FBI acknowledges that it is essential for the Office of Policy Coordination to have direct dealings with the individuals and groups aforementioned.

c. In order that the interests of both parties to this understanding shall be served, it is understood that the Office of Policy Coordination keep the FBI generally informed concerning the extent and character of its dealings with
