Re: Demonstration protesting United States policy in Vietnam; Washington, D.C., January 15, 1968.

Taimi Halonen and Thorun Robel were mildly self-critical about not working for the programs the younger women were promoting. Taimi said she was tired after working long hours on the Seattle conference to be held Saturday, January 20th, at Mt. Zion Baptist Church in Seattle, at which the Seattle delegation would report. Halonen made the observation, however, that the women working on the program were all very experienced leaders and she trusted they would formulate a satisfactory program.

On Monday, January 15, 1968, the delegates, including the group from Washington State, met at Union Station in Washington, D.C. It was learned here that the instructions which had been given the day before at the Shoreham Hotel were evidently for the California group only, because many California people had been badly beaten in previous demonstrations and they were very cautious and somewhat apprehensive. The official pattern was different. Mimeographed sheets headed “Jeannette (Jeanette) Rankin Brigade - Information and Instructions” were passed out, and these appeared to be the official instructions. A reproduction is attached.

The Washington State delegation was enlarged when a Mrs. Backup arrived from Tacoma. Rader said some of the money usually received from wealthy contributors had been collected by Mrs. Backup. Reverend Harold Bass of Tacoma collected $120.00 and wanted someone else to go instead of Zefra (Studamire). Rader defended herself when Taimi Halonen criticized her for bringing Zefra along, since Zefra is at least six months pregnant.

After the demonstration, Healy and Rader spent much of the time urging the speakers to include in their talks something about the status of the American Indian. Ella Baker from New York did include a paragraph from the paper the Washington State delegation submitted to Congress. This was entitled “American Indians and the Struggle for Peace.” It had been prepared by Lonnie Healy, although at its bottom it carried the notation “(Prepared by the Jeannette Rankin Brigade Delegation from Washington State).”

Rader, Healy, and Corr became indignant because the audience did not give a standing ovation to Mrs. Martin L. King, Jr., or any of the Negro speakers.
