(6) Character

(a) Top functionaries

Internal Security (or Racial Matters if subject is a black nationalist), followed by letters designating organizational affiliation or nationalistic tendencies. Examples:

Internal Security - C

Internal Security - SWP

Racial Matters - NOI

(b) Others

Security Matter, followed by letters designating organizational affiliation or nationalistic tendencies. Examples:

Security Matter - C

Security Matter - SWP

Security Matter - X (native fascist)

Security Matter - M (miscellaneous)

When a subject is deleted as a top functionary, character shall be changed from internal security to security matter in the first communication following deletion and all subsequent communications. When a security matter subject is designated a top functionary, the first report after designation and all subsequent reports shall bear internal security character. Communications regarding subjects who are employed in key facilities should bear the words "Key Facility" in character. Communications regarding subjects who are members of Communist Party, USA, National Committee should bear the words "National Committee" in character. Black nationalist investigations and racial matters should be given the character set out in section 122, volume IV, of this manual.

(7) Status

All cases shall be carried in a pending status until all active investigation required by preceding instructions has been conducted. Thereafter, status shall be as follows:

(a) Top functionaries

I. Pending inactive

(A) Reports are to be submitted annually. Forty-five days prior to the date a report is due, each such case shall be placed in a pending-active status for preparation of the report so that it can be submitted at the designated time.

(b) Key facility cases

Key facility cases are to be maintained in pending-inactive status. (See 87D 7c (4).)

(c) Other security index subjects

I. Closed

(A) Cases of all other security index subjects must be followed by administrative ticklers set up so as to insure submission of a periodic investigative report according to priority designation (for priority I and priority II). If, following investigation, no subversive data is developed and the only available information consists of verification of residence and employment and negative contacts with security informants and sources, submit in lieu of a report a letter (form FD-400) to the Bureau setting forth the identities of informants and sources contacted, any additional administrative data deemed necessary, and form FD-305 properly executed. Cases shall be opened and assigned 45 days prior to the date the periodic report is due.
