Persons/entities: Strategic Hamlet Program; Ngo Dinh Nhu; Minister of the Interior, Government of Vietnam; Colby; Harkins; General Westmoreland. Date: 1962.

Occurrence: Conein stated that: “In 1962 Colby assigned him to work with the Minister of the Interior of the Government of Vietnam to be responsible for liaison between CIA and the Minister on a program called the Strategic Hamlet Program. The idea for this program was that of Nhu, the President’s brother and counsellor, which was to establish security within hamlets and villages in order to allow the people could deny access of food and taxes to the Viet Cong. In this position, Conein was able to travel quite extensively under the auspice of the Ministry of the Interior, and to talk to the unit commanders down to and including small sections.” p. 17. Conein: “This was done with the permission of General Harkins and it was known to General Westmoreland when Westmoreland took over.” p. 18.

Source: Hearings, SSCI, June 20, 1975, Conein. Staff: R. Dawson. Date: 30 June 1975.

Persons/entities: Maxwell Taylor. Date: 27 Sept 62. Categories: Special Group Augmented; MOONGOOSE; Diem.

Occurrence:

Taylor states that the Special Group and the Special Group Augmented considered a proposal by CIA for covert activities designed to harass the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. This had been prepared in response to a request by the Sec.’s of State and Defense.

Taylor added that the Special Group asked that a more detailed operation plan be prepared. It was agreed that Defense make certain equipment and personnel available to CIA in support of this program. An elint flight designed to identify the North Vietnamese radar order of battle, so as to permit planning overflight routes was authorized. This will be flown out of Saigon, using the specially equipped aircraft available on Taiwan, but with the Chinese Air Force markings removed, and employing Chinese Nationalist pilots documented South Vietnamese citizens.

Source: Maxwell Taylor’s memorandum for the President, dated Sept 27, 1962. Staff: PGW. PDT: 6/20/75.
