MHFNO: 93-4634535

SENSIND:

Most questions in English, but was occasionally confused by an unexpected question and was forced to rely on NQP. Following the taping, NQP invited subject (at FBI request) for coffee and later to dinner at his home. Both were gratefully accepted as subject, whose hotel was paid by the publisher, had no walking around money. The dinner subsequently did not take place since subject could not resolve a scheduling conflict which had him participating in an interview at the same time.

4. Subject enjoyed his circa 10 years in Mexico and Cuba. He cheerfully lamented that the rezidentura in Mexico had to use commercial phone lines to talk to their Cuban counterparts: “The CIA knew everything we did.” Following his expulsion from Mexico City in 1971, subject was assigned to the Analysis Division of the First Chief Directorate for several years and made several trips to Cuba and Nicaragua. He became eligible to return to Mexico again when the then Mexican president stated privately during a state visit to Moscow that subject and apparently others who were expelled with him could return anytime.

5. For approximately seven years, circa 1975–1982, subject was assigned to Vietnamese affairs. Based on this experience he disagreed completely with the allegations by KGB General Kalugin (KALugin) that American POWs were held in Russia. According to subject, Kalugin is paranoid and truly believes his own claims. Subject said the KGB obtained thick files on POWs from the Vietnamese which the KGB thought served as the basis for an exchange of sensitive (NFI) equipment that the Vietnamese wanted. After reviewing the files, however, it became apparent that the files were useless, because there seemed little opportunity to recruit a POW as an FI source. Continuing, subject supported his complaint about the uselessness of the files by complaining that the Vietnamese never informed the KGB about their operations or contacts in South Vietnam: “We supplied them with everything, intel, material, weapons, and they wouldn’t tell us anything.”

6. Circa 1985, as Vietnam faded as an issue, subject got a job as an instructor at the KGB school, aka the Red Banner Institute or Andropov Institute. This assignment was regarded as plush duty because the colonels could relax and enjoy the benefits of their rank in exchange for telling war stories about great operations they ran.

7. In 1991, subject reached mandatory retirement age of 60. Since then, he has been involved with an “International Counter-Terrorist Training Institute” in Moscow that is staffed with other old Cold Warriors and writing his book. On the occasion of the visit of the lead senator on POW/MIA issues to Moscow, subject’s KGB superiors told him to speak freely with the senator.

8. Under FBI direction, NQP tried to elicit updated CI info by speculating out loud that “your guys probably don’t have anything to do here” and was told, “You’re basically right.”
