United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. W. C. Sullivan  
From: W. A. Branigan  
Subject: Sam Jaffe  
Date: 3/11/69

Recommends interview of subject to clarify details of his contacts with Soviet Intelligence Service (SIS) in the USSR and so that determination can be made as to his suitability for further reporting on contacts with SIS personnel in this country.

Subject has been assigned as Washington correspondent for the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) since the Fall of 1968. From 1958 until 1961, he voluntarily furnished information to the New York Office concerning his contacts with Soviet officials in that city. In November, 1961, he was transferred to Moscow by ABC and while on vacation trip to the United States during January, 1963, he reported to the New York Office what appeared to be recruitment effort of him by SIS. Insufficient time was available for complete debriefing of him and in 1965 he was expelled by Soviets with subsequent transfer to Hong Kong by ABC.

The Soviet defector has advised that subject was recruited by SIS about 1962 but he did not know if Jaffe was considered an agent or just an operative contact. During November, 1968, subject indicated he would like to have contacts with Bureau in Washington, D. C., in same manner as he had previously been in New York; however, contacts were not initiated since it was desired to reinterview in order to clarify his previous comments which has been completed but no additional information elicited. During February, 1969, he telephonically informed the New York Office of contacts with Soviets in Washington, D. C., and again evinced desire to be interviewed by Bureau personnel.

Our files contain no derogatory information concerning Jaffe. Although he is not regular contact of Crime Records Division, there is nothing in our relations with ABC which would preclude an interview of him. His request to be contacted would serve as basis for approach to him after which details of his association with SIS personnel in USSR could be fully explored and a determination made as to whether or not we should continue to utilize him as a source or informant against Soviet personnel in Washington, D. C.

Enclosure

ECP:eco
