EP G5-951

And making allegations to the Los Angeles Police Department, which he later stated were not true.

NAGELL stated that he is presently unemployed, awaiting a hearing on his suspension. He stated that he hopes to be reinstated so he can clear his name and then he will resign his position. NAGELL advised that on the evening of July 16, 1962, he was returning from Oxnard, California. He noticed an automobile on two occasions behind him, and at about 8:00 PM stopped his car on the highway near Malibu, California. Two men from the car jumped into his car. They were dressed in business suits, and he thought at first they were police officers. One of the men asked him where his gun was, and he told the man it was locked in the glove compartment. He gave this man the key to his glove compartment, and while the man was opening the compartment, NAGELL took his gun from his waist. The man struggled with NAGELL for the gun and four shots were fired, one hitting NAGELL in the chest. The man said that if NAGELL had not grabbed for the gun he would not have been shot.

NAGELL advised that these men drove him to a medical center in Malibu, California, and left him. NAGELL stated that he then drove himself back to Los Angeles, California, and ended up at the Veterans Hospital Sawtelle (Sawtell), California. NAGELL stated that he is sure now that the men were not police officers. He stated that he does not know who shot him or why he was shot.

As a result of the shooting, detectives from the Los Angeles Police Department came to the hospital to question him. He stated that he did not like their attitude and refused to tell them any details. The investigating officers impounded his 1957 Ford and also took all of his personal belongings he had with him at the time, including his driver's license, Social Security card, and Selective Service Registration. NAGELL stated that on July 25, 1962, he received a money order from a relative, and because he had no identification was unable to cash it. He advised that he has a quick temper and that this situation made him "hot under the collar." For this reason he contacted the FBI,
