Federal Bureau of Investigation  
United States Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20587

Applicant

1. Loop  
The lines drawn by the center of the loop and delta must show the deltas.

2. Whorl

3. Arch  
Arches have no deltas.

To obtain perfect fingerprints:

1. Use printer's ink.
2. Distribute ink evenly on the instrument.
3. Wash and dry hands thoroughly.
4. Pull fingers straight down and avoid allowing hands to slip.
5. Press impressions, if needed, in corresponding order.
6. If an amputated finger must be printed, make a notation to that effect in the individual finger block.
7. If some certified condition makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be obtained, with a notation attached to the card explaining the cause.
8. Examine the recorded prints to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that most fingers must fall into the patterns shown on this card. Other patterns occur infrequently and are not shown here.

This card is for use by officials of state and local governments for the purchase of documents and data, including, but not limited to, information collected by the Attorney General of the United States, U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army, and U.S. Marshals. If applicable, state, local, federal, and other governments may use this card.

9. If this card is to be used for any purpose other than the purpose for which it is intended, use it with clear written instructions.
10. Do not use if mentally incapacitated or under the age of ten years.
11. Do not use if ability is known or believed to be insufficient.
12. Do not use if infectious or unhealthy condition.
13. Do not use if injured, sleepless, or overworked.
14. Do not use if drops out or refers to an unusual period.
15. Do not use if unwrapped, incomplete, dusted, or furnished in the application space.
16. Records No.; Other Armed Forces No.; Passport No. (PH); Alien Registration No. (AR); Port Security Card No. (PC); Selective Service No. (SS); Veterans Administration Claim No. (VAC).

Leave this space blank.
