The station is unaware if the assassination was premeditated or whether it constituted a bungled abduction attempt. In any case, it is important to bear in mind that the move against Schneider was conceived by and executed at the behest of senior Armed Forces officers. We know that General Valenzuela was involved. We are also near certain that Admiral Brado (Brado), Army Itto (Itto) (colonel), and Navy (captain) were witting and involved. We have reason for believing that General Viaux and numerous associates were fully clued in, but cannot prove or disprove that execution or the attempt against Schneider was entrusted to elements linked with Viaux. An important factor to bear in mind is that the Armed Forces, and not retired officers or extreme rightists, set Schneider up for execution or abduction.... All we can say is that the attempt against Schneider is affording the Armed Forces one last opportunity to prevent Allende's election if they are willing to follow Valenzuela's scenario.

(Santiago 598, 22 October)

F. Post-October 22 Events

The shooting of General Schneider resulted immediately in a declaration of martial law, the appointment of General Prats to succeed Schneider as Commander in Chief, and the appointment of General Valenzuela as chief of Santiago province. These measures, and others taken, caused the Chile Task Force to make the following initial judgment:

With only 24 hours remaining before the Congressional runoff, a coup climate exists in Chile.... The attack on General Schneider has produced developments which closely follow Valenzuela's plan.... Consequently, the plotters' positions have been enhanced.

(Chile Task Force Log, 22 October)

On October 23, Director Helms reviewed and discussed Track II:

It was agreed...that a maximum effort has been achieved, and that now only the Chileans themselves can manage a successful coup. The Chileans have been guided to a point where a military solution is at least open to them.

ده تا لوما ده سوما (Task Force Log, 24 October)
