Background

My initial contact with Mr. Nagell was when he was expelled from the DDR by the East German officials who forcibly propelled him toward us over the borderline into West Berlin. As we initially escorted Mr. Nagell back to US Army Hospital Berlin in the US Mission vehicle, he seemed unsure of where he was, and who we were, as well as being angry and belligerent about his treatment by the East Germans. In the course of the two-hour interview which was then conducted at the hospital, Mr. Nagell gradually regained his composure and gave a more cooperative and coherent history. At his insistence, the interview took place in the presence of the attorney Mr. Ricey S. New, Jr., who acted in an unofficial capacity as a legally oriented “friend.”

The salient aspects of Mr. Nagell’s history are as follows. He says he was on active military duty (Army) from 1948 until 1959. For the first three of these years he was an enlisted man, and for the last six he was an officer, working in military intelligence. In 1954 he was the sole survivor in a plane crash which resulted in a brain concussion, numerous physical injuries, and prolonged military hospitalization. Mr. Nagell now claims that he believes it was this head injury which resulted in his “unstable personality and immature or impulsive behaviour.” He attributes to this instability his marital difficulties and his decision to resign his commission in 1959, something which he now considers unwise. At the time of his leaving the service he was not awarded a disability pension, but he says that he was later able to successfully petition the VA for a “64% disability.” He claims that he had never seen a psychiatrist during his military career.

From 1959 to 1962 he says that he worked for the State of California as an investigator for various bureaus. His marital difficulties had increased and his wife insisted on separation, keeping with her their two children. Nagell says that one night in 1962 he became intoxicated, and tried to break down the door to her apartment. On this basis he says he lost his job and says that for the next year he “just drifted,” apparently without motivation to work, supporting himself on his disability pension and financial aid from his sister. He is not certain about whether or not the divorce from his wife has ever been legally completed.
