Office Memorandum, United States Government

To: SAC, WFO

From: SAS Arthur J. Achenbach, Kevin F. Flanagan, Donald A. Gruentzel, John H. Kenoyer, Robert G. McGeary, Joseph E. Scully

Subject: IS-R (Physical Surveillance of July 9, 1954)

Date: 7/15/54

The following summarizes the physical surveillance conducted on July 9, 1954, concerning the Fedoseev, Sam Jaffee, and Mrs. Jaffee.

At 8:37 P.M., SAS Donald A. Gruentzel and Robert G. McGeary observed Mr. and Mrs. Fedoseev and an unknown young couple, subsequently identified as Sam Jaffee and wife, leave the Chastleton Hotel, 16th and R Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. They walked directly to the Colony Restaurant, 1737 DeSales Place, N.W., by way of 16th Street, N Street and 17th Street, N.W. They were observed to enter this restaurant at 8:58 P.M. No attempt was made to keep the party under observation within the restaurant, because it was felt that this could not be done discreetly.

At 11:18 P.M., SAS Joseph E. Scully, Donald A. Gruentzel and Robert G. McGeary observed the party leaving the Colony Restaurant. These agents, who were on foot, observed the group walk west on DeSales Place, N.W., north on Connecticut Avenue to N Street, N.W. They observed that Fedoseev and Jaffee walked together very slowly and appeared to be in deep conversation. It was also noted that Fedoseeva and Mrs. Jaffee were walking together about 10 feet behind their husbands and were also conversing. The agents noticed that the party on departing the Colony Restaurant appeared to be scrutinizing passing traffic and other pedestrians in the area. Consequently, the agents maintained a discreet distance from the group.

On reaching Connecticut Avenue, SA John H. Kenoyer took over the surveillance on foot and observed the party continuing to walk north on Connecticut Avenue, around Dupont Circle, N.W., at which time SA Donald A. Gruentzel rejoined the surveillance on foot. The two agents observed the party walk northeast on New Hampshire Avenue, N.W., to 16th Street, N.W., and then south on the west side of 16th Street, N.W., to R Street, N.W. While walking from Dupont Circle to this point, the agents noticed that the party carefully observed other pedestrians and passing automobiles. At no time did a Bureau automobile pass the party or come within its sight. The cars were utilized solely.

105-28333-3
