On September 25, 1978, Mr. Katzenbach mailed to the committee the following letter supplementing his testimony:

I have read the foregoing pages, one through sixty-six, inclusive, which contain a correct transcript of the answers made by me to the questions therein recorded. Signature is subject to corrections.

/S/ Nicholas Katzenbach

Archigiani (Marchigiani), Notary Public in and for the [unclear], do hereby certify that I am notarizing for the deposition of Mr. Nicholas [Katzenbach] [on the] th day of February 1979.

/S/ Flora A. Marchigiani

Notary Public in and for the County of Westchester, State of New York

September 25, 1978

The Honorable Louis Stokes  
Select Committee on Assassinations  
U. S. House of Representatives  
331 House Office Building, Annex 2  
Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

In my testimony before the Committee on Thursday, September 21, I stated that I had absolutely no recollection of meeting with Mr. Helms with respect to the Nosenko case. I understand that Mr. Helms said there was such a meeting, and it took place on April 2, 1964.

On my return to my office this morning I checked on the notes of meetings which were kept by my secretary, and they confirm Mr. Helms' recollection. I am attaching a copy of the relevant page of the calendar. Although it is clear from this page that there was such a meeting, I continue to have absolutely no recollection of it, and therefore cannot tell you what was discussed beyond what is stated in the calendar itself.

It was not my custom to make notes on such meetings, and I doubt that there are in the files of the Department any notes made by me. However it is possible that Mr. Yeagley or Mr. Foley made such notes. I believe Mr. Foley is now deceased, but Mr. Yeagley is now a judge in the District of Columbia, and perhaps he would have some recollection of the meeting.

I had, prior to my testimony, checked my calendar diary for the period dealing with the assassination and the creation of the Warren Commission, but had not thought it relevant to the Committee's investigation to go as far as April. Hence I was unaware of this entry. While
