January 28, 1976

The Honorable Otis Pike, Chairman  
House Select Committee on Intelligence  
Rayburn House Office Building  
Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Congressman Pike:

Congratulations on your Committee's great service to the American electorate in removing some of the mask of secrecy from the domestic covert operations and funding of the CIA. Secrecy protected counterproductive and indefensible covert operations for twenty-seven years. The light of exposure and cleansing is now enhancing our country's security. The publishing of your excellent report over CIA and White House objections is an act of courage the electorate will soon appreciate.

Reliance, however, by any Congressional committee on handouts from the CIA itself, is like an investigative reporter compiling his story from government press releases. Neither is doing the job its employer paid it to do.

Finding the hidden CIA budgets for three or four times the billions of dollars admitted to the electorate is a commendable achievement. But what would your investigators have achieved if a law was already in force imposing criminal penalties upon CIA employees who leaked information to you? The CIA proposed secrecy law is a blackmail weapon.

Intelligence, money and secrecy combine to constitute autocratic power in our society. The Congress enjoys no intelligence service of its own. It enjoys no effective control over spending of funds hidden in the budgets of non-CIA departments and agencies. If it surrenders to the doctrine of secrecy it is powerless indeed. To strengthen Congress's power I offer you my own counterintelligence service in place. The sources have been carefully tested and accumulated since 1949.

The problem is not leaking intelligence out of Committee; it is leaking independent intelligence into it. Starting exactly one year ago today I launched penetration efforts with a 19-page report addressed to "Chairman and Members, Select Committees on Intelligence Operations." I had delivered this report to every committee member's office. My wife Nancy recorded the date, hour and person delivered to.

On June 25, 1975 Edward Roeder III of your staff received 103 pages of counterintelligence on CIA. This represented a distillation of a quarter century of intelligence gathering. CIA control of the Watergate break-in and coverup and CIA's investigation of my penetration of their secrets is covered. The application to the U.S. Attorney and three U.S. Special Prosecutors requesting investigation and prosecution of murder of American citizens within the U.S.A. is in your files. Nevertheless, none of this intelligence leaked to recognition or investigation within the executive departments or your Committee.
