Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

This is the first Fitness Report made by Rating Officer on Subject since the latter assumed duties as Deputy for Operations, Tokyo Station. He has worked out extremely well in this role. He is intelligent, energetic, hard-working and faultlessly loyal. He pays attention to detail while remaining mindful of larger considerations. He is effective as a supervisor and commands the willing allegiance of his subordinates. He has excellent judgment in both administrative and operational matters. Because of his extensive background in Japan, his knowledge of things and people Japanese and his fair-to-good command of the language, he is particularly well suited for his present position. However, he would be an asset to any station or element of Headquarters in a high supervisory position.

This report has been prepared in accordance with F.E. Division standards which recognize the principle of rating the individual against the group. Thus an “average” rating reflects an entirely satisfactory performance.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report. Date: 27 Apr 1960. Signature of employee: Robert P. Wheeler (Signed).

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify): Date: 27 Apr 1960. Official title of supervisor: John E. Baker. Typed or printed name and signature.

3. By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee another evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee’s performance. Comments of reviewing official. Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature: William V. Broe.
