Take an old sock (large). Soak in a mixture of 3 parts potassium chlorate to two parts sugar, moistened with water. Allow sock to be thoroughly soaked in mixture, then dry. Keep dry cork away from heat. Caution: potassium chlorate is very volatile. It can ignite almost spontaneously in this mixture. It can be ignited or detonated by a single spark, or excessive heat, or merely by the friction of stirring the ingredients together. Handle with utmost caution.

With a hydrometer, take acid from container and fill 1/5 to 1/4 of a quart bottle. (Coke bottles don't break easily. Test out the type of bottle you'll use by throwing it at things and see if it breaks.) Pour gasoline carefully through funnel into bottle until full. Pour slowly because it could bubble and heat up.

Cap the bottle with a regular stopper, preferably the kind with a rubber plunger, because acid eats away at plastic and metal. Hold bottle carefully upright; don't juggle it.

When ready to use, place bottle inside sock, soaked in the potassium chlorate/sugar mix, knotted at top. Throw. On impact, when glass is shattered, the bomb will explode as the sulfuric acid reacts with the mixture in the sock. The gasoline will spread the flame.

The simple firebomb is a bottle of gasoline with a rag stuffed into the top. When the rag is set on fire, the bottle is thrown. When the bottle breaks, the fumes are spread, and the fire from the burning rag ignites the fumes, causing a fireball.

To make a firebomb without having to throw it, a device must be attached to the bottle of gasoline, which will explode the bottle at a given time, spreading the fumes and furnishing a spark with which to ignite these fumes.

In order to make such a “timed firebomb,” the basic ingredients are: one-half-gallon or gallon jug of high-grade gasoline, to which attach a piece of tape.

One small time explosive, which is made from these ingredients: 1 Jetex fuse, 1 CO2 cartridge, any brand of black powder from any rifle, pistol, or shotgun shell, and a long cigarette (like Tareyton 100s).
