Further specific questioning on 22 May 1964 covering the various homosexual areas; however, there were no strong reactions to indicate that Subject might be practicing deception on the specific question regarding engaging in homosexual activities since working for CIA.

8. In connection with the phase of questions concerning contact with any possible Communist sympathizer, the Subject reflected overall disturbance, indicating that all the questions obviously bothered him and that deception was being practiced within that phase. The polygraph operator noted that there were outstanding reactions to the following two questions:

20b. “Other than your comments about FISHER, during your undergraduate period at Yale did you have any contact with any Communist or Communist sympathizer?”

Answer: No.

20e. “During your CIA employment, have you had any contact with any Communist or Communist sympathizer?”

Answer: No.

9. It is particularly noteworthy that during his examination on 22 May 1964, when asked nine questions as to whether he had been acquainted with certain individuals, Subject only reacted when he answered “no” to having been acquainted with Jerry SEVERN and Ilya WOLSTON. These names had been submitted to Subject based upon pure conjecture that there possibly might have been some connection with these individuals at Camp Ritchie Military Intelligence Training Center. Since the fact that both Jerry SEVERN and Ilya WOLSTON have cooperated with Soviet Intelligence should have been unknown to SLOSS, and he declared he was not acquainted with them, there should have been no reason for him to react to these names. The polygraph operator states that SLOSS was not pressed further regarding FISHER, whom he had characterized as “left of center,” or his own possible knowledge of SEVERN or WOLSTON, since it was obvious that SLOSS was beginning to feel harassed on this matter and stated that he did not enjoy being asked these questions.

10. During SLOSS’ interview on 4 April 1964, SLOSS reflected consistent reactions on the question:

“Since working for CIA, have you given CIA documents or classified information to unauthorized persons?”
