Fitness Report. Employer Serial Number: 7894.

Section A. General.

1. Name (Last): Mary Ann Smith. (First): Joseph B.

2. Service Designation: D. 6. Official Position Title: Ops Officer.

Career Status: Not eligible; X member; deferred; pending; declined; denied. Type of Report: X initial; reassignment/supervisor; reassignment/employer; special (specify): Tu.

3. Date report due in O.P.: 31 January 1961. 11. Reporting period: From 25 May 60–31 Dec. 60; to 31 Mar. 61.

Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1. Unsatisfactory. 2. Barely adequate. 3. Acceptable. 4. Competent. 5. Excellent. 6. Superior. 7. Outstanding.

Specific Duty No. 1: Conceive, write and coordinate propaganda guidance on matters relating to area of geographic and substantive competence. (WH). Rating No. 5/6.

Specific Duty No. 4: Supervise the establishment and maintenance of basic files, including those deriving from NSC and OCB policy papers and those necessary for the conduct of campaigns. Rating No. 5.

Specific Duty No. 2: Originate, develop and coordinate continuing strategic propaganda campaigns of worldwide significance. (Nationalism-Neutralism). Rating No. 3.

Specific Duty No. 5: Participate in review of planning-cycle documents. Rating No. 5/6.

Specific Duty No. 3: Analyze such public and official papers and communications as may be required to maintain knowledge in areas of assigned responsibility and to assure stimulation and coordination of propaganda operations. Rating No. 5/6.

Specific Duty No. 6. Rating No. 5.

Section C. Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position: performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or liabilities, particular limitations of talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
4. Performance closely exceeds basic requirements.
5. Performance in every important respect is superior.
6. Performance
