Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions. For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report. For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him about his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employer except under conditions specified in regulation 20-170. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel on later than 10 days after the date indicated in item 8, of section “a” below.

Section A. General.

Name: O'Neal, Birch D. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: CI Staff/Office of Chief/SIU. Date of birth: 1 June 1913. Official position title: IO-CI Chief/SIU. Grade: GS-15. Type of report: Initial. Date report due in OP: 11 February 1956. Period covered by this report: 11 February 1955–11 February 1956. Service designation: DI.

Section B. Certification.

For the rater, this report was shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not: employee on trip—will discuss on his return.

Check appropriate statements: This report reflects my own opinions of this individual. If individual is rated “Y” in CI or D, a barring letter was sent to his & her copy attached to this report. This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors. I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he ended where he stands.

This date: 17 Feb 1956. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: S.H. Horton. Supervisor’s official title: Deputy Chief, CI Staff.

For the reviewing official, record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

Posted Pos. Control [Signature]. By. Date: 2 NOV 1956. Reviewed by PUD [Signature].

Continued on attached sheet.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

This date: 25 MAR 195.
