Betsy Palmer

Volume XII – Manuel Ray

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 31 January 1964. Article in Miami Herald about the discovery of arms cache in Puerto Rico confirms accuracy of AMTAUP/2 reporting that Ray was involved in robbery of U.S. military installation and that Governor Marin is misleading FBI investigation. WAVE believes the C-3 explosive found in cache was provided by WAVE as directed by headquarters, but WAVE did not provide any weapons. WAVE will tell local FBI that they know nothing regarding background of cache discovery and assume headquarters will coordinate case at Washington, D.C. level with FBI.

7. Intelligence Information Cable, dated 4 February 1964. Reliable source says RAY expected in Caracas, Venezuela, middle of February 1964 to establish a guerrilla training base for JURE in Venezuela. It will be a regional center used by JURE members in Venezuela and Panama. (Likely that if RAY succeeds in setting up camp, it will be with tacit consent of Betancourt government. Field Comment.) Ray claims he will be inside Cuba by 20 May 1964.

8. Cable to DIR from Panama City, dated 9 February 1964, states JOSE MARIA PUENTE BLANCO, Panamanian/Cuban, born 17 July 1930 in Havana, Cuba, left Panama City for Caracas on 8 February. He is a possible Castro agent, and Panama City would appreciate information regarding his activities in Caracas and/or subsequent travel.

9. Memo for the Record, dated 12 February 1964, from Alfonso Rodriguez.

Subject: Meeting with AMBANG/1

ELC, according to Ray, was now dissolved and became a part of JURE on 17 January 1964. This brings to JURE the best former rebel army officers in exile and should give JURE a military background and support second to none in the exile community.

Comments: AMTAUP/2 reports have indicated Cisneros’s activities and statements are directed against the CIA. Rodriguez discusses AMTAUP/2’s reporting with Tony Sforza and Warren Frank. If Cisneros is in fact directing a program of denigration against the CIA, suggest agency follow the activities of Dionisio Suarez Esquival, who reportedly has been selected to carry out such a program in various Latin American universities.

10. Cable to DIR from Panama City, dated 22 February 1964. The PUENTE BLANCO brothers have been under some suspicion since their arrival in BACY following their release from Cuban prison as a result of intervention by Thelma King. Part of the suspicion is a result of activities of their brother, Jorge, still in Cuba.
