John R. Tunheim  
Minnesota Chief Deputy Attorney General

102 State Capitol  
Saint Paul, MN 55155  
612/296-2351

Jack Tunheim is Chief Deputy Attorney General in the Minnesota Attorney General's Office—a position he has held since June 1986. The senior appointed official in the Attorney General's Office, he is responsible for supervising and directing all operations of the office, with a staff of over 200 lawyers and 400 total employees. Among his duties are the supervision of all legal services, including both criminal and civil litigation, the recruitment and supervision of the office's lawyers, chairing the management team, representing the governor and other top state officials, working with the Legislature, and handling significant constitutional cases.

Prior to 1986, he served as Minnesota Solicitor General and Manager of the Attorney General's Public Affairs Litigation Division. He spent three years in private practice with the St. Paul law firm Oppenheimer, Wolff, Foster, Shepard and Donnelly and served as Law Clerk to Senior U.S. District Judge Earl Larson in Minneapolis. He is a 1980 cum laude graduate of the University of Minnesota Law School, where he served as President of the Minnesota Law Review. He is a 1975 summa cum laude graduate of Concordia College in Moorhead, Minnesota, and served from 1975–1978 as a Staff Assistant to U.S. Senator Hubert H. Humphrey.

In February 1994, his nomination by President Clinton to be a member of the U.S. Assassination Records Review Board (AARB) was confirmed by the U.S. Senate. The AARB is responsible for ensuring and facilitating the review and public disclosure of government records related to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

He currently teaches federal and state constitutional law as an Adjunct Professor of Law at the University of Minnesota Law School. He has served as a visiting lecturer at the University of Minnesota Law School since 1985 on the subject of presenting effective oral arguments. Jack is currently a Mondale Fellow at the Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota. He serves on the Board of Directors of the Minnesota Institute for Legal Education and is a frequent continuing legal education presenter, with a special focus on the Minnesota Constitution.
