Applicant.

1. Loop

To obtain classifiable fingerprints:

1. Use black printer’s ink.
2. Distribute in envelope or inking slab.
3. Mark and dent fingers thoroughly.
4. Roll fingers as far as the nail, and avoid allowing fingers to slip.
5. Be sure ink is applied and increased in correct order.
6. If an amputation (authorit) makes it impossible to print a finger, make a notation of that result in the individual finger block.
7. If some physical condition makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best one that can be obtained, with a memo stapled to the card explaining the circumstances.
8. Examine the careful prints to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that most fingerprints go into the patterns shown on this card. Other patterns occur occasionally and are not shown here.

2. Whorl

This card for use by:

Leave this space blank.

1. Law enforcement agencies in fingerprinting applications for law enforcement positions.
2. Officials of state and local governments for purposes of employment, licensing, and permits, as authorized by state statutes and approved by the Attorney General of the United States, and local and county ordinances unless specifically based on applicable state law.
3. U.S. Customer Service in connection with clearances.
4. Officials in properly chartered or insured banking institutions to protect and maintain the security of those institutions.

Instructions:

1. Applicants must first be checked through the appropriate state identification bureau, and only those fingerprints for which no disqualifying record has been found locally should be submitted for FBI search.
2. Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 98-370) requires that federal, state, or local agencies inform individuals when the Social Security number is requested, whether disclosure is voluntary, the basis for the request, and the uses that will be made of it.

State identification records should be shown in full, unaltered, upon request. The contributor is the agency who effected the arrest at a certain time.

The contributor is not responsible for the purchase of the original record.

Annualization No. — due to critical liabilities No., passport No., veteran ID, address, salutation, and fees will be returned to the Veteran Service No. (BS), Port Service Card No., Selective Service No. (SG), Veteran ID, and Administration Clinic No. (VA).

Recorded August 29, 1977. Ident. Div. 58.
