And ships with trained crews are adaptable to infiltration and exfiltration missions. DoD stocks of arms, foodstuffs, and equipment, along with Delta's ability to penetrate, package, and ship for sexual or service delivery quantities of supplies, is a significant asset.

There is a general misunderstanding concerning the use of Army Special Forces units, Navy SEAL teams, Air Force Jungle Jim organizations, or Marine Corps special units in covert and clandestine operations. While it is entirely possible and feasible to convert individuals or units for clandestine or covert operations, the basic mission of Special Forces originally was oriented toward the organization of resistance forces in support of overt military operations. Subsequently, the charter of Special Forces was expanded to incorporate counter-insurgency operations in friendly territory. Both of these missions are essentially overt in nature, and there is a lack of experience and doctrine for the commitment of Special Forces in clandestine or covert operations. This generally applies to units of the other military services. Any major reevaluation of the mission of these units will detract from their current requirements and could jeopardize, for example, the ability of our Special Forces to assist in the organization of a resistance in Cuba in support of a conventional military operation there.

5. Intelligence

It is essential to an understanding of the problem to realize that since late 1961, all U.S. intelligence estimates have indicated that there is little likelihood of an internally sparked Cuban resistance being of any significance. According to CIA, there is little possibility of getting advanced information about any uprisings without this information also reaching officials of the Castro regime. It is also estimated that there is little likelihood that any resistance groups would be able to “hold out” in any organized form for more than a week or two. Castro personally is quite aware of the potential of a guerrilla resistance and moves ruthlessly, committing disproportionate forces to ensure that the spark does not mature.
