Betsy Palmer

Review of Files — Manuel Ray y Rivero — Volumes I–XVIII

Volume XVII — September 1964–February 1965

May 2, 1978

1. Memo dated 1 September 1964. Subject: AMTAUP-2 production. Chief of Reports comments: “It would appear that AMTAUP-2’s reporting on JURE matters has been generally reliable.”

2. Autonomous Operations — Operating Plan. Activity: AMBANG T. For the period: 1 October–31 December 1964. Total of $75,000 paid to effect the move of JURE activities from U.S. territory and as a final payment to JURE.

3. Intelligence Information Cable, dated 9 September 1964. Source: Jose Garcia Valdez, also known as “Pepe Gatillo.” Subject: Plans of JURE leader Manuel Ray Rivero to depart Miami for an undisclosed location.

Ray asked Garcia on 9 September 1964 to take him, St. George, and Mirta Borras on a trip to an unspecified destination. To depart on JURE catamaran.

4. Memo for the Record, dated 11 September 1964, from Alfonso Rodriguez.

On August 24, 1964, Rogelio Cisneros called to report his resignation from JURE. He stated Ray was incapable of directing both political and military activities. Cisneros thinks Raul Chibas will soon also resign. Cisneros said Ray was not prepared for the ill-fated May attempt into Cuba, and Cisneros thinks Ray had believed he could arrange for the CIA to take him into Cuba. “Ray is politically uninformed—politically that which he last read.” Cisneros further stated that he believed Ray had planned his entire return-to-Cuba angle with President Kennedy and the presidential elections of November 1964 in mind. According to him, Ray planned to make JURE and Ray an outstanding liberal and democratic exile group with the thought that, prior to the 1964 elections, Mr. Kennedy would have to do something about Cuba. With Kennedy’s death, according to Cisneros, all of Ray’s plans went awry. Rodriguez expressed to Cisneros that this seemed like a far-fetched possibility, and Cisneros admitted he got the idea out of thin air, but said the theory was widely held within the Directorate of JURE.

5. Memo for the Record — draft — dated 22 September 1964 — Alfonso Rodriguez.

Conclusions: “I recommend we give Ray what he asks and close the JURE books for good. If Ray is successful in Cuba he will not need our help; if he is not, our help won’t do much good.

“He is honest and at least the money will largely be spent for the purpose he wants to achieve.

“Whatever Ray may ever say, he was treated the way he asked to be treated. We have played the game in a manner beyond reproach.”
