MM 149-425

On February 1, 1968, MM 492-S advised a meeting was held on this date of the Cuban Pharmacists in Exile concerning the recent bombings attributed to this Cuban Power. He stated 29 individuals attended this meeting, including owners, managers or their representatives of various pharmacies in the Miami area. There was a great difference of opinion among these individuals concerning the sending of parcels to Cuba; because of this controversy a committee was formed consisting of the representatives of the organization of Cuban Pharmacists in Exile, including ANDRES RODRIGUEZ, owner of Andres Pharmacy, 9th Avenue and West Flagler; CARLOS ACOSTA, Highland Park Pharmacy, 9th Street and NW 7th Avenue; Santa Clara Pharmacy, 8th Street and S. W. 23rd Avenue; “ANTORITO,” representative of the Hialeah Pharmacy. This committee was instructed to prepare a manifesto for the press in the next day or so concerning a policy to be practiced by all members of this organization of Cuban Exile Pharmacists concerning the sending of parcels to Cuba.

MM 492-S believed the manifesto will state the pharmacists will continue to send parcels to Cuba; however, they will be limited exclusively to sending medicine and small socks for small children. The socks, which are not available in Cuba, can help to clothe youngsters but also help in the packing of the medicines. Further, MM 492-S believes they will strictly oppose the sending of any radio, electrical or automotive parts to Cuba. Further, news has been received from Cuba that FIDEL CASTRO’s communist government of Cuba has reportedly not permitted any packages to be delivered to the recipients in Cuba since the bombing of the Havana Post Office, January 8, 1968. Therefore, it is believed no parcels will actually be sent to Cuba by the pharmacists until they have been assured by relatives in Cuba that packages are being received by these relatives in Cuba.

On February 1, 1968, (FNU) CEPERO, co-owner of Warfield Drugstore, 27th Avenue N. W. near 7th Street, advised they had received a threatening call concerning the sending of packages to Cuba a week or so ago. No further details available.

On February 1, 1968, VIRGILIO (LNU), co-owner of Warfield Drugstore, confidentially advised MM 492-S he believes ROLANDO MERULO, member of the CNM, might possibly be involved in the threat concerning ceasing of sending parcels to Cuba. He stated OTTO MERULO, brother of ROLANDO,
