Acuity; however, show period of time involved and inclusive dates of informant reports. Summary statements must be statements of facts and not conclusions. Information from different sources must be reported separately.

(5) Above instructions do not lessen responsibility for reporting all pertinent items.

9. Administrative Data—Cover Pages

a. General

References to the following administrative items should be in cover pages accompanying reports:

(1) ADEX, file numbers and titles of other cases, category level, security flash notice (FD-165), FD-122, FD-128, and noninvestigative information.

(2) In all ADEX cases, FD-305, appropriately filled out, shall be the last page of cover pages to annual reports and the last page of cover communications to LHMs submitted in lieu of annual reports. (If a non-symbol informant page is used, FD-305 would be next to last page.)

b. Documentation of Reports

(1) Complete documentation of all reports is required. This also applies to LHMs.

(2) If information necessary for complete documentation is not in the subject's file, review other office files, as needed. If not obtainable, so state in cover pages.

(3) Do not conduct extensive investigation to locate sources of background information or to otherwise document background information.

(4) Office preparing summary report may include information originally obtained by another office but may not have necessary documentation. If the office preparing the report has copies of documents obtained by another office and the identity of the source, date of activity, date received, and receiving Agent are known, it is not necessary to obtain the file number of the original. Pertinent documentation, other than the file number, should be obtained from the auxiliary office.

(5) When a report includes references to known subversives who have associated with the subject, identify the source of characterization in cover pages without further documentation.

(6) When it is necessary to obtain a thumbnail sketch, place it in the thumbnail sketch file so it will be readily available for future use.

10. Channelizing Memoranda—Destruction Of

Channelizing memoranda may be destroyed following submission of reports. Copies of informant's statements designated for 100 classification files of informants may be destroyed when one year old. (See instructions for destruction of channelizing memoranda in MRR, Part II, Section 3D, Item 8.)

H. Dissemination of Data Developed in Security Investigations

1. Policy

Proper use of information received is foremost among the Bureau's responsibilities. Information obtained during investigations should be forwarded to other interested agencies in the executive branch unless there are compelling reasons not to do so. Delimitations Agreement and Presidential directives provide for dissemination to other agencies which have present or potential interest in information relating to espionage, sabotage, subversive activities, and related matters.

2. Bureau Requirements

All conceivable situations cannot be anticipated; however, the following instructions pertain to representative situations which occur frequently. The basic rule is that security information must be furnished promptly to interested agencies in the executive branch. The term “interested agency” must be interpreted in light of reason and common sense. Bring any unusual situations to the Bureau's attention promptly for consideration.
