(More on Hunt Castro project)

Assassination alleged to have been planned as part of a smaller invasion effort, and preparations were allegedly made in Costa Rica. Source: Szulc, supra.

May 1965: Hunt Castro scheme “aborted when Dominican Republic strife broke out” (scheme also allegedly involved McCord, Barker, and Sturgis). Source: Katzenbach testimony to Senate Select Committee.

May 1965 (or later): As the Katzenbach/Helms/LBJ meeting on the Dominican Republic ended, LBJ asked Helms if CIA had ever been involved in assassination of a leader, and Helms said “no.” Source: Katzenbach testimony to Senate Select Committee.

1967: Rosselli indicted for alien law and interstate gambling crimes (Friars Club card game rigging). Source: Government opposition to sentence reduction, supra.

March 3, 1967: First Anderson column on Rosselli. Source: We don't have, but Anderson (Andersen) referred to in Hersh New York Times story, 3/10/75.

In response to Anderson's story, RFK tells Walinsky and Edelman he shut it off. Source: Hersh story, supra.

1968: Rosselli sentenced to 5 years. Source: Government opposition.

Early 1969: Assistant Attorney General Wilson asks for Justice Department Rosselli file. Source: Keeney Watergate memorandum of conversation.

1970: Rosselli goes before grand jury under immunity regarding Giancana. Source: Government opposition, supra.

January 18, 1971: First of three Anderson columns.

January 19: Maheu (Mayhu), scheduled to go before grand jury on Las Vegas skimming, calls Attorney General John Mitchell. Source: Lenzner memo to Senator Ervin on Rosselli (and phone call).

Same day: Haldeman asks Dean to inquire into Hughes/O'Brien/Maheu ties. Source: Lenzner memo to Senator Ervin on Rosselli (and phone call).

January 27: Maheu interviewed by Wilson and Peterson on Rosselli matter. Source: Lenzner memo to Senator Ervin on Rosselli (and phone call).

February 1: Caulfield to Dean memo that Maheu was involved in covert activity for CIA in early 1960s. Source: Lenzner memo to Senator Ervin on Rosselli (and phone call).

Rosselli files motion for reduction in sentence, citing Anderson stories and presenting memorandum to court.
