They may be communists. Two foreign students and an exile from Haiti have been acting as intermediaries. Several have applied for admittance to Friendship University and other schools in the USSR because of finances or ideology. A Nicaraguan Marxist in the U.S. is acting as an intermediary for an individual at Friendship University by forwarding mail to Bolivia. Data is furnished regarding foreign students who attended school in the USSR and are now in the U.S. One of these appears to have been compromised before he left Russia and another brought his Soviet wife to the U.S.

Items are received regarding Soviets who have entered the U.S. as wives of Americans: Victoria Sandor (now a Federal employee); Ala Anderson; Ludmila Olsen, who has advised that she was approached by Soviet Intelligence when in the USSR in 1965; Irina Horwitz; Nataliya Konigsford; and Rosita Brayton, wife of an Alaskan politician and newspaperman, who has become involved with a Russian-born U.S. Army Captain. The source advised of contacts, travel and study in the USSR of Mrs. Kemp Tolley, Soviet wife of former U.S. Naval Attaché, who has admitted furnishing information regarding Americans to the Soviets in the 1940s.

Much material has been furnished regarding U.S. citizens' travel plans, including those of known subversives, their Soviet relatives and contacts, and difficulties encountered by two tourists with Soviet authorities. Data has been received regarding Soviets and former U.S. citizens who have traveled, or intend to travel, to the U.S., their contacts, activities and relatives. Several had renounced their U.S. citizenship and had been engaged in questionable activities in the past. Mary Mackler, who recently returned to the U.S., has had numerous contacts with known subversives, at least two of whom were connected with espionage in the past. Material is received on U.S. defectors now in the USSR.

Additional information received includes: plans of seven individuals to repatriate to the USSR; U.S. contacts with current and former known and suspected Soviet agents now in the USSR, including Vladimir Sossinskiy, Vladimir Pozner, Eugenia Olkhina, Leonids Rimjans, Vladimir Paramonov, and Igor Melekh, and others; activities and contacts of current and former known and suspected espionage agents now in the U.S., including Aaron Pressman, Josef Zarovich, Victor Perlo, and Helen Pozner Wilga, and others; the death of Georgi Lieb, suspected of working as black market currency operator for KGB, and continuation of his contacts by his wife; activities of Kirill Alexeev's family, suspect in the Umbel case; Soviet contacts of Gerard Piel, who has been in contact with a KGB officer; Soviet contacts and travel of D. G. Brennan who, according to Fedora, was to be approached by KGB contacts of Olga Yourkevitch, widow of a ship designer, with a KGB agent; travel to the USSR as a guest of an organization to receive her husband's archives and her illness in the USSR; contact of Major Abdel Okeil of the United Arab Republic, who was attending the FBI-National Academy, with an individual in the USSR; U.S. contacts of several defectors and Soviet repatriates.
