Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Muster of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

I have worked with this officer just 2½ months, but this has been long enough to satisfy me that he is above average in registry work. He is a very knowledgeable registry technician, but most important, he is aggressive and imaginative in devising new procedures, or revising old ones to improve the quality of registry service to this Station. He is affable in dealing with his peers and confident and persuasive in dealing with the senior management of this Station. Shortly after his arrival he took over the analysing and distribution of the cables, and prepared a Station procedure for this purpose. Immediately following that, he devised a new procedure for handling correspondence and installed it. He had reviewed the multitudinous files at this Station and has plans to trim them back to more reasonable and appropriate dimensions. In every respect, this officer has taken charge of the function he is here to perform, and has devoted a great deal of time, thought and effort to improve it. We are indeed satisfied with his performance.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 4 October 1971. Signature of employee: /s/ James S. Woods.

By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 2½ months.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 4 October 1971. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Support. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Thomas McKinley.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: Since I have just arrived at the Station I have not had an opportunity to observe this officer's performance. However, I respect the rating officer's judgment, which in this case coincides with other favorable comments I have heard about the Subject. I therefore defer to the rating officer's evaluation.

Date: 4 October 1971. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Joseph A. Distefano.
