Interest, or

(5) The public disclosure of the assassination record would reveal a security or protective procedure currently utilized, or reasonably expected to be utilized, by the Secret Service or another government agency responsible for protecting government officials, and public disclosure would be so harmful that it outweighs the public interest.

3. Because of the time-critical nature of this requirement, request that you ask IDEN for an immediate response and request that response be cabled back to headquarters via immediate precedence.

All previous recipients of this letter have had concerns or questions; following are answers to some of the most frequently asked questions:

A. Why is my name in the JFK assassination records?

We do not know exactly, but your name may have been mentioned in a cable or document, or you may have coordinated or signed a cable or document with reference to the assassination.

B. What does this mean?

It means your name will be included in the public release of all documents pertinent to the assassination. The documents have been released to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) with the name removed, and if we do not make a compelling case, the Presidential Board will release new versions of the documents with the names.

C. What exactly does “release” mean?

It means the general public will have access to the document via NARA. There are professional researchers waiting for access to the material so that they can research the various conspiracy theories. We know of some organizations that will most likely put the information in computer systems so it can be easily searched.

D. What if I don't want my name released?

You and we will have to convince the presidentially appointed review board that your situation meets the criteria provided in the grounds for postponement of public disclosure of records. To be absolutely frank, this is extremely difficult to do, and the very few cases which we have won have been based on very specific and compelling reasons.

E. What do I do next?

If release of your name is not a problem, please advise. If you do not want your name released, you need to advise us of that fact and explain in detail why release would be harmful to you and national security. We have fought against release on the principle of the cover mechanism without success to date, and we

MHFNO: 97-8380127

SENSIND:
