3. Indicate the approximate number of months the rated employee has been under your supervision. Three.

4. Comments concerning potential: From subject's performance here it appears that his potential in the records management field may be limited only by his lack of formal higher education, and that even in this respect he could overcome this deficiency with some training. His forcefulness and boundless energy would unquestionably inspire any subordinates to higher performance. He has an intense interest in records work and an ability to grasp complex problems and make quick decisions.

Section M. Future Plans.

1. Training or other developmental experience planned for the individual: None.

2. Note other factors, including personal circumstances, to be taken into account in individual's future assignments: None.

Section I. Description of Individual.

Directions: This section is provided as an aid to describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret the words literally. On the page below are a series of statements that apply in some degree to most people. To the left of each statement is a box under the heading “category.” Read each statement and insert in the box the category number which best tells how much the statement applies to the person covered by this report.

Category number: X — Have not observed this; hence can give no opinion as to how the description applies to the individual. 1. Applies to the individual to the least possible degree. 2. Applies to individual to a limited degree. 3. Applies to individual to an average degree. 4. Applies to individual to an above average degree. 5. Applies to individual to an outstanding degree.

1. Able to see another's point of view — Category 3.
2. Can make decisions on his own when needs arels (arise) — Category 4.
3. Has initiative — Category 5.
4. Is analytic in his think — Category 4.
11. Has high standards of accomplishment — Category 5.
12. Shows originality — Category 4.
13. Accepts responsibilities — Category 5.
21. Is effective in directives with associates — Category 5.
22. Implements decisions permanently on own feelings — Category 3.
23. Is thoughtful of others — Category 3.
