Decade of Assassinations  
1963–1973

Program

Friday, November 23

9:00 Late Registration. Early registrants pick up passes.

9:30 Welcome: Mr. Bernard Fensterwald, Jr., Executive Director, Committee to Investigate Assassinations; Mr. Norman Mailer, Author and Forwarder of The Fifth Estate.

10:00 Current Status of Prominent Assassination Cases:

JFK Case: Mr. Robert P. Smith, Director of Research, Committee to Investigate Assassinations.

RFK Case: Mr. Robert Hanson, Attorney, present counsel for Sirhan Sirhan.

King Case: Mr. James Lesar, Attorney, present counsel for James Earl Ray.

Wallace Case: Mr. Ronald Van Doren, Newsman, author and researcher into the background of Arthur Bremer.

Rockwell Case: Ms. Meredith Rode, Professor at Federal City College, authority in killing of George Lincoln Rockwell.

11:30 Unique Investigative Techniques:

Mr. William Turner, Moderator—former FBI agent, author of numerous books on investigative techniques.

Mr. George O'Toole—former CIA agent, free-lance writer, expert on the PSE (Psychological Stress Evaluator).

Mr. Robert Saltzman—computer engineer, lecturer on the Warren Commission Report.

Friday—Continued

12:30 Break for Lunch.

2:00 Medical and Physical Evidence:

Mr. Josiah Thompson, Moderator—Professor at Haverford College, author of Six Seconds in Dallas.

Dr. Cyril Wecht—Professor of Law and Forensic Medicine at Duquesne University; Coroner of Pittsburgh, Pa.

Ms. Sylvia Meagher—Attorney, UN official, author of Accessories After the Fact.

Mr. Roger Hanson—Attorney, counsel to Sirhan Sirhan.

Mr. Herbert MacDonnell—Professor of Criminalistics, Corning University; expert in case of Fred Hampton.

Mr. Mark Lane—Attorney, author of Rush to Judgment and Executive Action.

6:00 Break for Dinner.

8:30 Warren Commission Report: Fact or Fiction. A slide show and lecture by Mr. Robert Saltzman.

Saturday, November 24

9:30 Assassinations and the Media:

Mr. John Henry Faulk, Moderator—humorist and author of Fear on Trial.

Mr. Robert Kaiser—author of RFK Must Die.

Mr. Donald Freed—co-author of Executive Action.

Mr. Harold Weisberg—author of Frame Up.

Mr. Ted Charach—author of Second Gun.

Mr. Peter Noyes—author of Legacy of Doubt.

Mr. Fred Cook—author of numerous books and articles.

12:30 Break for Lunch.

2:00 Theories of Conspiracy:

Mr. Richard Sprague, Moderator—computer expert and author.

Dr. Richard Popkin, Professor at Washington University; author of The Second Oswald.

Col. Fletcher Prouty—former Liaison Officer between Pentagon and CIA; author of The Secret Teams.

Mr. Robert K. Brown—former Special Services Officer; expert in attempts on life of Castro.

Mr. Earl Golz—reporter for Dallas Morning News; expert on Organized Crimes.

Mr. Victor Marchetti—former CIA agent; author.

Mr. Peter Dale Scott—Professor at Berkeley; author of The War Conspiracy.

5:00 Individual Workshops with the Speakers. Question and Answer Sessions.
