1. Name of subject or title of incident: MARTI, Manuel NMN, Pvt E-1, US 52 737 780. Date submitted: 19 November 1968. DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

3. Control symbol or file number: 8240-6019; 093 36 4601.

4. Report of findings.

Girlfriend. He is completely honest, trustworthy, and dependable, and he has never had a moment of difficulty with law enforcement agencies. When subject's brother was drafted into the military service, subject was granted a deferment in order that he could assist in supporting the family since his mother was ill. When his turn came to be drafted, he did not utter a single complaint about going into the Army because he felt that he had an obligation to go. Source stated that he would stake his life on subject's loyalty to the United States. Although he had no knowledge of subject's father's political or organizational affiliations, source recalled that he occasionally brought home the socialist newspaper, name not recalled, and would side with the comments made in the paper that were critical of the United States and its policies. On these occasions subject and his brother would always argue in defense of the United States, and subject's father has never been able to influence his political thoughts and belief in any way. Subject never travelled abroad, and is not known to have any relatives residing abroad. He uses alcoholic beverages moderately, and does not gamble or use habit-forming drugs. Source knew of nothing that would reflect adversely on Marti's character, discretion, maturity, or emotional stability, and he has no organizational affiliations, except perhaps some club connected with stamp and coin collection. Source was unable to furnish any information concerning subject's listed character references Juanita Reyes and Aleanso Ortiz. Carlos Delgado, SW 33rd Street between First and Second Streets, Miami, Florida, is a friend of subject.

Rivera highly recommends that Marti be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

5. Typed name and organization of special agent: ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB).

6. Signature of special agent.
