d. Use FD-154 when it will facilitate verifying addresses. When FD-154 is not used, notation should be made on the last FD-154, FD-122, or FD-128 in the subject's file showing addresses and date verified. Each time residence and employment are verified, reevaluate the case to assure the subject is still within criteria. Make notation in the file to this effect.

e. If the residence or business address, or both, have changed, submit FD-122 to the Bureau showing only changes to be made. Also submit FD-366 to the Bureau for dissemination to Secret Service. Advise Secret Service locally by FD-366.

f. Handle verifying addresses of security index subjects by reopening and assigning cases for verification and closing administratively when accomplished. In priority I and II cases, conduct verification of residence and employment when preparing reports and include it therein. In priority III cases, record verification of residence and employment on FD-154 and place it in the case file.

8. Changes, additions, and deletions of data on security index cards

a. Submit to the Bureau by FD-122 any changes, additions, or deletions involving name, aliases, citizenship, organizational affiliation or nationalistic tendencies, priority designation, date or place of birth, key facility geographical reference number, abbreviation of agency having security responsibility, residence or business address. Exception: Change office of origin by FD-123.

b. Temporary handwritten notations may be made on existing cards pending receipt of corrected cards from the Bureau.

c. Set out only items being changed, added, or deleted. If being deleted, specify “Delete.”

d. Upon receipt from the Bureau of a corrected card with a copy of FD-122, take the following action:

(1) Check accuracy of data on cards.

(2) Transfer separate cards with descriptive data and photograph from the back of old geographical section cards to corrected cards, and file in the geographical section. Exception: For special or unavailable section subjects, see instructions for these sections.

(3) File third card in alphabetical section.

(4) Destroy old cards.

9. Movement of subjects between offices

a. Subjects of security index cards

(1) Assign immediately requests from other offices to verify addresses of subjects and transmit results within two weeks.

(2) New office furnish old office information concerning key facility employment of subject so that geographical reference number, agency having security responsibility, and interested agencies can be included on FD-128 submitted by old office of origin.

(3) Office of origin, upon verification of address, immediately submit FD-128 transferring office of origin.

(4) Submit original and one copy of FD-128 to the Bureau. Submit two copies to the office covering the new address, enclosing copies of all previous reports, other pertinent serials, photograph if available, and security index cards. Show full title and priority designation.

(5) Where flash notice has been placed with Identification Division, note on FD-128 and designate an extra copy of FD-128 for the Bureau for attention of Identification Division.

(6) Old office of origin will submit current report in priority I and II cases and succinct LHM in priority III cases. In the latter instance, the yellow file copy of LHM in the old office of origin must include notations indicating the exact location of all original information set forth in LHM.

Do not delay submission of FD-128 solely for preparation of report or LHM, but note on FD-128 that appropriate communication is being prepared. Old office of origin is responsible for furnishing Secret Service locally with the subject's new residence and business address. The case will remain pending in both old and new offices until the report or LHM is submitted by the old office. New office of origin is responsible for following the matter until completed.
