NK 157-2011

On June 27, 1974, Mr. Schuyler Davenport Ferris, 2903 Brook Drive, Falls Church, Virginia, was interviewed by Special Agents of the FBI. He stated he continues his employment with the District of Columbia Government, where he checks on and takes remedial action concerning sludge buildup where sewage pipes enter the Potomac and Anacostia Rivers in the Washington, D.C. area. Ferris related anyone claiming to be an engineer or to acting on behalf of an engineer may obtain free copies of diagrams of water and sewer systems of the Washington, D.C. area by contacting the third floor of the District Building, 12th and Pennsylvania Avenues, Washington, D.C. Ferris denied having furnished any such documents to anyone and emphasized that anyone could obtain these diagrams. Ferris was asked if he had knowledge of any plans to disrupt water or sewer systems in any major cities, and he denied knowing of any such plans. On June 30, 1974, Ferris telephonically contacted the FBI and advised Special Agents that he desired to provide additional information in connection with his interview as conducted on June 27, 1974. He stated that the defense plans for the City of Chicago, Illinois, are available on request from that City Government and that they show the water and sewer systems. Ferris stated he has maps of Washington, D.C., water and sewer systems which he uses in his work for the District of Columbia, but has never furnished the same to any individual or group, nor has he ever been requested to obtain this information.

Ferris was asked if he had recently had any personal contact with persons from out of town who share his same political beliefs. Ferris then volunteered he had seen Frank Drager earlier in June 1974. After Drager telephoned him at his home, Drager requested and obtained from Ferris a list of names and addresses of persons described by Ferris as “patriots.” He would not elaborate further on this but described Drager as a worthless “bragger and fink,” who was recently arrested in Illinois and was thereafter released on personal recognizance, whereas Roy Frankhouser, described by Ferris as another patriot, had to post $100,000.00 bond for his release from jail. Ferris stated that Drager made no reference to any proposed destruction of any city on or about July 4, 1974, and Ferris denied having any such discussion with Drager or anyone else. Ferris stated he does not know if Drager would participate in any such scheme and felt certain that “no right wing patriot” would participate in any such act of violence.

On July 2, 1974, Mr. James C. Robertson, Director, Engineering and Construction Administration, Department of Environmental Services, District of Columbia Government, Room 309, Prudential Building, 415 12th Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C., was interviewed and it
