The prison movement—not to be confused with the positive prison “recidivism” movement—but the prison movement, aimed at the protection and liberation of political prisoners and the convict class in general, and also politically motivated to prove to American fascism-corporatism that the concentration camp technique will not restrain our movement, was, from the outset, fashioned and forwarded by the Black Panther Party. The several characteristics of the movement were received by the Supreme Servant, Huey Newton; the Chairman, Bobby Seale; and Chief of Staff, David Hilliard. These included the busing programs designed to combat some of the isolationist aspects built into prison camp life. Relatives, friends, and legal aides are transported to the various prisons free of charge; in special cases, attorneys were and are being employed to help prisoners with problems that can still be addressed in legal forms of struggle. Revolutionary art and literature are being provided prisoners to further develop their potential contribution to the eager movement upon release. Then, of course, some of the necessities that can be purchased with money are being funneled into the prisons and prisoners. Mass attention is being focused upon the rationale of the concentration camp technique.

When we three Soledad prisoners, Fleeta, John, and myself, were singled out for persecution in the death of a pig in the wing that we were housed in January of 1970, it was the Black Panther Party that provided the first $10,000 that went toward our legal defense; the Black Panther Party that did most of the heavy political work and organizing around the case; the Black Panther Party that buried our dead after the trial of combat in Marin—August 7th. They gathered up the bodies, cleaned them, explained them, and never thought to deny or condemn their people’s intense longing to be free. But in the true Marxist-Leninist interpretation of people’s guerrilla warfare, supported it on the principle that people fight “...in certain periods of acute economic and political crisis..., and because we know that ‘...it is not guerrilla actions which disorganize the movement, but the weakness of a party which is incapable of taking such actions under its control.’” (V. I. Lenin) I have been a member of the Black Panther Party since the Supreme Servant appointed me, when he himself was still in prison. I hold my membership and obligation to serve the people with all the sincerity of which I am cavalier to duty, but a total depejoint, legal and
