Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance. Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is a superior officer in every important respect. He is intelligent, imaginative, resourceful and has balanced judgment. He understands administrative procedures and knows how to make men work. As a supervisor, he is firm and fair, and achieves the respect of his subordinates. As a subordinate, he is unfailingly loyal and helpful. He has a good overall grasp of the intelligence business and maintains a healthy attitude of common sense with respect to operations. He is especially useful in Japan, because of his great knowledge of and long experience with Japanese affairs, personalities and psychology, yet I consider he would be a superior officer and supervisor in any other context. His personal character is of the best.

Notice of Personnel Decision. June 1, 1961. Mail Room. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this report.

Date. Signature of Employee.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 2.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: 18. Report was prepared at headquarters.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (specify).

Date. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: John E. Baker.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 23 May 1961. Official title of reviewing official: CFE. Typed or printed name and signature: Paul F. Stockton.
