124-10271-10304

United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.

From: S. J. Papich

Subject: Union for Revolution

Date: February 13, 1970

CIA furnished the following to the Liaison Agent on 2/10/70.

CIA has established a U.S.-based notional organization representing itself as being communist-oriented and having the following mailing addresses: P.O. Box 444, Boston, Massachusetts, 02102, and P.O. Box 8272, General Post Office, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19101. The organization's activity in the U.S. will be restricted to production of propaganda in the form of pamphlets, etc., which material will be mailed to various Left Wing groups in foreign countries. The primary objective of this operation is to develop penetrations and/or sources in revolutionary Arab groups in the Middle East. The organization is completely notional in character in that there will be no offices in the U.S. (only p.o. boxes) and even the officials will bear fictitious names. CIA hopes that once the propaganda begins circulating, Arab groups will become interested and will endeavor to establish contact with “officials” of the organization. If this develops, CIA will then proceed to use its own personnel under “suitable” cover to make the contact. From then on CIA will maneuver to penetrate the target group.

In response to the Liaison Agent's request, CIA will furnish us samples of propaganda. The Agent also asked that we be given copies of communications sent to the mailing addresses by any organizations or individuals. We should have such data so that we can take the necessary investigative action in the event any persons or organizations in the U.S. take an interest in the captioned group. We, of course, will also be interested in international ramifications which could have a bearing on the activities of Left Wing activity in this country. The Agent also asked for the names of the officials which will be related to the Union for Revolution.

At this stage there does not appear to be any conditions or developments which would have an adverse bearing on our operations or jurisdiction, providing that CIA keeps us adequately informed. CIA asks that it be apprised of any information coming to our attention concerning the organization. CIA further requests that its interest not be revealed outside of the Bureau and that this information be handled on a need-to-know basis.

SJP: wmk
