9. Description of duties since last efficiency report (list most recent first; describe consistently but fully): In complete charge of administering investigative work of station and supervising and administering clerical, stenographic, and investigative B-channel, handling confidential sources of information, and liaison with stations, Army, and Navy personnel.

9. If courses of instruction were completed during period of this report, list title, location of school, length of course, and date completed: None.

4. Proficiency in Portuguese language: Spanish — reading: X; 听、说、读、写: X; understanding: X.

9. My preference for next duty after termination of current assignment is (if in U.S., state): Chief of Station, Caracas, Venezuela.

8. Have there been any changes in personal status since original employment or last report, whichever is later? Marital status: Yes; No. Number of dependents: Yes; No. Emergency addressee: Yes; No. Legal address: Yes; No.

If the answer to any of the above is yes, attach a separate detailed report in duplicate hereto. In the case of marriage, the report will include names, addresses, and citizenship of spouse, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brothers-in-law, and sisters-in-law.

Duck D. Oakley.

25 March 1948. Date.

7. Period covered by this report: Date from: 1 June 47. Date to: 16 Apr 48.

Occasion for report: Annual. Reassignment of reporting officer. Proposed reassignment of employee reported on. Covering initial 90 days of employment.

8. Is this employee qualified to perform all present duties? Is employee better qualified for other duties? If so, what duty or duties? Do you concur in employee’s description of duties under Section II? Has employee striven for professional improvement? Do you recommend employee for promotion? If no, explain in Section II.

9. For each factor observed, check the appropriate box to indicate how the employee compares with all others of the same classification whose professional abilities are known to you personally. Do not limit this comparison to two others now under your supervision. Do not hesitate to mark “Not Observed” on any quality when appropriate.

10. Indicate your attitude toward having this employee under your command or supervision. Would you definitely prefer not to have him? Be satisfied.
