MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:

An intercepted Cuban military message of 5 December indicated that the Cuban armed forces are giving instruction in defense against chemical warfare. An unidentified military unit in (Las Villas) Province reported the selection of two officers and four sergeants to attend a “chemical defense course.” (USN-856, 2X/SL/CUM/T407-63, 6 December, SABRE)

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS:

Moscow has given rather standard treatment to the OAS meeting which heard the Venezuelan Government charge Castro with illegal arms shipments. On 4 December, TASS correspondent Leonid Shokin reported that “the weavers of plots against revolutionary Cuba are still at it...accusing it of delivery of arms to Venezuela for ‘subversive purposes’.” Shokin found “certain US circles are the most interested in this, as is evident from the fact that representatives of the US State Department declared at the meeting that the United States would ‘firmly support’ additional economic and diplomatic sanctions by the OAS against Cuba.” He thought it unexceptional that “these provocative attempts were not supported by the largest Latin American countries” and warned that “such attempts to interfere in Cuban internal affairs are fraught with extremely harmful consequences for the cause of peace.” (CIA/FBIS, Moscow, 4 December, UNCLASSIFIED)

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION:

Several weeks ago there were CAS reports that the storm-tossed peasants of Oriente looked on Hurricane Flora as the vengeance of God—a God, who in the tradition of the Old Testament’s stern and sometimes vengeful Jehovah, had loosed his fury on a people first seduced and now impressed by an alien regime. Now a report from the US Naval Base at Guantánamo Bay provides yet another insight into the frame of mind of the Cuban populace. While the incidents pictured in this report do not necessarily reflect anything other than a combination of religious fervor and superstition, they are significant to the extent that they reflect the unrest—and, perhaps a growing feeling of hopelessness and despair—current among the Cubans.

In any case, there are prevalent locally tales of St. Barbara’s appearing several times to prophesy a change in the regime or admonish errant youths to mend their ways. Barbara, virgin daughter of the heathen Diosorus (Dioscorus), was beheaded by her father near Heliopolis in 235 A.D. for embracing Christianity. A fearful thunderclap is alleged to have greeted her execution. Symbolized by a windmill-like tower with three windows, the type of fortress in which her father was wont to confine her while he was absent from home, Barbara is the patroness of artillerymen and miners.
