OSI Comment: The CHARLES PARKER mentioned above is believed to be the same individual as CHARLES LINCOLN PARKER, who resigned a commission in the U.S. Naval Reserve because of admitted pro-Russian sympathies. BOYKO'S continual agitation, past association with Communists, and apparent association with PARKER, certainly places both individuals in a category which is, at least, highly questionable.

4. Further inquiry concerning ESTHER M. ENGELERSKI revealed she recently divorced WILFORD HAVOY and reportedly returned to the Homer, Alaska area.

OSI Comment: Liaison has been effected with another government agency in the Ninochik area in an effort to determine the present whereabouts of SUBJECT.

5. The Alaskan Labor Defender, a monthly news publication, has recently reappeared in the Fairbanks area with its first publication dated May 1956. Previous editions of this newspaper appeared in the Fairbanks area in early 1955, but it was discontinued after publication of two editions due to the refusal of a local printing firm to print subsequent copies. Among editorials appearing in the Alaskan Labor Defender are several articles condensed from the "MILITANT," a publication of the Socialist Workers Party, which is cited by the U.S. Attorney General as subversive. One article quoted a speech made by a (Mr.) DU BOIS at a rally held at Carnegie Hall in New York on 29 March 1956 which relates, in referring to the Montgomery, Alabama bus protest, "* * * Led by clear thinking, they (the Negro) have discovered that the race problem was at bottom an economic problem. Carefully they have discovered Karl Marx." * * * (In referring to KARL MARX, they were probably referring to KARL MARX, co-author of the Communist Manifesto.)

Quoted below are portions of another article under the caption "It's Time to Think" written by ERNEST GRIFFIN, Independent Candidate from Fairbanks, Alaska, for the House of Representatives:

"* * * * Today there seems to be little or no attention paid to the examples made by the founders of this new nation, the Constitution, the Declaration of Independence, or the Negro people as citizens of these United States." * * * * (In reference to the Constitution of the United States) * * * "Although this Constitution ranks above every other written Constitution for excellence of its scheme, its simplicity, the precision of its language, and its judicious mixture of definiteness in principle, it has become a neglected Constitution." * * *
