HR 20-55

Personnel

c. Responsibilities and Authorities

(1) The Deputy Director for Operations is authorized to

(a) formulate procedures for the engagement and management of agents and to issue operating directives and special instructions, as necessary, to control the use of agents by headquarters and field units;

(b) execute, amend, renew, and terminate Formal Agreements and Memorandums of Oral Commitment with agents; and to review Formal Agreements and Memorandums of Oral Commitment executed in the field;

(c) suspend procedures implied in this regulation upon his personal determination that operational and security aspects of an agent's management are so sensitive as to require processing through special channels.

(2) The Director of Personnel is authorized to

(a) approve, after coordinating with affected Agency components, the commitment to an agent that he will receive special benefits;

(b) approve the commitment to an agent that he will be offered appointed status at the conclusion of his service, when such commitment has been recommended by the Deputy Director for Operations or his designee, with the concurrence of the Director of Security;

(c) execute, amend, renew, and terminate Formal Agreements and Memorandums of Oral Commitment when requested to do so by the appropriate Operations Directorate approving officer. This authority may also be exercised by the Deputy Director of Personnel and the Special Contracting Officer, Office of Personnel.

(3) All Formal Agreements and Memorandums of Oral Commitment written under the authority of this paragraph will be subject to legal review by the General Counsel under such conditions as he may prescribe.

55. Procurement Contracts for the Services of Individuals

a. Policy. Procurement contracts whose basic purpose is to obtain the services of one or more individuals, negotiated with profit and nonprofit institutions, associations, partnerships, proprietorships, and other organizations, are permitted only when the particular services sought cannot be obtained in any other practicable way.

b. Procedures

(1) Except as provided in subparagraph b(3) below, all proposals for such procurement contracts and their renewal must be justified in writing by the component seeking the services and be submitted to the Director of Personnel for his approval before commitments are made or negotiations started. These proposals will describe in some detail the services to be rendered, the qualifications required, the proposed duration of the task, and the reason or reasons why a procurement contract is judged to be the best method of acquiring the needed services.

(2) The Direct personel s examine th sonnel. If t rector of P Ofice of L tract requ are written HR 45-2.

(3) The approv

(a) for pro- dential reports, task pe riod (p time (t

(b) for pro- prier testing, follow- tion—re d above.

Restrictions

(1) Operating C through the erly briefed Agency info Operating ( the relation affects the curity clear

(2) Technical procurement employer-e organization istrative au the Agency cies, private

56-59. Reserved.

Revised: 23 February 1973 (733)

Revised: 23 Febru
