62-116395

May 22, 1975

United States Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities

Re: Interview of Retired Special Agent (SA) by Senator Walter F. Mondale and staff members of the Senate Select Committee (SSC)

Set out below is information voluntarily furnished to the FBI by retired SA John P. Devlin following his voluntary appearance before Senator Mondale and staff members of the Senate Select Committee on May 19, 1975. Devlin's appearance followed an interview of him by Senate Select Committee staff member Michael T. Epstein on April 25, 1975. A memorandum reporting the results of the April 25, 1975, interview was forwarded to the Attorney General as an enclosure to my letter to the Attorney General dated May 8, 1975, entitled "United States Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities."

On May 19, 1975, Devlin was interviewed by Senator Mondale; SSC Chief Counsel Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr.; Assistant Minority Counsel Charles Kirbow; and Epstein. The interview was conducted in a building across the street from the Dirksen Building in Washington, D.C., and lasted from approximately 2:00 p.m. to 3:20 p.m. Devlin was not subpoenaed to appear but appeared voluntarily. He was placed under oath by Senator Mondale.

At the outset of the interview Devlin was advised of his rights; that he could be represented by counsel and that if he had none, but desired counsel, the Committee staff would attempt to provide one for him. At the conclusion of the interview he was thanked but given no indication as to whether he would be called to testify before the SSC.

1 - 67-220521 (Personnel File for SA John P. Devlin)

WOC:cmc

(9)

See note page 4

Associate Director. Deputy Associate Director, Administration. Deputy Associate Director, Investigations. Assistant Director. Administration. Computer Systems. External Affairs. Files and Communications. General Investigations. Identification. Inspection. Intelligence. Laboratory. Planning and Evaluation. Special Investigations. Training. Legal Counsel. Telephone Room. Director Secretary. Mail Room. Teletype Unit.

Enclosure.
