The Station feels that in directing its efforts in both the above directions, it will have at least a good starting point when operations in the Dominican Republic begin. Naturally, per previous correspondence, all of these operations would be worked from outside the Dominican Republic utilising third-country methods. The Station does not believe that any of the prospective assets, other than SKEDADDLE, should become aware of our interest in them under the present circumstances. It is felt that were we to carry operational development of these assets any further at this time that we would run the risk of having them go cold and possibly sour as we could not actually put them to work under present conditions. We feel that this is the best method of keeping our assets on ice.

A current listing of assets available as of the present date is as follows:

SKEDADDLE — Situation is the same as that noted in reference. He is still considered a very good choice as a future P/A for these operations. He continues to maintain contact with Dominicans located in Puerto Rico and to keep himself aware of their activities. Most of the persons listed below are contacted through SKEDADDLE.

Tobias ECHDLS — Subject is still available throughout place of employment. Subject has become less active in reserve activities to date. Contact with him is maintained through SKEDADDLE.

SKEET is a commercial outfit and is now writing painting occasional contact with it.

NANTA remains in his present position; however, he is considered better situated to assist the Station in money conversions, etc., and is no longer considered necessary to this objective.

Leslie HIGHLEY is a contact of Station personnel. He is in the advertising business and has previously handled the account for the publicity of the Dominican Republic Fair in Puerto Rico. He is now planning to open an office in the Dominican Republic. Presently, he is planning a campaign to interest Puerto Rican tourists in travel to the Dominican Republic. His contacts are strictly business, and he has let the Dominican Republic Government know that he will not involve himself in any of their political machinations. They are apparently satisfied with this arrangement. Subject has indicated a willingness to report anything of interest that comes to his attention in his dealings with and in the Dominican Republic. The Station believes that his greatest potential is that of a spotter of potential agent material in the Dominican Republic. He is carried as current with that in mind.

The active anti-Trujillo organisation here is made up of Dominican exiles for the most part. Contact with that organisation is mainly made through SKEDADDLE. The possibility of potential agent material among
