Garrison Orders Arrest of ‘Plot’ Probe Witness

NEW ORLEANS, La. (AP)—Dist. Atty. Jim Garrison’s office today ordered the arrest of Gordon Novel, former owner of a French Quarter bar, as a material witness in the investigation of President John F. Kennedy’s assassination.

Novel, 29, was subpoenaed to appear before the Orleans Parish grand jury yesterday in connection with Garrison’s probe. He did not appear and could not be found here.

Novel later turned up in Columbus, Ohio. He left there today saying he was going to Chicago.

The arrest order for Novel followed the grand jury’s indictment yesterday of Clay L. Shaw, retired business executive, on a charge of “willfully and unlawfully conspiring” to murder Kennedy.

In an affidavit, the district attorney’s office alleged that Novel fled New Orleans while under subpoena. It said he severed his business ties and stated publicly that he had no intention of returning.

African American male, in his 50s, who has lived in New Orleans for most of his life, has been charged with several crimes related to the 1989 Turbo-Geneiger案, including conspiracy, aid to a terrorist, and making false statements, officials said.

In Columbus, Novel said he did not want to return to New Orleans, without a guarantee of immunity from “harassment.”

He was quoted as describing the Garrison investigation as “a fraud” and as saying he first helped the district attorney but that “Garrison double-crossed me.”

“What my friend Mr. Garrison is conducting is not a normal, police state inquisition,” United Press International quoted Novel as saying.

When Novel left Columbus this morning, he left a note behind for reporters. It said: “Gentlemen, due to pressure from New Orleans I had to leave. I will prove my statement in Chicago in due course.”

Novel appeared before the grand jury March 16. Earlier he told newsmen he thought Garrison wanted to question him about activities “during 1962 which are related to Mr. Sergio Arcacha Smith.”

Arcacha, now living in Dallas, Tex., said he never heard of Novel. Arcacha headed an anti-Castro group here in 1961.

Big Bond Recommended

In its affidavit, filed with Criminal District Court, the district attorney’s office said Novel should be placed under sizable bond—or the grand jury will “be deprived of a most important and material witness.”

The arrest order was signed by Criminal Dist. Court Judge Matthew S. Braniff.

Novel owned the Jamaican Inn Bar, a lounge on North Rampart Street on the fringe of the French Quarter. He sold the property Sunday.

In another development today, Criminal Dist. Court Judge Edward A. Haggerty Jr. was named to preside at the murder conspiracy trial of Shaw, 54, who will respond to the Easter weekend on the Mississippi Gulf Coast with Garrison’s approval.

Garrison has said he will prove that the Kennedy assassination resulted from a New Orleans-based conspiracy. He commenced his investigation last October.

Shaw, who retired in October 1965 as managing director of the International Trade Mart here, has been free on $10,000 bond since his arrest March 1.

Shaw was discharged from Southern Baptist Hospital here last night after being treated for fatigue and an old back injury. He entered the hospital Saturday.

Garrison had said earlier he would bypass the grand jury and file a bill of information before bringing Shaw to trial.

Garrison already had won a ruling from a three-judge state court panel that sufficient evidence was presented at a preliminary hearing to warrant holding Shaw for trial.

Russo Appears

Shaw was charged yesterday in a grand jury true bill with “willfully and unlawfully conspiring with David W. Ferrie, Lee Harvey Oswald and unnamed others to murder John F. Kennedy.”

Shaw’s attorney said last night his client would plead not guilty to the indictment and would request a bill of particulars in the case; UPI reported Shaw is to be arraigned next week.

Perry Raymond Russo, 25, star witness for Garrison in last week’s emotional court hearing, made a surprise appearance before the grand jury before the announcement of the indictment.

Russo told the three-judge court last week he heard Shaw, Ferrie and Oswald plotting in mid-September 1963 to kill Kennedy. Shaw is the only one of the conspirators named in the indictment who is still living.
