Fitness Report. Employee serial number.

Section A. Name: Fox. Middle: Jerome. Date of birth: 6 September 1928. Grade: GS 12. Official position title: Operations Officer. O.P. 1 ST/BR of assignment: FEI/PM/I. Current station.

B. Check in type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Initial; XIX Reassignment Supervisor; Career-Provisional; Special (Specialty).

C. Date report left in O.S. U.S. reporting period: 1 January–7 April 1967.

Section D. Performance Evaluation.

W. Tech: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Descriptive action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Achievement: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized by excellence.

P. Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desirable results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to contributions of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the more important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letters which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider C.U.L. effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to accomplish, indicating number of assignments supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Serves as Headquarters Desk case officer for certain Djakarta (Jakarta) Station operational activities as assigned to him. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Serves as primary referent on the Index Room Desk for operations involving communist and other left-wing matters. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Performs operational research functions on Indonesian communist and left-wing activities. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4: Prepares operational correspondence to the field in connection with his assigned responsibilities. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 5: A. 19 June 1967.

Specific Duty No. 6: A. 19 June 1967.

Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperation with co-workers, pertinent personal traits or habits,
