Memorandum for Mr. R. D. Cotter

Re: Nationality Group Coverage

105-97459-350

The Soviets seek to gain additional influence, and our efforts to develop informants in these establishments should continue. We have a very good symboled informant in Washington, D.C., who continues to furnish information regarding the Royal Government of Yemen. If a coalition government between the Royal Government and the Yemen Republic Government occurs, this informant may again be employed in the Yemen Arab Republic Embassy. WFO has a symboled informant who is available to furnish information concerning personnel of the Embassy of the Syria Arab Republic. New York has a PSI who, although not associated with the Syrian diplomatic establishment, is in a position to obtain information regarding activities of Syrian diplomatic personnel there.

The UAR under President Nasser is still a volatile hot spot. Nasser continues to court both the Soviets and the Western World, and at any time a full-scale war between the UAR and Israel could erupt, so we should continue our efforts here. We have one symboled informant who furnishes information concerning personnel of the Embassy of UAR, but this informant is not employed there. We had a symboled informant at the UAR Delegation to the United Nations, but she was recently terminated when she left her employment to get married.

WFO has a good symboled informant at the Embassy of Lebanon who is employed as a secretary there. A former symboled informant who is an employee of the Lebanese Delegation to the United Nations is available to furnish coverage at the Lebanese diplomatic establishments in New York City. No further efforts to develop sources are warranted.

Recommendations:

(1) That further efforts to develop sources at Jordanian, Lebanese, and Saudi Arabian diplomatic establishments in the United States are not warranted and should be discontinued. Attached is a letter to WFO and New York advising these offices to discontinue their efforts in this regard.

(2) That our efforts to develop sources at the diplomatic establishments of Iran, Iraq, Syria, UAR, and Yemen should continue.
