52. CIA Use of Bureau Information in a U.S. Intelligence Board Document

On March 30, 1961, the Liaison Agent contacted Allen Dulles concerning CIA's failure to obtain Bureau clearance for use of our information in a U.S. Intelligence Board document. No known damage had been done, but the Agent stressed the sensitivity of the Bureau information. Dulles requested one of his subordinates to establish a procedure to prevent a recurrence of such errors. (Memorandum L'Allier to Belmont, March 30, 1961)

53. “Spy in the U.S.” Book Authored by Pawel Monat

In July 1961, our Chicago Office received galley proofs of the book “Spy in the U.S.,” written by Pawel Monat. A review of these proofs disclosed several references which portrayed our counterespionage capabilities in an unfavorable light. Since CIA was responsible for Monat and for any writing which he might perform, the matter was discussed with CIA. It turned out that CIA had not been following the preparation of the book. We were told that steps would be taken to protect Bureau interest. The publishers had indicated to CIA that they would cooperate on changes. Although some changes were made, the book still came out with some information which was not entirely favorable to the Bureau. (Pawel Monat, Bureau file 105-40510)

54. Conflict with Legal Attaché, Mexico City, 1961

On October 6, 1961, our Legal Attaché, Mexico City, received information indicating that the Czech Embassy in that city was planning to protest harassment of its personnel by U.S. Intelligence. The Legal Attaché was told by the local CIA office that the Agency was not involved. On October 12, 1961, the same CIA officer changed his position and admitted that CIA had been involved to a certain extent. The Liaison Agent objected to these tactics. It was important to him to know the facts so he could be guided accordingly. (Memorandum L'Allier to Sullivan, October 18, 1961, “Czechoslovakian Diplomatic Activities - Mexico”)

55. CIA Technical Surveillance Activity in the United States - 1961

When he defected in December 1961, furnished information concerning alleged penetration of American intelligence. Inquiries and review conducted by CIA within the Agency suggested that a CIA intelligence officer, was a logical suspect. We conferred with CIA and on February 9, 1962, we advised the Agency that we would take over the investigation.
