Frank Church, Idaho, Chairman  
John G. Tower, Texas, Vice Chairman

Philip A. Hart, Mich.  
Walter F. Mondale, Minn.  
Walter D. Huddleston, Ky.  
Robert Morgan, N.C.  
Gary Hart, Colo.

Howard H. Baker, Jr., Tenn.  
Barry Goldwater, Ariz.  
Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., Md.  
Richard S. Schweiker, Pa.

William G. Miller, Staff Director  
Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel  
Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel

United States Senate

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities  
(Pursuant to S. Res. 21, 94th Congress)

Washington, D.C. 20510

September 16, 1975

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esq.  
Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination  
Office of the Deputy Attorney General  
U.S. Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mike:

The following two documents, which relate to the Martin Luther King, Jr. matter, are the subject of a pending Committee request for documents:

A. Airtel dated 2/12/62 from SAC, New York, to Director, FBI, subject “Dr. Martin Luther King (KIng), Jr., SM-C (00: Atlanta)”; and

B. Airtel dated 8/15/66 from SAC, New York, to Director, FBI, subject “Communist Party, USA, Counterintelligence Program, Internal Security-C (Stanley David Levison).”

These two documents had been previously provided to the Committee in heavily or almost completely excised form. Virtually the entire contents of Item A (a 3-page airtel) were excised because “it could result in identification of an FBI informant,” and more than 12 pages of Item B (a 29-page airtel) were excised because such portions contained information which “tends to identify highly sensitive sources of continuing value.” A third document which is needed by the Committee, and which would presumably also be provided by the Bureau only in excised form, is a New York field office letter to the Bureau dated 6/21/62 as cited in the last paragraph of page 9 of the 10/11/62 memorandum from the SAC, Atlanta, to the Director, FBI, subject “Communist Infiltration of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, IS-C (00: Atlanta).”

Enclosure
