HHB 230-1

Plans, Programs, and Projects

Chief, Cover and Commercial Staff; and such other Agency components whose functional responsibilities are involved. The memorandum should state the project's operational objectives, the reason why it is believed that an instrumentality is the most advantageous means for attaining the objective, the type of instrumentality to be used, funds approved for the current year, funds programmed for the ensuing fiscal year, and, in the case of a revised plan, a statement as to the need for the revision and funds expended for the past two years.

4. Standard Provisions and Requirements of Administrative Plans

Standard provisions and requirements of administrative plans are listed below. A single reference may be made in each administrative plan that the provisions of HHB 230-1 are applicable. Substitute or additional provisions may be included in each plan to the extent necessary wherever the standard provisions and requirements are not applicable.

a. Budgeting

(1) Purpose

The approved annual operating budget for a project provides the means to integrate it into the planning and budgeting system of the Agency. The process for the annual renewal of a project permits the appropriate Deputy Director, through his review, evaluation, and formal approval of the project and its operating budget, to authorize the continuation of the activity, under which funds may be advanced, controlled, expended, and accounted for, within the terms of the approved operating budget of the project. The approved operating budget of the project provides a basis for an objective evaluation of the real (total) cost of the activity, to include:

(a) Funds Available

Clear identification of funds either available or presumed to be available to the project (or instrumentality) from all sources during the period of the proposed operating budget, which will include:

(1) Any prior-year funds (beginning cash balance, including liquid assets);

(2) Other U.S. Government (non-CIA) funds;

(3) Other CIA funds;

(4) All other income;

(5) The new funds requirement of the project (from current appropriation).

Revised: 29 October 1974.
