To develop the target and was able to provide significant OB at the same time. Neither this nor the other efforts to penetrate the Cuban military at a high level, however, had met with full success by the end of the reporting period.

(b) The Cuban lawyer recruited in May 1962 (see paragraph 2a above) developed a second target in September, a former member of the Cuban General Staff now awaiting reassignment. The agent was instructed to recruit and train this military officer in S/W. At the end of the reporting period it was not possible to determine the success of this potentially excellent operational development.

(c) Included in this discussion is the partially successful recruitment of a Cuban Army engineer who is stationed in Santiago. The agent cited in (2b above) has been in contact with this target, a captain, since July 1962, but has not succeeded in completing the full recruitment. He has obtained OB from the captain, but we feel the operation will not have reached its full potential until the captain has been trained in S/W and is reporting directly to us.

(d) Since mid-August the Agency has been pursuing a lead to the G-3 of the Cuban Army. The basis of this pursuit was fitted together from innumerable reports, and finally centered, in early October, on a plan to try to effect the recruitment using a letter from a former Army and prison comrade. By the cutoff date, the developmental activity had reached the point where the only remaining matter was to deliver the letter into the hands of the officer.

3. Economic. The Agency has striven to identify key figures in the Cuban economy and to develop access to them as rapidly as possible, wherever the opportunity has arisen. Oil, nickel, and sugar industries have been assigned to us as having the highest priority.

(a) Petroleum: TFW recruited and sent to Cuba in January a young U.S.-trained engineer. In May he reported he had obtained a position in the Institute of Petroleum. Too lowly himself to be of major value, we have steadily guided him in an enterprise aimed at recruitment of the chief of the petroleum industry. The families of the two men had been close friends. The effort involves many imponderables and must be carried out via S/W. Still, the major aim is deemed worthy of the investment. Meanwhile the agent has been able to provide intelligence of increasing value.
