DFN-263-75

Chief, Domestic Collection Division

25 June 1975

CTH: Operations Services Group/OSS (SStetson)

Chief, Denver Field Office

Headquarters Inquiry re Private Intelligence Organization, Denver, Colorado

RE: Stetson/Walker telecon, 25 June 1975

1. As per referenced telecon, following your initial inquiry on 20 June 1975, we searched our memories for any clue to an organization in the Denver area such as the one described in the German newspaper article. It is quite likely that an organization staffed with ex-government types and performing such things as telephone taps for wealthy private citizens would have come to our attention through one of our many contacts in the area. We could think of none that matched your description, and we let the matter drop.

2. On 24 June, we received a phone call from a local agent of the FBI who had received some information that you had passed on to us and was trying to run it down. We again denied any knowledge of such an organization. However, as the matter was rehashed among the DFO staff, we recalled that a few months ago, shortly after the CIA exposé first appeared in the New York Times, we received in the mail a brochure from the Wackenhut (Wackenbut) Corporation, 262 Havana, Denver, Colorado. This organization was described as a private investigative service with capabilities beyond that of the average private investigator, in that they are staffed with men and women formerly employed by the FBI, Secret Service, and DIA. We also believe that under the list of services they offered was some type of electronic surveillance. Since this type of organization is of no interest to us, we discarded the brochure and forgot about it until your inquiry prompted us to recall it.

3. We passed the above information on to the local Bureau office, stressing that this was indeed a long shot, that our memory of the contents of the brochure is vague at best, that we have no reason to believe that the Wackenhut (Wackenbut) Corporation is anything other than what it advertises itself to be, and that this is our best recollection, but even at that we are not absolutely sure it was the Wackenhut (Wackenbut) Corporation that was mentioned in the brochure.

4. With this memorandum, we merely wish to go on record with you as having passed the above information to the local FBI office in the form stated.

PJWalker/drl

James M. Sommerville
