Rosselli Chronology of Events

1955: Meets Maheu at an insurance friend’s home.

1960, late July/early August: Maheu calls. Working for the government. Recruit Rosselli only. Meet at the Brown Derby, Los Angeles, for lunch. Long talk about project in Cuba. Rosselli wants verification.

Second meeting, Los Angeles: Discuss further details, with no discussion of specific techniques. Plan to meet in New York for verification.

September 14, 1960: First meeting in New York at the old Plaza Hotel. Rosselli is introduced by Maheu to O’Connell. Rosselli “knew” O’Connell worked for the CIA. Rosselli agrees to work on the Cuban project.

September 25, 1960: Maheu and Rosselli travel to Miami to begin making contact with Cubans to be recruited for the mission.

Between September 25 and the Bay of Pigs, a series of recruitments, meetings, and arrangements were made. The following is an outline of events that is not necessarily in chronological order.

Meeting where Maheu is introduced to Trafficante (Trafficant). Meeting where Maheu is introduced to Giancana. Giancana was, according to Rosselli, to be only a “backup man.” Rosselli states Giancana had nothing to do with the actual operation. Trafficante was used, according to Rosselli, as a translator.

Meeting with O’Connell, Maheu, Rosselli, and two admirals to discuss the Cuban project.

Rosselli, in his contact with the Cubans, “invents” the cover story that he represents some Wall Street business interests who want to see Castro eliminated. Rosselli trusts the Cubans he has recruited because they are part of the Bay of Pigs operation.

The first attempt at assassination involved the use of pills. Maheu and Rosselli met with Cuban No. 1 and Cuban No. 2 (?). Maheu opened his briefcase and gave the pills, with instructions for their use, to Cuban No. 1. Maheu also had $10,000, which he gave the Cubans for doing the project. Rosselli did not know of the money. Rosselli states he received no remuneration for his work on the project; in fact, he paid out $800 for gas for a speedboat to deliver two- or three-man parties for guerrilla raids into Cuba.

Prior to the Bay of Pigs, there was no discussion of using guns to assassinate Castro.

Rosselli’s cover name was “John Ralston.”
