Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

Re: Intelligence Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries

65-63113

Information, or asking for indexing. Opening of active cases on such foreign personnel is dependent upon the availability in our files or receipt of allegations of violations of our laws or activities constituting a security menace in line with our basic policy cited above.

This facet of the captioned program is operating smoothly and no changes are required at this time. Its value in keeping us informed of the identities of foreign intelligence representatives presently in the U.S. at any given time is self-evident. Its costs are nominal, involving primarily only that amount required by the indexing of names and the reviewing of incoming material by Bureau supervisors. If field investigations are instituted, the only other costs would be those resulting from investigations which the Bureau must conduct to discharge its responsibilities in the internal security field.

(2) Maintenance of Technical Surveillances on Establishments of Selected Friendly Foreign Governments.

Recognizing a gap in our intelligence coverage of friendly governments, on 10-21-55 we discussed with Deputy Under Secretary of State Robert Murphy the question of instituting limited discreet technical surveillances on official establishments of selected foreign nations, principally those located in world trouble areas. Mr. Murphy was quite receptive to this idea, stating that limited coverage sufficiently flexible to change with changing world conditions might be highly desirable. After further discussions, it was agreed that a program “progressive” in nature would be instituted. By this Mr. Murphy explained that he did not feel that all desirable coverage should be instituted at a given date but rather that coverage should be instituted on one country at a time as moving events abroad might dictate. On this basis, this phase of the captioned program was initially instituted based on a specific request from Mr. Murphy on 12-5-55 that we place technical surveillances on all Egyptian diplomatic establishments in the U.S. (65-63113-37, 39, 40, 43, 48).

Since then, technical surveillances (with dates of duration) have been placed on establishments of the following countries at the specific request or with the specific approval of Mr. Murphy or an official of his office designated by him to act in this matter:
