4–05 July.

Index. Classify to file No. Cross-reference to file No. File. Return to branch. Destroy. SIC. Disseminated by 3/17.

092243Z. Cite Mexico City 8189. 10 August 1956.

Director: PBRUMEN LIRING.

Reference: Mexico City 8126 (WTL8738).

3 August 1966. N73260.

1. LIRING-3 told Wallace B. Rowton at an 8 August meeting he prepared to revisit Cuba to further develop contacts for Rowton's business activities. He plans to request a visa on 9 August directly from Arnol (Arnold) Rodriguez, who is still in the Foreign Ministry though no longer vice minister. L-3 expects speedy service on the visa request, allowing him to take the 13 August flight to PBRUMEN.

2. L-3 is very anxious to take his wife and child with him on this flight, and their visa approval, requested several weeks ago, is expected to arrive in time for them to accompany him. His wife and child will fly on to Santiago for a visit with her mother. He will give L-3 $1,000 U.S., half in Mexican pesos, to finance the trip. L-3 will stay in Havana from 13–26 August, go to Santiago on 27 August, and return to Mexico (MEXI) on 29 August.

3. Rowton is confident L-3's relationship has progressed to the point that he can levy specific political, economic, and even military requirements on L-3, who will do his best to satisfy them. L-3 told Rowton he realizes the necessity of keeping Rowton informed in detail on the Cuban situation.

2 August 1966. He has already called to see if we have any General Fernandez and any new information. We will see if we can get a meeting with the General in Hernandez's group. We need someone who is really in on the action. The General Fernandez people are not可靠 sources of intelligence. He has also asked for a meeting with his own military contact in Hernandez's group. He has already been to Hernandez and has seen all three of the General's top military officials. He has also asked for a meeting with the General in Hernandez's group. He will be at Hernandez on August 25 and will probably stay there until he gets some intelligence. The General Fernandez people will be at Hernandez on August 26 and 27, so he will have time to meet with them. He will probably stay there until he gets some intelligence. He will probably leave Hernandez on August 28 or 29, depending on whether or not he finds out anything about the plan. If he finds out anything, he will tell the General. He will then go to Hernandez to meet with the General and the other military officials, and they will develop the plan.
