Section XI, continued from page 4.

7. Significant published materials: General interest subjects and short stories, but not significant, published.

8. Devices invented and patent status: NA.

9. Public relations experience: During employment in El Salvador.

10. Professional, academic, or honorary associations and societies, and academic honors: Received highest honors and 4 awards at graduation from Latin American Institute: General Excellence, Diplomatic Subjects, Service to the School, and one other.

Section XII, Organization Work Experience Since Last Completion of a Personnel Qualifications Questionnaire.

1. Inclusive dates: May 1956 to present. Grade: GS-11. Office/division/branch of assignment: WH/III/Cuba. Number of employees under direct supervision: NA. Official position title: PP Ops Officer. Description of duties: General support of Station KUCAGE activities. Initiating new KUCAGE programs for Station implementation. Liaison with other Headquarters components. Maintenance of correspondence with Station. Attendance at various OTR courses (Intelligence Orientation, World Communism, Anti-Communist Ops, completed to date).

2. Inclusive dates: September 55 to May 56. Grade: CS-9. Office/division/branch of assignment: WH/Station Panama City. Number of employees under direct supervision: NA. Official position title: Station PP Officer. Description of duties: Assumed and reorganized Station PP program. Broadened existing assets and acquired new assets. Wrote Spanish language materials, drew cartoons, supervised publication of KUCAGE publication. Organized anti-Communist demonstrations. Acted as co-Case Officer of FI penetration agent.

3. Inclusive dates: July 1954–September 1955. Grade: CS-7. Office/division/branch of assignment: WH/Station Panama City. Number of employees under direct supervision: NA. Official position title: FI Ops Officer. Description of duties: In charge Water Travel Control program. Worked as member Air Travel Control team performing baggage searches, photographing documents, maintaining passenger and air travel records, all covertly. Regular and audio surveillances. CE work. Temporary cut-out, later co-case officer FI penetration agent.

4.
