Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or add in ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be summarized on a separate sheet of paper.

Beginning in early July 1970, a new Staff operational policy was enunciated. It emphasized the thorough operational and security assignment of ongoing cases and the acquisition of new agents in various priority fields. In early August the Station was reorganized and Subject was appointed as the Referent for Communist Matters (Duty 2), the highest priority area in our Operating Directive. This responsibility, plus other equally important priority of acquiring high-grade agents in the communist movement and the Philippine Security Service, was incorporated in Subject's revised Letter of Instructions (LOI) later in the year.

Subject has demonstrated a keen grasp of the details of the communist movements. He has developed a thorough knowledge of the leaders, their interrelationships, personal backgrounds, strengths and weaknesses. At the same time he has kept current on the many front organizations. As Referent for Communist Matters, Subject has at his disposal the utilization of all Case Officers under official and non-official cover to prosecute, as noted above, the Station's number one priority. While he has no command responsibility, he has been granted considerable latitude in the coordinative, creative, reporting, and project management role. Subject has used his knowledge effectively by providing staff advice to Case Officers, spotting new leads, approaches, and

Section D. Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

By employee. Signature of employee: /a/ Jerome Fox.

By supervisor. Official title of supervisor: DCG3, Manila.

By reviewing official. The rating officer has done well in describing this officer's strengths and weaknesses. He is an effective team member, a perceptive student of the communist movement and a thorough agent handler. He knows the craft and practices it carefully. He is an officer on whom I can depend to handle well assignments involving people without need for close supervision. He now is in a position that will allow him to demonstrate leadership abilities and I believe he will acquit himself well. Compared to other officers of the same grade known to me, I would place Subject well above the average. He has the potential for further growth given the opportunity.

Date: 17 February 1971. C.S. Manila. /a/ George T. Kalaris.

Date: 22 February 1971. Months employee has been under my supervision.
