(1) Correct, full name.

(2) All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers.

(3) First date of contact by your office.

(4) If first contact was prior to September 1944, names of all SAs, SACs, and ASACs who contacted and may have made payments.

(5) Tabulation of all payments, broken down as to services and expenses. Although tabulations are not furnished to the Department, those prepared by your office will be reconciled with Bureau records.

(6) Listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of advances.

(7) Date of last contact by your office.

(8) Whether the individual has been contacted by any other office.

b. Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. If no contact was made with a particular individual, the Bureau must be so advised.

c. Where an informant has previously been used and a tabulation of payments was prepared, information for items (5) through (8) need be given only from the date of the last trial in which the individual was used.

d. The above information should be submitted separate and apart from correspondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be addressed to the attention of the Administrative Division, Voucher Unit. Interdivisional correspondence should be addressed to the Bureau with copies designated for interested offices.

8. Receipt of unemployment compensation.

a. At times informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs and become eligible for unemployment compensation. Where unemployment regulations require listing of all sources of income as a prerequisite for unemployment compensation, and informants and/or sources who are being paid by the Bureau fail to comply, the situation is potentially embarrassing. The Bureau cannot be placed in the position of condoning violation of state law on the part of any informant or source. The field office must determine from state unemployment compensation officials the effect of unemployment compensation laws on paid informants and/or sources. Depending on local requirements, informants and sources must be alerted accordingly.

b. When a paid informant and/or source becomes unemployed or has knowledge of impending unemployment, discuss all facts with him and submit recommendations to the Bureau on a UACB basis. At the same time, weigh seriously the possible need for the informant to apply for and accept unemployment compensation to protect his security. Fellow members of a subversive organization may be aware of his unemployment status and would expect him to apply. Where the state requires notification of Bureau payments to informants that would necessitate disclosure of identity, discontinue Bureau payments during the period of unemployment compensation benefits.

M. Monthly and Quarterly Letters

1. Submit monthly letter (FD-451, 451a) to the Bureau by secure teletype system (NITEL). Field divisions east of the Mississippi must submit this information by the 3rd of each month; field divisions west of the Mississippi must submit this information by the 7th of each month. The monthly letter should include the following:

a. Number of security informants, potential security informants, confidential sources, and panel sources at the beginning and end of each month, also showing the number added and deleted during the month.

b. Number of agents assigned exclusively to informant and source development.

c. Money paid for services and expenses under SAC authority.

d. Statistical accomplishments.

e. Security informant accomplishments.
