Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions. For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report. For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item B of Section A below.

Section A. General. Name (last): Jackie. Middle: 21 Aug. ’58. Sex: M. Service designation: D.T. Office division/branch of assignment: DDP/SF FB/PBH/Manila (Manilla). Official position title: Resd. Asst. C Anal. Q. Date report due in BP: 21 August 1958–4 September 1958. Grade: GS-7. Period covered by this report: 21 August 1958–4 September 1958. Type of report: Annual; reassign to employee; special—For TOY period—MELB.

Section B. Certification. For the rater: This report has not been shown to the individual rated. Explanation: Subject left station. This report reflects my opinions of this individual. This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors. I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that I may provide support.

This date: 18 September 1958. Type or printed name and signature of reviewing official: Collan G. Harriarief of Station, Molb.

For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference in opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.
