New Orleans, a photo of Orleans, La., given to a record, given to the same.

Fidel Castro, right to invade states will do right. My friend to and this after that conversation on my friend here and he oralities, knowledge of front of Ed Council of friend and Butler all the that Oswald Oswald had gave all us, somebody debate.

A day of the time of Bill Stuckey indicate to make hands at Stuckey believe that to Oswald to him as to one Communist, that if anything came to me, nothing answered the wrong moment. The guidebook for Marines, he smiled to me, and he told me, “Well, listen, Carlos, don't try to do an invasion with that guidebook for Marines, because that is an old one and that will be a failure.” That was his joke in that moment.

After that we went to the debate, and I think that you have the whole history of the debate, you have the transcription and everything, so that I don't have to go inside that, because that is subjective, not objective. You have the objective, and that is the debate.

Mr. LIEBELER. That is right. We do have a transcript and we listened to it on the tape last night over at the television station too.

Mr. BRINGUIER. And there is something that I want to show you too. I told you about the training camp that was across Lake Pontchartrain.

Mr. LIEBELER. Yes.

Mr. BRINGUIER. At the beginning of August in the Diario Las Americas from Miami for September 4—

Mr. LIEBELER. For September 4, 1963?

Mr. BRINGUIER. That is right. This is the spy who was inside the training camp. The Christian Democratic Movement turned him over to the FBI, and the FBI was questioning him in Miami. The Christian Democratic Movement found a letter, according to this information, from this guy directed to Carlos Lechuga, former Cuban Ambassador to Mexico and now Cuban Ambassador to the United Nations in New York. In that letter the spy, Fernando Fernandez, was warning Lechuga that they had to be alert from that date to August 8, and the day that Oswald came trying to infiltrate my organization was on August 5. This sounds strange to me in all this matter.

Here is another interview from Fernandez here three days later.

Mr. LIEBELER. You are referring to a copy of the same newspaper but for the date of September 6, 1963, on the front page of which—

Mr. BRINGUIER. Here. “Fernando Fernandez is in favor of coexistence with the Communist regime of Castro.” That is the title in Spanish.

Mr. LIEBELER. Let me see if I can understand what you are saying. You say that Fernandez wrote a letter to Lechuga?

Mr. BRINGUIER. Fernandez wrote a letter to Lechuga in Mexico.

Mr. LIEBELER. Lechuga is a member of the Castro government?

Mr. BRINGUIER. Right.

Mr. LIEBELER. He is now Ambassador to the United Nations?

Mr. BRINGUIER. In New York; right.

Mr. LIEBELER. Fernandez is the person who was the Castro spy who had infiltrated the training camp in Louisiana?

Mr. BRINGUIER. For the Christian Democratic Movement here in Louisiana.

Mr. LIEBELER. Now the Christian Democratic Movement is—what? Pro-Castro?

Mr. BRINGUIER. Anti-Castro.

Mr. LIEBELER. It is an anti-Castro organization?

Mr. BRINGUIER. Yes; they were training Cubans over here to make a commando action against Castro, but they found out that there was a Castro spy inside the training camp, and they went back to Miami with the people and with him, and they turned him over to the FBI. I think that after that the leader for the Christian Democratic Movement—or that the FBI didn't find anything, because it was not against the law to spy inside an anti-Castro organization. It was against the law to spy inside the U.S. Government but not inside the anti-Castro organization. And my feeling—and this is the question that I am asking myself—in New Orleans we are about 900 miles from Miami. In Miami is where the headquarters of all the anti-Castro groups. I could not find any reason for Oswald to come.
