Organized Crime and Illicit Traffic in Narcotics

Operations that they are engaged in, to the detriment of the public at large, and to the detriment of innocent people who can't help themselves. It focuses and emphasizes how serious this menace is.

Very well, you may proceed.

Mr. Brown. Notwithstanding these findings, the grand jury concluded that there was no national or local Mafia in Tampa. I would like to submit as exhibit 1 a certified copy of the report of the grand jury dated March 30, 1956.

The Chairman. Very well, this report of the grand jury will be received and it may be made exhibit No. 44, and exhibit 1 to this witness' testimony.

I may later direct it be printed, but as of now we will just let it be filed as an exhibit for reference.

(The document referred to was marked “Exhibit No. 44” for reference, and may be found in the files of the subcommittee.)

Mr. Brown. It seems likely to me that the grand jury failed to acknowledge without qualification the presence of the Mafia in Tampa because it sought a pattern of Mafia operations similar to the historical Sicilian tradition of primitive and direct extortion, rather than the sophisticated and polished control of rackets that now characterize that organization.

The Chairman. I take it from that last statement that you feel that they have considerably improved their technique.

Mr. Brown. Very much so.

The Chairman. Of crime operations.

Mr. Brown. Very much.

Senator Muskie. May I ask a question, Chief, there?

As I understand what you have just testified relative to the grand jury's report, they acknowledged that there was some evidence of the existence of Sicilian Mafia in the community, but apparently felt that evidence was not conclusive; is that a correct summary?

Mr. Brown. That is correct; yes, Senator. The Tampa Police Department, however, has long been aware that many criminals in our area have local reputations as Maenos. My staff and I have made a careful evaluation of those reputations, based upon personal knowledge, criminal records, surveillance reports, personal histories, familial relationships, statistical analyses, reports from confidential informants, information from Federal and local law-enforcement agencies, and other customary police intelligence sources.

It is our considered conclusion that the Mafia exists in Tampa, that it controls most illegal gambling in Tampa and central Florida, and that its members have interstate and international ties to other Mafia groups.

The organization of the Mafia in the Tampa area is best understood from a chart we have formulated which I submit to this subcommittee as our exhibit No. 2.

Senator Muskie. Before we get to that, Chief, may I ask another question? The grand jury to which you referred sat in 1956, am I correct?

Mr. Brown. That is correct, sir.

Senator Muskie. That is 7 years ago. Do you think you have accumulated additional evidence as to the existence of the Mafia in Tampa which would justify a new reference to the grand jury?

Mr. Brown. Yes; I believe so.
