Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance. State strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. Smith was head of the Venezuela Desk at the beginning of the reporting period. He left this position shortly thereafter in preparation for an overseas assignment with another branch of WHD. During his duty with WHD, Mr. Smith was a strong asset. With his previous operational experience and his innate good sense, he supervised the Venezuela Desk in a most effective fashion. This was particularly evident during the Presidential visit to Venezuela and Colombia in December 1961. The effective management of the Headquarters aspects of the visit called for a well-coordinated, efficient and intensive effort by all concerned. Mr. Smith and the personnel under his supervision measured up quite well in this situation.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date. Signature of employee.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. Four months. Subject departed on overseas assignment.

If request is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (specify).

Date: 8 June 1962. Official title of supervisor: AC/SE/1. Typed or printed name and signature: R. Reynolds.

By reviewing official.

I would have given this employee a better evaluation.

I would have given this employee a worse evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature.
