Persons/Entities: Lodge, Henry Cabot; Kennedy, John F.; Kennedy, Robert F.; Diem; McCone, John. Dates: 5 or 6 October 1963.

Occurrence: McCone recalled a meeting with President Kennedy and Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy had with him on or about October 5 or 6, 1963. The Attorney General was “rather non-committal” in the meeting. He and I walked downstairs together, and he said, “John, are you sure you are right?” And I said, “I think I am,” and he said, “I’m rather surprised at the position you took.” And I said, “Well, you didn’t disagree with it...” (T) This discussion had nothing to do with assassinations. This was whether we should let the coup go or use our influences not to. Then interestingly enough, the President sent a series of messages to Cabot Lodge urging that he’d do all that he could to get Diem to change his ways.

Cabot Lodge’s first attempt failed and then he was called—Cabot Lodge was called by Diem’s office and Diem said, “You tell the President to tell me what he wants me to do and I’ll do it.” Unfortunately, the forces were surrounding the palace at that very moment and the coup was on. It was a kind of a dramatic little part of the history of that tragedy.

Source: Hearings, SSCI, June 6, 1975, McCone, pp. 63–64.

File: Persons/Entities: Kahn, Conein, Lodge, Truhart, William; Ngo Dinh Kahn; Smith, David; Colby, William; McCone, John. Dates: 5–7 October 1963. Categories: Diem.

Occurrence: Colby testified as to the events surrounding the cable from Saigon of 5 October 1963 which reads as follows: “We do not set ourselves irrevocably against the assassination plot since the other two alternatives mean either a blood bath in Saigon, or a protracted struggle which could rip the army and the country asunder.” And the response on 6 October 1963 which Colby wrote for McCone as follows: “McCone directs that you withdraw recommendation to Ambassador concerning assassination plan under McCone instructions as we cannot be in a position to actively condone such course of action thereby endangering our responsibility; therefore Colby explained that this second message he drafted was to eliminate assassination as an alternative. Colby stated that the assassination of Diem’s other brothers Nhu and Kahn, Ngo Dinh Kahn, were to continue. A reply was sent on October 7 from Saigon in response to the McCone cable saying that action was taken as directed, meaning that the Ambassador had been so informed to withdraw the recommendation.”

Source: Hearings, SSCI, June 20, 1975, Colby, pp. 12–17.

File: Staff: R. Dawson. Date: 29 June 1975.
