Insurgency and Civil Unrest—continued

In possible connection with the preceding item, 32 people attempting to flee Cuba were captured by Cuban security forces on 8 December. Fifth Army Headquarters in Camaguey informed Havana that a maritime patrol of the coastal vigilance observation post captured a boat carrying 32 individuals in the area of Cayo Mariquibay, north of La Bahia de Punta Alegre. On the boat, which had left Caibarien three days earlier, government agents found Cuban and U.S. monies as well as personal belongings. (USN 56, 2/SL/CUM; R303-63, 9 December)

A trained clandestine source who is a civil aviation expert with the Cuban Ministry of Transportation reports that several minor incidents of sabotage have been discovered on CUBANA aircraft. On 15 November a CUBANA IL-14 made a round-trip flight from Rancho Boyeros Airport to Nueva Gerona without a storage battery. The source comments that serious trouble would have resulted if one engine had stopped or had been feathered while en route. This incident may be related to various acts of subtle sabotage against CUBANA aircraft, such as stuffing exhaust tubes with rags or obstructing carburetor intakes.

In addition, the source reports that a CUBANA Britannia aircraft was sabotaged by Algerian personnel during a recent flight to Algiers. The hydraulic line was fractured, forcing the crew to use manual controls to lower the landing gear for a stop in Madrid. (CIA IN 75941, 8 December)

Press dispatches from Mexico City report that a leader of the Revolutionary Students Directorate (DRE) announced that 126 Cuban militiamen had been killed in a clash with guerrillas 12 miles south of Sancti Spiritus, Las Villas Province. Angel Gonzales said that “belated underground reports just received” indicated that the clash took place in mid-September when a guerrilla force ambushed a militia unit and killed 11 militiamen. The guerrilla forces lost 18 men, including Negro guerrilla leader Andre Startabull and three captains identified as Carlos Roca, Julio Garcia, and Sergio Perez. The Castro regime then sent 5,000 men supported by tanks, mortars, and helicopters to destroy the guerrillas. After two weeks of fighting, the entire guerrilla unit was destroyed but not until 115 other militiamen had been killed. There is no confirmation from COMINT or other sources of any action of the magnitude reported by the DRE. (AP-131, Mexico City, 7 December)
