W. C. Sullivan

Date: May 28, 1964

W. R. Wannall

Intelligence Coverage of Non-Soviet-Bloc Countries (Annual Evaluation)

This program was inaugurated in 1954 and was expanded in 1955 and 1958 to provide for the acquisition of positive intelligence data as well as information which would assist FBI investigations through three principal phases: (1) regular notification from the U.S. intelligence agencies as to arrival in the U.S. of intelligence personnel from non-Soviet-bloc countries; (2) maintenance of technical surveillances of official establishments of selected non-Soviet-bloc countries with approval of the State Department; and (3) development of live sources within such establishments.

Scope and Cost

The first phase consists chiefly of file reviews and indexing at Seat of Government at nominal expenses. Under the second phase we are presently operating 16 technical surveillances covering establishments of 25 non-Soviet-bloc countries at a total estimated monthly cost of $47,259.73. These countries are Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, British Guiana, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, France, Greece, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Syria, Turkey, United Arab Republic, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. For details of technical surveillance coverage see Attachment A.

Under the third phase of the program we currently have 42 actual and 58 potential live sources at establishments of 47 non-Soviet-bloc countries approved by the State Department as “target” countries. For details see Attachment B. Costs of this phase arise chiefly from field investigations of potential sources and agents’ time in handling active sources. These costs are fully justified based on the value of data developed.

Tie-In with Other Programs

This program supplements and is supplemented by various other programs aimed at developing intelligence coverage, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Program, Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in the U.S., and name check programs regarding foreign officials entering the U.S.

65-63113

Enclosures

RDC:ams

REC-33
