Portions of statement which apply to a particular individual or organization. Of course, the entire statement should be filed in the informant's sub-file. This procedure should be employed unless a logical reason dictates otherwise. When preparing lengthy channelizing memoranda reporting material of interest to other offices, limit the number of copies prepared for each other such office to two. Clearly indicate next to the name of the receiving office the number of the page containing information pertinent to that office, and note on the cover page that distribution of material to the receiving field office files is left to the discretion of the receiving office. If the channelizing memorandum includes names of individuals who merely attended a meeting or gathering and played no important role, the reporting office is to attach to the channelizing memorandum a one-page memorandum listing the names of all individuals who were merely in attendance and had no important function. The preparation and distribution of the additional copies of the one-page attachment are left to the discretion of the receiving office.

g. Prior to any prosecution or administrative hearing, advise the trial attorney that the informant not only furnished information concerning the instant case but also provided other statements not pertinent to the case at issue. The trial attorney will thus be prepared in the event the informant testifies on direct examination or cross-examination that he furnished information in addition to his testimony.

2. Recording written and oral information

a. Written by informant

(1) May be in the handwriting or hand printing of the informant, or typed.

(2) The original only should be submitted, and informants should never retain any copies or notes relating thereto. Continuously check informants to see that they do not keep any notes or copies.

(3) Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identification.

(4) The date when the informant prepares the statement should be placed at the top of the statement.

(5) All information obtained by informants regarding each meeting or separate activity in which they engage should be submitted in one statement.

(6) Informants should include in statements specific dates and places; the purpose of the meeting or activity being related; the identities of speakers and persons present, plus their known status in any group; and specific activity or comments of individuals present.

(7) The informant should identify the statement by affixing his code name immediately under the last written line on each page. Any corrections, erasures, changes, or additions should be identified by the informant affixing his code name or initials of his code name.

(8) Agents' names should never appear on any page.

(9) The informant should refer to himself in the body of the statement by his true name and use the third person.

(10) The agent receiving the written statement should not make any corrections, additions, deletions, etc., or place any markings whatever thereon.

(11) Do not block stamp or serialize. Receipt and serialization should be recorded on form FD-306 or on the channelizing memorandum containing applicable items set forth on form FD-306.

(12) Extraneous material should be kept to an absolute minimum. Informants should leave out such items as:

(a) Any reference concerning the Director and Bureau.

(b) References to other documents and statements submitted by the informant.
