On a grant from the American Legion, 1608 K. Street, N.W., Washington, D. C., under the supervision of Lee Pennington. As a result, McCord scheduled National Agency Checks in the name of Wiley on 9 January 1956.

On 17 January 1956, McCord informed Westrell, receiving his OK, that Wiley intended to place an article in the monthly newsletter, “Political Research,” published by an organization affiliated with the NTS (anti-Soviet Russian emigree organization). The article was to announce Wiley’s indexing project and solicit funds.

On 27 January 1956, McCord informed Westrell, Paul F. Gaynor (Chief, SRS), Bannerman, and Colonel Edwards of the results of a meeting he had that day discussing Wiley’s indexing project with Birch O’Neal and Herman Horton (CI Staff). In essence, it was agreed that some Agency funding of the project should be forthcoming, and Horton evidenced interest in Wiley for CI Staff employment after completion of the project. Both Bannerman and Colonel Edwards evidenced interest in Agency funding of the project, the latter asking for figures as to cost.

McCord was next in direct contact with Wiley in Flushing, New York, on 29 January 1956, obtaining highlights of security interest developed from the indexing.

By 6 February 1956, figures were produced showing that $13,500 would cover one year’s continuation of the indexing: $7,000 for Wiley, $3,000 for a clerk typist, and $3,000 for part-time help and supplies. On this date, Gaynor noted he “would like to see this project completed if at all possible.”

By the first week of March 1956, “front office” verbal approval had been given for OS funding of the project, labeled Operation Recall. Concurrent with a meeting between McCord and Wiley, arrangements were made for transporting the completed portion of the index to Washington, D. C. McCord estimated the value of the index at that time as being between $15,000 and $25,000 in labor alone. During this week, favorable National Agency Name Checks were concluded on Wiley, and Colonel Edwards and Colonel White had approved using Security Office funds totaling $10,000 to continue Wiley’s indexing for one additional year. The partially completed index was turned over to the Agency on 8 March 1956.
