Fitness Report. Reporter's name / serial number: Smith, Joseph B. General: 15 June 1921, male. Operations Officer. DDP/111/1. Career status. Type of report. Not eligible; member; deferred; initial; reassignment/supervisor; pending; declined; denied; annual; reassignment/employee. Date report due in O.P.: 26 February 1962. Reporting period: 19 July 1961–31 December 1961. Special (specify).

Section B: Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the reporting period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Rating scale: 1—Unsatisfactory; 2—Barely adequate; 3—Acceptable; 4—Competent; 5—Excellent; 6—Superior; 7—Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Reviews, assesses, and supervises all current operations in his area and provides guidance and support to the field. Rating No. 5. Drafts dispatches, orders, and cables. Edits and occasionally drafts project actions, assures their proper coordination, and processes them for approval. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 2: Recommends courses of action to the field and policy to his superiors. Rating No. 5. Reviews and monitors field monetary obligations and expenditures. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 3: Keeps abreast of the political and economic situation in his country and briefs superiors as requested. Rating No. 5. Supervises reports officers' and secretary's work and exercises general responsibility for all operational and administrative duties of his unit. Rating No. 6.

Section C: Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position: performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the reporting period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements. 2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects. 3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements. 4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements. 5. Performance in every important respect is superior. 6. Performance in every respect is outstanding.
