Federal Bureau of Investigation. Date: 3/28/64.

Eleanore Gambert was contacted at her home located at 82-25 Grand Avenue, Queens, New York, on February 28, 1964, by Special Agents Thomas J. Dowling and Benjamin P. Grogan, who identified themselves to her as Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. She was told that the Special Agents wished to talk to her about her brother, Richard Case Nagell; that she would not have to speak with the interviewing agents; that anything she might say could be used in court; and that she had a right to counsel before making any statement. Mrs. Gambert advised that she had no objection to being interviewed and that she would cooperate in any way possible.

She advised that her brother, Richard Case Nagell, last resided with her in her home for a 5 or 6 week period which ended just prior to Christmas, 1962. While in New York, he was for the most part unemployed and seeking a position. She noted that he did obtain a position as a store detective but that this lasted for only several days when he decided that this was not the type of investigative work he wanted to do.

When questioned as to whether or not she knew of any activity on the part of her brother which could have been of a subversive nature, she stated that she knew of no such activity; that she did not believe her brother capable of taking part in such activity; and that if she ever became aware that he was engaging at any time in such activity she would have nothing to do with him. At this point she noted that approximately a month prior to the interview she had received several letters that were returned to her from El Paso, Texas, which she had written to her brother, indicating that he was no longer at the El Paso County Jail. She subsequently received a letter from her brother indicating that he was at the Medical Center for Federal Prisoners, Springfield, Missouri. She noted that she answered this letter immediately, but has not as yet heard from her

On 2/28/64 at 82-25 Grand Avenue, Queens, New York. File No. NY 65-23126. Special Agents Benjamin P. Grogan and Thomas J. Dowling. Date dictated: 3/5/64.
