b. Whenever a paid informant and/or source becomes unemployed or has knowledge of impending unemployment, discuss all facts with him and submit observations and recommendations to Bureau. Unless advised to the contrary by the Bureau, follow recommended action. Each office must assure the responsibility of guarding against informant's accepting a Bureau payment that would conflict with unemployment compensation laws. At the same time, weigh seriously the possible need for an informant to apply and accept unemployment compensation to protect his security. Fellow members of the pertinent subversive organization may be aware of his unemployment status and would expect him to apply. Where a state requires notification of Bureau payments to informants that would necessitate disclosure of their identity, the Bureau payments should be discontinued during the period they receive unemployment compensation benefits.

9. Handling Money and Property Received by Double Agents

a. Double agents must turn over to the Bureau any money or property received from their principals in connection with the double agent intelligence operation. This should be made clear to the double agent at the inception of the operation (consider obtaining a signed statement to this effect). Exceptions to this rule must be specifically approved by the Bureau. Entirely separate arrangements must be made for payments to double agents for services rendered to the Bureau.

b. Any money or property received by a double agent from his principal represents possible future evidence and the double agent should execute a statement describing the money received by type of currency, denomination, series of issue, and serial number and appropriately describing any other property received. This statement should be signed by the double agent's code name.

c. Money or property received from double agents should be retained as evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and Regulations.

d. Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from double agents should make independent records for retention for purposes of refreshing recollection in the event testimony is later necessary.

O. Annual Letter

Annual letter should be submitted to the Bureau by each office as follows:

1. List the symbol numbers of all security informants and confidential sources being paid under Bureau authority (not SAC authority) for services or expenses. If the confidential source has no symbol number, list his name.

2. Also list the symbol numbers of all security informants not paid under Bureau authority.

3. Set forth any comments concerning the present status of the informant coverage of the office, together with information concerning what actions are being taken to improve the security informant coverage.

4. As a separate section of the annual letter, list under "Headquarters City" and each resident agency all subversive organizations broken down into each division and unit thereof, such as clubs, committees, and chapters.

Under each unit the approximate membership, together with the symbol numbers and positions of security informants affording coverage, should be set out. Where no informant coverage exists or where coverage is provided by informants or sources who are not members, such factors should be shown relative to each unit.

Annual letters may include any additional pertinent information relevant to informant coverage that may be helpful in overall evaluation, such as informants in other divisions who are occasionally utilized and highly placed informants who furnish area-wide, national, or international information.
