United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

From: Mr. W. R. Wannall

Subject: Intelligence Coverage of Non-Soviet-Bloc Countries (Annual Evaluation)

Date: May 12, 1967

Distribution: Mr. DeLoach; Mr. Sullivan; Mr. Cotter; Mr. Wannall; Mr. G. C. Moore; Mr. Mossburg; Mr. Atkinson.

This program was initiated in 1954 and expanded in 1955 and 1958 to provide for the acquisition of positive intelligence data as well as other information which would assist FBI investigations through three principal phases: (1) Regular notification from U.S. intelligence agencies as to arrival in the U.S. of intelligence personnel from non-Soviet-bloc countries; (2) Maintenance of technical surveillance of official establishments of selected non-Soviet-bloc countries with approval of State Department; and (3) Development of live sources within such diplomatic establishments.

Scope and Cost:

The first phase consists chiefly of file reviews and indexing at the Seat of Government at nominal cost.

Under the second phase we are presently operating 10 technical surveillances covering establishments of 7 non-Soviet-bloc countries. The countries are: Algeria, China, Dominican Republic, France, Mexico, Panama and Venezuela. In early February, 1967, 24 telephone surveillances on non-Soviet-bloc establishments were discontinued in accordance with the Director's instructions that the total number of telephone surveillances be substantially reduced. The cost of operating this phase of the program consists primarily of monitoring the technical installations involved and the translation of the intelligence product. These costs are analyzed each time the technical surveillance is justified (on a quarterly basis after the first month's operation). The cost appears to be fully justified based on value of data developed.

Under the third phase of this program we currently have 35 approved live sources and 19 under investigation at establishments of 32 non-Soviet-bloc countries approved by the State Department as "target" countries. Costs of this phase arise chiefly from field investigations of potential sources and agents' time in handling active sources. These costs are fully justified based on value of data developed.

WHA:brr (8)
