Office of DC  
May 28, 1955

Mail Room

C. Indicate if you think that any single strength or weakness outweighs all other considerations. Mark only one at a time. Subject's stamina and persistence in accomplishing his tasks is a minimum amount of time outweighs his weakness. Mark X. May 28, 1955.

D. Do you feel that he requires close supervision? Mark X. If yes, how?

E. What training do you recommend for this individual? Recommend training in Phase II and III.

F. Other comments: Indicate here general traits, specific habits or characteristics not covered elsewhere in the report but which have a bearing on effective utilization of this person.

Section VI. Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under subsections A, B, C, D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties adequately; he is incompetent.  
2. Barely adequate in performance; although he has had specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.  
3. Performs most of his duties acceptably; occasionally reveals some area of weakness.  
4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.  
5. A fine performance; carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well. Selected.  
6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equaled by few other persons known to the rater.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? No. If yes, what?

C. Directions: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and any other indications, give your opinion of this person's attitude toward the organization.

1. Has an antagonistic attitude toward the organization; will definitely leave the organization at the first opportunity.  
2. Has strong positive attitude toward organization; irritated by restrictions; regards organization as a temporary stop until he can get something better. Selected.  
3. Tends to have an unfavorable attitude toward the organization; bothered by minor obstructions; will quit if these continue.  
4. His attitude toward the organization is indirect. First, has a “wait and see” attitude; would leave if someone offered him something better.  
5. Tends to have favorable attitude toward organization; makes allowances for restrictions imposed by working for organization; thinks in terms of a career in the organization. Selected.  
6. Has a favorable attitude toward the organization; barring an unexpected outside chance, will probably endeavor to make a career in the organization.  
7. Has an enthusiastic attitude toward the organization; will probably remain at work in the organization. Selected.

D. Directions: Considering others of this person's grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibility normally indicated by promotion.
