Declaration of Appointee

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty. Answer all questions. Any false statement in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal after appointment. Impersonation is a criminal offense and will be prosecuted accordingly.

Instructions to Appointing Officer

The appointing officer before whom the following declaration is made is bound to take such action as he deems proper, in his own discretion, under the authority of law, by the Civil Service Act, applicable to all persons employed in the service of the State Government, and is further bound to comply with the requirements of that act.

(1) A person who disobeys an order or directive issued by him in performance of his official duties shall be punished therefor, so long as his conduct does not vitiate the authority of the order or directive. The punishment may be corporal, capital, or death penalty, as determined by the court having jurisdiction over the犯. In case of death penalty, the order or directive must first be executed before the appointing officer of the Civil Service Commission.

(2) Appointments — The appointment officer is responsible for showing the character of the applicant to the Civil Service Board and (3) representative of the State. Form of recommendation shall be prescribed for each position and is to be submitted with complete data relative to the applicant's fitness for the position, and in addition to the qualifications prescribed in the Civil Service Commission.

(3) Qualifications of applicants — All to the duty of the appointing officer, to which they are entitled, must be qualified in the same manner as all others. The applicant's signature and photograph shall be examined by the appropriate officer. No applicant for employment shall be considered for appointment except upon written recommendation by the director or other officer authorized to make it, and only where it appears to the satisfaction of the director or other officer that the applicant has satisfied the standards of selection. The director or other officer so authorized to make recommendations may direct any applicant so recommended to be interviewed, examined, and photographed by any officer designated by the director or other officer, prior to interview. References to the results of interviews, examinations, and interviews shall be kept confidential, and shall not be used or disclosed for any purpose other than the performance of his duties.

(4) Methods of selection — Section 9 of the Civil Service Act provides that the board of directors may, from time to time, fix rules for determining the method of selection. Selection may be by examination, interviews, or a combination of both, and shall be conducted by the director or other officer so authorized to make recommendations. The methods of selection may also be substituted by other methods provided for by the appropriate laws or regulations. During any period when the director or other officer is unable to perform his duties, the appointments shall continue until the director or other officer again appointed shall have performed his duties.
