(4) Separate statements should be prepared for each meeting or separate activity in which informants engage and should be dictated by Agent as if the informant were preparing them himself.

(5) Information, after being reduced to writing, should be read promptly by the informant and acknowledged by affixing his code name on each page. In espionage and foreign nationality matters, such authentication is necessary only where future prosecution is possible.

(6) After the informant authenticates the statement, the contacting Agent should prepare cover sheet, Form FD-306, which should be stapled to it. Thereafter, the statement should be handled as written.

(7) Oral information furnished by the informant purely of lead value should be included in an office memorandum by the Agent and should not be initialed by the informant, exhibited to him, or treated as evidence.

3. Transmission of information

a. Statements should be personally delivered to the contacting Agent by informants when possible. Careful consideration should be given to the full security of all such contacts. They should never be mailed to the field office or resident agency. If they cannot be obtained personally by the contacting Agent, obtain confidential post office boxes for their receipt.

b. Confidential post office boxes should be obtained under fictitious names and not under names of persons who may be listed in the post office directory. More than one informant may send statements to a post office box, but consideration should be given to obtaining post office boxes in different post office stations to prevent suspicion on the part of postal employees.

c. The envelope enclosing the statement should have the return address of another confidential post office box obtained under a fictitious name.

d. Statements should be collected at post office boxes regularly, but the time of pickup should be varied. Work out a system of rotation whereby the same Agent or Agents will not appear at the same post office box for an extended period of time.

e. When the informant receives information of vital and immediate interest, he should furnish it as promptly as possible to the contacting Agent or office by the most appropriate means of communication.

4. Handling of lead information

a. All lead information obtained from the informant must be run out to a logical conclusion.

b. If there is insufficient information to warrant opening a case, a tickler card should be prepared to follow the informant and take other logical steps to obtain additional identifying data. Restrict tickler cards to information which would warrant investigation if identity were established. If no identification is made after reasonable effort, prepare a memorandum for the informant's subfile.

5. Handling documentary material furnished by informants

a. Pamphlets and similar documentary material furnished by informants should have the informant's code name placed thereon.

b. The informant should affix the date he received the material. If the informant cannot recall the date of receipt, the date he furnished the material should be affixed.

c. No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, date received, permanent symbol number of informant, file numbers, indexing symbols, etc., should be placed on documentary material.

d. Receipt of such material should be recorded on Form FD-306 or on a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items. See Section 107K for filing instructions.
