been Oswald's rifle. The PSE showed considerable stress in his statements.

Patrolman Gerald L. Hill testified that he found three spent bullet hulls on the floor beneath the window from which the fatal shots allegedly were fired. The PSE showed third stress in his statements.

The rifle was one of the principal points adduced by the Warren Commission to link Oswald to the assassination. The PSE substantiated the testimony that Oswald owned the rifle and that the evidence supplied to ballistic experts indicated this rifle was the murder weapon. However, the PSE did not substantiate the controversial claims of Dallas police regarding the discovery of this evidence.

The hospital employee was apparently telling the truth when he recounted finding the bullet on a stretcher at Parkland Hospital, but many critics have charged that the bullet had been deliberately planted there. This is the famous "single bullet" which the Warren Report says passed through the bodies of both the President and Governor Connally, and then lodged in Connally's wrist. Several researchers have tried to repeat this, firing the same type of bullet into the wrist of a cadaver. The bullets never remained perfectly intact, as the one found with the stretcher; they became twisted lumps of lead and copper.

The second link between Oswald and the assassination is the charge that he killed Officer Tippit (Tippitt), a Dallas policeman, while fleeing from the scene of the first shooting. A number of eyewitnesses have testified that they saw Oswald shoot Tippit (Tippitt), and one of them, Domingo Benavides, was interviewed on the CBS tapes. He was asked if there was any doubt in his mind that Oswald was the man he saw shoot Tippit (Tippitt). He replied, "No, sir, there was no doubt at all." There was absolutely no stress in his statement. He was telling the truth.

The killing of Officer Tippit (Tippitt) by Oswald fueled the fires of controversy over the Warren Report. Tippit (Tippitt) was far from his usual beat when he was shot. Some witnesses have alleged that Tippit (Tippitt) and Oswald were seen together in Jack Ruby's nightclub. They theorize that the three men were part of an assassination conspiracy, and that Tippit (Tippitt) had been sent to silence Oswald, but he had been beaten to the draw.

The Dallas police radio dispatcher, Officer Murray Jackson, was asked if he thought Tippit (Tippitt) knew Oswald. "No," he replied. "I don't think he knew Oswald." Did Jackson know Oswald? "No," answered Jackson, "I didn't either." The PSE showed heavy stress in both statements.

Perhaps the greatest source of controversy over the Warren Report is its claim that all the shots were fired by one gunman. Some eyewitnesses claim to have heard shots and seen gunsmoke in the area of a low hillock ahead and to the right of the presidential motorcade. This hillock has come to be known as "the grassy knoll."

One of these witnesses was a railroad worker named S.M. Holland, who observed the scene from an overpass near the knoll. The PSE confirmed that he thought he had seen a puff of smoke on the knoll, but it could not support his claim that he had heard a shot from that direction.

Another witness, Charles Brehm, was quoted by Mark Lane as having said that he had seen a portion of the President's skull flying back over the left rear end of the limousine. Lane offered this as evidence of a shot from the grassy knoll. On the CBS tapes, Brehm stated heatedly that he had been quoted out of context, and emphatically denied that any shots had come from the knoll. Despite his emotional state, there was almost no stress in this statement.

Officer Jacks of the Dallas police, who was riding in the limousine of Vice-President Johnson, denied that any of the shots had come from the direction of the grassy knoll. The PSE turned up a fair degree of stress.

Three witnesses, Mrs. Caroline Walther, Arnold Rowland and Howard Brennan, claimed to have seen gunmen in the windows of the Texas School Book Depository building. Mrs. Walther said she saw two men, one armed with a rifle, the second with a shorter gun. Rowland told the Warren Commission he had seen two men, one an elderly Negro, in the window Oswald is alleged to have fired from, but on the CBS tapes he claimed he had seen an armed man at a different window. The Commission relied heavily on the testimony of Brennan, who claimed to have seen a gunman in the "Oswald window" actually firing the last of the shots. The PSE showed hard stress in the testimony of all three witnesses.

The PSE analysis of the eyewitnesses' testimony regarding the source of the shots is ambiguous. It supports Holland's claim to have seen a puff of smoke on the knoll, and Brehm's denial that any shots came from that direction, and it raises serious doubts about all other claims and counter-claims. This contradiction seems to result from
