C. If Dutch authorities suspect sabotage operations originated in Rotterdam, in a single instance the possibility exists of convincing them that the Cuban EPIGREE group, and not KUBARK, was involved, but as similar actions carried out in the future are highly unlikely, they would accept this plot. Also, it is almost certain that Dutch authorities would drastically increase security in the port area when Cuban vessels are there, thus making future contact with any AMLEGs very difficult. A similar situation might obtain in Belgian and German ports as a consequence. Dutch intelligence and security services are highly aware of KUBARK’s keen interest due to their heavy involvement in other actions against Cuban targets.

2. Regarding the specific action against Havana (which arrived in Rotterdam 19 April and departed directly for Havana (HAVA) 26 April), sabotage was raised by WARMEOLD and EDMENT with AMLEGs 12 and 29, with the following results:

A. AMLEG 12 is obviously reluctant to take part in sabotage action unless assured that many other countrymen are carrying out the same type of action in other areas. He is not willing to take any action which might cause the death of any crew member. He is disturbed by recent newspaper accounts of ODYOKE policy and wants clarification of the purpose of the sabotage action. He is not interested in action if it is part of a general harassment campaign not connected to a major ODYOKE plan of action. Believe it possible he would be more amenable if some indications of such a plan occurred prior to his next voyage.

B. AMLEG 29 appeared genuinely interested in performing internal sabotage on the ship but, as chief engineer, would require a collaborator in the engine room, since he does not take regular engine-room duty and his presence there is always for a specific inspection, which is observed by men who are on duty. His mother in PRUMEN is on the verge of a nervous breakdown, and action on his part now would require his immediate.
