Example. (Field comment: The source provided the qualifier on the “alleged” nature of mob involvement in the Kennedy assassination, which Mamedov apparently repeated as if it were established fact.)

7. Comments on terrorists: Terrorists, even those who operate under the guise of religious fervor, normally have an underlying financial motive, according to Mamedov. Russia, as other countries, is especially concerned that adequate safeguards be in place to prevent terrorists from acquiring nuclear materials. Russia also wants to see an improved international legal framework to deal more effectively with terrorists and prevent them from taking advantage of legal loopholes.

8. Mamedov also made the following comments on several presidential candidates.

Zyuganov: Economic hardships and the resulting discontent have enhanced his chances at the presidency. It would not be of critical concern should he win the coming presidential elections since the Communists have undergone a transformation and would neither be able nor willing to turn the clock back. The new Russian Communists would be similar to Italian Communists, but Mamedov would dread to see an Italian-type political scenario in Russia. The return of Communist presidents in Poland, Hungary, and Romania has not caused disruptions in their relations with Western nations, nor should this happen with Russia.

Zhirinovsky: A political hooligan, Zhirinovsky has lots of financial backing. With his attention-grabbing antics, he provides a diversion while other elements carry on their unsavory, i.e. criminal, activities. It reminds one of the Russian tale where two characters distract a crowd while the third is busy rifling their pockets. Zhirinovsky has presented no serious program to permit him to attract sufficient votes.

Lebed: With his bass voice and pronouncements that appeal to the discontented, he has earned some popularity, but he will not be able to come up with solid proposals for change and will not be a serious contender for the presidency.

9. Relations with Canada: Mamedov favors closer ties with Canada and particularly in the economic sphere. The Halifax Summit and Yeltsin’s backing for stronger economic cooperation was an important step forward, i.e. the central government’s blessing is essential to make things happen. The North is an important common factor. For Russia, development of their Northern Sea Route will be a high priority as it will provide a shorter link to international shipping routes. Ecological clean-up was also mentioned in the Canada/Russia context because of environmental technology.
