b. On one occasion Nasmith personally gave Kelly $300 in dollars for an option on his books. Kelly signed a receipt for this. Kelly showed a signed copy of the receipt to the true author, stating that he could not divide the money with the author since, although he had signed the receipt, he had not received any money—that Mr. Nasmith had forced him to sign the receipt so that Nasmith could steal the $300 for himself.

c. Money given to Kelly specifically for the purpose of paying salaries to the members of his Committee was not turned over to the Committee in its entirety. Kelly stated on several occasions definitely that he no longer had any connections with Greek authorities. At the time he was making these statements, he was observed by our people to be going into the Aliens Directorate, Radio Athens, and other official Greek residences. (Note: We were pleased to have Kelly maintain contact with Greek officials; we dislike only his lying about it.)

d. On at least four occasions Kelly has stated unequivocally that he had no relations with Ibrahim Mohammed. A friendly observer saw Kelly pay Mohammed gold pounds prior to Mohammed’s recent trip to Turkey. Furthermore, mysterious receipts have appeared in Kelly’s accounts signed by Ibrahim Mohammed.

It is interesting to note that, aroused by our continued interest in Ibrahim, Kelly has given us a long song and dance—intending to force us to drop the subject—about Ibrahim’s being a Greek spy.

e. On one occasion Kelly told us about having received money from Major Nikoloupolos (Nikolopoulos) of the Aliens Directorate. This is (1) an obvious attempt to drive a wedge between our closely cooperating organizations, and (2) evidence of Kelly’s untrustworthiness.

f. Kelly has been warned repeatedly to maintain as good security as possible regarding the purpose for which he has rented offices at 13 Patissia Street. Nevertheless, Kelly has blabbed his business (and ours!) all over Athens, so that he has been constantly visited by all manner of unnecessary people, including a galaxy of street-walkers.

g. Kelly maintains constant relations with several people who seem unduly interested in our work. We do not attempt to dictate his friends, but we do consider it improper when he deliberately lies in denying to us that he sees such people. (Example: A certain Papas, an elderly Greek who seems to be working with the French Mission here.)

3. In addition to the serious charges which we have against Kelly as indicated above, there is the additional charge equally serious but less
