Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff and.
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the field administrative or personnel officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters.

To the field supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities so frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows what he stands to do.

It is optional whether or not this fitness report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I.

Leave blank—for headquarters use only.

Name: James S. Woods. Date of birth: 25 Feb. 1928. Ser: M. Service designation: DI. Grade: GS-7. Station designation (current): KOBA/Hqs. Due date of this report: April 1956. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 15 April 1955–15 April 1956.

Section II (to be completed by field supervisor).

Current position: Intelligence Analyst—CE. Date assumed responsibility for position: 25 September 1954. State the specific assignments or tasks which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency).
