3. Index

a. Prepare index cards on form FD-348 and file as adjunct to criminal informant, extremist informant, or security informant index, depending on type of information furnished.

b. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with criminal informant, extremist informant, and security informant indexes where logical.

4. Files

When an active investigation is initiated relative to a prospective confidential source, open a 134 file (or 137 for criminal sources) and maintain it as pending until efforts to develop the individual are discontinued.

5. Utilization

a. If a confidential source is to be used in security investigations, secure Bureau approval and furnish background data of the same type required for potential security informants.

b. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters, in which frequency of contact is dependent upon circumstances, contact confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained at least once every two weeks. Such contacts may be posted.

c. Contacts should only be made by Agent or Agents specifically designated for that purpose.

d. A letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use the subject as a confidential source is to set out clearly:

(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizenship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest record, and service record, if any.

(2) Details of expected cooperation of the individual and results of any interviews conducted with him.

(3) Statement to the effect that the subject is being considered a confidential source and will be advised he is not a Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relationship with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should be made that you will be alert to be certain the subject is not a plant, and if he is connected with a labor union he will be advised of Bureau policy on labor matters.

(4) One copy of the letter requesting authority should consist only of the first page. If the request is approved at the Bureau, a stamped notation to this effect will be placed on the single-page copy and it will be returned to the field.

6. Security confidential sources—certification of stability and payments

a. Every six months submit FD-401 to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments. See subsection L, item 3b, above.

b. If the source is not being paid on Bureau authorization, or if he is not an employee of a foreign diplomatic establishment or an international organization and is being used regularly, the Agent handling must certify stability and reliability by executing a statement on this point contained on FD-209, used to record contact. Certification must be made at intervals of no longer than six months.

c. If the source is employed by foreign diplomatic establishments (embassy, consulate, United Nations Mission, etc.) or by an international organization (United Nations Secretariat, Organization of American States, International Monetary Fund, etc.), submit FD-401 to the Bureau every six months.

7. Gifts

Gifts should not be given to sources.

8. Discontinuance

Advise the Bureau of the date when the source is discontinued and the reasons.

S. PANEL SOURCES

1. Definition

See page 3 of this section.

2. Background investigation and approval

a. Check the prospective panel source through office indices, canvass logical informants, and review appropriate credit, arrest, and military records. Limit the credit check of the individual to identifying information only (name, address, former address, employment, former employment).
