Fitness Report. Section A: Smith, Joseph G.

General. Date of birth: 16 June 1921. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. SD: D. Official position title: Operations Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP WHD 2. Current station: Buenos Aires.

Type of appointment: X Career; Reserve; Career-Provisional; Special (Specify). Type of report: Initial; Reassignment Supervisor; X Annual; Reassignment Employee; Special (Specify).

Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1964. Reporting period: 1 April 1963–31 March 1964.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W – Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A – Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P – Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S – Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O – Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Maintains contact with the Chief and other key officer of the Psychological Action Department of the principal Argentine intelligence service and is case officer for an important and large CA project run in conjunction with the local service. Rating: 0. Degrees: DO.

Case officer for four unilateral CA projects in the following fields: propaganda (films), economic action and reporting, student/youth, and political action. Three of these have significant FI overtones. Rating: S.

Supervisor for one American Staff Agent in the CA field who is case officer of one formal project and is engaged in important developmental work. Rating: S.

Assists the Station CA officer in over-all and tactical planning. Rating: P.
