Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance. Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject has a well developed background applied to PP operations in the Far East. He has continually demonstrated initiative and imagination in obtaining the maximum production from his projects, and has developed new assets of definite value to the Station. He is a capable handler of agents, and has particular potential in the political action field. He has proven especially effective in a special election project in which he handled and developed numerous high level contacts. No particular weaknesses were observed. Subject is well qualified for senior operational assignments in either PP or FI, and is recommended for promotion. Since subject is planning to return for a second tour, no additional training is recommended at this time.

In preparing this report, careful consideration was given to the guidance in PE Field Dispatch No. 20-40, which recognizes the principle of rating the individual against the group, and establishes an “average” rating as being an entirely satisfactory performance. The supervisor, however, considers this fitness report to be in keeping with that guidance in that subject has clearly demonstrated a high degree of operational capability as indicated herein.

Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 5 November 1959. Signature of Employee: /s/ Jonathan H. Smith.

By Supervisor. Months employer has been under my supervision: 21 months. If report is not being made at this time, give reason: Employer under my supervision less than 30 days; Report made within last 30 days; Other (Specify).

Date: 5 November 1959. Official title of supervisor: C/PP. Typed or printed name and signature: William T. Torrington.

By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee’s performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 9 November 1959. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: John H. Richardson.
