File Review, Manuel Ray y Rivero — Volumes I–XVIII

May 1, 1978  
Volume XIV — May 1964

1. AMWORLD meeting in San Juan, P.R., 2–5 May 1964. Subject: Ray’s plans. Submitted by Henry 1. Hecksher, WH/SA/SO/HH.

Ray’s plans to infiltrate Cuba by 20 May were discussed at the meeting. Questions about Ray’s financing of the Puerto Rican conference and ability to store arms and engage in training activities on U.S. soil were raised by an AMYUM/19 MRR member. He volunteered to tell Hecksher where arms could be found, but Hecksher “quickly dissuaded him from divulging further details,” at which point AMYUM 19 commented that GUERTLER had reacted in a similar way when offered facts and figures about Ray’s activities. Artime stated he would not put it past Ray to go into hiding in a secure place while pretending to be in Cuba.

2. Cable to JMWAVE from DIR, 7 May 1964. After looking at AMTAUP material, it is obvious much of the conspiratorial talk in JURE is for internal consumption only, the purpose being to protect the myth that JURE is independent and basically hostile to CIA. In a desire to obtain proof of any anti-CIA or U.S. government activity by Ray, urge every effort to check the accuracy of AMTAUP/AMOT reporting and follow through for any overt manifestations of the many allegations made.

3. Memo for the Director of Central Intelligence from Richard Helms, DD/P, dated 13 May 1964. Subject: Plans of Manuel Ray and the JURE to infiltrate into Cuba.

Helms says there is no question but that Ray seriously plans to enter Cuba sometime in May 1964. JURE has six teams ready to infiltrate—a total of 27 men. Ray hopes that with the aid of 40 men, he can demonstrate that resistance is possible and that Castro can be defied.

4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE (JMEAVE), dated 20 May 1964. Andrew St. George, on assignment with Time-Life, left Miami 18 May with JURE elements for a rendezvous with Ray.

5. Memo for the Record, dated 20 May 1964, from Samuel Halpern. Subject: JURE purchase of arms.

Chronological résumé of reports reaching the WH/SA desk regarding the attempted purchase of arms by JURE in El Monte, California.

A. Revenue officials queried CIA regarding its knowledge of certain arms being handled by Juan Erquiaga Aizcorbe in the Los Angeles area for shipment to Florida. WH/SA denied knowledge. Discussion about 20 May 1964.
