Message and experienced only a little difficulty at first in remembering all the steps in sequence necessary for the preparation of an S/W message. He was generally attentive to the instruction given. However, in keeping with his temperament, he was a little impatient during the preparation of the S/W message itself upon the cover letter. At the end of this session, he demonstrated that he remembered the basic steps in a satisfactory manner, particularly considering that it was his first day in S/W instruction.

4. The second period of instruction took place in the same safehouse, lasting about two hours. This session was devoted to a review of the S/W procedures and the preparation by A/1 of another practice S/W letter. Following this, A/1 was instructed in the development of S/W messages, using the liquid developer No. 56638. The scorch system of development was also demonstrated. A/1 was impressed by the simplicity of the liquid developer and the immediate reaction which it produced. The undersigned developed one message; then A/1 was allowed to prepare the developer from its dry pill form and to develop a second practice S/W message for himself. Following the period devoted to S/W development, a general review of S/W communications was held, the basic points apparently being well-fixed in A/1's mind.

5. During the final formal meeting with A/1 on 22 August with Growery and the undersigned participating, the latter gave A/1 a general review of all the S/W procedures which were to be used in his contact with KUBARK. He also was provided with the following items:

A. Two sheets of S/W carbon paper (No. 15136).

B. Forty-seven pills of developer (No. 56638).

C. One tablet of writing paper provided by TSD and known to be compatible with the carbon sheets.

D. Three No. 2 pencils of French manufacture.

E. One ball-point pen with water-resistant ink.

F. Two accommodation addresses: one in Madrid for regular contact; one in New York City for rapid emergency contact (see attached S/W data sheet).

G. Appropriate indicators (see S/W data sheet).

It is noted that A/1 did not have a secure accommodation address in PBRUMEN to give us at this time. He was told, however, that it was imperative that he provide one for us by S/W letter within two weeks of his return to PBRUMEN. This he stated he would do.

6. During the last S/W review, A/1 was shown a photograph of one of his practice messages which he had prepared. He was quite interested in seeing this, which served to illustrate a number of the training points which had been covered during previous instruction.
