MHFNO: 96-5328306. SENSIND: EO RYBAT. Page: 3.

Embassy procedure "in his day" and pass it to their office. He said that while he would not ask for C/O by name, if he had something important he would demand that it be passed to Station.

7. Turning once again to domestic issues, Whitten indicated that he was determined to commit suicide as his health is miserable, he is in a considerable degree of pain and he no longer has anything for which to live; however, he said he now plans on waiting for a trial during which he will personally conduct some examinations in order to directly confront his wife and children in an effort to get them to "admit to their lies." Should any trial or agreement end in judgment in his wife's favor, Whitten claimed he would no longer be in a financial position to continue to live in Austria. Whitten spoke often of suicide as a way to end both his physical and emotional pain. C/O was left with the clear impression that his resolve on this matter is firm; whether he waits for trial or not is a matter of pure speculation. C/O tried to remind Whitten that while his body may no longer function so well, his mind was obviously still sharp. C/O then asked, not in his official capacity but as one human being to another, that should Whitten ever seriously contemplate suicide, he directly contact C/O first. Whitten countered by saying that C/O may be able to discern when the time has come. He said he has kept all of his diaries from WWII through 1953, having intended to someday write his memoirs. Wanting to keep any future profits from his family, he said he no longer has plans to do so but that he did not want to die with them left for the Austrians to find; therefore, he would pass them through the RSO. In the event that this occurs, this will be a signal that he intends to go through with the suicide.

8. As C/O got up to leave, Whitten, again in tears, thanked C/O for his professionalism and his help, and reminded C/O that he had entered into a most honorable profession. He also said that he had been most highly impressed with REF IDEN, whom he also considered a true professional. He asked that C/O pass along a special note of thanks as the outcome of the JFK matter had "restored his faith in the American judicial system." Whitten bade his farewell by noting it would be the last time that the two would meet, and wished C/O a good life.

9. FYI, reference information that Whitten was still seeking an attorney runs counter to a statement he made to C/O. According to Whitten, both he and his wife were retaining lawyers in Florida where she is now resident. Further, as of the date of the above meeting, service of Whitten regarding the support matter had not yet been accomplished although he said he was expecting the paperwork at any time. Whitten did speak of making a payment, but it is not clear whether the money was intended as a retainer fee or as a payment to his wife. He has just purchased a fax machine to more quickly deal with legal matters, and the day prior to C/O's meeting had liquidated many of his financial holdings to keep his family from them. It should also be noted that a Viennese social worker visits Whitten five days a week to clean and run errands and that Whitten gets his meals from the Austrian equivalent of Meals-on-Wheels; thus, while he himself is virtually immobile,
