Agent Report. For use of this form, see PM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

Date submitted: 5 February 1972. Control symbol or file number. Report of findings.

Happened in 1966. Source did not mention the discrepancy to John. John stated that he had also been kicked off two or three kasernes in the South, and that his name was on record. John mentioned being caught and interrogated on a site in Southern FRG. Source was unable to recall the exact identification of the agency John claimed to have been interrogated by, but mentioned that it was something like MA, MD, MI, MAD, MAI. John said he had been released after the interrogation and followed, but that he had managed to lose the people who were following him. John mentioned that he had paced off Haard Kaserne and knew exactly where and how to get on to the kaserne without being detected. Source and John left the Lord Nelson at 0300 hours and went to another bar in Datteln. Source thought the name of the bar was the Kessin (PHONETIC), but was not sure. Upon arriving at the Kessin, John said that he had to pick up his pay check from the owner of the bar and left Source. John and the owner of the bar went into a private office for about five minutes before John returned. The owner of the Kessin also owned the Lord Nelson and Western. Source and John left the Kessin at 430 hours and proceeded by taxi to John's apartment, which was located above the Western. John stated that if Source did not believe everything that he had said, that Source could contact an Air Force Security Sergeant and confirm everything. John gave Source a slip of paper (EXHIBIT), on which was the name of the Security Sergeant, his job title, station, and telephone numbers. John stated that if Source mentioned or showed the paper to anyone that it would get the Security Sergeant into trouble. John also hinted that bodily harm might result to Source if the paper got into the wrong hands. John gave Source an old US Air Force parka to wear back to the kaserne because it was cold and Source's own jacket was lightweight. In the pockets of the parka were four beer coasters (EXHIBITS) and a used streetcar ticket (EXHIBIT). John arranged another meeting with Source for 1700 hours, 5 February 1972, at the Stadtschaenke Bar, Datteln. John gave a slip of paper (EXHIBIT) to Source with the information for the next meeting. John asked Source to obtain any information on Julius mentioned by UIM that he could. John mentioned that he had known Cristobal Pimentel-Davilla and asked Source to obtain some C-Rations for him. Source then left John and returned to his unit. Source did not believe that he had supplied any official information to John, but felt that it was possible that he might have as he was quite drunk before the evening ended. Source described John as follows: six to six feet one inch tall, weighing 180–190 pounds, slight build, black hair with long sideburns, and wore a red shirt with a navy blue coat and tie, black shoes, long black overcoat, and black fur hat.

5. T
