Fact Sheet on April 12 Requests Concerning Lee Harvey Oswald

The following information has been provided by the Naval Investigative Service and responds to those portions of the April 12 requests by the Select Committee for all records regarding: Lee Harvey Oswald; any and all records concerning or referring to investigations into Oswald's background conducted by the 112th Military Intelligence Group, circa 1963; a detailed statement explaining why a photograph of Oswald in the possession of the Navy was contained in an envelope marked “Received 14 Nov 1963” and “CIA 77978”; and answers to other questions regarding actions in connection with the photograph.

A written list of those persons who were either connected with, responsible for, or knowledgeable about the Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI) file pertaining to Oswald is attached, as Appendix A.

All available records held by the NIS pertaining to Lee Harvey Oswald have previously been made available to the Select Committee, with the exception of records which were originated by or under the release authority of the Department of State, the Office of the Attorney General, the CIA, the FBI, and the DIA. The latter records were referred to those agencies for processing and a direct response to the Select Committee.

The NIS holds no records concerning or referring to investigations into Oswald's background by the 112th Military Intelligence Group. Copy pages of the NIS file numbered 253 through 255, previously forwarded to the Select Committee, consist of a U.S. Continental Army Command (USCONARC) message. It contains information concerning Oswald which was provided to the “112th INTC GP” by an Assistant Chief of Police with the Dallas Police Department.

Enclosure (1) to Appendix B is a copy of the envelope which the Select Committee referred to in connection with a photograph of Oswald. The notations on the envelope refer to a Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) message with a date/time group of 251800Z October 1963, which readdressed a CIA teletype numbered 77978. The ONI file on Oswald, which is the file maintained by the NIS, did not contain a copy of the CNO message in question, and it is not known why a copy of it was not contained therein. On 25 April 1978, a representative of NIS obtained a copy of CIA teletype number 77978 of 24 October 1963 (Enclosure (2), Appendix B). That copy is in the format in which the CIA has released it to the public in response to Freedom of Information Act requests. Enclosure (2) is addressed to the Department of the
