Fitness Report. Employer’s serial number.

Section A — Smith, Joseph D. General.

1. Name: Smith, Joseph D.  
2. Date of birth: 16 Jun 21.  
3. Sex: M.  
4. Grade: GS-14.  
5. TOB: D.  
6. Official position title: Ops Officer.  
8. Current station: Buenos Aires.  
9. Type of appointment: Career; career-provisional. Initial; reassignment supervisor; annual; reassignment employee. Special: 31 May 1966. Special: 13 July 1965–31 Mar 1966.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty no. 1: Operational and administrative management of all Station media activities. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty no. 2: Conduct liaison with local services on Cover Action operations. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty no. 3: Supervise one deep cover agent who operates in the student field. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty no. 4: Spotting, developing, handling and exploiting unilateral assets. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty no. 5: Preparation of operational, contact and dissemination reports. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty no. 6: Preparation of operational programs, projects and briefing papers in the media field.

Overall performance in current position.
