We have recruited into our ranks many persons and some leaders who have over the years worked for the so-called left in the United States. Once they looked into our philosophy and found that the philosophy that has been pumped into their brains over the past several years, they could not resist finding out more. Once the so-called leftist found out that they were lured into the leftist (Red) encampments with drugs, sex—and generally nothing philosophies, they were ready for us.

Once they lived with groups of non-Whites and drug addicts, they found that they wanted nothing to do with the Reds. Most dropped out, began to wonder, returned to Nature and health food diets, and kept their ears and eyes open. When they finally discovered the real Natural elements such as the great outdoors and what could be done for them by sticking to a health food or Natural diet, they never again could think seriously about the so-called leftist philosophy.

They became potential (potentiation) recruits for the Natural Movement, the movement which desires to return to the Natural State of things. The Government had become their enemy, the regular foods their poison, the left became a negative and impossible philosophy.

What next? They became racists, dropouts, and began to wonder in search of their next “high.” Finally, a “high” wasn’t enough and the entire drug culture began to become a shadow of their past. Is there any hope, they began to wonder. Then finally we came along. They read agitators (readagiters) Hein Kampf (Mein Kampf), Rockwell’s White Power, they talked to Nationalists, and they found what they have been searching for for so long.

We invite people with so-called leftist leanings to thoroughly study our program—OBJECTIVELY. We invite leftist revolutionaries to study our Positive Constructive Program and compare it with their negative (negativ) destructive program.

Revolution without cause must cease. Join the Right side and fight for the Natural freedoms all mankind should deserve (desserv).

Why should the alien Jew be the leader you follow? Why should the Spocku (Spock), Bellingers, Kubins, Hoffmans, Apthekers, Mailers, etc., tell you, White America, what it is all about? Do you need the Jew to lead your Revolution?

The left is not our enemy, the Right is not your enemy. The Government is OUR enemy and we must bring this Jewish conspiracy called the Republicans and Democrats (Democrat) to its knees and replace it with a government of the people, by the people, and for the people.
