Final Report of the Assassination Records Review Board.

Record reviewed unilaterally by CIA in 1992.

Subject: Delay in sending the first cable about Oswald's.

1. Much has been written about the delay by the Realize Station in sending the first cable requesting traces on the name Lee Oswald. It was discussed in Dave Phillips' book as a case of lies on the part of the Soviet case officer, which in my view may adjust and unreasonably add that Dave didn't know what he was talking about.

A name trace could have been requested on the basis of the same case, but that wasn't the case. —FBI director J. C. Scatler, p. 758. [It was also part of the "number game" of killing a project by the number of dispatchers, cables or reports produced.]

Same record after Review Board action in 1995.

Subject: Delay in sending the first cable about Oswald's.

1. Much has been written about the delay by the Mexico Station in sending the first cable requesting traces on the name Lee Oswald. It was discussed in Dave Phillips' book as a case of lies on the part of the Soviet case officer, which in my view may adjust and unreasonably add that Dave didn't know what he was talking about).

2. Normally, the Spanish transcript for the 1 October conversation would have been picked up on the morning of the 2nd of October. The Russian language portion would have gone to the Russian/English translator on the 3rd off-Center. No translation would have been returned the following day (14th), at which time the Soviet case officer would be informed for the photographic coverage. That coverage would not have been in the station before the 7th since it was still in the country on the 3rd of October, and no picket up was probably on the 4th, processed and passed to the station on the next work day, which would have been November 1st.

3. Later the film was being put out of the camera every day, but at that time, the film stayed in the camera until a full roll was completed, which might take one or four days.

The Review Board generally released the location of all CIA installations that were relevant to the assassination during the time period between the date of the assassination—November 22, 1963—and the date that the Warren Commission issued its report in September 1964. Finally, the Review Board generally released the location of all CIA installations that appeared in Oswald's 201 file during the time period January 1, 1961 through October 1, 1964. The Review Board did grant CIA a few exceptions to its general rule, and except for the specific time windows described above, the Review Board protected all information that identified CIA installation locations.

The Review Board created substitute language for its postponement of CIA installations to enable researchers to track a particular CIA installation through the JFK collection without revealing the city or country in which it is located. To accomplish this,

The Review Board divided the world into five regions: Western Hemisphere, Western Europe, Northern Europe, East Asia/Pacific, and Africa/Near East/South Asia. Then the Board added a number to refer to each different location in the region. Thus, "CIA Installation in Western Hemisphere 1" serves as a placeholder for a particular installation in all CIA assassination records.

ii. Commentary. Initially, the Review Board released CIA installation locations in CIA documents relevant to Oswald's visit to Mexico City. CIA did not raise significant objections to the Review Board's release of its installations in these records.
