Description of Specific Duties to Be Performed. Rating Number. Description of Specific Duty in a More Comprehensive Manner Than as Specified by the Directors. Rating Number.

a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties.

Oral briefing; giving lectures; conducting seminars; writing technical reports; conducting external liaison; typing; taking dictation; supervising; area knowledge; develops new programs; analyzes industrial reports; manages files; operates radio; coordinates with other offices; writes regulations; prepares correspondence; conducts interrogations; prepares summaries; translates German; debriefing sources; keeps books; drives truck; maintains air conditioning; evaluates significance of data.

b. Rate performance on each specific duty considered as effectively effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.

c. For supervisors, ability to complete the job as specified (do not rate as supervisory those who supervise a secretary only).

d. Consider in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.

e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different scales.

f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are:

1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty.  
2. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty.  
2. Performs this duty acceptably.  
3. Performs this duty in a competent manner.  
4. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.  
5. Excels. Anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Specific Duty No. 1. Rating Number. Specific Duty No. 2. Rating Number.

Specific Duty No. 2. Rating Number. Specific Duty No. 3. Rating Number.

Specific Duty No. 3. Rating Number. Rating Number.

Section C: Suitability for Current Job in Organization.

Directions: Take into account here everything you know about the individual—productivity, conduct in the job, personal characteristics or habits, special defects or talents—and how he fits in with your
