Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the field administrative or personnel officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters.

To the field supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

Kent, Williams M. Ruth Rns 3/7/55.

It is optional, but recommend, or not this fitness report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I.

Duty Agent. Date of birth: 9 May 1929. Sex: M. Service designation: Operations KUFIRE. Grade: D.S.N. Station designation (current): Panama. Due date of this report: 30 November 1954. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 1 June 1954 to 30 November 1954.

Section II (to be completed by field supervisor).

Current position: Operations Officer. Date assumed responsibility for position: 16 June 1952.

Specific assignments or tasks typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months, listed in order of frequency:

1. Navy liaison, including coverage and reporting of strategic materials transiting this area.
2. Water travel control, including reporting of satellite travel through this area, and assisting in air travel control.
3. Development of file material for CE loads and travel control check on persons of CE interest.
4. Cutout for one of the top CP penetrations in the area.
5. Occasional surveillance on persons of interest to the Mission.

Section III (to be completed at headquarters only).

Do not complete — for headquarters use only.

Authentication of report and signatures.

Name of rater (true): Edward L. Anderson. Name of reviewing official in field (true): John H. Jenkins, Jr. This report was or was not shown to the individual being rated. Date report authorized at MOS: 21 JAN 1980.
