24 January 1963: Asked FBI in Miami if, should his Cuban or Russian sources give him a pistol with silencer and microfilm, he would be permitted to return these to his contact so he could be of further use to the U.S. Government. He stated that in August or September 1962 he met a man from Maryland in Mexico City who introduced him to individuals whom he believed may have been Soviet agents.

19 April 1963: Advised FBI in Los Angeles, California, that he had taken his former wife to court for failure to comply with the court order giving NAGELL visitation rights with his children.

4 June 1963: NAGELL appeared at the Outpatient Clinic and was referred to the Neurological Clinic for treatment. His condition was diagnosed as “depression, tearful, nervous, rigid.” Would only utter the words, “Got to see my kids.”

20 September 1963: NAGELL was arrested in El Paso, Texas, on a charge of attempting to rob State National Bank. Slashed his wrist the night of 20 September 1963. NAGELL consistently denied that he had tried to rob the bank; stated that the fact that he fired two shots into the ceiling proved he had not been trying to hit anyone. He stated that he was certain that “all of my problems have been solved for a long time, and now I won’t have to go to Cuba.”

A notebook that the subject had on his person when arrested made reference to the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, the names of purported CIA agents, and other information. His cellmate in jail reported that NAGELL disclosed to him that NAGELL, during a confused period after discharge, decided everything was against him in Los Angeles and made arrangements with the Communist Party in Los Angeles to pick up a visa and passport from a contact in El Paso and eventually end up in Czechoslovakia. NAGELL reportedly attempted suicide three times en route to El Paso (El Passo) but lost his nerve.

It is noteworthy that State Department records reflect issuance of a passport to NAGELL on 7 August 1962 at Los Angeles, California, and that on 9 July 1963 NAGELL signed an affidavit that his passport had been lost or stolen. He was issued a new passport on 6 August 1963.
