Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: SENSTUDY 75  
62-116395

Not intended to have any chilling effect on Seidel's interview and that Phillips was there only upon Sentinella's request and for the purposes indicated. Phillips then retired to an adjoining room.

Sentinella consulted with Phillips on only one occasion. At about 1:45 p.m. he came to Phillips' adjoining office and said that Seidel's current questioning was concerning the make-up of the squad Sentinella was assigned to around 1965. This squad handled security, racial, and civil rights matters, and Seidel was apparently seeking information as to the parameters of these types of investigations and what they entailed. At this point Phillips joined Seidel and Sentinella and offered the following in possible assistance to Seidel.

Phillips explained that the various sections of the Bureau Manuals dealing with these types of investigations had been made available to the SSC and, insofar as the security sections were concerned, there was presently being processed at the Bureau superseded sections dating back to 1960 to be made available to the SSC. At this point Seidel stated he was not so much interested in what the Manuals said but actually wanted Sentinella, to the best of his recollection, to furnish names of individuals and organizations under investigation in Atlanta during the pertinent period.

Sentinella refused to name any, stating that he had no idea as to what might be under current investigation or how his furnishing of information now might affect current Bureau's interests. Sentinella also told Seidel that he, Sentinella, was not so naive as to believe that his information might not appear in the press. Seidel immediately said that he would furnish no information to the press. Sentinella then said that he was not intimating that Seidel would be responsible, but that the information might still be publicized and that once Sentinella gave the information it fell completely out of his control.

Seidel indicated that Sentinella might be required through subpoena to testify before the SSC and be asked the same question. Sentinella responded that his answer before the Committee would be the same. Phillips indicated to Sentinella that if he desired to consult with Phillips concerning the names of any investigations Sentinella recalled, Phillips would assist him by indicating, if he knew, whether they were of current FBI interest. Sentinella desired no such help and insisted to Seidel that he did not desire to name the subjects of prior investigations. This interlude in the formal interview lasted about 10 minutes, after which Phillips returned to the adjoining room.
