NEW ORLEANS, LA.  
STATES-ITEM  
FEBRUARY 24, 1968

Novel “Tired Fighting,” Will Return to N.O.

Gordon Novel, long-sought witness in the Kennedy assassination probe, says he will return to New Orleans.

Novel, a former nightclub owner, left the city abruptly last year when District Attorney Jim Garrison sought to question him. But he said yesterday in Columbus, Ohio, he is “tired of fighting” and will appear before the grand jury here March 7 and 8.

However, Novel said he knows nothing he can tell the jury in connection with Garrison’s allegation that the slaying of President John F. Kennedy was plotted in New Orleans.

“I think it’s time to bring this to a head. I want to have a home and raise a family,” Novel said at a news conference with his wife, former Playboy Bunny (buny) Mulligan.

Garrison contends Novel and Kerry Thornley, the former French Quarter waiter charged yesterday with perjury, both were connected with the federal government here before the assassination. Novel, Garrison has claimed, worked for the Central Intelligence Agency.

Thornley, Garrison said yesterday, was “part of the covert federal operation operating in New Orleans” in 1963, along with Lee (Leo) Harvey Oswald, Thornley’s one-time Marine Corps buddy.

The perjury charge grew out of Thornley’s statements that he never saw Oswald here during 1963.

Garrison contends that persons associated with the CIA killed the President.

In an interview made public yesterday in which Garrison was questioned by a Dutch television reporter, the DA was quoted as saying “the next U.S. President who tries to put the brakes on the war machine” will also be slain.

Garrison was quoted on The Netherlands Television Foundation by Willem Oltmans as saying Kennedy was killed by “elements” of the CIA and the organization then tried to cast suspicion on others.

“This manner of organizing a murder is standard procedure with the CIA,” Garrison was quoted as saying.

Garrison was quoted in the Dutch interview as saying that he had to speak out in Europe “because it is impossible in America.

“The U.S. press is controlled to such an extent by the CIA that we no longer can say the truth. They throttled us,” he was quoted in the broadcast on the program “Panoramiek.”

The television foundation quoted Garrison as saying he assumed President Lyndon B. Johnson knew of the CIA’s alleged involvement because the Warren Commission was comprised of persons Garrison said were favorable to the CIA.
