4. Preference for Next Assignment (continued).

C. Indicate your preference for next assignment by inserting numbers 1, 2 and 3 (for 1st, 2nd and 3rd choice) in the boxes below:

1. Return to my current station.

2. Be assigned to Headquarters for a tour of duty. With respect to possible assignment in Headquarters, indicate choice of component: 1st choice: Domestic Ops; 2nd choice: Division DCS; 3rd choice: Division Staff.

2. Be assigned to another field station. With respect to possible reassignment to another field station, indicate choice of geographic area or specific station, based on qualification: 1st choice: Mexico City; 2nd choice: Guatemala; 3rd choice: Lima.

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments? Number of work days: 30.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents who will be travelling or moving with you: 3, aged 40, 11, and 3 years.

11A. Indicate any change in your personal or family situation which should be considered in determining your next assignment: Eldest daughter attending college in the United States.

12. Signature: Complete Item No. S-1, Transmittal Sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form. To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training:

Supervisor and Chief of Station concur with the employee's expressed desires. While assigned to this Station this employee has made an important contribution to the Station's KUWOLF program, which doubtless will continue to be the case should he be reassigned to this Station.

14. Signature: Complete Item No. S-2, Transmittal Sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form. To be completed by appropriate career service officer or personnel officer at Headquarters.

15. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the component to which he is currently assigned, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training:

Recommend return to Station for second tour of duty.

16. Name of career service officer or personnel officer. Date. Signature: Robert D. Cushman.

For use in career service.

17. Employee has or has not been notified of planned reassignment.

18. Reference dispatch No. HA 1 9/11. Cable No.

19. Type or printed name.

20. Signature.

21. Title.

22. Date.

23. Comments: R.E. Drescher - 2/2/86 - was selected for 2nd tour. T.S. Foust is now on leave from T.S. Foust to do some training. T.S. Foust was on leave from T.S. F.
