Made it clear that he did not have any problem talking to Americans, and named C/O's Dersookian and Becknap whom he had met through J/1.

3. During the conversation, J/1 said he heard an audible “click” which he is sure was the sound of a tape recorder shutting off. J/1 said he ignored the sound, but both his host and hostess were shocked by the noise. J/1 said that Acevedo seemed to be all business that evening, asking questions and leading the conversation. When J/1 phoned him on 13 Sep with a phone number he had requested, Acevedo seemed tense. On 15 Sep, Acevedo came by to see J/1 at his office, again referring to him as his brother. Acevedo was back to his previously friendly self and asked J/1 what he was doing over the weekend, and J/1 said he was very busy. J/1's impression is that he was being tested and that he passed the test. C/O said she would consult the Washington experts and advise J/1 at next meeting, which is scheduled for 1500 on 24 Sep. Would appreciate HQS comments prior to that meeting.

4. During the meeting, Acevedo told J/1 that he wanted the Bible for himself since he was Catholic. He said that previously, party members could not be religious and remain party members. However, things had liberalized to the point where he could now have a Bible. (J/1 did admit that he forgot to ask why, if things were more liberal now, Acevedo could not get his own Bible from Cuba.)

5. J/1 said that based on his assessment of Acevedo, Station would not get far with him using official Americans. He said, however, that a South American businessman interested in trade in Cuba (specifically import/export) would be of interest to Acevedo, as he has expressed an interest in leaving the government and involving himself in business dealings. J/1 assesses Acevedo as being interested in money (hence the interest in business), but still retaining an interest in politics. C/O told J/1 that Station and HQS still had an incomplete picture of Acevedo's personality and that he should continue with his assessment. C/O again tried the ploy of having J/1 write a letter to C/O describing Acevedo as if C/O had never met him. J/1 said he would try to do that.

6. Station assessment of these recent events is twofold. It is likely that Acevedo has reported his contact with C/O's Dersookian and Becknap. It is possible then that a security official insisted that Acevedo confirm his version of the contact with the source of the contact, J/1. The events of 9 Sep would support this theory, especially the obvious agenda and the shock at the mix-up with the tape recorder (this is not a trained professional conducting a test). Another possibility is that this was a test for J/1, a sort of vetting exercise. Since Acevedo came back to J/1 after a short period of time, it would appear that J/1 passed the test. The question remains as to who was able to review the tape in such a short period of time.

MHFNO: 93-3909799
