SF 100-46832

December 2, 1966

Discussion Unlimited, Incorporated (DU), sponsored a meeting December 2, 1966, in the auditorium of Los Angeles Trade College, 700 block, Washington Boulevard, Los Angeles, with from 1,000 to 1,500 people in attendance. The topic of the discussion was “What Will the New Development on the Left Be?” Robert Scheer from “Ramparts” magazine, Eugene Genovese from Rutgers College in New Jersey, and Dorothy Healey from Southern California District CP were the speakers. Healey spoke first, stating that the most important things for the groups on the left to do today were to unite on common grounds and to be critical on grounds where they cannot agree, as well as to give allegiance to the other 14 socialist countries in the world. She described these countries as the hope of the future. Robert Scheer attacked her bitterly, his main contention being that he felt he could not even say he was a socialist because of all the crimes that are committed in the name of socialism. He said he could not align himself with other countries in the socialist world because of the barbaric deeds committed by some of these countries.

He led a vicious attack against the Soviet Union, against the Stalin era, against the crimes that were committed in the Soviet Union against Jewish people and Jewish culture, and against other religious people and intellectuals in the Soviet Union. He made reference to the two writers who had been recently jailed in Russia. In a rebuttal and question-and-answer period, the attack went back and forth, mainly between Genovese and Healey against Scheer for his anti-Soviet Union position. Scheer constantly brought up Hungary, stating that the oppression that went on in Hungary is no different than the oppression of the United States in Vietnam. He also said the Soviet Union is a sick society just as the U.S. is a sick society, and he is quite sure that the workers in each society are not much aware of or care about the relative difference of the sickness.

SF T-30, on 12/9/66  
SF T-31, on 12/13/66
