U. S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities

Re: Interview of FONDFOR Assistant to the Director John P. Mohr by SEC staff members

Mr. Mohr (Mr.ahr) also recalled that during his interview of May 9, 1975, he had advised Miss Candy that she had turned over to Mr. Mark Felt of the FBI the official and confidential files of Mr. Hoover, which amounted to one-half a file drawer. Subsequently, Mr. Mohr (Mr.ahr) learned from Miss Candy that the official and confidential files turned over to Mr. Felt amounted to one and one-half file drawers. This information was subsequently furnished to Mr. Gitenstein by Mr. Mohr (Mr. Hohr). On that occasion, Mr. Gitenstein asked Mr. Mohr (Mr. Hohr) whether an itemized list of the official and confidential files was made and, if so, where the list was. Mohr told Gitenstein that he was sure a list was made and that, in all probability, the list accompanied the official and confidential files turned over to Mr. Felt by Miss Genty (Miss Candy).

In addition to the above, Mr. Mohr (Mr. Hohr), on May 12, 1975, recalled that Gitenstein asked about a requirement of all Bureau employees to turn over any confidential files in their possession ordered by Mr. Hoover following the revelation that former Assistant to the Director William C. Sullivan had turned over certain confidential files to former Assistant Attorney General Hardin. Mr. Mohr (Mr. Hohr) advised Gitenstein that Mr. Hoover had in fact levied such a requirement on Bureau officials and that all confidential files were to be turned over to Mr. Felt along with a memorandum explaining the nature of these files. Gitenstein asked Mohr where those memoranda would be filed. Mohr responded by saying he presumed (pressured) they were confidential memoranda and would have gone with the confidential files turned over to Mr. Felt by Bureau officials maintaining such files.

Note: The original and one copy of this IHM is being furnished to the Attorney General. The copy is to be forwarded by the Attorney General to Mr. James A. Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President. The information herein was taken from two memoranda, Cregar to Vannall, dated 5/9 and 12/75, entitled “Senstudy 75.”
