U. Panel Sources

1. Definition

See page 3 of this section.

2. Background Investigation and Approval

a. Check prospective panelists through office indices, canvass logical informants, and review appropriate credit, arrest, and military records.

b. If no pertinent derogatory information is developed, initial contact may be made with a prospective panelist to ascertain the person's cooperativeness; however, in regard to individuals associated with educational institutions, be guided by current instructions concerning investigations on campuses.

c. Submit a letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use the individual as a panel source and set out the following information:

(1) Results of the required background investigation and data as to date and place of birth, citizenship status if foreign born, and residence and employment addresses.

(2) Details of the expected area of activity of the individual as a panel source, together with results of any interviews conducted with him.

(3) A statement to the effect that the subject is being considered as a panel source and that he will be advised he is not a Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relationship with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should be made that you will be alert to be certain the subject is not a plant, and if he is connected with a labor union or educational institution, he will be advised of Bureau policy on such matters.

d. One of the required copies of the letter requesting authority to use a subject as a panel source should consist only of the first page of the letter. If the request is approved at the Bureau, a stamped notation will be placed on the single-page copy, and it will be returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to consider the subject as a panel source.

3. Administrative Handling

a. Handle notes, statements, and exhibits of panelists in the same manner as other evidence. As panelists may subsequently become security informants, the same procedure should be followed in handling, processing, and reporting data and material furnished by panelists as is afforded that received from security informants.

b. Payments for legitimate expenses incurred and services rendered should be handled in the same manner as payments to security informants. Gifts should not be given to panel sources since such actions might be misconstrued.

c. Open a 134 file when active investigation of a prospective panelist is initiated. After the Bureau has approved a panelist, close the file administratively if the panelist is not contacted regularly. Regular contacts with panelists should be noted in their respective files.

d. Only agents designated in the particular case should contact panelists.

e. Every six months submit a letter of justification (FD-401) to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to the panel source. See section 130G, item 2b, of this manual for the form of the letter. If the source is not being paid on Bureau authorization, the agent handling the source must prepare a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters.

f. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem exists or if typing would be saved. Use the abbreviation “PS” before the symbol number; e.g., PS NY 000-S.

g. Designate, where practicable, a coordinating agent to maintain a roster of current panel sources and a current list of scheduled organization activities, who will notify agents handling individual panelists of scheduled organizational functions to be covered. The coordinating agent receives notice of coming events from agents handling organization cases, security informants, and publications.

h. Advise the Bureau of the date when the panel source is discontinued and the reasons therefor.
