Lobby, the agents noticed that the JAFFEES were very observant of persons in the lobby. In view of the late hour, few people were in the lobby.

At 12:32 A.M., SA GRUENTZEL observed Mr. and Mrs. JAFFEE come out of the Connecticut Avenue exit of the hotel and, after looking up and down Connecticut Avenue, walk south on Connecticut Avenue to L Street, N. W. At this time, SA ACHENBACH joined the foot surveillance of Agent GRUENTZEL. They observed the JAFFEES crossing Connecticut Avenue at L Street and disappear from view going west on L Street. Approximately two minutes later, SA ACHENBACH observed Mr. and Mrs. JAFFEE in a doorway located on the L Street side of a business establishment at the intersection of L Street and Connecticut Avenue, N. W. He observed that they were looking intently through the plate glass windows of the store in the direction of the Mayflower Hotel. At this point, Agent ACHENBACH, who was standing on a streetcar platform at the corner of L Street and Connecticut Avenue, N. W., boarded a southbound streetcar. Mr. and Mrs. JAFFEE were next observed by SA SCHULLY and GRUENTZEL running across L Street to the south side and walking west on L Street to 18th Street. After reaching 18th Street, they re-crossed to the north side of L Street and returned to the Mayflower Hotel via L Street and Connecticut Avenue, N. W. They entered the Mayflower Hotel at 12:42 A.M. Surveillance was discontinued at this time upon receipt of information from SA McGEARY to the effect that Mr. and Mrs. JAFFEE were possibly “newspaper people.”

After Mr. and Mrs. JAFFEE alighted from the taxicab in front of the Mayflower Hotel, SA McGEARY located and interviewed the cab driver, ROBERT S. DAVIS, at 17th and M Streets, N. W. DAVIS informed SA McGEARY that immediately after picking up the couple at 16th & R Streets, N. W., they informed him that they were “newspaper people” and that they had spent the evening with a “couple of Russians” and that they probably would be followed. The cab driver stated further that he asked the couple if he should try to “lose them.” Mrs. JAFFEE replied, “Yes, if you can.” DAVIS also advised SA McGEARY that Mr. and Mrs. JAFFEE were attempting to obtain license numbers, but that he did not think they were successful. He stated that he himself had not been able to detect any surveillance.

After Mrs. JAFFEE had purchased the cigarettes in the hotel and had departed with her husband, SA KENOYER asked the night manager at the hotel desk whether he was acquainted with the couple and whether they were registered at the hotel. The night manager replied that he did not know.
