SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS

2. Identification orders, wanted flyers, check circulars, and apprehension orders

Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of individuals and organizations to which identification orders, wanted flyers, check circulars, and apprehension orders are to be sent. Each field office must review annually its mailing list in order to see that no data is sent to firms which have ceased business or have merged with other organizations. A survey should be conducted by Agents each year by every office, at the time the field office mailing list is purged, to determine whether additional names of individuals and businesses should be added to the field office mailing list.

a. Addressograph plates are to be prepared at the Bureau upon receipt of field request. (The Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is used rather than name of incumbent.

b. Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on the list.

(1) The quality of the assistance the addressee is in a position to give.

(2) The cooperation which has been afforded.

(3) The following must appear on the list:

Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division
Bureau of Customs
Cooperative Credit Bureaus
Duly Constituted Law Enforcement Officers
FBINA Graduates
Hotels
Immigration and Naturalization Service

(4) The following may appear on the list:

Automobile Clubs
Banks
Car Rental Agencies
County Attorneys
County Coroners
Credit Companies
Detective Agencies
Enlistment Officers, U. S. Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps
Employment Service
Fire Departments
Forest Service
Gunsmiths
Insurance Companies
Movie Studios
Missions Providing Lodging
Post Office Inspectors
Postmasters
Salvation Army
Secret Service
U. S. Marshals
Navy Shore Patrol
Oil Company Special Agents
Parole and Probation Officers
Plant Quarantine Officers
Protective Associations
Race Tracks
Savings and Loan Associations
Service Recruiting Officers
State Employment Offices
State Hospitals for Insane
Steamship Companies
Telegraph Companies
U. S. Attorneys
U. S. Commissioners

c. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. Should a compelling reason exist for distribution of an identification order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for such distribution.

d. Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels.

e. Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribution to VA installations in such cases.
