Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in agency personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The agency selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career service; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the administrative or personnel officer: Consult current administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report.

To the supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate with his previous supervisors to ensure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he should be kept abreast.

Reviewed by PUD.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I (To be filled in by Administrative Officer).

1. Name (Last): BOEL, James A. First: James A. Boel. Middle: James A. Boel.
2. Date of birth: 19 March 1913.
3. Sex: M.
4. Career designation: SD-DI.
5. Date of employment on duty: 15 August 1944.
6. Office assigned to: DDP.
7. Division: WH.
8. Branch: I.
9. Nature of assignment: Defense Metal [AE Field]; Defense Metal [AF Field].
10. If field, specify station: Caracas, Venezuela.
12. Date that this report is due: 10 October 1955.
13. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 16 July 1954–10 October 1955.

Section II (To be filled in by Supervisor).

1. Current position: Branch Chief.
2. Date assumed responsibility for position: 20 January 1956.
3. What specific assignments or tasks are typical of those given to him during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency): Branch Chief: Under Division Chief, plans and supervises performance of all covert espionage and CE operations, covert political, economic and psychological warfare activities in area of responsibility, and the collection of foreign clandestine intelligence in the area. Reviews all projected and current FI and FP operations with desk officers; provides guidance to desk officers on FI and FP operations matters; supervises processing and dissemination of foreign clandestine intelligence information collected in area; makes recommendations to Division Chief of any change in projects, organization or procedures in order to achieve maximum effectiveness; responsible for general administration and supervision of Branch personnel at Headquarters.

This officer was Chief of a major station for part of the period under review.

Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item.

Section III.
