Sometime later, Bob suggested to an officer in the CIA's executive suite that the Agency should help the South American country obtain a channel in the international satellite communications network, Comsat. Always the secretive operator, Bob did not explain why the Agency should do this, and the other CIA man replied that CIA, after all, was not the American foreign aid program; and whether or not this particular country received a Comsat channel did not seem to be a matter concerning CIA. Only later did the executive suite officer learn from other sources that FI/D had worked out a deal with the South American country in which liaison would be restored in return for a Comsat channel (which CIA would intercept). But Bob could not bring himself to share his scheme with a fellow Agency employee in the Director's office.

Eventually, the South American country received the Comsat channel; the country restored liaison with FI/D; and CIA again had access to all of that country's secret messages.

Bob's job with FI/D is by no means one of the dirtiest jobs in the Clandestine Services. There are operators in the paramilitary fields who probably conceive and carry out more distasteful machinations. But Bob is in a position where, on a regular basis, he misrepresents himself and even lies within the U.S. government—not to mention the deceit he and his colleagues perpetrate on friendly foreign governments which in good faith enter into liaison agreements with FI/D.

Bob X is one of these ordinary-looking people who mow their lawn, love their wives, and do some very nasty things for the CIA.

Two

Two other devoted family men who lived in suburban Washington homes similar to Bob X's are named James McCord and E. Howard Hunt. Both had long, relatively successful careers with the CIA and rose to roughly the same upper-middle level of the bureaucracy as Bob X has. McCord was a CIA security officer, specializing in protecting the Agency's physical facilities. Hunt was an operator who played a leading role in the Bay (Bav) of Pigs and who took part
