Newton points out that this sick mentality goes deeper than an economic system. It is a psychology that must be rooted out of the white man's race before the blacks can live in a society with white people. Thus, when Stokely Carmichael said that socialism is not meant for black people, he did not mean that he approved of what the capitalist system of economics was doing to the black communities. What he was saying is that even with an economic system that provided for all the people, if there were still racism, the black man would not be able to live as a man.

The Europeans raped Africa economically and took the black men as slaves to America. The black man has, to this day, not been treated as an equal to the white man—in any way. As was pointed out above, even after the Emancipation Proclamation the black man was not given his economic and political rights. In fact, after Reconstruction, the Southern politicians convinced the Northern politicians that the Black legislators (who had insignificant power anyway) should not maintain even that token status. And, as can be seen in the electoral struggles going on in black communities in the South today—the politicians still won't even allow the token representation!

As James Baldwin said, “To be black and conscious in America is to be in a constant state of rage.” The whites cannot know what it is like to live as a black man in America—in white society. What we can know is the nature of the conditions that must be changed to give the black man his long overdue human rights.

Why Free Huey Newton?

1. The Political Reasons. Huey P. Newton is a political prisoner. He is in jail today, accused of killing an Oakland policeman, not because he committed this crime, which he did not, but because he is the Minister of Defense of the Black Panther Party. Since the inception of the Party the Oakland police have tried to harass it out of existence. As the Party became stronger, the police tactics became more vicious. The police have long had the license numbers and descriptions of all the cars driven by members of the Black Panther Party.

On the night of October 28, 1967, Police Officer Frey steered an automobile which he knew to be a car on the list of those driven by Black Panthers. He stopped the car for an alleged traffic violation, the nature of which has never been disclosed. In his testimony before the Grand Jury, Officer Heanes, the police officer who was summoned by Frey to come to his assistance after he stopped the Panther car, said that Newton DID NOT HAVE A GUN. Attorney Charles Garry has indicated that the evidence points to the real possibility that both officers fired at each other and Officer Heanes' bullets killed Officer Frey.

The police have always, in the black community, claimed the right to exercise indiscriminate violence. It was for this reason that the Black Panther Party was originally formed. Before October 28th the Oakland police had harassed Newton on numerous occasions and had threatened his life. On October 28 Newton was arrested and shot in the stomach because he stood for change in the black community.

The black community knows that Huey Newton and the Panthers have raised a crucial issue—control of black communities by black people. They recognize that it is the police who perpetrate violence on a daily basis in order to maintain their illegitimate control over
