33. CIA Development of Indonesian Government Sources in the United States

In May 1958, CIA furnished identifying and background data concerning three individuals—Indonesian Government and assigned to the United States. had been developed as a source of information by CIA in. came to CIA in Washington, D.C., and volunteered his services. had been developed as a source by CIA and had been furnishing some information to the Agency. In a letter dated June 24, 1958, we told CIA that in the case of, we felt that the Agency should have notified us at an earlier date in order that we could have considered exploitation for internal security purposes at the outset. (Re: Indonesian Activities—100-254749)

34. Michal Goleniewski (Golniewski), AKA Dr. Heinrich Schutze

The subject, a former member of the Polish Intelligence Service, defected to the United States and furnished extremely valuable information. The beginnings of this case include information raising questions concerning CIA cooperation.

In June 1958, we developed information indicating that CIA may have opened a letter in Switzerland which had been addressed to the Director by an individual who had identified himself as Dr. Heinrich Schutze. The writer further indicated that he might be connected with the Polish intelligence service. The letter addressed to the Director had been placed in an envelope which, in turn, had ended up in the office of the United States Ambassador in Switzerland. We subsequently received a copy of the particular communication from CIA, and the contents were such at that time that no action was required by the Bureau. We asked CIA for particulars leading to the alleged opening of the letter which had been addressed to the Director. CIA claimed that it had not opened the letter. We were confidentially informed by an Agency representative that the Ambassador had opened the letter and then referred the matter to CIA. The contents were such that investigative action of an extensive nature was required by CIA in Europe. What actually happened at the United States Embassy is something we may never know. (Michal Goleniewski—65-65192)
