G. Internal Security Act of 1950 (Public Law 831, 81st Congress, Chapter 1024, Second Session; Title 50, USC, §§ 781–816; Public Law 237, 90th Congress)

The Internal Security Act of 1950 became effective on 9-23-50. The act generally provides for the registration of communist-action and communist front organizations; amends the obstruction of justice statute; implements the espionage and sabotage statutes and various immigration and naturalization regulations; prohibits contributing to the establishment of a totalitarian dictatorship; and provides for the detention of individuals in the case of an emergency. It was amended effective 1-2-68 to delete the requirement that communist organizations and their members register themselves with the Attorney General, a procedure ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court on the grounds that such action violated the constitutional rights against self-incrimination. The amended provisions provide that, upon petition by the Attorney General, the Subversive Activities Control Board would hold quasi-judicial hearings and would determine whether the individuals and organizations cited were communist. The Subversive Activities Control Board would instruct the Attorney General to maintain a public list of individuals found to be members of communist-action organizations and of groups found to be communist-action, communist front, or communist-infiltrated organizations.

The following provisions of the Internal Security Act of 1950 appear elsewhere in this manual:

Espionage — Provisions of I.S.A. §§ 4b, c, d, e, f, 13, 19; 1950 Manual reference: § 36.  
Excludable aliens — Provisions of I.S.A. § 22; 1950 Manual reference: § 105.  
Sabotage — Provisions of I.S.A. § 21; 1950 Manual reference: § 86.  
Obstruction of justice — Provisions of I.S.A. § 31; 1950 Manual reference: § 76.

Sections 23–30 of the Internal Security Act of 1950 deal with immigration and naturalization matters which are under the primary jurisdiction of Immigration and Naturalization Service.

This section of the manual is limited to the remaining provisions of the Internal Security Act pertaining to communist-action organizations, communist front organizations, contributing to the establishment of a totalitarian dictatorship, and the prevention of individuals in the case of an emergency.

1. Communist-action organizations

a. Definition — Title 50, USC, § 782 (3)

“The term ‘Communist-action organization’ means any organization in the United States (other than a diplomatic representative or mission of a foreign government accredited as such by the Department of State) which (i) is substantially directed, dominated, or controlled by the foreign government or foreign organization controlling the world Communist movement referred to in section 781 of this title, and (ii) operates primarily to advance the objectives of such world Communist movement as referred to in said section.”

b. Deleted.

c. Deleted.

d. Factors to be considered by the Subversive Activities Control Board in determining whether an organization is a communist-action organization (Title 50, USC, § 792 (c))

“(1) the extent to which its policies are formulated and carried out and its activities performed, pursuant to directives or to effectuate the policies of the foreign government or foreign organization in which it vested, or under the domination or control of which it exercised, the direction and control of the world Communist movement referred to in section 781 of this title; and”
