PRESS STATEMENT

Since FBI Chief J. Edgar Hoover issued a statement on July 15, 1970, calling the Black Panther Party the greatest threat to the national security of America and the history of the United States, his main task has been to liquidate the Black Panther Party by murder, imprisonment, and frame-ups.

August 10, 1970, Tony Norman, Robert Smith, Ronnie Irvin, Delphine McRay (Mc Ray), and Teddy Robertson, all members of the N.C.C.F., were viciously attacked and brutally beaten by members of the Detroit Police Department. The excuse used this time by the D.P.D. to so-called justify the attack stemmed from an accusation made by the officer on the beat at the corners of State and Woodward that Linda Laura, also a member of the N.C.C.F., had thrown something, paper, onto the sidewalk. Linda told him that she had not. The officer said, “Either pick up the paper or I’ll give you a ticket for littering.” Then he radioed for reinforcement and proceeded to arrest the sister. Thirty stormtroopers answered the call to arrest one sister. Tony, Teddy, Ronnie, Robert, and Delphine, along with other people, went over to find out just what was going on. After finding out, they began to relate to the people around them the injustice taking place. The stormtroopers immediately attacked them, beating them with their fists, billy clubs, and blackjacks. As they fell, the beating continued. They were stomped and kicked, nearly unconscious. These brothers and sisters protected themselves as best they could, but all with the exception of Linda were taken to the 1st Precinct. After reaching the 1st Precinct, Ronnie was again beaten.

All five were thrown into cells and not informed of their charges. Tony and Teddy were hospitalized with cuts and bruises received during the beating. Teddy received 13 stitches to the head and right hand. Tony has a possible concussion.

We realize that this act of aggression against these members of the Detroit N.C.C.F. is part and parcel of J. Edgar Hoover’s preplanned liquidation of the Black Panther Party by any means necessary. They believe that these attacks will discourage us in our struggle for liberation, but we will not be discouraged. It only shows more clearly that our struggle is just and very necessary.

As #7 of the Black Panther Party Platform and Program states: “We want an immediate end to police brutality and murder of Black people.”

All Power to the People

Detroit N.C.C.F.
