(b) Where potential dangerousness of a subject has been established and inclusion of that subject in the security index is warranted, the office of origin shall submit a recommendation for inclusion in the security index by submitting Form FD-122 to the Bureau. The form must be prepared in triplicate. The original and one copy shall be forwarded to the Bureau, and one copy will be placed in the subject’s investigative case file.

Nothing should appear on Form FD-122 or subsequently on the security index card which is not in the subject’s case file. Form FD-122 has two uses: (1) to recommend a subject for inclusion in the security index and (2) to submit changes to data which appears on the face of security index cards already existent.

Prior selection should be made in the opening paragraph option. FD-122 is submitted with an abstract when used to recommend the subject for inclusion in the security index and without an abstract when used to indicate additions, deletions, or changes in data appearing on existing cards.

(c) When Form FL 722 is submitted to the Bureau recommending inclusion of a name in the security index, attach an additional page or pages setting out a succinct summary of facts on which the recommendation has been based. Facts must be in detail to clearly reflect the soundness of the recommendation. Statements of conclusion are not enough, and original sources must be characterized as to reliability. The summary must contain pertinent dates of the subject’s activities.

(d) When, at the conclusion of the investigation, the subject’s name is not being recommended for the security index, set out a brief summary statement in the cover page or pages accompanying the closing report, showing reasons for the decision.

(e) Security index cards shall be recommended by and maintained by the office of origin only.

(f) A current report must be in possession of the Bureau when a subject is recommended for the security index. If it is the initial report in the case, it must be a summary report. If, however, prior investigative reports have been submitted which are suitable for dissemination and are appropriately documented, a summary report need not be submitted.

(g) To assure that a subject recommended for the security index will receive proper attention, the case shall be kept in pending or pending-inactive status until the security index card has been received from the Bureau and filed in the office security index. If the case continues in pending status because of outstanding investigation, reports shall carry a lead to follow authorization of the security index card by the Bureau in addition to other leads. If the outstanding investigation has been completed and the case would otherwise be closed upon submission of the report and Form FD-122, the case shall be placed in pending-inactive status with a lead to follow authorization of the security index card by the Bureau. In the latter instance, upon receipt of the Bureau’s response, the case may be closed administratively.

(h) Recommendation for a security index card should not be delayed because of absence of information concerning race, sex, citizenship, date and place of birth, or description where a security index card is warranted. In such instances, the recommendation for the card should be submitted with a current report, and the case retained in pending status with active investigation continuing to determine the missing items of information.
