(B) During the first contact, the interviewing Agent will introduce himself as a Special Agent of the FBI by use of credentials or badge and will open the conversation by using an appropriate pretext or by reciting the Bureau's responsibilities in the security field and asking the subject whether he can be of assistance to the Government. If the individual has been a member of a basic revolutionary organization and indicates he might cooperate, he may be questioned during the initial contact about his own activities in order to further ascertain the extent to which he will cooperate. This original interview is for the sole purpose of allowing the Agent to determine whether the individual being interviewed might be cooperative.

(e) Prior Bureau authority

I. Subjects of active current investigations where no interview with prior Bureau authority has previously been conducted.

II. Closed cases where the subject is on the security index and no prior interview has been conducted.

III. Subjects of investigations requested by the Bureau, both open and closed, such as applicant-type cases, loyalty cases, etc.

IV. Any persons where circumstances indicate a delicate situation exists and a greater than usual risk is involved, such as individuals employed in the newspaper field, educational field, radio and television industry, religious field, publishing houses, labor leaders, and the like. Bureau authority must be requested with respect to situations of this kind even though prior interviews have been had with these interviewees.

V. Security subjects who have publicly disclosed previous contacts.

VI. Subjects of section A reserve index cards.

In any of the above cases, no report need be submitted when requesting Bureau authority to interview a subject of a security investigation except those persons under IV above. This does not relieve you of the responsibility of submitting reports in security cases when due; e.g., annual reports in routine security index cases and six-month reports in key figure cases.

VII. The request for Bureau authority for the interview should be set forth in the first paragraph of the letter and unless you are recommending a special manner or procedure for conducting the interview, the first paragraph should contain the following statements:

“Bureau authority is requested to interview subject in accordance with existing instructions relating to interviews of security subjects. If this subject is cooperative, no affirmative steps will be taken during the initial interview to direct his activities and complete background investigation required by section 107C of the Manual of Instructions is being conducted and Bureau will be requested to authorize recontact with subject as a PSI.”

The above statement in no way precludes interviewing Agents during initial contacts and recontacts from obtaining all subversive information subject is willing to furnish or other data which will assist in determining his potentialities as an informant.
