1. Name of subject or title of incident: Fromer, David Reed. SSVC registrant, SSN 564 58 8137. Date of birth: 21 July 1942. Place of birth: Chicago, Illinois.

2. Date submitted: 29 November 1966.

4. Report of findings.

(Subject interview) On 21 November 1966, David Reed Fromer, student, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, with residence at 140 Langdon Street, Madison, and with permanent mailing address at Khonda Way, Mill Valley, California, was contacted at the Armed Forces Entrance and Examination Station, 1509 Clay Street, Oakland, California. It was explained to Fromer that it is the policy of the Department of the Army to interview all persons who refuse to fill out their DD Form 98, Personnel Security Questionnaire, and qualify their DD Form 398, Statement of Personal History, at the time they are called upon for processing under the conscription laws of the United States. Subject was informed that the purpose of the interview was to give him the opportunity to furnish an explanation concerning his reasons for refusing to fill out and qualify the above-mentioned forms and to furnish any additional information which might be useful in making a determination of his case. Fromer was advised of his rights under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and Article 31, Uniform Code of Military Justice. He was further advised of his right to legal counsel concerning the interview. Fromer refused to be interviewed under oath or make any statement concerning the above-mentioned forms, based upon his rights under the First and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States. Subject only stated that he had formerly made application for conscientious objection, that his right of appeal had been denied by the United States District Court on 13 October 1966, and that his lawyers had initiated action to have the appeal heard by a higher court. Subject further indicated that he did not wish to make a statement because his personal attorney, Peter Franck, and a family attorney, Vincent Hallinan, were not available at this time to speak in his behalf.

Agent's notes: Subject is presently enrolled at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, and will not be available for further contact in this area. Fromer declined to sign a statement in verification of the opportunity given him to be interviewed concerning his qualification of DD Form 398 and refusal to fill out DD Form 98.

5. Typed name and organization of special agent: Eric E. McKnight, 115th MI Gp (I).

6. Signature of special agent: Eric E. McKnight.
