(Seventh Department – January 1962–January 1964)

Nosenko described the various ways he had tested suspicions of Shakhov in Geneva. He gave Shakhov disinformation and then watched for an indication that he passed it on to his American contacts. Shakhov was told to perform countersurveillance tasks during a meeting by Nosenko with an imaginary agent, while other KGB officers checked for signs that Shakhov had forewarned the Americans about the meeting. Finally Nosenko revealed to Shakhov the location of a KGB dead drop and checked five days later to see whether the specially prepared materials emplaced had been disturbed in any way. Nosenko’s conclusion was that Shakhov was absolutely free of suspicion, and it was his intention to report this finding when he returned to KGB Headquarters from Geneva.

Comment: Currently in the United States, Shakhov is still “under suspicion,” according to a sensitive source.

Security Escort Officer for Soviet Disarmament Delegation

Nosenko said that he was the sole KGB officer with the 94-man Soviet delegation to the Disarmament Conference and as such he was responsible for the security and behavior of the entire delegation. KGB officers I.S. Mayorov and M.S. Tsymbal came with the delegation to Geneva, but they had left Geneva before Nosenko made the foregoing statement to CIA. To assist him in carrying out his security functions, Nosenko had the services of a number of coopted informants of the KGB who were serving in the delegation. Nosenko has never reported what, if any, security checks he ran on the delegates in his charge, or what, if any, information his informants provided him.

Nosenko has never been precise about how he spent his days and nights in Geneva, but he has indicated that he disposed of his time as he saw fit, and for the most part had little to do. He explained in 1962 that he could come and go as he pleased because Ambassador Zorin knew who he was, as did most of the delegation. No one paid him any attention. It was known that he was not really a Ministry of Foreign Affairs officer, and he could absent himself from conference meetings at any time.
