Press Release

On July 15, 1979, FBI Chief J. Edgar Hoover issued a statement calling the E.P.P. the greatest threat to the national security of America in the history of the nation. Days after this statement, members of the Detroit Police Department viciously attacked three members of the N.C.O.F. here.

Malik and William McClure and Tommy Ward were helping to paint the home of Mrs. Earlene McClure (mother of Malik and William). When they ran out of paint, Malik and William volunteered to get more. They were three doors (DCORS) from the house when 50 stormtroopers stopped them and demanded a car registration. When this was produced, they complained that it was unclear and said that the brothers were lying. This was enough for them to handcuff the brothers.

The two brothers tried (TRYED) to clarify the issue and were hit in the head with guns and clubs. By this time, Mrs. McClure and Tommy had come out of the house. When Tommy came out on the porch, the racist dogs turned on him. Mrs. McClure was attacked when she went over to find out what was happening to her sons.

Mrs. McClure, Malik, Tommy, and William protected themselves as best they could, but all were brutally beaten. Malik suffered severe head wounds, internal bleeding, and bruises over the face and upper part of his body. Tommy suffered unconsciousness and bruises on the face and head; he has four stitches (STICHES). William and his mother received cuts and lacerations (LAGERATIONS).

All three brothers were charged with resisting arrest and obstruction of “justice” and released on $500.00 bonds. We recognize this most recent act of brutality as an intricate part of the preplanned attempt to destroy the Black Panther Party (BLACK FOTHER PARTY) and its organizational bureaus. Fred Hampton said in 1969 that you can kill a revolutionary, but you can’t kill the revolution. We will continue to resist the genocidal policies (POLICYS) of this corrupt system. We will not stop feeding hungry children or providing clothing for our people. The murderers (MURDERES) of America know that we are trying to establish a free medical clinic in Detroit, and they think they can stop us with their foul acts. Our answer to these attacks is the same—we want an immediate end to police brutality and murder, or the racist dog policemen will face the wrath of an armed people.

All power to the people!
