Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This officer's performance over the past year has been outstanding. He is a skilled professional records manager, an indefatigable worker and a highly imaginative and efficient supervisor. Since his last Fitness Report he has directed a TDY team of records officers in a concentrated program of records reduction. He devised the program and supervised its execution with most effective results. This officer is a driver and a doer. He constantly strives to improve the Station's records management posture and follows up with procedures designed to maintain the gains achieved by his efforts. It is highly gratifying and stimulating to work with him. He sees the broad dimensions of the task at hand and focuses constantly on improving the system. This quality convinces the rater that he is capable of greater responsibilities in a position of broader scope. I recommend that Headquarters begin to plan for the utilization of this officer on the completion of his tour of duty in Rome. He should be placed in a Headquarters position in which his skills and broad experience can be fully used and in which he can achieve the professional growth of which he is both capable and deserving.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 17 July 1972. Signature of employee: /s/ James S. Woods.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 17 July 1972. Official title of supervisor: Admin Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Thomas McKinley.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official. I concur in the comments of the rating officer and believe the overall outstanding rating is well deserved. Subject is a first-rate Records Management officer—deeply interested in his work, conscientious in the extreme and always looking for an innovative approach that will
