SECTION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATION

D. INVESTIGATIONS OF INDIVIDUALS—POLICY AND OBJECTIVES

1. Definitions

Following organizations are examples of “basic revolutionary organizations”:

a. Communist Party, USA

b. Socialist Workers Party

c. Progressive Labor Party

d. Proletarian Party of America

e. Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico

f. Revolutionary Union

Black nationalist extremists and members of Puerto Rican nationalist groups and Puerto Rican subversive pro-independence groups, although technically not members of basic revolutionary organizations, should be investigated under the same rules. (See section 122, volume IV, of this manual.)

2. FBI responsibility

To conduct thorough investigations into the background and activities of all persons in the U.S. and Puerto Rico who are dangerous or potentially dangerous to internal security. Each SAC is responsible for investigation of persons in his area who, because of membership or affiliation with basic revolutionary organizations or other Marxist revolutionary organizations, including splinter groups, may be potentially dangerous.

3. Purposes of investigation

a. Determination of dangerousness

To determine the identity, whereabouts, and activities of all individuals in the U.S. and Puerto Rico who, because of their membership in, activity in, or association with one or more revolutionary groups or related groups, are dangerous or potentially dangerous to internal security; collection of sufficient information concerning their subversive activities to intelligently evaluate the extent of investigation needed.

b. Determination of violations of Federal statutes

To determine the identity, whereabouts, and activities of all individuals who have been or may be violating laws of the U.S.

(1) Direct investigation to obtain admissible evidence to establish violation.

(2) Be alert for violation of Federal statutes relating to espionage, sabotage, and sedition.

4. Individuals to be investigated

Exercise sound judgment and discretion in evaluating the importance and dangerousness of individuals or affiliates. Investigate activities of any individual falling within one or more of the following conditions who does not come within restrictions on investigations listed under 87D, item 5, below:

a. Membership in basic revolutionary organizations subsequent to 1-1-49

b. Espousing line of revolutionary movements

Espousal encompasses a wide variety and range of activities. Actual membership in a basic revolutionary organization is not a prerequisite. Espousal may be expressed by membership or active participation in subversive front groups. Open an investigation in every instance in which the subject is actively engaged in the affairs of a subversive front organization in a leadership capacity or by active participation in furtherance of the aims and purposes of front organizations. Do not open on mere membership in a front organization unless there is past membership at any time in a basic revolutionary organization or other subversive derogatory information.

c. Special training

(1) Training in subversive movement abroad

(2) Leadership training in basic revolutionary organization

d. Military service

(1) Service in Abraham Lincoln Brigade; membership in basic revolutionary organization not prerequisite

(2) Service in military forces of any country, including U.S. armed forces, whenever individual has ever been a member of a basic revolutionary organization

4-13-72
