7. Mr. Aaron asked about the extent to which we kept the ambassador informed on our activities in the West German field. We replied that the ambassador saw virtually all reporting and therefore knew where sources were located, but that as a rule we did not clear individual contacts with him, making reference to the “sources and methods” provision of our regulation and statutory provisions. We pointed out that each case was treated separately, but that the ambassador and embassy consulates had not been interested in developmental contact with younger political figures outside the Bonn area. On the other hand, he was clearly quite concerned with the Foreign Ministry, with the result that we generally assumed a hands-off attitude on FOMMIN.

8. Mr. Aaron inquired regarding station case officer strength and was given the figures cited in the position report dated October 1974, forwarded by TM dated 25 September 1974. We explained that the breakdown was somewhat arbitrary and said that, for a number of officers—those engaged in liaison, support, and analysis, for instance—it was not always easy to categorize their efforts.

9. He probed in some detail on our NOC strength, and we answered candidly. Mr. Aaron seemed surprised at the small number of NOC officers in the station and said he had heard the opinion from some CIA officers that NOC was preferable to official cover. We said we felt this depended on location and circumstances and that here in Germany Army cover was readily available, generally quite satisfactory, and cost considerably less than NOC cover. Aaron asked several questions regarding the reasons we would put an officer in Germany under NOC. We explained that NOC was primarily used for personnel we planned to keep assigned to Germany for several years, where NOC was probably more secure, and in instances where it provided better access. When he pushed for further examples, we mentioned that we had recently considered putting an officer under student cover in Heidelberg, where official Chinese students represented a significant target, but that this plan was dropped for administrative reasons. We made no mention of using journalist cover and did not identify any cover firms by name.

10. Aaron asked Stiggins which of what Aaron envisaged as three principal duties took most time. Aaron outlined the COS’s duties as management of the station, embassy responsibilities, and coordination of military intelligence activities. Stiggins said management of
