MHENO: 98-0650682

SENS IND: RYBAT

At Concorde Nightclub (0030-0330). Subj paid for drinks. His spouse may return to Addis circa early May. Subj said he was distancing himself from Egyptian businessman Safah (phonetic) and added, “Before I leave Addis, I have a lot to tell you. I'll tell you when the story is finished. A lot goes on here.” Subj mentioned Israeli trade fair at Sheraton Hotel 25-26 February (the Egyptian economic counselor was invited). Regarding Rami Hatan, subj said he was aware Hatan was single, lived in Bole area, was a first-tour officer. The Russian delegation (para 3) was here for Ethiopian tank (T-55) refurbishment; recent Israeli delegation was here to bid on T-55 and aircraft refurbishment (corroborated by 2/00/1607-98, 191934Z Feb 98; and 2/00/1584-98, 191609Z Feb 98). Six Oromo oppositionists were extradited from Djibouti to Ethiopia. Foreign Minister Moussa is visiting Addis week of 23 February; he is a womanizer and may visit Concorde Nightclub. He has three bodyguards, but they are not “professionals.” Subj paid equivalent US$ 60 to blood test local girlfriend Helen, “She's all right.” Regarding salary, subj is paid “pretty well” and works hard to “earn the pay.” Upon parting, subj said, “Sleep well, I won't say have nice dreams because we (i.e., intel officers) do not have nice dreams.”

6. 20 February: Late dinner with subj at Lion Club, then Concorde Nightclub. Two businessmen (a Saudi named Salah LNU who departs Addis week 23 February, and a Jordanian named Mahmoud LNU, both Concorde regulars) joined subj and C/O. Businessmen spoke of exporting Ethiopian cattle to Saudi Arabia, also spoke of horses and camels. Subj's embassy office is being remodeled by an Ethiopian interior designer; a subordinate watches the designer at all times. Subj will have C/O over to the office once it is finished. Subj will be busy week of 23 February due to visit of Moussa.

7. 21 February: C/O visited subj's home and office (which was being painted; had only chairs and a bookcase; Mahmoud LNU, an Egyptian, supervised Ethiopian painter). FCSTANDARD chiefs posted abroad have use of a government vehicle, as does subj. Ethiopians tap diplomats' office and home phones. During conversation with C/O, subj turned on tape player for sound masking and explained his home had not yet been tested for bugs (a simple test is turn off all appliances and check electric meter; there is also a more sophisticated test). Subj phoned spouse in Cairo and had C/O speak with her. Subj gave C/O two small gifts (marble head of Nefertiti and papyrus paper painting). Subj's brother-in-law (a police major) is no good; he asks his father-in-law for money. Saudi attaché Wadie A. Al-((Thagafi
