Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: USSR/Yugoslavia/Poland.

Subject: Soviets at the Third International Congress of Radiation Research; emphasis on study of radiation effects on large animals; David Shugar of Poland; planning for 1967 International Symposium on Photobiology in Yugoslavia.

Date of information: Up to 3 July 1966. Place and date acquired: Cortina d’Ampezzo, Italy, 26 June–3 July 1966.

Report No. 00-B-321/15482-66. Date distributed: 24 October 1966. No. of pages: 2. References: DCS Case 47146. Responsive to: C-SI6-52537. Related to: FTD-5901-N.

This is unevaluated information.

Source A: U.S. citizen, radiologist at U.S. university.

Source B: U.S. citizen, biologist at U.S. university.

Source A.

1. About one third of the Soviets expected at the Third International Congress of Radiation Research put in an appearance. The papers I heard were disappointing. In my opinion the Soviets are confining themselves to a narrow range of interests in their radiation research. In Session 6002547, 32, which was concerned with ingested or injected radioisotopes, a paper written by Yu I Moskalev and V N Streltsova of the Institute of Biophysics of the Ministry of Public Health, USSR, did not impress me. A very poor reading marked the presentation of the paper prepared by A Tumanyan of the Gamaleya Institute for Epidemiology and Microbiology, Academy of Medical Sciences of the USSR. The paper was given in a hurried and garbled fashion by a person who obviously was not a scientist. After the session ended, I talked to Tumanyan regarding her radiation experiments with monkeys. A woman about 45 years of age, Tumanyan had no English but spoke excellent French. She was quite enthusiastic about her work which I in turn considered commonplace.

2. It appears to me that the Soviets have a strong tendency toward experiments that enable them to study radiation effects on large animals. They do not seem interested in radiation response—the effect on tissue; on the other hand, they concern themselves with metabolic effects, which are important because they are related to the ability to suppress immunity mechanisms. They stress immunology and transplants.

Source B.

3. Session 8, which was devoted to the discussion of radiation effects on cells, had but one Soviet paper. This was presented by J J Kerkis of the Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Department of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR, Novosibirsk. It was a poor paper.

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the Intelligence components of the USA member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 8 of UCID 177, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U.S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. It shall not be disseminated to contractors. It shall not be disseminated to organizations or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.
