Information Report.

Class: Conventional. From: NA, Caracas. Report No.: 142-60. Date: 30 July 1960.

He stated that he was a former Cuban Army captain in the Batista regime and had been a professional soldier—without politics. He had been officer in charge of the Army detachment at the MATÉMATICA copper mine, Impinalde His. He left Cuba and came to Venezuela on 5 June 1959. He had a legal-sized piece of paper with a photo, signed by the Cuban Minister of Interior, giving him permission to leave Cuba. It was captioned “Special Passport.”

He stated he had been jailed four times between 1 January and 5 June 1961 by CASTRO. ARCACHA stated that he had been arrested and jailed on 29 June during the big cleanup following the attempt on the life of President Botancourt (Betancourt). He was confined for 16 days and finally released on 16 July. ZUBIZARRETA was arrested by DIEPOL on 1 July and confined without charges until 12 July, when he was released. At that time he was given a “Salvoconducto” No. PL030-B by the Venezuelan Ministry of Interior, dated 15 July 1960 and expiring 15 January 1961.

ZUBIZARRETA spoke almost no English, and it appeared that ARCACHA was accompanying him to aid in interpreting if necessary. He said that he feared for his life both in Venezuela and possible extradition to Cuba, where he might be tried and executed, although he claimed to have been guilty only of having been in the Army during Batista’s time.

Both spoke contemptuously of CASTRO and tried to draw the NA into conversation and controversy. They were taken to the Visa Section of the Consulate and turned over to the Vice Consul.

3. Subsequent Visits. The next morning ZUBIZARRETA appeared with his papers partially filled out and requested assistance in completing them. This was done and he left. Two days later ARCACHA and ZUBIZARRETA returned together, the former claiming that he had additional character and financial references that he wanted to offer to assist ZUBIZARRETA in obtaining his visa more quickly. ARCACHA volunteered that he wanted to warn me about a CASTRO agent, whom he stated was in charge of intelligence for CASTRO in Venezuela. This person, named Juan Antonio DOLL, was alleged to be a partner in an arms-dealing service that had recently opened in Caracas. He also advised that another Cuban, CRECIMIENTO, a journalist, was very dangerous to the U.S. The interview was cut short, and they were again turned over to the Vice Consul, who stated that no additional information was needed and that it would probably be a month before information upon which a visa could be issued would be received from Havana and Washington. ZUBIZARRETA expressed fear that he would be picked up and extradited before that time. The NA mentioned that the U.S. was full of exiles and that sincere anti-Castroites could do much good spreading the gospel in Venezuela. This shook both of them considerably, and they replied that at present it was almost as dangerous for an anti-Castroite on the streets of Caracas as it was on the streets of Havana. They left after being discouraged by the Consul about the prospects of a decision in the near future. ARCACHA did not appear too worried for himself, and a check proved that he had a valid tourist visa issued to him on 18 November 1979. His wife, being a Spanish subject, was going to have considerably more difficulty.
