Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, holding in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work personnel. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Month of performance of ministerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, equipment and funds must be presented in a realistic manner. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

December 29, 3:52 PM, 1967.

Mr. Fox is a thoroughly competent case officer who has been a major asset to the Philippine Desk. He has worked extremely hard with a minimum of supervision. He has not limited himself to his assigned duties, but has interested himself in other aspects of the Desk. In this regard he contributed considerably to the complete reorganization of the desk files.

In carrying out his duties he has been extremely thorough. His analysis of his cases has been excellent. While he writes clearly and meaningfully, he still tends to be slow in handling correspondence. He will have to pay extra attention to this in his coming assignment as a Chief of a one-man base.

Mr. Fox is a personable, intelligent, and mature officer. He is a self-starter who should do extremely well in his upcoming assignment.

Mr. Fox has had no supervisory responsibilities during the period under review. He is commendably cost-conscious.

Section D. Certification and Comments by Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 10 December 1967. Signature of employee: S. S. P.

By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 5 months.

Date: 14/12/67. Official title of supervisor: CFE/PMI/P. Typed or printed name and signature: Laurent St. Georges.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the Rating Officer's evaluations and comments. Prior to his assignment to the Philippines Desk, Mr. Fox served under me on the Indonesia Desk. While there he mastered with commendable speed a variety of complex operational matters and related subjects of interest. He could always be counted on to know his cases and come up with the facts. He is a sound professional who can be trusted to do a job with a minimum of supervision.

In view of his excellent performance since his assignment to this Branch, Mr. Fox has been recommended for promotion to GS-13. He is also being programmed for an assignment as Chief of a facility in Cebu, where his independence and self-reliance should stand him in good stead.

Date: 22 December 1967. Official title of reviewing official: DCFE/PMI. Typed or printed name and signature: John P. Kennedy.
