Sergyj Czornonoh  
Regis Hotel  
1106 11th Street  
Sacramento, CA 95814

February 6, 1978

Mr. John M. Price  
District Attorney  
Sacramento, California

Dear Mr. Price:

This is a retyped letter. I visited Mr. Ferry, Deputy District Attorney, on August 16, 1977. I told him in the office that FBI agents and Secret Service use the police department to harass me. The police department does supply pencil[s] of anesthesia gas to the manager of the building I live in. The manager does or uses certain people to freeze me by anesthesia gas, then push drugs and poison in my mouth to torture me, take my sleep away, or bleed me by rectal [means], and they use many other chemicals to brainwash me to use me in political assassination, which I refused. On January 20, 1976, in Sacramento on 8th and I Streets, a man came to me from the police or post office, U.S. Department of Justice, and froze me by gas and told me to take a gun, pistol, and they would tell me where to go to shoot—to kill—Mr. Sargent Shriver. I refused. Manager Mr. Sisel of Marshall Hotel called on the man to tell me this on the street. In February 1976, police intelligence told me that assassination would not happen here. How about moving to Maryland State?

In this letter I ask you to get a report from Dr. Frederick S. Baker, M.D., colon and rectal surgery, on January 31, 1978. His phone: 452-4095. I bleed today very much and I am weak. In this letter I ask you to give a restraining order or respond to me about what could be done. The right wing in America made a record to use me in assassination. I refuse. I am human and I like to be treated as human. Police put a frame up on me just to take advantage of me. Police use lies, police use mental cases to take advantage of me, and tell me that the right wing does use such people like me. To prove it, I enclose a copy, midnight, June 14, 1976. Also I enclose a copy of the letter I sent to Mr. Ted Sheedy, Supervisor, on January 26, 1978, and a copy of his reply to me.

Please respond to me. Thank you.

Mr. Sargent Shriver ran for President in 1976.
