Betsy Palmer

File Review: Manuel Ray y Rivero, Volumes I–XVIII

Volume XVIII — March 1965

May 2, 1978

1. Memo dated 18 November 1965 to United States Secret Service from Deputy Director for Plans. Subject: Ray, Rivero, Manuel Antonio, also known as Ray, Manolo.

In response to a telephonic request of 15 November 1965 for a name trace on Ray, CIA files contain voluminous information from sources of varying reliability regarding Ray, who is well known to the Intelligence Community as a prominent anti-Castro Cuban exile leader and head of JURE. If particular information is desired, please specify.

2. Memo dated 6 December 1965 to Secret Service from DD/P gives two-and-a-half-page standard biographical information on Ray.

3. Memo dated 15 December 1965 to Commissioner, INS, from DD/P. Subject: Roige Cerezo, Jose (A 12 399 923 TC).

According to CIA files, information dated August 1963 from a Cuban émigré source stated that Roige was designated chief of intelligence by National Direction Abroad of JURE. The source said the intelligence group was created in March 1963 on orders of Manuel Ray for the purpose of infiltrating JURE members into various organizations that operated in the Miami area, as well as into agencies of the U.S. government. Further, in April 1963, Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a JURE member into CIA in order to learn details of plans regarding Cuba. JURE also intended to drop leaflets into Cuba of a derogatory nature regarding the U.S. government. Included in these leaflets was the subject’s manifesto against the U.S. government and against this Agency.

4. Letter dated June 2, 1966, from Dr. Julian Gallo to Harry (Mahoney?). Gallo is in contact with Ray in Puerto Rico and trying to discover the names of Ray’s contacts in Cuba. Ray apparently is seeking a Mexican visa from Gallo and is unhappy that it did not come through. He refused to reveal names or addresses to Gallo and would not give information about where his radio broadcast tapes were to be sent for transmission into Cuba.

5. Memorandum for the Record, dated 21 June 1966, from Charles Anderson. Met with Ray on 28 April 1966. Anderson said in general Ray had less information on the “purge situation than I did.” Ray said relatives of Gustavo Arcos in Puerto Rico had telephone contact with the Arcos family in Cuba, about 25 April, and that Arcos was still in prison but charges against him were thin. “This means there was at least one more telephone call than we knew of previously, and this has probably served to increase the pressure on Arcos.” Anderson tells of his concern and strong interest in Arcos, on the chance that Ray might assume Arcos had been a CIA agent. He does not know if Ray will construe the remark this way, but it seemed like an opening “to use an important exile channel as a possible deception mechanism.”

“I believe that later in the summer it might be a good idea to have another talk with AMBANG to keep up with exile thinking, and feeding more deception thoughts.”
