Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of past performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B; provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Aug 20 71. Jul 29 AM ’71. Mail Room.

The Fitness Report of the previous period continues generally to apply during this rating period of seven months. Subject was on home leave for about one month during this period.

Subject continued to handle until his home leave in May 1971 two agent penetrations in the decision-making level of the Moscow-oriented communist movement. They have since been turned over to another officer for handling. Also, Subject continued to handle the Muslim agent recruited during the previous period, but the Agent's performance has been marginal. In July 1971, Subject recruited a former Philippine intelligence officer who was connected with the two agent penetrations cited above. The primary purpose of this recruitment was to increase the Station's control and equity over the two agents and, as a by-product, to obtain intelligence on the communist movements. During July, four developmental cases, all intelligence producers (including documentary), were turned over to Subject for continued development towards recruitment. One has unique access in the student movement, mainly in the Greater Manila area but also in the main provincial cities; another is an experienced officer of a civilian law enforcement agency who collaborated unilaterally with the Station; the other two are senior intelligence officers who have unofficially passed intelligence information. Subject continued to handle his duty as (Continued).

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 31 July 1971. Signature of employee: /s/ Jerome Fox.

By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 31 July 1971. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Terry T. Shima.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

I would characterize Subject as a competent, hard-working case officer who can both handle cases and recruit new assets and who is capable of an even better performance than that reflected in this fitness report, if he could only organize himself. He knows his subject, communism (communisa) in the Philippines, better perhaps than the majority of the Filipino communists. This is a mixed blessing, however, because he is so easily distracted pursuing obscure historical points, not really relevant to the conduct of operations, that occasionally he finds himself behind schedule in meeting levied requirements. I have taken him out of communist operations as such except in his capacity as the “referent.”

Date: 6 August 1971. Special title of reviewer: Chief of Station. Signature: s/ George T. Kalarts.
