“The racist dog policeman must withdraw immediately from our communities, cease their wanton murder and brutality and torture of Black people, or face the wrath of the armed people.”

On Saturday, October 24, the Second Precinct Police Station led an assault on the new headquarters of the Detroit chapter of the National Committee to Combat Fascism (NCCF).

The attack began about 5:00 P.M. when the police officers encountered NCCF members selling Black Panther newspapers near Myrtle and 14th Street. The siege continued until about 10 A.M. Sunday morning, when police arrested fifteen Black youth who were in the NCCF headquarters, under the watchful eyes, and some not so watchful eyes, of citizens of the community. Eight of those arrested were Black.

One police attacker was killed and two others wounded in the police siege on the NCCF headquarters. No one inside the NCCF headquarters was hurt during the siege, even though the police used all kinds of power-kill weapons and chemical warfare agents during the assault on the community around Myrtle and 16th Street.

“The time when people can sit back and view processes of injustice and inequality has come to an end.”

People were forced out of their homes at gunpoint and were prevented from freely passing through their own community. The police took over, with armed force, the Myrtle and Eleventh community, and people came to understand that the only way to regain control of their community and their lives was to develop a force greater than that of the police and the other agencies that were there to assist the police. The State Police Department and the National Guard were all on alert and had observers at the siege.

During the assault and siege, crowds of community people gathered to give symbolic support to the Black youth inside the house under attack. The people were there to show that the community disagreed with the actions of its supposed “protectors of liberty.”

The crowd was unorganized and had no way to make the armed police respond to their wishes.

When the police began to attack the crowd, the people became a frightened mob, and the attacking police were able to disperse the crowd with no resistance from the people who had gathered to support the youth in the headquarters on 16th Street.
