R 1-130, 27 February 1968.

Regulation No. 1-130.

Organization. Revised 6 August 1959.

Photographic Intelligence Center.

23. Mission

The Director of the Photographic Intelligence Center is charged with producing photographic intelligence and providing photographic intelligence services in support of the Central Intelligence Agency and the intelligence community.

24. Functions

The Director of the Photographic Intelligence Center shall:

a. Produce photographic intelligence in support of Agency and national scientific, military, economic, and geographic intelligence objectives.

b. Provide photographic intelligence support and services to the Agency and the intelligence community.

c. Maintain a photographic intelligence facility manned and equipped to provide complete analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

d. Provide accommodations and services within the center for military-service and other Government representatives engaged in joint exploitation projects.

e. Assist in the evaluation of other intelligence sources through comparison with photographic data.

f. Conduct an active program of research and development in equipment and techniques for providing improved exploitation of photographic intelligence, coordinating such activity as appropriate with Agency, military-service, and other Government components.

g. Conduct liaison with and represent the Agency to Government and private organizations on photographic intelligence activities, coordinating such liaison as appropriate with interested Agency components.

h. Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence collection requirements.

i. Assist in preparation of estimates of foreign capabilities in the field of photographic intelligence.

j. Perform such other functions related to photographic intelligence activities as may be directed.

25. Organization

See organization chart, figure 9.

For the Director of Central Intelligence:

H. Gates Lloyd  
Acting Deputy Director  
(Support)
