Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper. Date: Jun 12, 86.

Although Subject has been at the Station for only a few months, he quickly established himself as a formidable leader in a very large Registry operation. He is resourceful and constantly strives to improve office procedures in order to increase efficiency and provide better service. He is an old hand in the Registry field, well indoctrinated in proper procedure and knows when and how to adjust to meet changing situations.

Subject effectively supervises 8 employees and displays cost consciousness in the management and operation of his office.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date. Signature of employee: /s/James S. Woods.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 4. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 8 May 1967. Official title of supervisor: Records Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/Richard Richardson.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official. Concur with rating and narrative comments. Subject is employing in this position his cumulative experience as a Registry supervisor at previous posts. Subject has contributed to the improvement of Registry procedures and in-country courier system of this large and fast moving station. Date: 15 May 1967. Official title of reviewing official: Ops Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/Terry T. Shima.
