Word List

Revolution means change. A revolutionary is one who is dissatisfied with a system that brutalizes, murders, exploits and oppresses the people it pretends to serve (Amerikka). He is not only dissatisfied but he also moves to change the system by educating the people to truth and setting examples of how to change it, so that it functions for the poor and not just the rich.

Bourgeoisie: The select few that own and control the businesses, etc.

Petty bourgeoisie: Owners of small businesses and professionals, for example doctors, lawyers and teachers.

Proletariat: The workers, those that produce the goods and services, the wealth that is taken away by the bourgeoisie.

Lumpen-proletariat: Unemployed, students, hustlers, etc.

Atrocities: In human crimes committed against the people (My Lai killings at Jackson and Augusta).

Monopoly: Very large and powerful businesses, which control whole industries, or large parts of industries (Standard Oil, General Motors).

Mercenary: A soldier who only fights for pay, doing the dirty work for someone else.

House nigger: The slave that thinks he is free because the master invites him for coffee (but not for dinner) and then is used to control the field niggers.

Field nigger: Slave who must work the hardest but gets almost nothing and therefore revolts against the master.

Economics: How people produce goods and wealth, and how these are distributed, accumulated and consumed. In other words, who gets what and how they get it.

Colonialism: Control by a powerful nation over a dependent nation or people.

Colony: A community, nation or country that is owned and controlled outright by an outside country. In our case, Black people live in a colony and therefore colonized. Our community is controlled by the white mother country economically, politically, militarily, and culturally, etc.

Capitalism: A social system based on profit (Amerikka, Britain, France) where only a selected few own and control the businesses, courts, lawmaking and decisions in their own interest and at the expense of and not in the interest of the masses of people.
