Speeches of Frederick Allen Hampton at Illinois State University, Normal, Illinois, 10/29/69 and Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Illinois, 11/14/69.

On November 14, 1969, representatives of the Federal Bureau of Investigation attended a speech given by Black Panther Party leader Fred Hampton at Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, Illinois. All those attending the speech were searched at the entrance and pictures were taken of some of those persons entering.

At 8:40 PM, Joan Gray was introduced as Head of the Women's Division of the Illinois BPP. The master of ceremonies did not introduce himself. Joan Gray denounced white liberals who lend merely their intellectual support to the Panther movement, and attacked those blacks who espouse black pride and African culture.

At 9:00 PM an individual was introduced as the Health Minister of the Illinois BPP. This individual described the health programs in the ghetto sponsored by the BPP, which programs are available to all who need them.

Fred Hampton began speaking at 9:10 PM. Hampton began his speech by indicating his strong disapproval of the propensities of black pride and culture, stating that African clothes will not stop a bullet and that the police, whom he referred to as "pigs", could still shoot blacks down in the street unless they defended themselves with guns. Hampton further denounced the police, stating that more "pigs" who were killed, the better for the people.

Hampton compared politics and war to ice and water, concluding that they are essentially the same substance and can be used for different purposes. Hampton cited a recent shooting incident in Chicago involving Black Panther Jake Winters, praising Winters as a true example of a Panther.

Hampton then proceeded to denounce Judge Hoffman of Chicago in profane and obscene terms, referring to Hoffman as a homosexual. In describing Hoffman, the adjectives fascist, racist and similar terms were used.

Hampton denounced the capitalist system as one where a minority rose to the top to exploit the majority, and concluded his speech with the assertion that the BPP was not directing its struggle against all whites but only against "fascist racist pigs". He stated that those whites who fit the latter description will be classified by their actions and not their words.
