The following contains photos and biographical information about the delegates to the XI International Congress of Radiology, held in Rome, Italy, 22–28 September 1965.

SO: 00-3-324/18689-65. Case 46424.

Gorisontov, Petr D.; Professor, M.D. Member of the Academy of Medical Sciences of the USSR; two Orders of Lenin and Order of the Red Banner of Labour; national delegate; Institute of Biophysics, Academy of Medical Sciences, 14 Solyanka, Moscow.

Ivanitskaya (Iwanitskaya), Maria A.; M.D.Sc. Head of the Roentgenological Department, Institute of Cardiovascular Surgery; national delegate; 8 Leninskij Prospect, Moscow.

Korogodin, Vladimir I.; Ph.D. Institute of Medical Radiology, Obninsk; national delegate, Kaluga Region.

Kozlova, Anna; M.D. Professor; national delegate; 7 Solanka, Moscow.

Lagুনova, Irina G.; Professor, M.D. National delegate; 7 Solianka, Moscow.

Moskalev, Yuri I.; Professor, M.D. Order of Lenin; Institute of Biophysics, Academy of Medical Sciences of the USSR, 14 Solyanka, Moscow.

Reinberg, Sam A.; M.D.Sc. Professor, Director of the First Chair of Medical Radiology; Postgraduate Institute (Central) in Moscow; honorary president and member of 22 societies of radiology; president of the Moscow Society of Radiologists; national delegate; Moscow A-55, Novoslobodskaja 57/65, K U 37.

Semenov, Viktor. Candidate of Medical Sciences; Chief of Division of Medical Radiology, Deputy Chief of General Department for Medical and Prophylactic Service, Ministry of Health; national delegate; 3 Rachmanovski Pereulok, Moscow.

Ugryumov (Ugrjumov), Benjamin; Professor, M.D. Director of Neurosurgical Institute; national delegate; 12 Majakovskaja Street, Leningrad.

Zedguénidze, Georgii; Professor. Académicien, membre de l’Académie des Sciences Médicales de l’URSS; président de l’Association Scientifique des Radiologistes de l’URSS; délégué national; 14 Solianka, ASM de l’URSS, Moscow.

Uruguay

Gorlero Armas, Agustín A.; Méd. Cir. Rad. Universidad, Facultad de Medicina de Montevideo; jefe de Servicio de Radiodiagnóstico; jefe del Servicio de Radiología del Hospital Italiano Umberto I; 1480 Calle Yí, Montevideo.

Israel Crespo, Davi; Dr. en Med. y Cir. Universidad de la República Oriental del Uruguay; jefe de Sección de Radiodiagnóstico; 2971 Calle J. Vazquez Ledesma, Ap. 301, Montevideo.

Kasdorf, Helmut; Dr. en Med. Profesor Agregado de Radiología de la Facultad de Medicina de Montevideo; jefe del Departamento de Radiología del Hospital Universitario; 1171 Calle Soriano, Casilla Correo 930, Montevideo.
