Russia's Changing, Says ABC Newsman

By Rick Friedman

A short while back, Sam Jaffe, American Broadcasting Company correspondent, was expelled from Moscow.

A short while from now, he'll be reporting for ABC out of Hong Kong with hopes of getting into Red China.

But for the moment, he's in the United States between assignments, looking back on his past four years in the Soviet Union.

Newsman Jaffe made news this past Fall when he was asked to leave Russia because John Scali, ABC diplomatic correspondent in Washington, had reported an imminent shake-up in the Russian hierarchy. Russia responded by sending Jaffe home and by cancelling a visa for George Watson, who was to replace him.

Sam had already been scheduled to leave Moscow on Dec. 1 for a vacation in the United States before his Hong Kong assignment.

ABC had both a Russian translator and a Russian cameraman working in the Moscow bureau. The network was told it could keep both of them on the payroll and keep their rented apartment in the city.

"They didn't kick out the network," Sam explained. "They asked me to leave; they wouldn't let George Watson in. But they gave ABC the impression we might be allowed to put a news correspondent back in Moscow in anywhere from three to six months."

Changes for Better

Looking back over the past four years, Sam Jaffe said Moscow changed in that time. "Maybe not as quickly as we'd like it to," he added. "But for the better."

"Today, the people know more about the outside world than they did four years ago. The Soviets are no longer jamming the Voice of America or the Russian-language beamings of the British Broadcasting Company. But Radio Liberty is still being jammed.

"There was nothing in the newspaper about my expulsion. But the customs officer at the airport knew all about it. He heard the news on the Voice of America.

"More and more, the Soviet citizens, particularly the students you make friends with, tell you what's going on.

"You see more criticism of the Soviet Union. Young people write in to the newspaper complaining about the lack of consumer goods and their letters are printed. The press itself gets critical of aspects of the government."

Sam said that there was no direct censorship of printed material written by foreign correspondents. But permission was still needed for shooting television film. And undeveloped photographs couldn't leave the country. "They make you develop them there and they screen them," Sam said.

He added that Russia was letting more and more foreign cameramen in to work for the networks.

Editor & Publisher, January 15, 1966, Page 30
