The San Quentin Branch of the Black Panther Party Opens!

A new era has arisen in the United States. Insurrection, revolution and liberation has knocked at the door of America, the world's now most potent bastion of imperialism. Historical conditions have forced the conflicting aspects of American society to the point of division. Not only the stragglers are picking which side they wish to fight on, the side of the forces of oppression, racism and fascism or with the forces of liberation—the people's just cause of freedom. Because this confrontation is already raised to the level of sporadic military encounters—revolutionaries shooting it out with the pigs, revolutionaries being harassed for selling papers, revolutionaries liberating the goods that have been exported from the community—many brothers are being locked up in numerous prisons and jails of Babylon.

The increase in revolutionary prisoners has proportionately increased the level of political awareness throughout the penal system. San Quentin, because of its large population, is getting its share of political prisoners. Reagan's government and his puppet prison administrators are well aware of this and also its effect. That awareness creates a repressive atmosphere throughout the pens. Here in San Quentin we are feeling that repression full force. Although it has been prevalent from the time our comrades Jonathan Jackson, William Christmas and James McClain (MCLAIM) made their supreme sacrifice for freedom, it has intensified, culminating with a week of storybook reign of terror. The new excuse and pretext for locking brothers in the hole is "possession of inflammatory literature." This literature is, of course, revolutionary, and is in our possession because we are trying to bring our incarcerated brothers up to a higher level of awareness. They can then change their outmoded ideas of individual material gain through exploitation of the Black community.

The pigs see us and anyone who associates closely with the cadre here taking on a new complexion, a new outlook on social conditions. We are becoming more disciplined and are starting to unify around the ideology of establishing revolutionary political power for Black people. The pigs know that once we establish the necessary political power they can no longer exploit and oppress us. They will not be able to lock up our warriors in prisons and jails any longer. They also realize that once the masses of angry Blacks become politically aware, we are going to bring the machinery of oppression to a screeching halt, through violent, bloody, but justified warfare.

This harassment takes on a familiar form. They watch a group of brothers who are known revolutionaries, then accumulate this knowledge into special folders, labeled "Militants, Vanguards, Revolutionaries and Black Panthers," along with photographs. This information is kept at the forepost (a central chamber and headquarters here in Quentin, similar to the Pentagon or the F.B.I. headquarters). Whenever the pigs get the itch or urge, they dig out this folder and proceed to systematically shake down our cells. (The shake down is a procedure where they go into a person's cell and search it thoroughly, logging up the beds, tearing all of the pictures off the walls and generally making a piggish mess. They sit down and read every letter, document, personal writing and anything else, hoping to find something speaking against the present social order. That is them labe
