Revolutionary movement of students and young intellectuals. New Leftists from U.S. have played important roles in demonstrations in foreign countries.

Racial Unrest on College Campuses. Campuses throughout U.S. have been marked by racial unrest. Minority groups such as Black Student Union becoming increasingly militant and violent. Demands unreasonable. Other militant groups have joined in demonstrations and offer full support to minority groups.

Black Panther Party is most active, notorious and violence-prone black extremist group. Branches in 25 cities. Will possibly go underground. Minister of Education is George Mason Murray, a suspended instructor at San Francisco State College.

Soviet and Satellite Espionage. The U.S. is the number one espionage target of Soviet Union and satellites. Intelligence operations coordinated by Soviet Union. Embassies and missions are focal points. As of February 1969, approximately 230 Soviet and 117 satellite personnel operating. Consular Convention between U.S. and Soviet Union became effective July 13, 1968, and will probably increase capability for espionage.

United States–Communist China Relations. Professor LIN Ta-kaung, McGill University, Montreal, Canada, is foremost Chinese communist propagandist in Canada. Has been in contact with Kennedy Administration, Senator Eugene McCarthy and Professor Martin Peretz of Harvard regarding United States–Communist China relations. Hopes to influence Nixon Administration to vote for UN admission of Communist China.

Israeli Intelligence. FBI currently investigating Dr. Zalmer Mordecai Shapiro, head of Nuclear Materials and Equipment Corporation, Apollo, Pennsylvania. This company has Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) contracts and Shapiro cleared by AEC for “Top Secret.” Investigation shows he is in contact with at least one Israeli intelligence official and sympathetic toward Israel.

Assassination of John Fitzgerald Kennedy. Essence of Clay Shaw trial in New Orleans lies in alleged connection between Oswald, David Ferrie (deceased) and Clay Shaw. Not established in
