The New Natural Government of America fully recognizes that there has been considerable mistreatment of the non-whites in America. We don't take any blame for it, but we also do not get upset at our ancestors because of it.

It is our firm opinion that the cultures of the White and Non-Whites will never mix well. There will always be race hatred on both sides. Segregation did not work; integration is not working, which leaves us with one solution: separation.

We think that the majority of Blacks would approve of separation, and we know that the majority of Whites would also. The only real problem in a separation program is where the Separtees are to go. There are Black movements who want a part of the United States, and there are those who favor repatriation to Africa.

There are White organizations who approve of either or both plans, and there are white organizations who favor genocide of the American Blacks.

We think we have come up with a plan which will eventually gain the support of both Blacks and Whites. We must remember that in a situation like this someone must always get hurt, but we would like to do it with as little suffering as possible.

It is a known fact that the majority of our penal institutions are overwhelmingly populated by Blacks. It is a known fact that the majority of our welfare program goes to the support of the Black Community. It is a fact that there are scores of Government agencies whose total financial allocation goes to the support of Blacks. Because of the amount of Black crime, at least a large percentage of our police are only necessary because the Blacks are there.

If we took the billions of draft tax dollars which are now allocated for the support of blacks and put those tax dollars to a constructive use, we could solve the problem without too much pain and suffering on either side.

If we would earnestly undertake the following project, I think we can eliminate racial holocaust in America. We select a favorable section of Africa and begin to build a community in which the Blacks of America could maintain a healthy society that could compete industrially with other nations. On this piece of real estate in Africa, we build several cities of the very highest quality. We construct enough industrial centers and places of business so that all Blacks could be gainfully employed or eke out a living. We supply their Government, which will be elected by the Blacks themselves, with enough know-how and capital to begin its operation. We supply each black with enough money until such time as he can get resettled in his new land. We supply free transportation to Africa for all Blacks and any whites they have married who wish to go with them.
