ARTICLE VI. Retirement. The Employee occupies a position within the purview of the Civil Service Retirement Act. Accordingly, deductions shall be made at the rate provided by law (presently 5%) from the Employee's basic salary and placed in the Civil Service Retirement Fund. The Employee may not avail himself of the provisions of the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System, provided for in Title VIII of the Foreign Service Act of 1946.

ARTICLE VII. Medical Care and Hospitalization. In the event of illness or injury to the Employee requiring hospitalization not the result of vicious habits, intemperance, or misconduct on his part, and incurred in the line of duty while assigned abroad, the expenses of treatment of such illness or injury at a suitable hospital or clinic, transportation expenses to such hospital or clinic may be paid by the Government in accordance with Title IX, Part E of the Foreign Service Act of 1946. Under appropriate regulations, a physical examination of the Employee will be made, together with necessary inoculations or vaccinations, or the expense thereof will be paid to the Employee.

1. In the event of the death or disability of the Employee, the Employee or his dependents shall be afforded the benefits of the United States Employees' Compensation Act of 7 September 1916, as amended.

ARTICLE VIII. Equipment. The Employee may be furnished technical equipment and supplies to assist in the rendition of services hereunder, including an automobile where necessary. The Employee shall be responsible for such equipment and supplies issued to him by CIA in accordance with CIA Property Regulations. All such material shall remain the property of the Government regardless of any apparently conflicting ownership or the manner of registration.

ARTICLE IX. Salary. The Employee shall receive a basic salary of $8481.00 (FCC-3) per year in accordance with Section 415 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946. In-class promotions shall be granted to the Employee in accordance with regulations established in the Department of State pursuant to Title VI, Part E, Section 642 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946. Other changes in status will be made only as specifically authorized by the ADSO.
