Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses, demonstrate an effective position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Managerial performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject is now well into his second tour at this station and has not lost any of his momentum. He charges into his work daily as if it were all a new challenge and new experience. His past fitness reports from this station have all reflected his professional approach to the job and he continues to merit these plaudits. He is conscientious, dedicated and a team worker. He takes direction well and takes great pride in meeting deadlines. One of our more imaginative officers who is effective.

Yet, with all of this, he has not progressed in the organization as he should have. It has been recommended that he be considered for promotion and/or a chance in a command job. The station is presently considering some reorganization which will give Subject an opportunity to manage and direct activity which will be diversified and a change from the specialized jobs he has held in the past. This will be another excellent test for him and we are optimistic in that he will handle this new assignment with the same degree of expertise that we have learned to expect from him.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date. Signature of employee: /s/ Joseph B. Smith.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature.

Date: 9 Feb 1972. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ George A. Fill.

1. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

I agree with all of the above. Concerning his performance here and his delay in getting a promotion, I made a special point of bringing these matters to the attention of Deputy Chief, WOMACE, while I was in Washington in October of 1971. Our pending re-organization would find him with considerably increased responsibility, which is a good indicator of how we feel about him.

Date: 9 Feb 1972. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ John R. Horton.
