Section D: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain reasons given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and result consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Woods continued to perform in outstanding fashion as Chief of the CCS Registry during an extremely busy period. The figures cited in the last Fitness Report as to the workload of the CCS Registry continued to be representative of the volume and variety of Mr. Woods' responsibilities. He supervised the work of six subordinates with a successful combination of patience and firm professionalism. He continued to be the source of sound, constructive suggestions for coping with the paper “explosion” occasioned by the investigations of CIA and the Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts.

Mr. Woods is a highly valuable, reliable, unobtrusively effective records manager. In moving on to new responsibilities in an area division he leaves behind a solid record of achievement and the admiration of those with whom he has served in CCS.

Section E: Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employed under my supervision: 24. Date: 16 August 1977. Official title of supervisor: DC/CCS. Type or printed name and signature: Gallup S. Woods; Arthur C. Close.

2. By Employee. I have or have not attached a statement concerning the supervisor's evaluation of my performance.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Mr. Close's evaluation of Mr. Woods' performance during the reporting period agrees completely with my observations and conclusions. Mr. Woods is a first-class professional records officer and supervisor who has clearly earned an overall rating of outstanding. Date: 17 August 1977. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, Central Cover Staff. Type or printed name and signature: Erich W. Isenstead.

4. By Employee. I certify I have been the entries in all sections of this report. I have or have not attached a statement concerning the reviewing official's evaluation of my performance. Date: 18 Aug 1977. Signature of employee: James S. Woods.
