Education. Name and location of college or university: University of Georgia, Atlanta, (GA). Dates attended: From; To. Major. Years completed: Due; Nil. Degrees conferred: Title; Date. Semester hours/credit.

(b) Subjects studied in high school which apply to position desired: 1985; 3.

List your chief undergraduate college subjects: 1960; 2.

(c) List your chief graduate college subjects.

(d) Other training, vocational or business study courses, or in-service training in a Federal agency: 14 years of training school for Special Services for Airman 1st Class. In-service training, five F.B.I. “in-service” subjects.

Reading. Speaking. Understand.

(e) Indicate your knowledge of foreign languages required. How was your knowledge of foreign languages required? If you have received or planned to receive in any foreign countries, indicate names of friends, dates and length of time spent there, and reason or purpose, such as business, education, or recreation. Do you speak any language other than English? Can you write your name in a foreign language? Are you familiar with the general rules of conversational English? What is the approximate time it would take to learn enough English to be able to hold a simple conversation with an American English speaker? What is the approximate cost of living in the United States? Will you need a car if you are traveling in a country where traffic laws are different from those in your home country? How much money will you need for expenses such as food, transportation, local transport, accommodation costs, insurance, etc.?

List any special needs you possess and machines and equipment you can use, such as operation of skylight, radio, multithreaded key transmitter, tunnel, lathe, scientific or professional devices. Approximate rate of work per minute in typing; shorthand.

(g) First Special Service School attended. Location: Military Academy of South Carolina in Charleston, S.C. (MA/SC). MA/SC students who attend MA/SC are identified by an “M” on their military service records. The following information must be included in MA/SC’s field: “MA/SC” and “(MA/SC)” in item (b); and the student’s address at the time they entered MA/SC in item (c). For example: MA/SC, MA/SC, M.A./S.C., “Charter School of Military Science and Trade,” “Army Institute for Military School of Service and Trade,” “Army Institute Traditions,” “Army Institute for Military Training,” “Army Institute for Military Science and Trade,” “Army Institute for Military Trade,” “Army Institute
