December 1965.

Section C — Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective his relationship to overall performance. Specify suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for #Forsing. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section A to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

As Chief of the Station Registry, this employee continues to perform his responsibilities at a proficient level with little supervision from his supervisor. His superior has assigned him to the work of another officer, which will necessarily need several months to become knowledgeable of Registry activities. However, there is no concern that the flow of paper and the maintenance of accurate records will be affected due to the turnover of supervisors. This employee continues to use his native ingenuity and high standards of achievement to ensure that his office continues to be a well-run and efficient unit. He continues to ensure that no government funds are wasted, even to the extent of arranging for the construction of certain modifications to the Registry office by Registry employees at little cost to the Government. This employee has been performing at a level above his present GS-09 grade. As recommended in November 1965, it is reconfirmed that this employee should be promoted to the next higher grade at the earliest possible opportunity.

Section D — Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report by employee.

Date: 10 June 65. Signature of employee: /s/ James S. Wooda.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 45.

Date: 10 June 65. Official title of supervisor: Gm Officer. Type of printed name and signature: /s/ Frederick Handall.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: Subject takes his job seriously and performs it in strong fashion. I would say that he displays more energy, interest, and continuing attention than just about anyone else I've seen in registry-type work.

Date: 10 June 65. Official title of reviewing official: DCJS. Type of printed name and signature: /s/ Horace Z. Feldman.
