Variable Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, state, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This report covers approximately five and one half months since I submitted the last report on Mr. Kent. Unfortunately, and I do mean unfortunately, it will be the last fitness report written on Mr. Kent because he has elected to retire on 30 June 1978.

Although his retirement was just around the corner, Mr. Kent did not slacken his pace. On the contrary, in the last four months the NOC Branch has been besieged with a myriad of statistical reports from DDO management. Had it not been for the legendary meticulousness of Mr. Kent, coupled with his excellent tribal memory, the NOC Branch would have been hard-pressed to come up as promptly and as efficiently with the figures and facts as was the case. Much of it Mr. Kent and his staff had to accomplish while he was acting for me while I was on a 4 week TDY. He definitely excelled at running the branch during these four weeks.

In closing I would like to say that CIA is losing one of its finest officers in Mr. Kent. This may not be the proper vehicle for making the following statement, but I would like to state nevertheless and without any equivocation whatsoever, that seldom in my career of 31 years did I receive the kind of support and loyal counsel I received from Mr. Kent during the past 13 months.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

Months employee has been under my supervision. Fitness Report Rating Profile: 0–5 = Poor; 6–10 = Fair; 11–15 = Good; 16–20 = Very Good; greater than 20 = Excellent.

1. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 12 June 1978. Official title of supervisor: Chief, OED/NOC. Typed or printed name and signature: Gerard J. Hahn.

2. By Employee. Signature/Employee. Date: 21/6/78. William M. Kent. William M. Kent.

I have not attached a statement concerning the supervisor's evaluation of my performance.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: There is little to add to the thoughtful and accurate comments of the rating officer. I share his sense of loss over the retirement of Mr. Kent. Mr. Kent performed in an exceptionally able manner throughout the period of time covered by this report. He was always quick and willing to respond and the results of his labors, without exception, were of a very high professional order. As indicated, he was of great assistance to the rating officer and to me as well, during this time. It is indeed unfortunate that the clandestine service is losing the experience and talent of Mr. Kent. However, he reached this decision on
