3. Inquiries of discreet nature concerning individual's personal history (date and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, health, reliability, stability, integrity, general reputation, present and past employments, and business connections. Investigation must definitely establish that individual can be used without danger of future embarrassment due to instability or unreliability. Securing background information from individual is not sufficient; his background must be established by investigation, including discreet inquiries among persons personally acquainted with him.

4. Check of local credit and arrest records. Submit FD-165 to Identification Division to obtain any record he may have and to place stop against fingerprints if on file.

5. Review armed services record if applicable.

6. Check draft status or status in armed forces reserve.

7. Check domestic status and, if any marital difficulties, obtain details.

8. Persons being considered for use in espionage and foreign nationality cases may present special problems which limit scope of investigation. (See instructions re contact cases and deseco program, section 105, volume IV, of this manual.) However, where practical, cover above items.

Leads must be handled by auxiliary offices within 30 days. Investigation must be completed prior to any request to guide, direct, or designate individual as potential security informant.

D. Approval, Indoctrination, and Development of Potential Informants

1. When background information obtained, transmit results to Bureau in same numerical sequence set out in subsection C, and request authority to designate individual as Bureau-approved potential security informant and to proceed with development. Submit by secure teletype (usually Nitel). Be brief and concise. Do not submit on UACB basis. Include physical description.

a. If the individual is a student, include separate paragraph clearly setting forth the number of extremist and/or security informants, the number of potential extremist and/or potential security informants, and the number of panel sources currently being operated at the particular college or university to which the request pertains.

2. After designation as Bureau-approved potential security informant, following matters should be made clear to him:

a. His assistance is strictly voluntary and he is to understand there is no coercion or intimidation involved.

b. He is not and cannot consider himself employee or “undercover Agent” of FBI. Seriousness of violating impersonation statutes must be impressed upon him.

c. His cooperation must be strictly confidential at all times and if he should feel he cannot maintain this confidence, he should so advise. There should be no doubt left in mind of potential informant that his relationship must remain on confidential basis and if he violates confidence he will be of no value and by so doing Bureau's investigative activity may be jeopardized. If he has special problem which would require revealing his assistance to his wife or other pertinent individual, this should be ascertained and appropriate recommendation made to Bureau.

d. If potential informant is connected in any manner with labor union, inform him that Bureau is not interested in employer-employee relationships as such and is only concerned with obtaining information on infiltration of unions by subversive elements.

e. If potential informant is student, teacher, or has any similar relations with school, college, or university, in initial interview and subsequent handling, follow current instructions concerning investigations on campuses.

3. Do not interview female potential informants in their homes or apartments unless necessary and any such interviews should be conducted by two Agents after specific approval of superior in field office responsible for development of informants. This instruction is not applicable where active investigation has established that potential informant is of good character, there is no indication of affiliation with subversive groups and there will be no embarrassment to Bureau.

9-13-71
