9 March 1966

Reportation PGS: CI/Staff

Attention: Mr. Frank Hughes

Information: W/C, Mr. John Castoro  
CWI/FI

Subject: Alleged Planned Travel to Cuba of Estelle SOHOLOMKA

Source: LIDOCIY-1

Reference: Memorandum, case subject, dated 8 February and 1 March 1966.

1. Further to references, the writer again saw LICOCRY-1 in New York on 8 March. In that this new information clarifies and elaborates on previous reports, it is believed best to recapitulate the whole story obtained during the course of the last months.

2. SOHOLONEKA's (SOHOLOMKA's) husband, a Costa Rican medical doctor, by the name of Mario MADRIGAL, is now in Cuba with a profitable job and living in a house assigned to him with a Cuban nurse with whom he is “engaged.” Subject is desirous of returning to Cuba in that she admires CASTRO and what she believes he is doing for Cuba, and wishes to assist in the “cause.” She gained this impression during her stay in Cuba in the early 60s, at which time she personally met CASTRO and was befriended by Ms. Her desire to return is also influenced by the need to care for her two children and she plans to move in with her husband from whom she expects support. She no longer has any love for her husband. In New York Subject stays with her mother, a not too well informed Polish peasant immigrant.

3. As far as yet unidentified Cuban UBI representative in NY visited Cuba during the 1950s his holidays. While there he had one meeting with Subject's husband and upon returning to NY delivered a letter from the husband to Subject. From this first meeting, Subject was gradually drafted by the Cuban UBI representative, hereafter referred to as CUBS rep, for intelligence purposes.

4. This culminated in Subject's departure from New York on the Atlantic Seaboard “Champagne” train on 7 March for Miami. On 5 or 6 March, before her departure, the CUBS rep gave Subject a written list of questions to be used for cultivating and gaining the confidence of Cuban exiles in the Miami area to learn more about their organisational design and plans for work against Cuba.
