The Committee has not yet received a formal response to those letters. Appendix A sets out those documents which have not yet been supplied to the Committee pursuant to the March 19 letter and follow-up correspondence.

On the second matter, that is, the request for copies of additional documents (and for staff access to others), the Committee's interest falls into roughly three areas pertaining to the activities of the FBI and the Department of Justice:

First, the Committee has been made aware of additional documents that are analogous to the background requests made in the First Document Request. These documents are set out as Appendix B.

Second, the Committee is concerned about several programs or studies pertaining to specific intelligence or counter-intelligence activities of the FBI. S. Res. 21 specifically requires the Committee to investigate "the conduct of domestic counterintelligence operations against United States citizens" by the FBI. Therefore, the Committee must conduct an exhaustive investigation of the so-called "COINTELPRO" programs as well as miscellaneous other incidents which have come to our attention. S. Res. 21 also specifically requires the Committee to investigate all aspects of the so-called "Huston Plan". Further requests pertaining to these matters are set out as Appendix C.

Third, we are interested in allegations pertaining to electronic surveillance generally, electronic surveillance of the so-called "17 government officials and journalists" in 1969-71 by the FBI, electronic surveillance and other intelligence activities directed at Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and electronic surveillance and other intelligence activities at the Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City, New Jersey, in the summer of 1964. Requests pertaining to these subjects are set out as Appendix D.

In setting out certain specific documents in the Appendices, the Committee does not change its position that the original request of March 19 was general in scope and designed to encourage the Justice Department and the FBI to provide us with documents pertaining to the legal authority and the policy and procedures of the FBI which have not yet been brought to the attention of the Committee and were therefore not specifically mentioned in any of its requests. Furthermore, the Committee intends its requests to be generously construed so that descriptive words used herein are meant in a general
