Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 00739h.

Section A: General. Name: B. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. Job title: CSO/DOJ/DR of Assistance DJP/WB/4. S. Officer: BUCEN STARS. Official position title: Operations Officer. Checklist type of report: X—Initial, annual, specialty (specify). Reporting period: 31 August 1965; 1 April 1965–12 July 1965. Career: Reserve; Temporary. Reassignment supervisor. Reassignment employee. Date report due in O.P.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Maintains contract with Chief and other key officers of the Psychological Action Department of the principal Argentine intelligence service and is case officer for an important and large CA project run in conjunction with the local service.

Specific Duty No. 2: Case officer for three unilateral CA projects in the following fields: one propaganda (films), one student/youth, and one political action. These projects have significant FI overtures.

Specific Duty No. 3: Case officer of a new project essentially FI in nature.

Specific Duty No. 4: Supervisor for one American Staff Agent in the CA field who is case officer of one formal project and is engaged in important developmental work.

Specific Duty No. 5: Assists the Station CA officer in overall and tactical planning.

Overall Performance in Current Position. Posted on 10-11-65. Rating letter: S. Rating letter: S.
