Frank Drager and Bill Carrol have built a small but well-armed Army during the postwar period, consisting of persons who had become dissident, with members in various above-ground organizations.

While on a national tour visiting various leaders in both the Right and Left Wings, Frank and Bill found themselves well received by most factions and found that the support had become overwhelming in favor of a true Rightist revolutionary underground. Unfortunately, many leaders were not personally contacted because the Federal idiots briefly interrupted our tour with some minor phony harassment charges. Those of you who had not been contacted have probably already heard of our many exploits into the enemy's camp and understand exactly what we have in mind.

We were able to “set up” quite a system around the nation, allowing our Revolutionary cadres before our capture in Illinois, and we have been free to continue our efforts since that time. Being wanted by several states and the Federal Government has to some degree hindered our Revolutionary efforts, but our accomplishments in the past several months have been overwhelmingly satisfactory to us and alarming to the Feds.

In the very near future, you will begin to hear much more about the National Revolutionary Army. You shall hear of and read about Revolutionary exploits and many coordinated efforts in several states at the same time. We are now capable of acting in nearly every state at the same time. We have the weapons and technology, and our present strength will soar as our forces occur with more frequency.

Some of our feats, such as killing pigs in Satan's Temple, will appear to accomplish nothing, but we do still need the enemy's paranoid fright to assist us to reach our end goal.

The Revolutionaries in the N.R.A. do not consider themselves the new leaders of our holy movement; we are merely Actionaries who will coordinate the inevitable Revolution.

Our soldiers will operate in total secrecy and anonymity, except for such times as they might unfortunately be detected by the enemy. At that time, they shall openly proclaim the very same things that we publicly proclaim.

We are operating in “cells” of between 4 and 10 men and women, and no “cell” knows of the existence or leadership of another “cell.” There are 5 persons in 5 separate sections of North America who know all the “cell” leaders and are capable of coordinating action if any of the National Staff are captured by the enemy.

We will gather our finances by taking by force the enemy's money. We will rob banks, kidnap, forge checks, float credit cards, and generally extort our financial existence from our wealthy and influential enemy. Our enemy is the Jew; our present Government is the Jew.
