Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Reference is made to paragraph C of subject's previous fitness report dated 10 January 1963, which is still applicable. During the period covered by this report, subject has done an excellent job in the handling of a significant student exile group which hitherto had successfully resisted any important degree of control. Under subject's direction, an exile teachers' group reached a high level of effectiveness in the propaganda field and was turned over to another case officer.

Subject has effectively terminated unproductive operations in the prop field (one magazine and a newsletter) and is building up Station radio capability directed at the maintarget.

His high professional standards, complete comprehension of the problems faced by the Station, and strong urge to win in our struggle with the opposition make it a distinct pleasure to see him take over as Chief of the PW branch.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: JUL 31 1963. Signature of employee: /s/ Walter D. NEWBY (signed in pseudo on Fld. Transmittal).

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 15 months. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 31 July 1963. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Robert K. TROUCHARD (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.).

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: The Reviewing Officer is familiar with Subject's work based primarily on discussions with Subject and Subject's supervisor, general observation of Subject during the past year, and frequent review of his completed work. Subject is an extremely hard-working, dedicated individual with an ability to develop rapport quickly with his contacts. Subject works long hours, including weekends, without complaining and is always available when there is a job to be done. Subject has demonstrated those qualities of management, initiative, drive, and devotion to duty that are necessary to perform the many and varied tasks of a fast and continually changing situation. The Reviewing Officer concurs with the Rating Officer's overall evaluation of Strong 99.

Date: SEP 24 1963. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Frederick J. INGHURST (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.).
