Betsy Palmer

Volume X continued

6. Cable to San Jose, Caracas, Santo Domingo, Mexico City, and JMWAVE from the Director, dated 31 August 1963.

Ray departing 29 August on trip to first three aides. Attempting to renew Mexican visa waiver for travel there later. Purpose of trip to solicit political backing, raise funds, tighten JURE organization, streamline communication, and establish take-off points for operations against target.

7. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 7 September 1963, reference WAVE 3895.

Reported conversation with Ray's sister-in-law, wherein she stated Ray visited her home on 30 August to say goodbye. He was going to be infiltrated into Cuba and would not see her for some time. Said he was not in accord with certain U.S. officials on Cuban policy and had no confidence in U.S. ability to liberate Cuba. Said he had refused two invitations extended by RFK to discuss the Cuban situation.

8. Document transfer and cross-reference, dated 10 September 1963 (UFG-03590).

Ray arrived secretly in Miami from Puerto Rico, had a secret meeting with Manuel Quiza Docal, LDR of Cubanos Libres, in which Quiza officially connected his organization to JURE for all action. Later traveled to New York City to purchase C-4 explosives.

9. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 11 September 1963, report from AMTAUP-2.

AMTAUP-2 spoke with Rogelio Cisneros on 6 September. Cisneros stated Ray departed for Costa Rica on 5 September to interview President Orlich. Said on Ray's last meeting with RFD, the private secretary of President Romulo Betancourt was present. Cisneros said JURE's objective is to have different prominent figures in Latin American governments witness promises made by the U.S. government. Cisneros said JURE was not obligated to report military or political plans to CIA, but CIA was obligated to deliver to JURE all military equipment needed to fight Castro. Delivery of equipment would be on the high seas from a CIA boat to a JURE boat, which would proceed to Cuba.

10. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 6 September 1963. Elania Germania (Bernal) de Paula reported she learned from her brother-in-law, Manuel Ray, that he had recently been in Europe negotiating arms purchases in Belgium. Contact man for purchase of Colonel Ramon Barquin.

11. Cable to Director from MEXI, dated 27 September 1963, number 6301.

LITAMIL-2 was approached by Julio Lanier on behalf of Ray and JURE. They want to start a military operation against Cuba using Mexico as a base. Lanier says Ray is receiving money from Venezuela. LITAMIL-2 is a CIA agent, a Cuban citizen living in Mexico. Mexican station wants to keep him clear of overt exile activity.
