Section C — Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify and support ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or professional duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject has been under the direct supervision of this rating officer for a period of 14 months. This report is being submitted because of the transfer of the employee. For the last 6 weeks of the period covered by this report, Subject was under the direct supervision of the COS because of the absence from the Station of this rating officer. Any differences of opinion with respect to the caliber of Subject's performance during the last six weeks will be reflected in the reviewing officer's comments.

During this period, as in the preceding period, Subject carried out all of his assigned duties and responsibilities in a highly professional and thoroughly competent manner. He continued to show a good deal of initiative and imagination in dealing with the liaison services on day-to-day matters. He demonstrated a keen sense of the internal political situation and he made maximum use of his contacts to elicit a large amount of disseminable information. Subject took over one new operational project during this period and he was able, because of his deep knowledge and understanding of the operational techniques employed in the CA field, to improve on the quality of the agent's product. Subject is an able and fully qualified officer who acquired a good deal of expertise about local operating conditions and then proceeded to apply his specialized knowledge and past experience to the Station's advantage. He has a great capacity for creative.

Section D — Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Signature of employee: 15/.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 14. Date: 15 September 66. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: Michael Tanes /s/.

I would have rated Subject employee about the same. During the period under review, I had the opportunity to follow this employee's activities closely and can attest to his professional and imaginative handling of key assets. He corrected an earlier occupational fault found in many CA officers, a lack of cost consciousness, by cutting back on costs without adverse results to the operations concerned. During the one year under my observation, this employee performed highly satisfactorily.

Date: 16 September 66. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: Nicholas Natsios /s/.
