G. Security Index

1. Purpose and general policy

a. Security index cards are maintained by Bureau as an operational guide for apprehension of persons deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous to internal security in the event of national emergency.

b. Action will be taken against security index subjects only upon authorization of warrants of arrest by Attorney General.

c. Names are included in security index only when investigation has established sufficient facts and evidence to justify inclusion.

d. Contents of security index must be accurate and correct at all times. Give matters pertaining to its preparation and maintenance preferred attention.

e. Matters pertaining to security index are not to be included in reports or LHM prepared for dissemination. Operation and content of security index must not be discussed outside Bureau. However, matters pertaining to security index may be discussed with qualified representatives of other Federal intelligence agencies on a strictly confidential basis when the subject is of prime interest to one of these services.

2. Determination of dangerousness of individual

a. Dangerousness of an individual does not depend entirely upon personal characteristics, such as aggressiveness or disposition to violence. It also depends upon the contribution he has made or is making in advancing the principles and aims of a subversive movement, or his subversive potential in the event of a national emergency. Loyalty to a subversive organization and its principles is the primary factor to consider in evaluating potential dangerousness. However, all evidence must be carefully weighed. Among the factors having a bearing are:

(1) Long membership in a subversive organization.

(2) Affiliation with or attendance at training schools, especially leadership schools.

(3) Frequent or regular attendance at organizational meetings and functions.

(4) Possession of or study of revolutionary literature.

(5) Espousal of subversive doctrines exemplified in his acts and utterances.

(6) Contributions to or collections of funds for an organization.

(7) Recruitment of new members.

(8) Active service in military forces which are supported by a subversive movement.

(9) Constant support of the Soviet Union in acts and utterances.

(10) Activity as a courier or confidential mail drop for a subversive movement.

(11) Constant participation in activities of a subversive organization or advancement of the organization's aims or interests, especially when this involves financial sacrifices or personal inconveniences or disadvantages.

(12) Individuals who have defected, revoked, or sought revocation of U. S. citizenship in favor of a communist country, have returned to the U. S., and have taken no positive steps to counteract such action.

(13) Statements or activities on the subject's part establishing reasonable grounds to believe his loyalty would lie with a communist country in the event of armed conflict between the U. S. and that country.

(14) Training and/or participation in espionage, sabotage, or intelligence activities.

(15) History of emotional instability or irrational behavior, prior acts indicating a propensity for violence, when coupled with a subversive background or hatred against organized government.

b. The above factors, which are not all-inclusive, should be taken into consideration in determining whether the subject falls within security index criteria. A person shall not be deemed dangerous merely because one or more of these factors apply to him.
