Organizing Self Defense Groups

Military Information  
N.C.O.F. Detroit  
12847 14th St.  
859-1058

Part 3: Training

When planning any operation, the pigs' C.M.I. must be taken into consideration in planning tactics.

Practice—practice—practice—practice—practice—practice.

In order to perform well in your work on all levels it is necessary to practice. The more you practice, the better you perform. Don't think just because you read something you can do it. You can memorize a book on how to drive a car but until you get behind the wheel and practice, you still can't drive.

The first things to understand before you ever put a round of ammo in a chamber are basic safety rules. Ninety-nine percent of all accidental shootings happen with guns that aren't loaded and/or by people that say, “I'm sorry, I didn't know it was loaded.” Therefore, rule #1 is: the first thing you do when you pick up a weapon is check to see if it is loaded, keep your finger off the trigger, and follow the following procedure. Point gun away from area where someone could possibly be shot. If it is a revolver, swing out the cylinder; if it is a pistol, remove the magazine and pull back the slide. Even after you have unloaded the gun or see that it is unloaded, treat the gun in the manner as if it were still loaded. Never touch the trigger unless you are practicing trigger squeeze (explanation later), firing on training ground, or dealing with the enemy. Never point a gun at anyone you don't intend to shoot. I can't stress these points enough; however, people that generally haven't had any experience with pieces violate these rules constantly. If I am ever shot accidentally by some idiot, it will be very difficult to suppress the desire to blow his or her head off, providing he only wounded.

The next step is to learn to disassemble and assemble your pieces, also care and maintenance. Due to the fact that self-defense activity will not be limited to daylight hours, you should learn to break your piece down and assemble it even in the dark. Your life depends on it. So do it.

Clean barrel and metal parts with good commercial solvent.

All metal parts should get light coat of oil.

Run only patch through barrel.

After storage, run clean patch through bore before firing.

After you've gotten this down, the next step is to learn how to aim and fire your weapons properly. All of this is to be done before you ever put your first round of ammunition in a chamber.

Store in horizontal position.

Remove all excess grease and oil.
