(b) Third Country Aid. The United States has suggested a Saigon, and possibly a later Washington meeting of donor country representatives to coordinate aid to Viet-Nam. The intention is to stimulate more third country aid if possible, and to make sure that current third country contributions are being effectively applied. To date, Australia and New Zealand have indicated willingness to participate in such meetings, Germany will take part in informal Saigon meetings but would not attend any formal Washington gathering, and the Japanese are “proceeding with caution” because of the expressed fear that too close identification with the U.S. will open up Japanese technicians in Viet-Nam to Viet Cong reprisals. Canada has declined to participate because of its membership on the ICC. The Belgians, French, Italians and the UK have not yet responded.

Negotiations for the integration of Australian trainers into our MAAG appear near completion. The GVN has indicated its willingness to receive a New Zealand medical team at any time and the details are being worked out with Wellington and Saigon.

10. Military Civic Action

The 31st Engineer Battalion assisted the local population at Cheo Reo in Pleiku Province in the construction of a Buddhist temple. In addition to the 150,000 copies of a news sheet distributed weekly by soldiers to the local civilian population, 35,000 copies of the sheet were also air dropped.

12. Develop and Implement Mutually Agreed Plans

Operations Binh Minh and Hai Yen. Saigon reports both clear-and-hold operations continuing to make progress without serious VC reaction. Increased contact with the VC is reported in the Hai Yen area, however, as the military move into VC territory.

Hamlet Councils have been elected in the Hai Yen area, but the Embassy notes a serious problem in the fact that a hamlet Council member receives only 300 piasters (about $4.00) per month for what is theoretically a full time job. In Operation Binh Minh, an effort will be made to induce the people to move voluntarily into the fourth village to be set up there. The plan calls for extensive propaganda and explanations in advance of the move, establishment of military control over the area so that the people will be free to move voluntarily, and up to 15 days to accomplish the move itself (previous regrouping actions allowed only a very short period for the physical move).

Montagnards. Latest information developed as a result of joint surveys indicates the Montagnard situation is more a long term problem than an emergency. There has in fact been a movement of some 17,000 Montagnard as a reaction to VC pressures, and this movement will probably continue, particularly if the GVN provides adequate food and security.
