MHFNO: 98-0650682. SENSIND: RYBAT.

At Concorde Nightclub (0030–0330). Subject paid for drinks. His spouse may return to Addis circa early May. Subject said he was distancing himself from Egyptian businessman Safah (phonetic) and added, “Before I leave Addis, I have a lot to tell you. I’ll tell you when the story is finished. A lot goes on here.” Subject mentioned Israeli trade fair at Sheraton Hotel 25–26 February; the Egyptian economic counselor was invited. Regarding Rami Hatan, subject said he was aware Hatan was single, lived in Bole area, and was a first-tour officer. The Russian delegation (paragraph 3) was here for Ethiopian tank (T-55) refurbishment; recent Israeli delegation was here to bid on T-55 and aircraft refurbishment, corroborated by 2/00/1607-98, 191934Z February 98, and 2/00/1584-98, 191609Z February 98. Six Oromo oppositionists were extradited from Djibouti to Ethiopia. Foreign Minister Moussa is visiting Addis the week of 23 February; he is a womanizer and may visit Concorde Nightclub. He has three bodyguards, but they are not “professionals.” Subject paid equivalent US$60 to blood-test local girlfriend Helen, saying, “She’s all right.” Regarding salary, subject is paid “pretty well” and works hard to “earn the pay.” Upon parting, subject said, “Sleep well, I won’t say have nice dreams because we (i.e., intelligence officers) do not have nice dreams.”

6. 20 February: Late dinner with subject at Lion Club, then Concorde Nightclub. Two businessmen—a Saudi named Salah LNU, who departs Addis the week of 23 February, and a Jordanian named Mahmoud LNU, both Concorde regulars—joined subject and C/O. The businessmen spoke of exporting Ethiopian cattle to Saudi Arabia and also spoke of horses and camels. Subject’s embassy office is being remodeled by an Ethiopian interior designer; a subordinate watches the designer at all times. Subject will have C/O over to the office once it is finished. Subject will be busy the week of 23 February due to Moussa’s visit.

7. 21 February: C/O visited subject’s home and office, which was being painted and had only chairs and a bookcase; Mahmoud LNU, an Egyptian, supervised the Ethiopian painter. FCSTANDARD chiefs posted abroad have use of a government vehicle, as does subject. Ethiopians tap diplomats’ office and home phones. During conversation with C/O, subject turned on tape player for sound masking and explained his home had not yet been tested for bugs. A simple test is to turn off all appliances and check the electric meter; there is also a more sophisticated test. Subject phoned his spouse in Cairo and had C/O speak with her. Subject gave C/O two small gifts: a marble head of Nefertiti and a papyrus paper painting. Subject’s brother-in-law, a police major, is no good; he asks his father-in-law for money. Saudi Attaché Wadie A. Al-((Thagafi.
