The Rifle: The bolt-action rifle in .30-06 or .308 (7.62 mm NATO), with a four-power scope (or better) mounted, is a sniping weapon. A specialist piece. This virulent (deadly) combination is for one purpose, and one purpose only—to fire one well-placed shot. So each self-defense unit needs only one such weapon at this time. There is nothing else to say about that.

The assault rifle is either semiautomatic, or preferably one that can be fired either semiautomatically or fully automatically. The limit here is that posed by the limit of the enemy's arsenal. Here we will discuss the most commonly seen in our communities, carried by the Gestapo pig forces. The AR-15, caliber .223, is the semiautomatic civilian “sporting” model of the M-16 used in Vietnam. The M-16 fires either semiautomatically or fully automatically. After the lives of many brothers were lost in Vietnam because the weapon was new and untested, it has now been debugged and is fairly reliable. It can be found on all military bases and some Gestapo police arsenals. The AR-15 was taken off the public market and has been replaced by the AR-180, caliber .223. The AR-180 does not appear to be as good as the AR-15. However, many pig departments are stocking up on them.

Another very good assault rifle is the M-14, caliber 7.62 mm NATO (.308 in English). This is a very good weapon, although it has been replaced by the lighter M-16 in the fascist military. Most National Guard units, at least here in California, are equipped with the M-14. Check your local National Guard availability.

The Thompson submachine gun, if in good working order, is very reliable in .45 ACP caliber. It fires either semiautomatically or fully automatically. One rewarding feature is that it uses the same ammunition as the .45 automatic pistol, cutting down on the variety of ammunition necessary for you.

Finally, the age-old M1 Garand, caliber .30-06. Very good, plenty of them around, heavy and accurate way out, easy to get, and plenty of ammunition around. Pawn shops and gun shops also sell them; National Guard units and college ROTC units have them readily available.

The M1-30 caliber carbine? Use it for target practice and training.

Assault rifles are to be used in firefights, more commonly known as shootouts. People waging wars of liberation around the world also use assault rifles to annihilate (wipe out) their enemy in ambushes and in counterattacks against fascist military outposts.

Handguns: There are two types: semiautomatic pistols and revolvers. There are so many different brands and calibers, I will only deal with what I consider to be the best choices.

.357 Magnum revolver made by either Colt or Smith & Wesson. It holds six shots and, with armor-piercing ammunition, is supposed to crack an engine block. Many pig departments have switched or are switching from .38 Special to .357. There was an incident where a brother was defending himself against a pig and fired at the pig with a special. The bullet hit the pig's badge and was deflected. Had the brother been using .357 Magnum, that would have been one barque pig.

9 mm automatic pistol. Although pistols are called “automatic,” they really are semiautomatic. The trigger has to be pressed for every shot. I recommend the Peabody GMB 29.

.357 Magnum
