Fitness Report

Section A: General Information

Employee number: 059198. Name: Kent, William M. Date of birth. Sex. Grade. SD. Official position title: Ops Officer - Deputy Chief. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDO/CMS/NOC. Current station: Hqs. Code: X HQS. DF.

Type of appointment: Career, X; Temporary, X Annual. Reserve. Contract. Other (Spec.).

Type of report: Reassignment. Special.

Reporting period: 1 November 1975 - 31 December 1976. Date report due in O.P.: 31 January 1977.

Section B: Qualifications Update

If qualifications update form is being submitted with changes, and is attached to this report, place the word “Yes” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “No” in the box at right. No.

Section C: Performance Evaluation

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: As head of the Branch's Referral Section, develops and implements a centralized system for locating suitable new-hire NOC personnel to fill specific NOC needs by area divisions; also does the same for unassigned NOC personnel as coordinator between area divisions. Rating letter: 0.

Specific duty No. 2: As deputy to Chief, CMS/NOC, serves as latter's alter ego in absence of branch chief, and as his principal adviser in all matters concerning nonofficial cover in which the Branch is involved. Rating letter: S.
