SF 100-53462

Student Committee for Travel to Cuba

“The Columbia Owl,” weekly student newspaper of Columbia University, New York City, December 12, 1962, issue, page one, contained an article entitled “Students to Visit Cuba During Holidays.” This article stated in part that the Ad Hoc Student Committee for Travel to Cuba was formed October 14, 1962, by a group of students from New York City universities, the University of Wisconsin, Oberlin College and the University of North Carolina, who stated that as students they would like a chance to see and evaluate the situation in Cuba for themselves and had received an offer of transportation and two weeks stay in Cuba from the Federation of University Students in Havana, as guests of the Federation. The Committee accepted the offer and applied to the State Department of the United States for passport validation which was refused; however, over fifty students planned to defy the State Department ban and go to Cuba.

A source advised on December 6, 1962, it was learned the Ad Hoc Student Committee for Travel to Cuba had recently been formed by the Progressive Labor Group.

A second source advised on September 13, 1963, that during the Summer of 1963, fifty-nine individuals traveled to Cuba; the leaders of the group were members of the Progressive Labor Movement; and the trip was planned and organized by Progressive Labor Movement members.

A third source advised on October 9, 1963, the Student Committee for Travel to Cuba was utilizing Post Office Box 2178, New York, New York, as its mailing address.

On March 12, 1965, Philip Abbott Luce, 504 West 55th Street, New York, New York, a self-admitted member of the Student Committee for Travel to Cuba Executive Committee and the Progressive Labor Movement National Coordinating Committee, advised as follows:

The Student Committee for Travel to Cuba (SCTC) was formerly known as the Ad Hoc Student Committee for Travel to Cuba and the Permanent Student Committee for Travel to Cuba.

Luce was a leader and participant of the 1963 trip to Cuba and an organizer of the 1964 trip to Cuba and both trips were sponsored by the SCTC.

By the Spring of 1964 the Executive Committee of the SCTC was considered to be members of the Progressive Labor Movement.

No trip to Cuba or China was being planned by the SCTC for 1965.

Appendix
