Persons/Entities: Conein; Don. Date: October 24, 1963. Categories: Diem.

Occurrence: Conein and Don met at 19:00 hours; (a) Don did not receive permission from the coup committee to turn over the political plan; (b) Don had been authorized to outline the political thinking of the coup committee. (1) The succeeding government would be civilian and no member of the coup committee would hold a senior position in the new government; (2) the new government would, as soon as possible, free non-communist political prisoners, hold free elections, and permit operation of opposition political parties except for the Viet Cong; (3) there will be complete freedom of religion and no revolution or disorganization shown toward any enemy; (a) the new government would be pro-West but not a party of the USG; (b) the new government would carry the war against the Viet Cong to a successful conclusion with Western, particularly USG, help; (c) Don said that Conein would be in close contact with coup headquarters to insure a close line of communication between the coup headquarters and the Ambassador; (d) Don stated that once the coup started, it would do no good for the USG to attempt to stop it; (e) Don was aware of coup plotting on the part of Lt. Colonel Pham Nguyen Thao; (f) the coup committee was in contact.

Source: Hearings, S.S.C.I., June 20, 1975, Conein, Exhibit One, page 7. Staff: Dawson. Date: 6/30/75.

Parties/Entities. Date: October 24, 1963.

Occurrence: no revolution or disorganization shown toward any enemy; (a) the new government would be pro-West but not a party of the USG; (b) the new government would carry the war against the Viet Cong to a successful conclusion with Western, particularly USG, help; (c) Don said that Conein would be in close contact with coup headquarters to insure a close line of communication between the coup headquarters and the Ambassador; (d) Don stated that once the coup started, it would do no good for the USG to attempt to stop it; (e) Don was aware of coup plotting on the part of Lt. Colonel Pham Nguyen Thao; (f) the coup committee was in contact.

Continuation of last card.

Source: P. H. S. V. I.
