(1) Handwriting specimens

I. If, during the investigation of security matter cases, it is disclosed that samples of the subject's handwriting are readily available, obtain specimens for possible future use and maintain in the file in the field.

II. A case is not to be left in a pending status merely for the purpose of obtaining handwriting specimens.

III. Deleted.

(m) Labor union membership

If the subject is being investigated because of Communist Party membership, ascertain the identity of any labor organization of which he is a member and what position he holds in the labor organization, if any.

(2) Subversive activity

(a) Membership or affiliation

Obtain admissible and convincing evidence that the subject is a member of, or affiliated with, one of the basic revolutionary organizations and/or front organizations wherever possible. Such evidence may be either direct or circumstantial, or both. It is not possible to list the innumerable and varied forms in which such evidence may be found. Some of the more common types are:

I. Oral or written statements or admissions of the subject made publicly or privately to other individuals.

II. Statements of confidential informants and other persons who are in a position to know the facts and can testify to them.

III. Official letterheads and documents of subversive organizations containing information which identifies the subject with the organizations. This will include membership and dues records wherever obtainable.

IV. Selective service records in which the subject admits membership in or position with a subversive organization.

V. Attendance at closed meetings and conventions of a subversive organization.

VI. Letters to publications, public officials, or other persons signed by the subject in an official position with a subversive organization or wherein the subject admits membership in or adherence to the principles of a subversive organization.

VII. Recruitment or attempt to recruit members for a subversive organization.

VIII. Solicitations or contributions of funds for a subversive organization.

IX. Seeking public office as a candidate for a subversive organization.

X. Association with other individuals who are known to be members of or affiliated with subversive organizations.

With regard to the question of membership, attention is directed to section 87H of this manual relating to the provisions of the Communist Control Act of 1954. This act sets out a list of 14 criteria itemized in 87H 2, which should be considered “in determining membership or participation in the Communist Party or any other organization defined in this Act, or knowledge of the purpose or objective of such party or organization...” These criteria include, e.g., listing as a member in organization records, contributions to the organization, and acceptance of organization discipline.

(b) Knowledge of aims and purposes

Admissible and convincing evidence that the subject knows the aims and purposes of the subversive organizations to overthrow the Government by force and violence should also be obtained. Mere proof of membership in or affiliation with such an organization is not sufficient to prove such knowledge.
