Regarding ex-members of subversive groups: background, type of information possessed, time period covered, availability for interview and for testimony.

n. Channeling information to case files

(1) Memoranda regarding membership or activity in subversive organizations, including summaries of informant reports, should be channeled to case files of individuals involved. When information from informants or surveillances is channeled to individual case files, it should be documented.

(2) When preparing lengthy channeling memoranda reporting material of interest to other offices, limit the number of copies prepared to two for each other office. Clearly indicate next to the names of other offices the page number containing information of interest and note on the cover page that distribution of material to individual case files should be handled by recipient offices.

o. Movement of subjects between offices.

If the office of origin receives information that a subject of a current or past investigation changes residence to the territory of another division, the office of origin requests verification within 30 days. If the new residence is confirmed, the office of origin submits FD-128 to transfer origin.

D. Dissemination of data developed

1. General Policy

Information developed during these investigations should be furnished to other agencies in the Executive Branch which have a legitimate interest. See MRR, part II, section 5, pertaining to the Bureau's overall responsibilities and policies in dissemination.

Do not disseminate earlier reports without reviewing them to ensure they meet current reporting standards. If they are unsuitable for dissemination, prepare an LHM containing pertinent information.

2. Specific requirements

The following instructions cover representative situations which occur frequently.

a. Members of armed forces

The Delimitations Agreement between the FBI and armed forces intelligence agencies (see section 102B, volume IV, of this manual) requires the free exchange of all information of mutual interest between subscribing agencies. Immediately refer any derogatory or possibly significant information developed concerning members of military services, including contacts with individuals or groups of security interest, to the military service having primary responsibility.

If it is determined that the subject of an FBI investigation is a member of the armed services, discontinue the investigation immediately, advise FBIHQ, and disseminate pertinent information locally to the appropriate intelligence agency. If it is determined that the subject has close relatives in the armed forces, promptly advise the appropriate military intelligence service, and furnish pertinent information, including reports, on the subject involved. Evaluation of such association lies entirely within the province of the military intelligence service.
