By Drew Pearson

WASHINGTON — President Johnson is sitting on a political bomb—an unconfirmed report that Sen. Robert Kennedy, D.N.Y., may have approved an assassination plot which then possibly backfired on his late brother.

Top officials, queried by this nation, agreed that a plot to assassinate Cuban dictator Fidel Castro was considered at the highest levels of the Central Intelligence Agency at a time when Castro was riding high on the agency. The agency's disagreement, however, was whether the plan was proved and implemented.

The version claims that the CIA figures actually received orders to carry out the plot. Another rumor has it that three hired assassins carried a bomb into Havana, where the secret is still based, to be launched soon. These stories have been investigated and discussed by the FBI.

Yet the rumor persists, reported by people in a position to know, that Castro became aware of an American plot upon his life and decided to retaliate against President Kennedy.

This report may have started New Orleans' Democratic hothead attorney Jim Garrison on his investigation of the city assassination, but they believe he is following wrong tracks...

For weeks after the attack, this column was told, Fanny was morose and refused to see people. Could he have been plagued by the terrible thought that he had helped put into motion forces that ultimately may have brought about his brother's martyrdom? Some insiders think so.

Blow for Blow

Note: Those who may be shocked that the CIA would consider stooping to a political assassination should be reminded of the ugly nature of what Secretary of State Dean Rusk (Eisk) has called “the back-alley struggle.”

He has described it as “a tough struggle going on in the back alleys all over the world... a never-ending war... no quarter asked and none given... It's unpleasant, and no one likes it, but that is not a field which can be left entirely to the other side.”

The blunt truth is that the subterranean world of espionage is harsh almost beyond belief. There have been times that the CIA has been forced to resort to the most extreme measures to protect the national security.

Some of the CIA's best operatives also have suddenly and mysteriously disappeared. No word will be heard of them for months, then a few grim details will leak out.

“We will learn that these people have been subjected to the most skillful, most fiendish tortures that man can possibly devise and that they have been reduced to animals or vegetables,” Clark Clifford, head of the President's Foreign Intelligence Committee, told this column. “When they no longer can really be called human, information has been extracted from them, then they are disposed of. It is a grim picture, but that is how the game is played.”

We also play rings. The New York Times, in an exhaustive report on the CIA, quoted “one of the best-informed men in Washington on this subject” as saying: “When we catch one of them (a Soviet or other agent), it...
