Ch. 73

Obstruction of Justice

18 § 1505

Note

The “two witness rule” was not applicable in showing that defendant violated this section proscribing obstruction of justice by influencing witness to give false testimony and information to Senate Committee and its investigators, and testimony of one person alone was sufficient to convict. Stein v. U. S., C.A. Cal. 1964, 337 F.2d 14, certiorari denied S.J. S.Ct. 898, 380 U.S. 907, 13 L.Ed.2d 795.

Power of inquiry by certain specific acts, particularly altering, defacing and partially destroying and withholding from Senate Select Committee certain union invoice or record, which bore reasonable relation to subject matter of inquiry of Senate Select Committee, and concealing and withholding envelope and memorandum containing union’s records, which bore reasonable relation to subject matter of inquiry, and relevant to it, would not be dismissed, on ground of double jeopardy, because of prior indictment charging defendant with unlawful refusal to answer question before Senate Select Committee, since same facts would not prove each case. Id.

An indictment for conspiracy to violate criminal code by subornation of perjury in proceeding before the Federal Petroleum Board was not subject to criticism that it was too vague, contradictory, duplicitous, uncertain and indefinite. U. S. v. Drumfield, D.C. La. 1949, 85 F. Supp. 696.

Evidence

Indictment charging that defendant unlawfully, wilfully, and knowingly did corruptly influence, obstruct and impede and corruptly endeavor to influence, obstruct and impede due and proper exercise of power of inquiry by certain specific acts, particularly altering, defacing and partially destroying and withholding from Senate Select Committee certain union invoice or record, which bore reasonable relation to subject matter of inquiry of Senate Select Committee, and concealing and withholding envelope and memorandum containing union’s records, which bore reasonable relation to subject matter of inquiry, and relevant to it, would not be dismissed, on ground that doctrine of res judicata applied because of prior indictment charging defendant with unlawful refusal to answer question before Senate Select Committee. Id.

7. Questions for jury

Whether defendant charged with obstruction of justice in Securities and Exchange Commission’s investigation by inducing person to testify falsely that he had purchased certain securities through firm of which defendant was head and had resold securities to that firm knew that witness would be asked to testify under oath was jury question. U. S. v. Batten, D.C. D.C. 1964, 226 F. Supp. 492, certiorari denied S.J. S.Ct. 898, 380 U.S. 912, 13 L.Ed.2d 799, rehearing denied S.J. S.Ct. 1557, 381 U.S. 930, 14 L.Ed.2d 688.

Indictment within section

One whom defendant knew was probable witness before Senate Committee who intended to testify was a “witness” though not under subpoena when defendant gave him false story to tell when and if he testified, for purposes of cross-examination. Stein v. U. S., Cal. 1964, 337 F.2d 14, certiorari denied S.J. S.Ct. 898, 380 U.S. 907, 13 L.Ed.2d 795.

Indictment or information

Indictment charging that defendant unlawfully, wilfully, and knowingly did corruptly influence, obstruct and impede due and proper exercise of power of inquiry by certain special acts, particularly altering, defacing and partially destroying and withholding from Senate Select Committee certain union invoice or record, which bore reasonable relation to subject matter of inquiry of Senate Select Committee, and concealing and withholding envelope and memorandum containing union’s records, which bore reasonable relation to subject matter of inquiry, and relevant to it, sufficiently charged an offense under this section dealing with influencing or influencing witness before agencies and committees. U. S. v. Presser, D.C. Ohio 1960, 17 F. Supp. 64.

Testimony of one person alone is sufficient to convict defendant for obstructing justice in influencing witness to give false testimony to Senate Committee and to give false and perjurious information to committee investigators. Id.

Evidence sustained convictions under counts charging corruptly inducing witness to testify falsely and corruptly influencing.
