Persons/entities: Bundy; Colby. Date: 10/8/63. Johnson; Kilpatrick; McCone. Diem; Special Group.

Occurrence:

On October 8, 1963, at a Special Group meeting, the DCI expressed concern that there was a lack of intelligence coverage during the period when “the U.S. was maintaining a posture of almost no official contact at top levels.” They refer to the fact that NHU and DIEM are not being contacted by Americans. Mr. MCCONE also referred to “the orientation of (Saigon) station functions.” Mr. BUNDY pointed out that “for Americans to resume top-level contacts at this time would appear to represent a political rapprochement. Ambassador LODGE might feel that this was running counter to his policy.” The Group gave its approval to the basic realignment of station functions. (The nature of such functions is not outlined.)

Source: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, Oct. 17, 1963. File. Staff: Kelley. Date: 6/28/75.

Persons/entities: Tung, Col. Date: Oct. 8, 1963. Category: DIEM. Phillips, Rufus (Rusus), AID. Colby, William. Date: Saigon (Siagon) after 10/5/63. Richardson, John “Jocko.” Aid to Diem Regime.

Occurrence:

On 8 September 1963, the CIA IG report reflects in a comment that the U.S. government publicly confirmed on Oct. 8, 1963, that aid had already been cut quietly and over a period of some months. Bill Colby, Jock Anderson, and Dave Smith told us that the public announcement of the aid reduction was a signal to the general and that the reduction was planned with that in mind. It may be that the cut in aid was deliberately planned to spur the generals on, but if so, that intention did not find its way into the record. The nearest thing to it is in the record of a presidential meeting of 10 September 1963. The President asked Rufus Phillips of AID what specific actions Phillips recommended, and he suggested “cutting aid to Colonel Tung, which would be viewed by the generals with much enthusiasm as an indication of vigorous (virgouous) American position.” In general, aid cuts were discussed in terms of bringing pressure on Diem to make needed changes in his regime. However planned, or however looked upon by the U.S. administration, it is clear that the Vietnamese considered the official confirmation of aid-cut as a clear token of their support of coup planning.

Source: Staff, Dawson. Date: ETL E. IG Report 1967 (CIA), pp. 17–18.

UTI-E.

Staff: Dawson. Date.
