B. Investigation of Communist Party, USA; Socialist Workers Party; other Marxist revolutionary-type organizations; front groups; New Left and miscellaneous organizations

1. Purposes of investigation

a. To obtain legally admissible evidence for prosecution under existing Federal statutes.

b. To obtain sufficient pertinent data to determine the organization's character and permit implementation of EO 10450.

c. To obtain intelligence data in order to have a day-to-day appraisal of the strength, dangerousness, and activities of the organization; and to keep the Department and other interested Government agencies advised.

Specific objectives should include:

a. Development of confidential informants at all levels of the organization.

b. Coverage of all important ramifications of the organization's activities.

c. Development of admissible evidence against the organization's officials for violation of Federal laws.

2. Policy

a. General

(1) By Presidential directive 9-6-39, and subsequent restatements, FBI is charged with responsibility for coordinating all information regarding U.S. internal security.

(2) FBI employees should not discuss communist or related investigations with any unauthorized individuals. This subject is not to be discussed in speeches of Bureau employees without specific authorization. However, mimeographed material, including speeches, testimony, and magazine articles prepared by the Director, may be furnished without discussion to individuals interested.

(3) Investigations must be conducted in the most discreet and thorough manner. Members of law enforcement agencies are not to accompany Agents during security investigations without Bureau authority.

(4) Established sources and informants who are students or employees at an institution of learning, but who are not reporting on any campus activities or any matter pertaining to the educational institution, may be contacted without Bureau authority. These contacts must be made away from campus.

(5) No photographic surveillances are to be conducted in security cases without specific Bureau authority and then only when essential to protect the Bureau's interest in internal security cases by supplementing informant coverage. In a request for Bureau authority for photographic surveillance, outline the manner in which it will be conducted and supervised.

b. Established subversive groups

(1) Keep Bureau currently advised by appropriate communication, and later incorporate in reports, all pertinent activities, including any changes in principal officers, structure of organization, and forthcoming events.

(2) If no specific leads outstanding, the case may be placed in pending-inactive status after submission of initial report.

(3) Submit reports semiannually unless advised otherwise in individual cases.

c. Newly formed known or suspected subversive organizations, including those affiliated with the New Left movement

(1) When information is received concerning formation of a group, immediately open a case and advise Bureau.

(2) Conduct sufficient inquiry through established sources to determine the character of the group.

(a) If further investigation is warranted, submit a report and thereafter submit reports semiannually unless advised otherwise in individual cases.

(b) If further investigation is not warranted, furnish Bureau results of preliminary inquiry and reasons for this determination by letter. Incorporate any pertinent information in a form suitable for dissemination.
