PHNO: 97-9265318

SENS-IND: RYBAT

In 1964, Kavaja told one source he is unalterably opposed to communism wherever it is found. He professed great admiration for American democracy but felt that more than mere words were needed if America was to win out over communism. Indicated that he was a man of action. He added that he has dedicated himself to the eradication of communism and that an opportune time, he will acquire and carry a pistol, as a patriot, not as a criminal, for use against the head of any communist state including Tito, Khrushchev and Castro, regardless of the consequences to himself or his relatives. Indicated that in October 1963 he had stalked Tito at New York City, Williamsburg, and Washington for the purpose of assassinating him. He was dressed in the black clerical garb of a priest, and he was armed with a .45 caliber pistol and 48 rounds of ammunition. He said he nearly succeeded in his effort in Williamsburg, but was thwarted when Tito left the area by helicopter rather than by car. Indicated that the Communist Party was responsible for the late President Kennedy's assassination. It was also his opinion that the Communist Party was responsible for the frequent black riots in the East. Mentioned that he and his associates felt that the time had come when forceful and affirmative steps must be taken, if the world was to avoid a complete take-over by communism.

G. Another source reported that Kavaja appeared to be somewhat "different" from the average member of the SND, and he appeared to have more of an aggressive nature. The source indicated that Kavaja would probably do things other people would not do. On one occasion Kavaja confided to the source that he had been paid nearly USD 3,000 by a Serbian Orthodox bishop to kill Tito. The deal involved his kidnapping a former leader of the Ustashi movement resident in the Los Angeles area to avenge the Serbs killed during World War II by the Ustashi. However, he did not succeed in this assassination plan because, while he was staking out the man's residence, he was apprehended by the police and arrested for possession of a handgun.

H. Another source reported that Kavaja frequently promised to commit some act of violence against a communist person and on this basis collected money from the Serbs. However, because he had not yet delivered, Serbs in the Chicago area were disenchanted with him.

I. According to another source, Kavaja was described as an opportunist, a bully, and an untrustworthy type of person who was primarily interested in himself. With regard to Kavaja's claims of being an anti-communist, the source added that he had no information on his political sympathies, except that he was extremely prejudiced against non-Serb Slavs. He was reportedly not liked by fellow Serbs, but feared by them because he had the reputation of being a fighter and one who usually picks on men who are either smaller or older than he. However, the source indicated that some Serbs viewed Kavaja as a hero.

4. According to CIA 823841, dated 02 Sep 84, TQHIGHROAD.
