protects too many documents by classifying them as SECRET and TOP SECRET.

In other words, concern about excessive government secrecy is not simply the province of “special interest” groups; it is shared throughout the general public. Reducing government secrecy truly is a matter of “public interest.”

Much of this public concern is latent and diffuse, but it crystallizes time and again around specific issues—the JFK assassination, POW/MIAs in Southeast Asia, UFOs, Nazi war crimes, human rights violations in Latin America, and so forth.

2. Excessive classification is a fact. But independent review can overcome it.

Even if the majority of Americans believe that government secrecy is excessive, they could conceivably be mistaken. But they are not mistaken. It is demonstrably true that government agencies classify too much and fail to declassify information that no longer warrants protection.

This problem is illustrated with particular clarity by the fact that agency refusals to declassify records are frequently overturned—within the executive branch itself—by the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel (ISCAP), which receives appeals from members of the public for documents that agencies have refused to declassify.

Deputy Assistant Attorney General Roslyn A. Mazer, who was appointed by President Clinton to chair the ISCAP, reported recently on the latest activities of her Panel, which includes representatives of the Departments of Justice, State, Defense, CIA, NSC, and the National Archives:

We have taken final votes on appeals for declassification of more than 70 documents on a wide variety of subjects. Of these, we have voted to declassify more than 70 percent of them in their entirety, while declassifying significant segments of most of the remainder. This is significant in my view because, in each instance, we are voting to overturn an agency’s decision reached at its highest level of appeal....²

¹Not inconsistently, a majority of those surveyed also favor “a high level of secrecy” for technology with military applications. “Public Attitudes Towards Security and Counter-Espionage Matters in 1994 and 1996” by Tom W. Smith, National Opinion Research Center, prepared for the Department of Defense Personnel Security Research Center, November 1996. http://www.fas.org/sgp/othergov/perssur2.html

²Remarks by Roslyn A. Mazer, Chair, Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel, before the DoD Historical Records Declassification Advisory Panel, March 6, 1998, emphasis added. http://www.fas.org/sgp/advisory/iscap0398.html
