LA 65-7445

John resides in a boarding house at 817 South Catalina Avenue, Los Angeles. He is employed by the Hartford Insurance Company, 548 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.

He has known Richard Nagell for about one year. He met him through Bill Lynn of the California Alcoholic Beverage Control at The Happy Rabbit. John does not know any members of Nagell's family, nor does he know of any other close friends of Nagell.

Nagell left Los Angeles the first or second week of September 1963. Just before leaving, he told John he would be traveling and asked him to share his post office box so he could forward the government disability checks he receives monthly. He also asked John to mail him an almanac whenever convenient, as he liked to refer to the almanac from time to time as a general source of information. John complied with both requests. Near the end of each month, John sent the checks to Nagell at a post office box in El Paso, Texas. He also sent him an almanac with a yellow cover, as he recalls it. John did not mark or alter this almanac in any way.

John recently received a form letter from a hospital in Missouri informing him he had been named as a correspondent authorized to communicate with Richard Nagell. John has received no indication that Nagell is in any sort of trouble, and he wondered what was behind the hospital letter.

John has never heard anything about his receiving four reels of microfilm or any personal papers should Nagell die. John does not have a key to any safety deposit box and does not know whether Nagell has a safety deposit box. John has heard Nagell mention his sister but knows nothing concerning any Japanese gas mask or anything else stored with her that is to be turned over to him upon Nagell's death.

About a month or two after Nagell left Los Angeles, he wrote to John, probably just on one occasion, concerning paying the rent on the joint postal box.

John is of the opinion Nagell is paranoid, in that he is depressed at the manner his ex-wife treated him and the manner in which the local, state, and federal governments have treated him. John definitely considers Nagell to be mentally disturbed.
