Exhibit One is perhaps representative of the issues raised about the Review Board's disclosure of informants. The Exhibit contains a message sent by the FBI Special Agent in Charge (SAC) in Houston to the SAC in Dallas and to FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover on November 26, 1963, four days after the murder of President Kennedy. This document was originally reviewed by the FBI, and designated for release under the terms of the JFK Act with certain materials redacted. Those redactions appear in Exhibit One and indicate what material the FBI wanted to keep from the public.

As Exhibit Two reveals, the Board decided that much of the redacted material could be released, most notably the name of Mary Ann McCall, a hostess at a Dallas night spot. By the time the informant had interviewed McCall, Jack Ruby had already killed Oswald. The Board decided that the historical record was well served by opening McCall's name, especially given her purported relationship with the Dallas police and organized crime. The Board, however, also accepted the FBI's argument that the name of the person who provided the information about McCall should be protected. Consequently, a document that had many redactions when it was sent from the FBI to the Board went into the public record with only one name redacted. The Board was satisfied that revealing the informant's name would harm the informant, thus outweighing the value of immediate disclosure. The Board used substitute language to make clear to students of the assassination that the redacted portion was the name of a "confidential informant" and ordered that the name be released in the year 2010.

Should it matter to the Board that many of these informants, when interviewed after the assassination, did not provide positive information about Oswald or Ruby? There are countless examples of individuals who, when contacted by intelligence services, indicated that they knew nothing about the assassination. The Board has taken the position that intelligence services must demonstrate that harm would come to the individual if her name were released. Agencies must be able to identify the individual, indicate that she is still alive, and establish that some harm will fall her. The threshold issue,
