Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number. Section A: General.

Name: Smith, Joseph B. Date of birth: 16 Jun 21. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. SD: D. Official position title: Ops Officer.

Type of appointment: Career; Annual.

Date report due in O.P.: 30 April 1969.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Help to establish and monitor the political action and propaganda priorities and plans of the Division, including commenting on policy papers and plans originating outside the Division. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 2: Prepare propaganda guidance to accomplish priority area-wide objectives. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 3: Advise and consult with the Branches and Desks concerning the management of political and propaganda activities. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 4: Direct the activities of a contract specialist in conducting political research, including polling, useful in the achievement of Division objectives. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 5. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 6. Rating letter.

Overall Performance in Current Position.
