Mr. William E. Colby

June 26, 1975

4. Relationships between other organizations, public and private, and the CIA.

5. The use of CIA personnel, funds, or facilities for purposes unrelated to its intelligence missions.

Within these broad subjects of investigation, the Committee will examine “questionable activities” by the CIA. These activities are those where there exist, in the words of the agreed upon Outline for Inquiry Procedures, “specific allegations of Agency or Executive Branch abuses or other controversial specific matters where there is reason to believe improprieties may have occurred.” The following categories are believed by the Committee to be among those in which questionable activities have taken place: mail openings; electronic surveillance; equipment testing within the United States; surreptitious entries; penetration of dissident groups; use of cover and false documentation; security investigations, including those initiated as a result of or in connection with news leaks; use of polygraphs; political misuse of the CIA; assistance provided CIA by other agencies or private companies and CIA’s assistance to them; CIA management of its investments; CIA use of proprietaries, notional organizations and devised facilities; CIA experiments with drugs on unwitting U.S. citizens; CIA detention of individuals within the United States.

In regard to each questionable activity chosen for study, the Select Committee will examine the nature of the activity and will attempt to evaluate the results. The Committee will also look at the CIA’s authority to undertake the activity, the relationship between the activity and the CIA’s missions, the internal mechanisms for initiation and review, and the external mechanisms for control of such activities.

Though the initial focus will be on the specific questionable activity, the Select Committee’s inquiry is designed to reach fundamental issues which bear directly on the adequacy of the administrative organization and procedures of the CIA, and the legislation presently controlling the Agency. Among the major issues which the Committee will address are:
