May 15, 1975

Present at questioning: Mark Gitenstein; Mike Epstein; Martha Talley (morning session only); John P. Mohr; Helen W. Gandy.

The first questions concerned the set-up of the Director's office suite. Special interest was indicated in the rear exit of the suite and it was explained that this exit was used by the Director as it was most convenient to his private office. Mr. Mohr also mentioned the kitchen and lavatory, as the questioners appeared to be completely unfamiliar with the arrangement of the suite.

Next, the conference room was described and in answer to questions the use of the conference room was explained. Information was also given regarding the contents of the bookcases in this room, i.e., miscellaneous books; the Criminal Code volumes; the ring binders of Interesting Cases.

Numerous questions were asked:

How often did the Director call conferences of the officials of the Bureau? What were the purposes of these conferences? Just who attended them? Were they called by the Director, and was this at set and regular intervals?

Mr. Mohr explained that the Director from time to time, as he reviewed matters of policy and like matters that came to his attention, made notes which he discussed with the officials, giving them his ideas on these matters and in turn listening to their views. These sessions considered all matters regarding Bureau administration and policy.

Three: The physical set-up of the office of the Executive Assistant.

I was asked regarding the number of file cases in my office. I answered that I could not, at this date, be positive, but I believed there were approximately ten or twelve five-drawer cabinets.

What were the contents of these cabinets, and where were the so-called O.C. files? Were the O.C. files contained in combination-locked cabinets?

I answered that all of the cabinets in my office were secured with special locks and key, and that the key was kept in a special locked key cabinet in this office.

Questions: Did I receive calls for the Director from his friends and others, and did I transfer them to his desk? Did I make memoranda of such calls? Did I keep a diary? Mr. Gitenstein made a remark regarding a special telephone connection between the Director and “Bobby,” apparently thought better of it, and remarked that Mr. Mitchell had such a connection.
