Fitness Report.

Section A. General.

Name: Woods, James S. (Middle initial: M). Date of birth: 20 February 1928. Sex: M. Grade: GS-10 D. SD: D. Official position title: Records Admin Off. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/EUR/I. Current station: Rome N. T.

Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Initial; Annual. Special (Specify): Reassignment Supervisor; Reassignment Employee.

Reporting period: 4 July 1971–30 September 1971.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Chief of Registry Section. In this capacity he supervises one employee in the processing and pouching of all dispatch correspondence and other registry duties. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Station Records Officer. Responsible for the Station's record program and to give guidance and/or assist the Station officers when called upon to do so. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Cable Analyst. Process and distribute all incoming and outgoing cable traffic; this includes maintenance of the chrono files. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4: Top
