Federal News Service, June 4, 1997

Rep. Hastert: And then you are confident, as you said before, that the review board can finish its task by September 30th, 1998.

Rep. Stokes: I am just very confident that—in projecting the fact that they can do this work with one year. And when they say themselves, as they will say to you when they appear, this'll be one final year.

Rep. Hastert: Thank you very much, and thank you for your testimony.

Rep. Stokes: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Rep. Hastert: The gentleman from Wisconsin.

Rep. Barrett: Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

I don't have a lot of questions, either. I just want to compliment you, Congressman Stokes, for the fine job that you have done.

Rep. Stokes: Thank you.

Rep. Barrett: And just one question. Do you think in the unfortunate and hopefully unlikely scenario that there are future assassinations in the future that this was a good way to approach this problem, the panel that you served? Do you think that you have accomplished what you intended to accomplish?

Rep. Stokes: Mr. Barrett, at the time that we undertook this panel and Congress passed the act to create this panel, 85 percent of the American people believed that someone other than Lee Harvey Oswald had participated in the assassination of President Kennedy. A national poll had told us that. There were boundless rumors and myths. People were writing numerous books and things of that sort. And as a consequence of it, I think that putting this panel together and permitting this type of investigation I think was very helpful. I think it allayed many of the rumors and myths that grew up and abounded around the assassination of our president.

However, I don't think that it put to bed everything. We uncovered many things. For instance, we pointed up many of the things that the Warren Commission had not done properly. And we were able to destroy many of the myths, such as the umbrella man theory and things of that sort. But we couldn't put everything to bed. We had begun that investigation 15 years after the assassination of the president. I think had we been given this type of investigation immediately after it had occurred, it would have been a different result. But many of the witnesses had died. Evidence had disappeared. As you can see now, there were materials which we were not able to get even within that two-year period before we went out of existence.

And so as a consequence of it, I think we did an outstanding job. No one has ever been able to refute any of the work that we did. No one has been able thus far to say anything was ever covered up from the American people. And so to that degree, I think that it performed a good service for the American people.
