19. Do you understand that all payments made to you on behalf of a child must be spent or saved for his use and benefit, and do you agree to so apply the benefits? No.

20. Do you agree to notify the Social Security Administration promptly when you no longer have responsibility for the welfare and care of any child for whom you are filing this application? No.

21. Have you or any children listed in item 14 married since the death of the deceased? No. If yes, give the name of the person who married and the date of marriage.

22. Have you or any children listed in item 14 ever had a Social Security account number? No. If yes, give the following information for each person having a number: name of person as shown on Social Security card and Social Security account number.

23. Have you or any children listed in item 14 ever filed an application for Social Security benefits before? No. If yes, give the name and account number of the person on whose earnings record such previous claim was based: name of wage-earner or self-employed person; Social Security account number.

Answer questions 24 and 25 only if you are within 3 months of age 62 or older.

24. Were you in the active military or naval service of the United States after September 7, 1939, and before January 1, 1957? Yes or No.

25. Did you work in the railroad industry at any time on or after January 1, 1937? Yes or No.

Deductions are made from the benefits, other than disability benefits, of any person under age 72 who earns more than $100 a month in employment or renders substantial services in self-employment, and has earnings in excess of $1,200 for the taxable year. This applies to all employment and self-employment, whether or not covered by the Social Security Act.

26. (a) Are you or any of the children for whom you are filing now earning more than $100 a month in employment or rendering substantial services in self-employment? No. If yes, give the name of each such person.

(b) Do you expect your total earnings or the total earnings of any child for whom you are filing to exceed $1,200 this year, counting all earnings beginning with the first month of this year? No. If yes, give the name of each such person and the amount of his expected earnings. If no, continue with question 27.

(c) Did every person listed in (b) earn more than $100 a month in employment or render substantial service in self-employment in all months of this year, counting the present month? Yes or No. If no, give the name of each person and the months of this year in which the person did not earn more than $100 a month in employment and did not render substantial services in self-employment. If any such person was self-employed, show the number of hours he devoted to self-employment opposite each month listed; if none, show “None.”

The yearly period referred to in this and subsequent items is the same 12-month period used in figuring income taxes. If you or any of the children use a fiscal year, one that does not end on December 31, enter here the name of such person and the month the fiscal year ends.
