Samuel Adason Jaffe

volunteered to go for help, stating: “Let me make a telephone call. I think I can find one. I can speak the language better than you.” After about 30 minutes had passed and the girl had not returned, Jaffe got a cab and returned home at about 3:00 a.m. He continued: “I got a call about five or six (a.m.) from the girl. She had been picked up and taken to the police station near the American Embassy, which was not in this district (where the automobile was disabled). She said, ‘I must see you right away.’ She came to my apartment. She had bruises on her and had been crying. Her eyes were swollen. She told me she had been interrogated by the KGB.” Jaffe said the girl said she was in very serious trouble and was accused of seeing other foreigners. She had insisted to Jaffe that the only other foreigner with whom she associated was a Negro, the Senegalese Ambassador to Russia. Jaffe said he gave her breakfast and then she went home. He continued: “The next time I saw her, she said she would be called up by her factory” and reprimanded.

In answer to a specific question, Jaffe stated:

“I think my expulsion (from Russia) came as much as a surprise to him (‘Slava’) as to me. I didn’t see him after the expulsion order came in.” Jaffe again stated: “‘Slava’ knew I was leaving. He knew I was going to Hong Kong.”

Jaffe again indicated he was already preparing to leave Moscow for Hong Kong when the expulsion order came in. He stated he and his wife were tired of being in Moscow. He said ABC wanted him to remain in Russia but Jaffe did not. While in Paris on a trip, he threatened to quit if he could not leave Moscow. Jaffe stated: “My business wanted me to stay but I didn’t. I didn’t want to be another Henry Shapiro. I didn’t want to let my kid get educated there.” In explaining why he wanted to leave Russia, Jaffe stated: “There were goons around all the time—a lot of pressure—and guys string you along.”

In answer to a specific question, Jaffe stated:

“‘Slava’ in no way, shape or form said ‘I would be in touch with you again.’” Jaffe insisted that since his departure from the Soviet Union he has had no contacts with Soviets except at his own initiative, with the exception of the recent contact by Boris Sedov.
