(i) Subjects missing or out of the country may be recommended for the security index, provided instructions set forth in 87D 6b (3) and (4) are followed. Forms FD-122 submitted on subjects should include data required in 87D 7b (6) (b) IV below.

(j) When Form FD-122 is submitted recommending that a security index card be prepared on a subject who is of Chinese extraction, the words “Other—Chinese” must be included in the space on the form calling for a statement as to the subject’s race. When Form FD-122 is submitted recommending that a security index card be prepared on a person who is not of Chinese extraction but who has shown definite sympathies with Communist China, the form should include under “Miscellaneous” a statement to the effect “sympathetic to Communist China.”

(k) Upon receipt of Form FD-122 at the Bureau, the case of the subject will be reviewed and, if the field’s recommendation is concurred in, security index cards will be prepared. A duplicate copy of the form will be returned to the office of origin stamped: “Security Index card approved and prepared, three copies attached. Place description and photograph on reverse side of Geographical card. Cards should be filed in your Security Index.” The three cards shall be filed in the security index as outlined below. The returned copy of FD-122 shall be placed in the subject’s main investigative case file. Offices with a geographical breakdown by residence and employment will receive an extra card.

(1) When security index cards are received from the Bureau, the data thereon must be checked for accuracy. Cards will be complete except for description and photograph. Descriptions and photographs are maintained on separate cards of similar size to security index cards, which are stapled to the back of two of the cards. One card will then be filed in the geographical section of the office security index, except special section cards and unavailable section cards—see 87D 7b (6) (b) III and IV below—and one card shall be filed in the duplicate security index maintained away from the headquarters city. The other card is filed in the alphabetical section of the security index. No information shall be permanently added, deleted, or changed on the face of a security index card without complying with instructions set forth below under 87D 7b (8).

(5) Content and appearance of security index card

(a) Data to appear on face of card

When complete, the face of the security index card should contain the following information. If any of the items enumerated in I through XIV are missing at the time the security index card is made, the case should be continued as pending and an investigation conducted to obtain the necessary information. Set forth under each item below are possible categories in which the subject may be classified, together with code letters that should be placed in the appropriate space on Form FD-122 when sending the form to the Bureau recommending that a security index card be prepared. Code letters should subsequently appear on security index cards received from the Bureau.

I. Name and aliases

The full and correct name and aliases of the subject must be contained on the security index card. When the true name of a subject or any aliases are changed, added, deleted, or found to be incorrect, Form FD-122 must be submitted showing the correct data to be placed on the security index card.
