Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for continuing. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

During the period covered by this report, Mr. [REDACTED] has been assigned as an operations officer in the DD/P, having transferred from the DD/I in April 1963. Mr. Fox has made this transition very well, and has adjusted himself to the operating tempo and atmosphere of a busy desk. He is now a competent and flexible case officer, making a valuable contribution to his desk and branch. For the past month, he has served very capably as acting chief of the North Vietnam element of the desk, during the absence of another officer.

Mr. Fox was quick to recognize the difference between his present assignment and those previous to it. This difference has required some changes on his part, in terms of emphasis and flexibility. Mr. Fox has graciously accepted guidance given him during this period, and has developed into an efficient DD/P officer.

Mr. Fox's assignment involves partial supervision of two junior officers. He directs these officers effectively, and in a natural manner, giving promise of considerable supervisory capability which future assignments can develop.

Following some additional time on the desk, during which time it is expected that Mr. Fox will assume more responsibility for the North Vietnam program, it is planned to send him to the field, as his performance on the desk would indicate that he is fully capable of an operational field assignment.

Mr. Fox's supervisory duties have not been directly related to fiscal matters. However, he has revealed a normal degree of cost consciousness in those budgetary matters with which he has come in contact.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 18 February 1964. Signature of employee: E. J. Come.

By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 10. Date: 18 February 1964.

Official title of supervisor: Chief, FE/VNC/Vietnam. Typed or printed name and signature: Donald P. Gregory.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

Concur in supervisor's comments. I observed this officer since early May 1963 and I believe he has developed steadily in the operations field, a field new to him. After another six to nine months on the desk, he should be ready for his first ops assignment abroad, hopefully in Saigon working on the North Vietnam program. He is showing the earmarks of a well-rounded, thoughtful case officer and we should not delay too long in getting him to the field in a real operational situation.

Date: 9 March 1964. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, FE/VNC. Typed or printed name and signature: Philip B. K. Potter.
