On October 28, 1944, he allegedly was accused by the government of sabotage because he had agitated against the Russian occupation troops. During the ensuing months he was arrested several times in Ferdinand, Vratsa and Lomé. When released from prison, he continued his illegal activities, which seem to have consisted in travelling from village to village, organizing loose-knit groups of Agrarians to withstand Communist pressures.

Diko's organizational activities often lead him across the Yugoslav frontier. Allegedly he worked in Vardar Macedonia in order to organize Bulgarian sympathizers for the cause of Dr. G. M. Dimitrov, and upon the advice of a certain General Kitchharov.

In April and May, 1945, Diko was in Sofia, in contact with Dr. G. M. Dimitrov, Nikola Petkov and Mara Raicheva. After Diko learned that GeMe had left Bulgaria, he went to Skoplje and asked American and English officers there to help him get to Bari. He did not receive such help.

Diko procured an illegal identity card and, as “Boris Stoikov, a member of the 2nd Belgrade Shock Brigade,” he toured southwestern Yugoslavia, “organizing Agrarian posts.” Eventually, Diko was captured by the Yugoslav authorities.

Upon the suggestion of “Gosho, the leader of the partisans of Greek Macedonia,” Diko was sent back to Bulgaria. He escaped during this transfer and, although he was ill, he went to Sofia where, he says, he was helped by a number of people, including Peter Belgashki, an American Colonel named “Bekeles,” an American Sergeant named “Bucky,” General Craig and Mrs. Minnie Balabanova.

When he had recovered his health, Diko left Sofia and travelled throughout Bulgaria, organizing “secret posts.” Allegedly he organized 250 of these throughout Bulgaria. During the elections of November 18, 1945, he spoke at secret meetings in Vratsa, urging the people to defeat the Communists.

On August 16, 1946, he was captured by the police in Sofia. He claims to have been kept eighteen days without bread and twelve days without water, and to have spent four days on an electric torture machine which caused temporary blindness. (His “indescribable tortures” are all described in detail in his book “The Liberation of Bulgaria.” See enclosure No. 1.) Diko believes that he was not executed because the Communists wished to hold him as a witness in preparation for the trial of Nikola Petkov.
