b. As a means of obtaining closer control, obtain the signed statement set out below whenever feasible and practical. In those instances in which it is not practical to secure a signed statement from an informant or double agent, advise the Bureau of complete details. The SAC and the agent handling the informant or double agent should determine the appropriate time in the informant's operation when the statement should be completed.

I, ____________, have voluntarily agreed to cooperate with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in a matter affecting the security of the United States. I consider it a patriotic duty to so cooperate and agree to maintain this relationship in strict confidence. I understand that I am not a Federal employee and will not represent myself as such. I further agree not to make any disclosure or exploit in any way information which I may obtain or any activity in which I may engage on behalf of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, both while I am actively associated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and thereafter, unless authorized to do so by the Bureau.

(Signed)

Witnessed:

8. Execution of party questionnaires

a. Informants, particularly in the Communist Party, oftentimes must execute “Party” questionnaires and in doing so should be instructed to be extremely careful not to jeopardize their position as informants.

b. If necessary, each item in the questionnaire should be discussed with the informant to be certain his identity as an informant is protected.

9. Informant's activity in organizations

a. Informants in organizations must be impressed with the necessity of carrying on normal activity, such as canvassing, sale, and distribution of literature, leaflets, etc.

b. When feasible, informants should be instructed to accept direction from leaders; request instruction and interpretation of the organization's precepts; request leaders to furnish sources for study purposes; and enter discussions, not quietly sit back as observers.

c. Changes in the organization's conduct, policy, or strategy should be reported as they occur. Have informants give their opinions of the motivation behind such changes, but be certain opinions and suggestions given are labeled as such.

d. Informants must be encouraged to increase contacts within their orbit in order to gain higher positions, but at the same time should be cautioned to do so in such a manner as to avoid busi~~.

10. Transfer of informants to other areas

a. Keep alert to the possibility of transferring informants to areas needing coverage through change in residence or employment.

b. Keep in mind overall coverage of the organization. If an informant becomes prominent and may be able to expand his field of activity beyond your field of division, by all means encourage him to do so in order to provide wider coverage for the Bureau's work.

11. Action by informant when uncovered

a. If an informant is uncovered by subversive elements, he should be instructed to defend himself vigorously and demand proof of his informant activity.

b. Suspicion in many cases is directed to an informant without anything to back it up, and by bluffing the informant may confuse the issue to the point where his services may not be lost. This procedure should be carefully handled and each situation considered on its merits.

c. In some cases it may be necessary for an informant to acquiesce to charges of deviation from the strict discipline of the organization involved, as by so doing he may cast off suspicion.
