(2) Position and importance of subject in subversive movement.

(3) Pertinent background information. Include only information pertinent to determining whether or not subject is engaged in subversive activities. Set out date or period to which it pertains; e.g., John Doe advised on January 15, 1970, that subject attended CP meetings in January, 1965, in Syracuse, New York.

c. Summarizing information.

(1) When prior summary reports are not suitable for dissemination, include all pertinent information in current summary report with sources fully protected.

(2) Repetitious and cumulative items may be limited to representative number with each item set forth fully documented. Number of items will depend upon preponderance of other information showing dangerousness of subject. Base selection on need to report sufficient data to justify continued detention of subject if apprehended.

(3) When selection of representative number of items is made, follow with summary statement that source advised during specified period of time subject also attended certain number of other meetings. Set out file number and serial range in documenting such statements.

(4) Where there is extensive activity in subversive organizations, it is permissible to use narrative statements without exact dates of activity; however, show period of time involved and inclusive dates of informant reports. Do not use this type reporting in Smith Act of 1940 or ISA-50 cases. Summary statements must be statements of facts and not conclusions. Information from different sources must be reported separately.

(5) Above instructions do not lessen responsibility for reporting all pertinent items.

9. Administrative data—cover pages.

a. General.

References to following administrative items should be in cover pages accompanying reports:

(1) Reserve index, security index, file numbers and titles of other cases, priority apprehension program, top functionary status, security index flash notices (FD-165), FD-122, FD-128, and non-investigative information.

(2) When report contains data affecting subject's existing security index card, FD-305, appropriately checked, should be last page of cover pages. This form provides checklist for various items regarding security index.

(3) Attach FD-305 to cover communication submitting LHM in priority III cases.

b. Documentation of reports.

(1) Complete documentation of all reports is required. This also applies to LHMs submitted in priority III cases.

(2) If information necessary for complete documentation is not in subject's file, review other office files, as needed. If not obtainable, so state in cover pages.

(3) Do not conduct extensive investigation to locate sources who previously furnished background information for purposes of documentation or to obtain documentary evidence of background information. For example, if previous investigation revealed subject, according to reliable records, such as birth, school, or Immigration and Naturalization records, was born at certain place on certain date, report it without further verification.
