Section D: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Woods is a quiet, highly effective manager of a major repository of records within the DDO. The workload of his Section is staggering: over 8,000 documents filed each month, over 500 index cards prepared each month; close to 300 Freedom of Information or Privacy Act requests processed each month, etc. Mr. Woods organizes his Section well; he handles a group of six women with skill and understanding and he heads, as a result, a harmoniously working team.

Mr. Woods approaches problems with a positive attitude and brings his considerable experience and imagination to bear with appropriate initiative and follow-through. His response to the exceptionally heavy workload of the Staff over the past year of Congressional investigations and cover exposes was vital to the Staff's and the DDO's requirements for current and historical records. He volunteers ideas designed to improve the Staff's records; he works weekends and after hours to keep ahead of a growing avalanche of paper and requests for information. He is, in sum, a highly competent, knowledgeable, yet flexible records manager upon whom the Staff relies heavily.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 27 July 1976. Official title of supervisor: DC/CCS.

2. By Employee. I have or have not attached a statement concerning the supervisor's evaluation of my performance. Signature of employee.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I have no difficulty in agreeing with the letter ratings and the narrative evaluation in the above report. Mr. Woods established the high level of his professional competence very soon after his assignment in CCS and has maintained this standard without interruption. I again must emphasize his abilities as supervisor in one of the toughest supervisory assignments known to me. With a Registry Chief like Mr. Woods, it is easy to come to the conclusion that running a registry of the complexity and volume as that of CCS is a cinch—at least he makes it appear that way. Date: 29 July 1976. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, CCS. Printed name and signature: Erich W. Isenstead.

4. By Employee. I certify I have seen the entries in all sections of this report. I have or have not attached a statement concerning the reviewing official's evaluation of my performance. Date: 29 July. Signature of employee: James S. Woods.
