Office Memorandum

United States Government

To: L.V. Boardman  
From: A.H. Belmont  
Subject: Afghanistan

cc: Mr. Boardman; Mr. Belmont; Mr. Philcox; Mr. Sanders; Mr. deBettencourt

Date: December 5, 1955

Tsonon; Bryant; Agrawal; Belton; Harbo; Mehr; Parsons; Rosen; Temm; Sizoo; Winterrowd; Tele. Room; Holloman (Holllomn); Geady.

Afghanistan, about the size of Texas, is a landlocked country in the Middle East, surrounded by the USSR (north), Pakistan (south and east), and Iran (west). Traditionally, she has advantageously played off one great nation against another. At the Intelligence Advisory Committee (IAC) meeting on 11/29/55, the possibility of Afghanistan gradually falling into Soviet control was discussed. The IAC group was of the opinion that the Soviet Government was able to offer considerable advantages to Afghanistan through trade routes bypassing Pakistan, the traditional rival of Afghanistan with which Afghanistan is having difficulties, and through possible financial and military support. As a result, it was felt there was a strong possibility Afghanistan would gradually fall within Soviet control, although ostensibly remaining a sovereign state.

Afghanistan maintains an embassy in Washington, D.C., a consulate in New York City, and an honorary consul in San Francisco. No information has been received that Afghan officials in the United States are engaged in political or subversive activities. During the last four years, no information has been received that any Afghan groups in the United States are engaged in subversive activities. No Afghan nationals are on the Security Index. In the event Soviet economic gains in Afghanistan lead to political control of the country, we would have to consider giving comparable coverage to Afghan diplomatic establishments and official personnel as now given to Soviet satellite official establishments.

If Afghanistan becomes openly pro-Soviet, we would have to consider the dangerousness of Afghan nationals in the United States as regards internal security and initiate appropriate investigative action.

Recommendations:

Liaison should call to the attention of Mr. Robert Murphy, State Department, the discussion of the IAC concerning Afghanistan, in connection with consideration by State as to whether we should establish coverage of certain “friendly” countries in the United States for intelligence purposes.

65-63113

109-12-321

JMD/amr/bcf

Service No. 62-90718

OHBK-1475v1
