Section C — Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Member of Planning staff of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, source, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Woods first made a survey of the Augean stable that the Italian Branch files had become over many years of shifts in personnel and changes of direction. He then reviewed, downgraded, and retired approximately 350 Top Secret documents with appropriate Project and Subject files and copies destroyed. At the completion of this there was not one Top Secret document on the Branch. He devised, gained approval from F1/D, and carried out a new procedure for the downgrading of TYLOTE material from Top Secret to Secret so that it could be retired. He retired approximately 60 Project, 25 Subject, and fifty 201 files. He surveyed the Communist Party of Italy files and discovered that there were a total of 93, of which 19 were already closed. He closed 47 of the remainder and left 25 open and arranged for RID/ARD to retire all the material in the open files prior to 1 January 1971. He closed and retired Pian files dating back to the early 1950s. All in all, out of 76 feet of safe space filled with CS material, he retired 36 feet of files, leaving a catalogue of where everything is or has been sent. A remarkable record, and done with a minimum of fuss and Branch dislocation.

What he did in such a short time speaks eloquently of how he went about his duties, for which see the accompanying memorandum of recommendation for promotion. Reporting officer has known him over fourteen years and has the unvarying impression of him as a quietly competent, diligent, reliable, self-reliant individual.

Section D — Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Subject now in Rome Station.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 4 months. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: See above.

Date: 27 July 1971. Official title of supervisor: ADC/EUR/Italy. Typed and printed name and signature: R. Campbell James.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur in the above evaluation. Subject turned in a most impressive performance during his brief time on the Italian Branch. Largely as a result of his enthusiasm and initiative, the Branch was able to achieve what had never been accomplished before: a complete overhaul, cleaning, purging, and restructuring of its filing system. To his credit, Subject has a keen appreciation for operational requirements and all of this work was done without sacrificing the future utilization of information acquired in the past; on the contrary, the efficient use of this material has been so enhanced that it will surely be reflected in our future operations. Mr. Woods has a unique contribution to make in Rome or any other place he is assigned. The Station is fortunate to have him; his presence is sorely needed to do the same thing in Rome that he has just accomplished.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed and printed name and signature.
