Federal Bureau of Investigation  
United States Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20537

Applicant

To Obtain Classifiable Fingerprints:

1. Use black printer's ink.

2. Distribute ink evenly on inking slab.

3. Wash and dry fingers thoroughly.

4. Roll fingers from nail to nail, and avoid allowing fingers to slip.

5. Be sure impressions are recorded in correct order.

6. If an amputation or deformity makes it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that effect in the individual finger block.

7. If some physical condition makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, do the best that can be obtained, with a memo stapled to the card explaining the cause. The most fingerprints fall into the patterns shown on this card. Other patterns may be infrequent and are not shown here.

This card for use by:

Leave this space blank.

1. Law enforcement agencies in fingerprinting applicants for law enforcement positions.

2. Officials of state and local governments for purposes of employment, licensing, and permits, as authorized by state statutes and approved by the Attorney General of the United States. Local and county ordinances, unless specifically based on applicable state statutes, do not satisfy this requirement.

3. U.S. government agencies in connection with clearances.

4. Officials of federally chartered or insured banks, institutions, or companies to protect or maintain the security of those institutions.

Instructions:

1. Prints must first be checked through the appropriate state identification bureau, and only those fingerprints for which no disqualifying record has been found locally should be submitted for FBI search.

2. Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L. 95-179) required that federal, state, or local agencies inform individuals whose Social Security number is requested whether such disclosure is mandatory or voluntary, the basis of authority for such solicitation, and the uses which will be made of it.

3. Identity of private contractors should be shown in space “Employee and Address.” The contributor is the name of the agency submitting the fingerprint card to the FBI.

4. FBI number, if known, should always be punched in the appropriate space.

Miscellaneous No.—record; other Armed Forces No., passport No. (PP), alien registration No. (AR), port security card No. (PS), selective service No. (DS), Veterans Administration claim No. (VA).

Recorded September 12, 1977.

For information about the forms used, see: https://www.fbi.gov/forensics/fingerprinting/index.html
