Cuban Revolutionary Council  
Internal Security – Cuba

to government sources. The article said that exile leaders close to MIRO said he resigned not only because of disagreement with United States policy, “but because he feels Washington does not have any concrete plans to deal with the dictator.”

The April 11, 1963, issue of the “Miami Herald” carried an article entitled “Cuban Exile Council Vows to Continue the Freedom Fight.” In this article it was stated that the Cuban Revolutionary Council had vowed to continue its fight against Castro-Communism whether the United States likes it or not. The article said that Dr. MIRO CARDONA denied reports from U.S. Government sources that he offered his resignation to the Council because the United States refused to allocate fifty million dollars to train a Cuban invasion force. The article stated that an informed source said that MIRO decided to quit “because of the change in the U.S.-Cuban policy.”

The April 16, 1963, issue of the “Miami Herald” carried an article entitled “JFK Accepts Demand, Fidel Says.” This article by the UPI, bearing a Havana dateline, reported that FIDEL CASTRO told Cubans on Thursday (April 11) that the KENNEDY Administration had accepted one of his five demands for an end to tension in the Caribbean. This article stated that in a one-hour-and-forty-minute speech, CASTRO said that Washington, in forbidding exiles to carry on further armed attacks on Cuba, had fulfilled one of “five points for peace” advanced by him and endorsed by the Soviet Union. The article then went on to state that FIDEL announced that there were still four conditions to be fulfilled and that acceptance of them was the only sensible thing the KENNEDY Administration could do. One of the five conditions, according to the article, was U.S. evacuation of the big Naval base at Guantanamo.

On the morning of April 15, 1963, Miami radio news broadcasts announced MIRO CARDONA would again offer his resignation to the Council on that same day.
