Secret Army Organization

The Secret Army Organization is the most active, most completely dedicated and most selective in its membership of all the many patriotic organizations in America. We are willing to make any sacrifice for our country and we fully expect that some of us will have to make the ultimate sacrifice before victory is achieved. Our very lives depend on each other. There is no place in this organization for bunglers, playboys or lukewarm conservatives. If you join the Secret Army Organization, there might easily come a time that your life would depend on how competently some other member had learned his job.

Unless you are especially well informed on the domestic and world political situation, it is probable that you have a lot to learn about the present threat our nation faces. Unless you have had many years experience in actual underground warfare, there is undoubtedly a lot you can learn from the experts in our organization who have developed and supervised our training program.

Our Nation Is in Immediate Danger

It is possible that within a very few years, perhaps even within months, our nation could be conquered and enslaved by the communists. To prevent this we must know as much as possible about our enemies. Unless we know who they are and what they are doing we will not succeed in our efforts to maintain a free America.

The Resistance Movement

In driving an invader from your land the resistance involved goes through three stages of development:

1. The Underground Network

2. Active Guerrilla Warfare

3. Open or Conventional Warfare

The conventional warfare stage uses everything in the way of weapons that the enemy does but must also have active guerrillas and underground agents working against the enemy, too. In the present state of military tactics conventional warfare cannot succeed unless these other two ingredients are used simultaneously.

The first step is to form an underground network. An active guerrilla system must have the support of an underground network of approximately three times its own size. This underground must supply the active guerrilla fighter with supplies, concealment, information, etc. An underground network starts with departments of intelligence, security and propaganda in that order.

Sabotage, espionage, subversion, infiltration, escape and evasion, training, clandestine fabrication of supplies, counterfeiting enemy documents, recruiting, communications and propaganda are other phases of underground activity. Each member of the Secret Army Organization, to be effective, must have a working knowledge of all these tactics, as well as the military tactics more commonly associated with guerrilla activities.
