SAC, New York (134-3315)

January 29, 1959

Director, FBI REC-27 (105-28333) - 25

SAMUEL ADASON JAFFE, aka.

Reurlet dated January 15, 1959.

Authority granted to continue contacts with Jaffe for development as a potential security informant. This should be handled in accordance with Section 107, Manual of Instructions.

The Bureau considers subject to be of interest to the Soviets and has authorized continued contact with him in view of his apparent potential as a source against the Soviets. The Bureau has followed closely information furnished by Jaffe and it appears he is progressing satisfactorily and is in a logical position to furnish us information of interest concerning our coverage of the Soviets. It is desired that this phase of his development be carefully followed on a continuing basis.

The Bureau has been alert to the potential value that subject might have since the publication of the article “The FBI” in the October 18, 1959, issue of “The Nation.” In view of subject's cooperation with the Bureau and his respect for, interest in and appreciation of the confidential nature of the Bureau's work, you are authorized to discreetly and tactfully bring up the subject of “The Nation” in an early contact with subject for the purpose of determining his reaction to the above article. If Jaffe appears inclined to discuss this article, you should guide the discussion in the initial interview or subsequent contacts to ascertain who on “The Nation” staff is behind the “smear campaign” highlighted by above article. Two experienced agents familiar with press relations matters should handle interview when “The Nation” is first brought up. Obviously, at least one Agent must be one who has handled the development of Jaffe but in view of possible ramifications Bureau desires both be considered with over-all need for good press relations.

Exempt from CIP (applies only if the agent was present). Date of Decision unknown.

NOTE: See memo Branigan to Belmont 1/27/59, same caption, LKJ.

LHL:hrt:c1b (11)
