Laos

Current Situation Evaluation

The principal remaining issues before the Geneva Conference, including SEATO, having been resolved, it is anticipated that the new Accords may be signed next week. There is nevertheless one serious stumbling block, which endangers the satisfactory conclusion of the Conference, i.e., the possible refusal of the GVN to sign. The GVN's position stems from its belief that so many concessions have been made to the Communists that the security of SVN is gravely threatened. We are, however, hopeful that Diem will still be persuaded that we have achieved the best obtainable compromise for Laos and that we stand firm on our commitments to SVN.

Progress on Action Program

There has been little progress on our action program. We are concentrating at present on the following problems:

1. Economic Assistance. Elaboration of our future aid to Laos awaits the visit of Souvanna Phouma to Washington, tentatively scheduled for July 25–27. In the meantime, we seek to spread the burden of providing Souvanna with the material assistance he requires by enlisting contributions from other Free World nations.

2. RLG Diplomatic Relations. The RLG's decision to recognize 5 bloc countries and accept an exchange of Ambassadors poses a major problem with respect to the GVN, GRC, Federal Republic of Germany and the ROK. Further action by the RLG is deferred until Souvanna's return to Laos. In the interim we are attempting to assist the pro-Western countries involved in establishing or maintaining satisfactory representation in Laos.

3. ICC. We have asked our Geneva delegation to request the ICC to prepare a detailed budget and list of equipment needs so that we will be prepared to meet quickly our share of the requirements. With regard to the essential heavy equipment—helicopters and light aircraft—we are taking steps to make it immediately available to the ICC.

4. MAAC Withdrawal. With the signing of the Accords, we will seek Canadian cooperation in utilizing to the full the 75-day period for the withdrawal of foreign military personnel. This will give us the maximum possible opportunity to determine whether the DRV is abiding by its commitments and whether the Soviets as Co-Chairman are carrying out their undertaking.
