Federal Bureau of Investigation

United States Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20537

Applicant

1. Loop

To obtain classifiable fingerprints:

1. Use black printer's ink.
2. Distributed in kitely or driing slab.
3. Wash and cut paper thoroughly.
4. Doll pages individual to all, and a 7/8 inch along fingers to slip.
5. Be sure impressions are registered in correct order.
6. If all are written on document makes it impossible to print a finger, make a notation to that effect in the individual finger block.
7. If some pathological condition makes it impossible to obtain perfect impressions, submit the best that can be established with a hand stapled to the card explaining the criteria.
8. Explain the completed prints to see if they can be classified, bearing in mind that best fingerprints fall into the patterns shown on this card (other patterns occur infrquendly and are not shown here).

2. Whorl

This card for use by:

Leave this space blank

1. Launch inspector agents in finervipping application for uniform quality.
2. Official of state and local governments for public lightning, licensing, an attachment as authorised by specific documents.
3. Enter data for individuals and attached by the Attorney General. Local and county government custodians is the only authorized person to do so.
4. Provide a clear and neutral expert for the proposed material in all cases.
5. Charge veteran bank account with clear & neutral information.
6. Enter individuals within state or local limits.
7. Enter each individual in the approved list for use by that area.
8. Permit feed inspectors and other personnel to enter data for individuals.
9. Filter out any non-correspondent data.
10. Selective Service No. for individuals. Submit this card to the invoice for the correspondent information.
11. Do not enter families.
12. Do not enter individuals.
13. Do not enter classes.
14. Do not enter groups.
15. Do not enter overlays.
16. Do not enter records.
17. Do not enter unclassified information.
18. Do not enter self-identifying information.
19. Do not enter in the appropriate location.
20. Do not enter published or current news.
21. Do not enter Veterans Administration claim No. (VA.).

The lines begin at center of loop and delta. First show are united in loop and delta.

Arches have no deltas.

F-15E (Ref. No.)
