Persons/entities: Krulak, Victor Gen.; Mendenhall, Jos. A.; Counterinsurgency Specialists; Joint Chiefs of Staff; Rusk, Dean, Secretary of State; McCone, John, DCT; Kennedy, John F.; occurrence: Richardson, John. Dates: 10 September 1963; UN Advisor; Bureau Far Eastern Affairs. Category: DIEM.

At a Presidential meeting on Vietnam with Carter and Colby in attendance, the following record by Colby is provided of the meeting of September 10, 1963.

Krulak reported his findings in Vietnam. His conclusions were that the war was going ahead at an impressive pace and that the Vietcong war could be won if current U.S. military and social programs are continued. Mendenhall, the State representative who accompanied Krulak, expressed the view that there was complete breakdown of the Saigon (Siagon) civilian government and that the security situations in the provinces had deteriorated. The President asked where the two gentlemen had been in the same country. Rusk suggested that the focus be on what happened in July and August that reversed the optimistic judgments in May and June. Mr. McCone talked from a personal telegram which he had received from Richardson recommending against any cut in aid.

Source: IG Report 1967 (CIA), p. 19. File. Staff: Dawson. Date: 6/27/75.

Persons/entities: Diem; Richardson, Chief of Station, CIA, Saigon (Siagon). Date: 10 September 1963. Category: DIEM.

Occurrence: On 10 September 1963, in a cable from the CIA station in Saigon (Siagon) (SAIG0760) to Washington, the following quotation appears: “Am inclined to feel general officers will seek evolutionary accommodation with Diem, (if he permits them to do so) unless overall situation clearly deteriorates, there is breakdown of civil order or of governmental machinery, or unless war effort begins to go backward seriously (despite damages suffered since 8 May and 21 August am inclined to believe we should be able to resume successful prosecution of war in military and civil sections) do not align myself with the view that USG should suspend aid.”

Source: IG Report 1967 (CIA), p. 19. Staff: Dawson.
