He stated that he thought he had been approached here in Mexico City for recruiting, but although asked specifically in this regard, refused to state by whom or for what or on behalf of what country. He stated that one job of this sort would be in New York. He volunteered in so many words that he fully realized that what he was saying could be used against him in any court or proceeding. He stated that he had almost made up his mind definitely that he would leave Mexico, but that he would not go back to the United States. He stated that he did not care to return to the United States. He stated that so far he had “done nothing individual to the United States.” He stated that he was completely “disaffected,” and that he knew the full significance of that term. He also stated that he was “bitter, disgusted, disillusioned and disaffected.”

One thing, he said, that he could say was that if he did go to some other country, it would cost the United States millions. He stated that he was “through being a good citizen” and thought he had gotten a “dirty deal all around.”

He was told to go to the Protection Section in regard to any problems in Mexico as an American citizen. He stated that he had been to the Protection Section and would not go there again, and that the way he was feeling, he would not go back to the United States. He said that he had nothing to go back for, and that his criminal record would prevent him from getting a good job anywhere in the United States. He mentioned that the only job he had ever worked at was that of an investigator.

He also mentioned that the Veterans Affairs Attaché in the American Embassy had his military record in connection with a request he had previously made to attend Mexico City College on the G.I. Bill, but to do that he would have to enroll first and pay tuition himself, which he could not do in view of his financial straits.

He stated at first that he was behind in his hotel bill, but later indicated that he had been keeping his hotel charges paid. He also mentioned that he had previously obtained a small loan from the American Benevolent Society, which he had since repaid.
