Mr. Ernest G. Maycrink

Dear Mr. Maycrink:

Effective 31 October 1960, all contracts, oral or written, by and between you and the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, are hereby terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto, and in lieu thereof the following agreement is substituted.

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such information and service, you will receive from the Government, payable in such an approved manner as you may direct in writing, the following:

(a) Basic compensation in an amount calculated at the rate of $6000 per annum.

(b) Additional compensation in an amount calculated at the rate of $3000 per annum for cost-of-living expenses (including quarters), effective upon your arrival at and applicable only to your contemplated permanent post of assignment overseas. Quarters will not be furnished you nor will you accept quarters provided by a cover facility without prior amendment of this agreement.

2. Taxes. Monies paid you directly or guaranteed by the Government under this paragraph constitute income for Federal tax purposes. You will be advised as to the method to be followed in reporting and paying such taxes. The method as well as the procedures used by this organization to implement its tax reporting responsibilities will be based primarily upon cover and security requirements. You herein authorize this organization to withhold taxes on said income if it determines such requirements so necessitate.

3. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for travel and transportation expenses to and from your permanent post of duty overseas and for authorized operational travel. You may be entitled to per diem in lieu of subsistence during such travel and, when authorized, while on temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be properly authorized, and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to payment and accounting in substantial compliance with Government regulations.

4. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses as specifically approved and financially limited by the Government. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting in substantial conformance with applicable Government regulations.

5. Repayment. It is recognised that your failure to account for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appropriate.
