The Murder of Bobby Newton and the Arrest of a Panther

In (see article “Why Free Huey Newton”).

Attorney Charles R. Garry (LCharles R. ICarry) has filed affidavits of the Panthers arrested in a suit against the City of Oakland, the Chief of Police and the Mayor of Oakland, seeking to enjoin the DA from any further prosecutions of the Panthers. The affidavits charged brutalization of the Panthers by the police, intimidation and lying. Some Panthers did make brief statements to a man they were told was their lawyer, who had been brought in “because Garry and other Panther attorneys had no interest in the case” (a complete fabrication). The “lawyer” turned out later to be a con. Another Panther was beaten on the soles of his feet until he made a statement. A third Panther said he had never made any statement to the police at all, and that it was pure lies on their part when they attributed statements to him. The complete statements in the affidavits indicate that the harassment and brutalization were designed to (1) “confuse and deceive each of the brothers and turn them against each other and on Eldridge Cleaver by blatantly lying to them; (2) to get statements from them which would build up as much evidence against Eldridge Cleaver as possible.”

These actions of the police in attempting to extort these confessions make it quite clear that their target was the leadership of the Panthers—in this case, Eldridge Cleaver. Like most elements of the power structure they are working on the assumption that if you can destroy the leadership you can cripple the movement. As usual, they failed to see the extent to which the struggle in the black community grows out of the needs of that entire community. Oppression in the black community is not going to be done or forgotten when the leaders of the Black Panther Party are jailed or shot. The people are not going to stop fighting.

On Sunday, April 7, several hundred people turned out in DeFremery Park at the barbecue picnic for the Huey P. Newton Defense Fund.

POLICE HARASSMENT OF BLACK PANTHER PARTY

A sample of Incidents

1. From October 1966 to October 1967, Huey Newton was harassed by the Oakland police—he had been stopped on innumerable occasions without reasonable cause.

2. Spring and summer, 1967—this was the most intense period of harassment for the Panthers. It took place after a demonstration by Panthers carrying rifles at the State Legislature in Sacramento during Assembly debate on a bill which would restrict a citizen’s right to bear arms. During this period, Panthers were repeatedly stopped in cars and on the street; many were arrested; homes were entered illegally by police.

3. May 22, 1967—Bobby Seale went to the Oakland County Courthouse to bail Huey Newton out of jail. He was leaning against a retaining wall outside carrying a “legal” shotgun. He was arrested and charged with an obscure law, dating back to the 1800s.
