LS 105-3

Jay Stafford stated Brown then discussed a scheme with him and his brother Larry wherein Brown was financed by a retired Colonel or General of the Army, and this individual had contracted with Brown to destroy the statues. Jay Stafford stated that Brown disclosed that he had contracted to “perform” and had received $280 in payment to go to the United Nations building and destroy the statues. The $250 was allegedly paid for supplies and expenses during the trip. Brown disclosed a plan wherein he was to place incendiary or explosive devices around the base of this statue and solicited the involvement of Jay and Larry Stafford for the purpose of keeping people off his back and causing disturbance while he placed explosives around the statue base and lit the fuse. J. Can discussed the possibility of having an expert pistol shot shoot out the surveillance camera, which covered the area of the Devil statue. Brown also discussed the possibility of arriving at the United Nations Building in a van-type vehicle which would be lettered with the name Acme Image and Engraving Repair, Incorporated. However, this type of vehicle would be inconspicuous inasmuch as the name Acme Image and Engraving Repair, Incorporated, lettered on the side of the van would indicate that he and his associates were employed by a company which maintained, remitted, or elements status in the United Nations facilities. Brown also discussed the possibility of having an individual in a wheelchair, sitting on the executive car, and suggested that entrance to the United Nations facilities could be accomplished this way without suspicion.

Brown also discussed with Jay Stafford and his brother the possibility of involving another individual in this scheme, explaining that this individual had been teaching or instructing Brown in the use of rappelling walls with ropes. Brown discussed the fact that a freeway was adjacent to or under the United Nations facilities and that escape could be made out the rear of that facility and down an embankment.
