On the Defection of Eldridge Cleaver from the Black Panther Party and the Defection of the Black Panther Party from the Black Community

By Huey P. Newton, Minister of Defense of the Black Panther Party and Servant of the People

The Black Panther Party bases its ideology and philosophy on a concrete analysis of concrete conditions, using dialectical materialism as our analytical method. As dialectical materialist we recognize that contradictions can lead to development. The internal struggle of opposites based upon their unity causes matter to have motion as part of the process of development. We recognize that nothing in nature stands outside of dialectics, even the Black Panther Party. But we welcome these contradictions, because they clarify and advance our struggle. We had a contradiction with our former Minister of Information, Eldridge Cleaver. But we understand this is necessary to our growth. Out of this contradiction has come new growth and a new return to the original vision of the party.

Early in the development of the Black Panther Party I wrote an essay titled “The Correct Handling of a Revolution.” This was in response to another contradiction—the criticisms raised against the party by the Revolutionary Action Movement (R.A.M.). At that time R.A.M. criticized us for our above-ground action—openly displaying weapons and talking about the necessity for the community to arm itself for its own self-defense. R.A.M. said that they were underground, and saw this as the correct way to handle a revolution. I responded to them by pointing out that you must establish your organization above ground so that the people will relate to it in a way that will be positive and progressive to them. When you go underground without doing this, you bury yourself so deeply that the people can neither relate to nor contact you. Then the terrorism of the underground organization will be just that—striking fear into the hearts of the very people whose interest the organization claims to be defending—because the people cannot relate to them and there is nobody there to interpret their actions. You have to set up a program of practical action and be a model for the community to follow and appreciate.

March 27, 1972

The original vision of the party was to develop a lifeline to the people by serving their needs and defending them against their oppressors who come to the community in many forms—from armed police to capitalist exploiters. We knew that this strategy would raise the consciousness of the people and also
