C. Indicate if you think that any single strength or weakness outlines all other considerations. Ability to concentrate and follow through on an assignment.

D. Do you feel that he requires close supervision? Yes, if yes, why?

E. What training do you recommend for this individual? None.

F. Other comments: Mr. O'Neal will carefully study, plan and analyze a problem before taking action. This may initially create the impression of slowness, but because of superior planning, the net result is a high degree of efficiency.

Section VI. Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under sub-sections A, B, C, D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties adequately; he is incompetent.
2. Barely adequate in performance; although he has had specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.
3. Performs most of his duties acceptably; occasionally reveals some area of weakness.
4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.
5. A fine performance; carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well.
6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equaled by few other persons known to the rater.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? No. Yes, if yes, what? Mr. O'Neal (C'Neal) was on TDY with this office. He is fully qualified for continued work in this office.

B. Directions: Considering others of this person's grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibilities normally indicated by promotion.

1. Has reached the highest grade level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.
2. Is making progress, but needs more time in present grade before promotion to a higher grade can be recommended.
3. Is ready to take on responsibilities of the next higher grade, but may need training in some areas.
4. Will probably adjust quickly to the more responsible duties of the next higher grade.
5. Is already performing at the level of the next higher grade.
6. An exceptional person who is one of the few who should be considered for rapid advancement.

C. Directions: Consider everything you know about this person in making your rating: skill in job duties, conduct on the job, personal characteristics or habits, and special defects or talents.

1. Definitely unsuitable—he should be separated.
2. Of doubtful suitability—would not have accepted him if I had known what I know now.
3. A barely acceptable employee—definitely below average but with no weaknesses sufficiently outstanding to warrant his separation.
4. A typical employee—he displays the same suitability as most of the people I know in the Agency.
5. A fine employee
