107R-S Section 107. International Security Informants and Confidential Sources; and Foreign Counterintelligence Assets.

3. Index

a. Prepare index cards on form FD-348 and file as adjunct to criminal informant, extremist informant, or security informant index, depending on type information furnished.

b. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with criminal informant, extremist informant, and security informant index where logical.

4. Files

When active investigation is initiated relative to prospective confidential source, open 134 file (or 137 for criminal sources) and maintain as pending until efforts to develop individual are discontinued.

5. Utilization

a. If confidential source is to be used in security investigations, secure Bureau approval, and furnish background data of same type required for potential security informants.

b. Contact confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained at least once every two weeks. Such contacts may be posted.

c. Contacts should only be made by Agent or Agents specifically designated for that purpose.

d. Letter to Bureau requesting authority to use subject as confidential source is to set out clearly:

(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizenship status, residence, employment, arrest and service record, if any.

(2) Details of expected cooperation of individual and results of any interviews conducted with him.

(3) Statement to effect subject is being considered confidential source and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confidential nature of his relationship with Bureau. In addition, statement should be made that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and if he is connected with labor union he will be advised of Bureau policy on labor matters.

(4) One copy of letter requesting authority should consist only of first page. If request is approved at Bureau, stamped notation to this effect will be placed on single-page copy and it will be returned to field.

6. Security confidential sources—certification of stability and payments
