MHFNO: 92-7827323

SENSIND

RETICENT.

“Asked if Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, who were executed in 1953 for passing atomic secrets, were indeed guilty, Mr. Yazkov said he preferred ‘not to talk about people who took part in this or might have taken part in this.’

“It was not the best advertisement for his forthcoming work.

“When asked if he missed the Cold War, Mr. Yazkov replied, ‘Thank God that it is over.’

“Uncontrite, he insisted he was ‘not spying against America, but in support of the Soviet Union in order to balance the two powers.’

“About 5,000 former KGB operatives are members of the association.

“‘When a person leaves his post, he is left all alone,’ said Mr. Privalov, a 42-year KGB veteran. ‘So in order that people will not feel themselves abandoned, we decided to unite and to organize a club where veterans could come to relax, to drink a beer or a whiskey, as the association of the CIA does.’

“Instead of feeling sorry for themselves, the former cloak-and-dagger men will work on a film about the atom bomb spy ring; a TV miniseries about U.S. Navy employee Glenn Michael Southern, a Soviet spy who committed suicide in Moscow in 1989; and a documentary on Oswald’s bizarre relationship with the KGB.

“Docudramas on the assassination of Leon Trotsky and the case of NATO official Robert Lee Johnson, known as ‘the American Kim Philby,’ are also planned.”

B. For the record, we have noted that some similar threads run through both this article and the LWOPUS case.

A. The timing of the offer by the FIVA group on Wednesday, 25 March, falls directly into the middle of the window established by LWOPUS (24–26 March). Also, LWOPUS noted that if there were any doubts about getting the manuscript across the Lithuanian border, he would resort to a reserve variant but with the participation of other parties, i.e., he would approach someone else.

B. LWOPUS sent a sample of his work to us not for publication but for a critical reading. He stated that if a publishing house showed interest in his manuscript, agreement secret-
