SF 100-46832

WEH/dp

"The Exponent," student newspaper, Montana State University, Bozeman, Montana, issue of May 17, 1968, carried a news article bearing the headline, "Ramparts Editor—War is not U.S. vs. Commies." This article stated that a Vietnam symposium was held on Saturday, May 11, 1968, during which Robert Scheer stated no peace or negotiations are possible unless the United States is willing to admit that the war in Vietnam is not primarily a struggle between communism and democracy. Scheer reportedly alleged that the State Department's monolithic concept of communism is the main reason that we are in that war. Scheer stated "that the Viet Minh forerunner to the Viet Cong was a serious struggle for independence and fought the French who they considered as foreign aggressors. Both Diem and Ky, South Vietnamese leaders, worked for the French and thus the Viet Cong consider them traitors to their people. Since the U.S. supports Ky and formerly supported Diem, it was natural for the Viet Cong to fight against the U.S." Scheer said "the U.S. should settle for something along the line of the 1954 Geneva accords to get out of Vietnam." Scheer added that he thought it would be good for the U.S. to lose face because we have become too arrogant.

Television, June 3, 1968

The "Berkeley Daily Gazette" newspaper issue of June 4, 1968, carried an article by Mike Culbert, Executive Editor, which related that KTVU, Channel 2, Oakland, California, taped a television show June 3, 1968, for viewing on that station at 10:30 p.m., June 5, 1968, in which Pat Michaels, host, questioned Robert Scheer, "A new left leader and editor of 'Ramparts' magazine," and Scott Stanley, Jr., "Editor of 'American Opinion' magazine, major organ of the John Birch Society." The article stated that a surprise questioner from the audience during this show was David Gumaer, a 29-year-old Chicagoan who infiltrated the Du Bois Clubs of America for the Chicago Police Intelligence Division and served on the registration committee of the National Convention for New Politics, which was held in Chicago, Illinois, during Labor Day weekend of 1967. The article stated Gumaer also testified before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee in executive session in December 1967. Gumaer stated Robert Scheer was "completely surrounded by communists" at the New Politics Convention. Scheer is reported as replying, "If you're saying I'm a communist, go ahead and say it, and I'll sue." Scheer called Gumaer a "fink." Scheer said he is not a communist and the communists he has known are "too conservative" for him.
