b. Subjects not connected with institution of learning. When the subject of an investigation is not connected with an institution of learning and an interview of a student, faculty member, or other employee of an institution of learning is desired, prior Bureau authority must be obtained except for established sources. When requesting authority, furnish the name, position, and a positive statement concerning the person's discretion and reliability.

c. U.S. Government employees, individuals having foreign diplomatic or official status, employees of foreign official establishments, employees of the United Nations or international organizations, and members of the armed forces. If the subject of an investigation is or becomes an employee of the U.S. Government, a foreign official establishment, the United Nations, or another international organization; has foreign diplomatic or official status; or is a member of the U.S. armed forces, advise the Bureau and request authority for further investigation.

6. Fraud Against Government (FAG) violations

a. Policy

(1) Upon receipt of information indicating a violation of this type, initiate an investigation under the “Security Matter—Fraud Against the Government” character and immediately advise the Bureau.

(2) Investigate and report criminal fraud violations, such as concealment of arrests, arising during a security-type fraud investigation on the same subject in conjunction with the investigation of security-type fraud. The Bureau will present both violations to the Department. If the security-type fraud investigation is discontinued, handle the criminal fraud separately, following instructions in section 47, volume II, of this manual.

(3) If admissible evidence developed does not warrant submission of an investigative report, submit the results in an investigative report.

b. Investigation

(1) To establish jurisdiction, it is necessary to prove that the form was presented to a Government agency for action or determination, and this should be the first investigative objective. If the form was not presented to a Government agency, conduct no further investigation and so advise the Bureau.

(2) It must be established that the subject actually signed the form by testimony of witnesses to the signature, handwriting examination, or other conclusive evidence. The original form must be located. Thoroughly interview any sources who furnished pertinent information concerning the subject during any previous investigation and other potential witnesses to determine the basis for each item of pertinent information furnished and the identities of other potential witnesses.

(3) Where affiliation with subversive organizations is involved, interview individuals who were members of the same units as the subject for evidence of his membership, such as attendance at closed meetings, payment of dues, holding of office, etc. If possible, develop evidence to supplant pertinent information furnished by current informants. Obtain prior Bureau authority to interview the subject.

(4) Interview the subject and potential witnesses furnishing pertinent information under oath and obtain sworn, signed statements if possible. An exception may be made when interviewing established sources, such as current informants, if an oath and/or signed statements are not considered desirable under the circumstances. Be guided by the instructions below concerning interviews with subjects of security investigations when interviewing potential witnesses with subversive backgrounds.

c. Legal questions

If a question of law arises as to the existence of a violation, advise the Bureau and hold the investigation in abeyance for the Department’s opinion. The Department has no fixed policy as to prosecution in these cases and desires to consider each case. Submit the basic facts concerning execution and filing of the document and subversive activity denied in the report for presentation to the Department, even though the basis for concealment or fraudulent statement does not appear to be material.
