Federal Bureau of Investigation

Date: April 14, 1969

Robert D. Zayia, 7221 North Oconto, telephone number NE 1-5338, Roche Laboratories Division, Hoffman-La Roche, Incorporated, advised that he is the immediate supervisor over Barry Alan Lewin, who has been employed as a medical salesman for this corporation since approximately December 1967. He stated that he has been Lewin's supervisor since January 1968.

He stated that during the year of 1968, he worked with Lewin approximately eight or nine days in order to observe and help Lewin cover his sales area consisting of about 220 physicians in buildings located at 25 and 55 East Washington, 939 North LaSalle, and 106 or 130 South Michigan.

He stated that during this time he has had very little, if any, social contact with Lewin, and therefore does not feel qualified to make any comments concerning Lewin's “philosophical beliefs or practices.”

He stated that in his limited personal contacts with Lewin, he received the impression that Lewin is a liberal thinker, an avid reader, and highly intelligent. He stated that he also recalls that Lewin worked with the groups giving medical treatment to the injured demonstrators during the Democratic National Convention held in Chicago during August 1968. He stated that he is not acquainted with any of Lewin's personal friends and does not know how close of a relationship Lewin has with any of the other 22 salesmen under his (Zayia's) direction.

He stated that he recalls Lewin allegedly attended Yale University; however, he did not graduate. He stated that he also recalls that Lewin may have studied for one semester in Germany. He continued that he is not aware of Lewin's hobbies or any of his social activities, such as clubs or organizations to which he might belong.

On April 10, 1969, at Chicago, Illinois. Date dictated: April 11, 1969.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency to aid in its contents being made available outside your agency.
