(b) Subjects out of country

Place cards for subjects who have departed from U.S. or Puerto Rico for a foreign country in this subsection, unless they should be canceled in accordance with instructions below under permanent departure.

Investigation of a subject not yet included in ADEX may be in progress at the time the subject departs for a foreign country. If facts otherwise warrant, submit FD-122 recommending inclusion in the unavailable section.

If a subject is out of country, type the words “Out of Country” on FD-122 after “Miscellaneous.” If a foreign address is known, include it on FD-122 in the space provided. If the subject is only known to be in a certain foreign country or is only known to be traveling abroad, include this on FD-122. If the subject’s current employment abroad is known, include it on FD-122.

Follow the case of any ADEX subject who is out of country at least once each year for verification of address and to determine if the subject has returned. Place appropriate stops with Immigration and Naturalization Service to be advised of return.

(c) Imprisoned subjects

Place cards of imprisoned ADEX subjects in the unavailable section.

Type the word “Imprisoned” on FD-122 after “Miscellaneous.”

Identify the institution in which the subject is incarcerated in the space provided for residence. Arrange with the confining institution to be informed of the subject’s release. Set a tickler shortly prior to the expected release to verify. After release, determine whether the subject should be retained in ADEX.

When submitting a recommendation for the unavailable section, include the words “Unavailable Section” in the upper right portion of FD-122. Do not include former residence or former employment. ADEX cards for the unavailable section will bear code letters in the upper right portion designating the proper subsection.

Upon receipt of two cards from the Bureau, check for accuracy, place required descriptive data on one, and file the latter in the unavailable section. File the other card in the alphabetical section.

When a missing subject is located, or a subject who has been out of country has returned, or an imprisoned subject has been released, submit FD-122 showing current residence and place of employment. Type the words “Remove from Unavailable Section” after “Miscellaneous.” When a subject in the unavailable section is located in another division, submit FD-128 to the Bureau and new office of origin. Type “Remove from Unavailable Section” in the space to the right of the addresses. The Bureau will send revised cards to the new office of origin.

c. Special interest subjects

Certain classes of individuals could be of special interest depending on the particular circumstances of a national emergency. These include the following:

(1) Espionage subjects

In the event of a national emergency, special consideration should be given to these individuals to insure that investigation or any...
