Statement

From: Mr. Peter Carroll Glynn, Jr.  
107 Howard Street  
Dumfries, Virginia 22026

Work: Department of the Navy (NOSIC)  
4301 Suitland Road, Suitland, Maryland 20390

SSN: 022-30-2275  
Service number: RA 11 396 679

To: Mr. Moriarty  
Investigative Representative  
For Assassination Committee

Subject: Assassination of President John F. Kennedy

Enclosures: (1) DD398, DD Form 1584, and OPNAV Form 5510-2. (2) Special Orders No. 175 of 22 Aug 1972. (3) DD 214.

1. Enclosures 1 through 3 are forwarded herewith to validate my whereabouts before, during, and after the subject incident and possibly save the Assassination Investigative Committee additional validation steps.

2. During the subject incident I was stationed at the 330th ASA Company (A) of the 303rd ASA Battalion (Corps), USASA, located at Fort Walters, Mineral Wells, Texas. The commanding officer at that time was Charles R. Ginn, Capt., AIS. Our mission, if I remember correctly, was labeled as a “training mission.” I personally believe there may be a remote possibility data obtained from this mission before, during, and after the subject incident may possibly be of value to the Investigative Committee.

3. Suggestions:

A. I suggest representatives of your committee contact personnel concerned, located at “US Army Security Agency (ASA)” headquarters, Arlington Hall Station, Arlington, Virginia, as to what this mission was, its data storage location, if any, and possibly data analysis evaluation results.

B. If this data is available, I suggest it be researched before, during, and after the subject incident by your Investigative Committee.

C. I additionally suggest a similar investigation be conducted for data obtained at Homestead Air Force Base, Florida, before, during, and after the subject incident.

D. Finally, I suggest similar investigation(s) be conducted for any other known site before, during, and after the subject incident.

4. I must apologize for being extremely vague in reference to my work with the Army Security Agency, but I believe what has been surfaced within this “statement” may possibly branch your investigation into new and hopefully more resourceful areas.

If I can be of any additional assistance, please feel free to contact me at any time at home or at work. I pray to the Lord this Investigative Committee unveils all necessary information and closes this case and similar cases as soon as possible.

Very resp.

22 April 77
