Persons/Entities: Smith, David; McCone; Harkins, General; Helms; Truehart (Truehard), William; Colby; Kennedy, Robert; Kennedy, John F. Date: October 29, 1963. Category: Diem.

Occurrence: In a Presidential meeting on Vietnam on October 29, 1963, with McCone, Helms, and Colby in attendance. The following record by Helms and Colby shows that it was suggested that in the Ambassador's absence, Harkins, Truehart, and David Smith act as a committee to direct a coup operation. McCone countered with the view that Smith should not be involved in such a policy-making function, although he would be in a position to provide technical advice to Harkins and Truehart as well as carry out their instructions in the operations field. The President stated that if the forces in Saigon were not clearly in favor of the coup, we should discourage its launching. The Attorney General felt the U.S. was risking too much based on flimsy evidence. The DCI stated his view that even a successful coup would create a period of instability and confusion which might only be solved by a second or third coup.

Source: IG Report 1967 (CIA), p. 38. Staff: Dawson. Date: 6/27/75.

Persons/Entities: Harkins, Don; Minh; Kennedy, John F.; Lodge; Bundy. Date: October 30, 1963. Category: Diem.

Occurrence: In a CIA cable to Saigon (DIR79109) of October 30, 1963, Bundy wrote to Lodge saying that "...chances of action with or without our approval now so significant that we should urgently consider our attitude and contingency plans. We believe our attitude to coup group can still have decisive effect on its decision. ... We must have assurance balance of forces clearly favorable...CONEIN should express to Don that we do not find presently reveal plans to give clear prospect of quick results...we badly need some corroborative evidence of men or others directly involved....highest authority desires it clearly understood that after your departure Harkins should participate in all coup contacts supervision and the event coup begins he become head of country team..."

Source: IG Report 1967 (CIA), p. 39. Staff: Dawson.
