MC 100-743G

Age and is disposed to follow an international policy that will not only benefit Mexico but its sister Latin American countries who are bound together not only by historical ties but by the same economic and social conditions and identical perspectives. In apparent reference to David Alfaro Siqueiros, leading PCM figure, he stated that some people, who are unable to understand national and international politics although they expound them daily, have been critical of President Lopez Mateos' trip.

During the course of the President's trip Siqueiros made a statement to the press wherein he criticized the President for not accepting a bid to visit Cuba and stated that President Lopez Mateos was merely laying the groundwork for a subsequent visit by President Eisenhower. Lombardo was critical of President Lopez Mateos in certain respects, particularly in connection with the imprisonment of the railroad strike agitators and PCM and POCM leaders.

Action taken: None. Will be disseminated in the next report on the PP.

Soviet Intelligence Activities (S)

LAROB (S)

Investigation conducted by this office to identify "Valentin," the new Soviet principal of MEX-87, pointed to Valentin Vasilevich Bakulin, a Soviet Embassy employee who arrived in Mexico City with his family on November 5, 1959 (S). As soon as a photograph of Bakulin became available, it was shown to MEX-87, who immediately and positively identified him as his principal "Valentin." (S)

On January 11, 1960, MEX-87 returned to Mexico City from a trip to Los Angeles. He thereafter kept a prearranged meeting with Bakulin on January 28, 1960, and turned over to him a report of his activities in Los Angeles, as well as a map and newspaper clippings gathered by LA 4199-S. Bakulin instructed MEX-87 to pick up a Soviet message on January 21, 1960, from the dead drop at Pilares and Pestalozzi Streets. The message was to contain questions regarding MEX-87's (S) report on his trip to Los Angeles. Bakulin also set up a personal meeting for February 15, 1960. (M)

MEX-87 retrieved Soviet Message No. 22 on January 21 (S).
