Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions for the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item 8 of Section A below.

Section A. General.

1. Name: Smith, Joseph B.

2. Office/Division/Branch of Assignment: DDP FB S.

3. Date of Birth: 16 June 1921 M SD:DP.

3. Official Position Title: Area Ops Officer, ADBr. Ch.

7. Grade: 8-13.

8. Period Covered by This Report (Inclusive Dates): 2 December 1956 – 2 August 1957.

10. Type of Report (Check One): X = Initial Annual.

B. Date Report Due in OP.

Special (Specify).

Certification.

1. For the rated, this report was shown or has not been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

A. Check (X) appropriate statements:

X. This report reflects my own opinions of this individual. It is based upon personal observations and is accurate.

This report reflects the summarized opinions of myself and others as shared with me by this supervisor.

If any discussion would be this employee his strengths and weaknesses do that he amounts onthere he sees me.

B. This Date: 2 August 1957.

C. Typed or Printed Name and Signature of Supervisor: A. H. Linn.

D. Supervisor's Official Title: Chief, FB/5.

2. For the reviewing official, record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information
