Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Field Administrative Officer: Conduct current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to Headquarters. Revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

To the Field Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as.

It is optional to have this fitness report shown to the person being rated.

Section I.

Leave blank — for Headquarters use only. Joseph B. Smith. Grade: GS-12. Station designation (current): Singapore. Due date of this report. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 31 March 1954 – 1 May 1955. Date of birth: 16 June 1921. Sex: M. Service designation: Singapore SP:DP.

Section II (To be completed by field supervisor).

Current position: Senior Kugago Officer, Singapore. Date assumed responsibility for position: 31 March 1954.

State the specific assignments or tasks which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency):

1. Conduct of liaison with SMOTH FE Headquarters on KUGAGO matters relating to FE.
2. Conduct of covert KUGOHN projects, Televax, Temperament, and Tenacious.
3. Initiation through Project Temperament of covert themes targeted at other SEA countries.
4. Development of additional covert operational activity and agents.
5. Development of one specific joint operation with SMOTH targeted at SEA.
6. Coordination of DTPILLAR-SMOTH local liaison.
7. Development of plans for other joint operations with SMOTH targeted at various FE countries.
8. Contact with OKHAYSEID-PBCRUMBLE.
