Black “ghettoes.” They recognize that the actions of the Panthers constitute legitimate self-defense against a police force more interested in political repression and “keeping the niggers in their place” than in catching criminals. And they recognize the indictment of Huey Newton as an attempt not only to wipe out an heroic Black resistance leader, but also to intimidate and crush the movement for self-determination for all Black people. If Black political leaders are not actually assassinated, as were Medgar Evers, Malcolm X, and Martin Luther King, then the government finds ways of confining and neutralizing them, as in the cases of H. Rap Brown (H. Ran Brown) and LeRoi Jones (LeKoi Jones). That is why the Black community stands behind the slogan “FREE HUEY.” They mean that Huey Newton was harassed and threatened and finally shot because he is a political leader; that he was arrested and thrown in jail because he is a political leader; that he faces the gas chamber because he is a political leader. These are important points for the white as well as the Black community. The same type of harassment has taken place against whites who have opposed this government: the case of the Oakland 7, arrested on conspiracy to commit a misdemeanor—a felony. It has happened to those who very peacefully tried to protest the policies represented by Dean Rusk when he appeared at the Fairmont Hotel—demonstrators who were kicked, beaten, and attacked by the San Francisco police while they were running away, trying to follow orders to disperse. The list could go on endlessly. Protest the government—and risk your physical safety—that is the message to whites and Blacks alike.

11. The Legal Reasons.

Huey Newton was indicted by the Alameda County Grand Jury—a jury chosen arbitrarily by the 20 judges on the Alameda County Superior Court. Judge Dieden and others have admitted that his system results in judges choosing their friends or political campaign contributors to serve in this “honorary” position. Three volumes of hearings taken by the Assembly Committee on Governmental Efficiency last year (1967) have pages of testimony to this effect. The persons chosen to serve are, overwhelmingly, white, over 50, retired or still-active business and professional men and their wives.

This method of selection is clearly contrary to many cases decided by the United States Supreme Court, which indicated that a jury of one’s peers had to consist of a cross-section of the community and could not systematically exclude Black people from serving. The Grand Jury violated both of these fundamental principles. However, when Newton’s attorneys presented this evidence to the courts of California, through the California Supreme Court, they were denied redress—without even so much as a written opinion explaining why.

Furthermore, the method of indictment denied Newton fundamental rights which the California Supreme Court has held are required in criminal cases and which are given in the preliminary hearing.

A district attorney in California may proceed in a long case either by indictment or by information. Indictment is a procedure whereby the D.A. asks the county grand jury to return an indictment on evidence presented to them by the D.A. The D.A. may present whatever evidence he chooses at his sole discretion. The grand jury may summon witnesses, but it only does so very rarely. The defendant is not present except if he testifies—and this is usually undesirable because he waives his Fifth Amendment rights in doing so. Furthermore, the defendant’s attorney is not allowed to be present at the proceedings. The proceedings are secret. There is no right for
