are paid, and she also wanted to see the receipt for the deposit of his salary per University records. He advised he had determined a discrepancy existed between what the University claimed to put into RIHA's account and what they actually put into RIHA's account. He advised at this meeting TANNENBAUM did not discuss RIHA's whereabouts.

He recalled his third meeting with TANNENBAUM occurred about five days later at the same location, although this time TANNENBAUM was accompanied by a small female child about three years of age. He advised her of the amount the University had deposited to RIHA's account. At this time TANNENBAUM told him her real name was not GALY TANNENBAUM, but something else which she did not disclose, and added that she was about ready to leave town. He advised of no contact with TANNENBAUM since their last meeting.

STEPHEN FISCHER-GALATI advised that the date of the document mentioned above, January 5, 1968, and its historical significance disturbs him. He stated if RIHA was not "bumped off" by TANNENBAUM, then he assumes that RIHA's disappearance may have been connected with an unknown intelligence matter, which is pure conjecture on his part. FISCHER-GALATI also recalled that in September 1968, Professor RIHA requested that an advertisement for a travel bureau be run in the "Eastern European Quarterly," which GALATI described as an international journal to promote cultural contact with Eastern European countries. He advised RIHA did not indicate if the advertisement was run for a friend or if RIHA had any financial interest in the travel agency named Treasure Tours, 1010 St. Catherine Way, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. FISCHER-GALATI advised that because of the reasons mentioned, he sometimes believes that RIHA could be in Canada.

Professor FISCHER-GALATI advised that in April 1969, he contacted a Mr. FRITZ of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Denver, Colorado, regarding the sudden leaving of Professor THOMAS RIHA of the University of Colorado. Mr. FRITZ advised him that he had no knowledge of the matter but would check into same. Professor FISCHER-GALATI stated he was later recontacted by FRITZ, who stated the disappearance had nothing to do with the CIA and that RIHA's leaving was a personal matter connected with personal problems.
