Europe

UK-US Frictions Over Shipping Policy

British shipping and official circles are incensed over recent US demands for information relating to rate discrimination against US exports. The British Government has advised against compliance on the grounds that this information is commercially confidential, and that the US cannot demand what the UK Government cannot obtain.

Thus, what are seen as American efforts to regulate international shipping lines in order to improve the unfavorable US balance of payments have caused increasing rancor in Britain. Before Parliament adjourned for its Christmas recess on 20 December, some Conservative MPs called for retaliatory restrictions on US ships arriving at UK ports. Although the MPs did not specify what restrictions they had in mind, the government cannot afford in the present pre-election period to leave itself open to charges that it is not attentive enough to domestic interests.

Following a recent congressional investigation into alleged rate discrimination against American exports, the US Maritime Commission asked the North Atlantic Freight Conference to explain the differentials on a long list of items, setting a 20 January deadline for compliance under penalty of heavy fines. The US position is that US exporters are being penalized because outward rates are higher on the average than the inward rates.

The Douglas-Home government, while hopeful of some compromise before the 20 January deadline, is busily lining up international support. At the recently concluded conference of transport ministers of 10 European maritime nations, Britain proposed that Japan be invited to join the united front of European maritime countries in a general protest against US shipping policies, thereby aligning roughly three quarters of the world's shipping business against the US position. Japan agreed to do so, and the collective protest was filed with the State Department on 23 December.

British and other shipping lines regard the differentials as economically justified. The tonnage of US exports is much greater than import tonnage, and shipping lines—anxious to avoid half-loaded or in-ballast westbound voyages—have traditionally charged lower rates for items imported into the US than for exports from this country.

27 Dec 63

Current Intelligence Weekly Review
