4. Statements

a. A subfile is recorded on each informant who submits statements, written or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters, where a subfile is accessed only in instances involving possible prosecution. The original of each statement, whether personally written by the informant or furnished orally and reduced to writing by the contacting agent, should be filed in his subfile. Executed Form FD-306, or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items set forth on Form FD-306, should be stapled with the original of each such statement.

b. Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for secure filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any portion of the statements or notations thereon.

5. Channelization

Excerpts from the informant's statement are to be included in the regular investigative case report when information of value is submitted. Form FD-306 may be used to disseminate this information to the case file in lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired. If so used, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy of the informant's statement being channelized. Channelization should be noted on the original FD-306 and on all copies under “Remarks.”

6. Channelizing Memoranda—Destruction of

For instructions concerning the destruction of channelizing memoranda, see Manual of Rules and Regulations.

7. Dissemination of Information

Information submitted by informants, potential informants, confidential sources, or sources of information should be reported to the Bureau and listed offices or other agencies whenever necessary by the appropriate offices or locations under captions showing the subject matter of the information.

8. Use

The information submitted by security informants and potential security informants should be strictly limited to administrative matters which it is known that the Bureau will not consider in connection with furnishing information to the Bureau under a substantive case caption.

9. Maintenance of Files

a. All symbol-number informants' files, pending and closed, shall be maintained under lock and key under the personal supervision of the SAC, ASAC, field supervisor, or responsible employee designated by the SAC.

b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in the open files section, provided there is no disclosure of the informant's identity on the statements.

c. All informants' files shall be maintained in such a manner as to ensure that all information furnished by a particular informant will be immediately available upon the request of the Bureau.

d. In addition, these files should be maintained in such a fashion that the identities of the cases in which an informant has furnished competent evidence can be furnished immediately to the Bureau by simply referring to the file of the informant and without the necessity of conducting extensive research.

10. Use of Informants by Department—Filing Correspondence Re

From time to time, the Department expresses an interest in using a particular informant for testifying when he becomes available as a witness. As a result, there will be correspondence sufficient to document this situation between the Bureau and the field. Place copies of all correspondence in the informant's file. Occasionally such correspondence may be focused and applied to more than one informant. In those cases, summarize information concerning each particular informant and place the summary in the appropriate informant's file.

11. Form FD-238

Form FD-238, printed on pink paper, has been approved for use in security informant and potential security informant files. It is to be used in the nature of a table of contents or an index to show where particular data in the file can be found. This form is to be kept as top

3-13-68
