From the Desk of Linda C. Cipriani.

Note for: Barry R. Gibson @ DO; Elaine S. Mathias @ DO. From: Linda C. Cipriani, OGC. Date: 03/04/96 09:26:53 AM. Subject: JFK – Central Cover appeal.

The General Counsel and I met with the JFK Review Board on Friday and discussed, among other things, how to deal with the potential public release of the identities of former employees retired under cover. The Board clearly wants to do the right thing here, but they feel they are not getting enough information to make that decision.

Jeremy Gunn (JFK Board's General Counsel) will soon provide me with some of the Board's suggestions on how to deal with this, which I will pass on to you, including how to deal with Whitten. I would at the very least like to be able to suggest that we attempt contact again, either through CIA or the Board, with those retirees who have not yet responded to our letter. Of course, any suggestions you have at this point will be extremely helpful. My sense is that this issue of protecting retirees is something everyone at CIA will want to appeal just on the principal of it, but that we should do everything possible to avoid an appeal. Until we work out an agreement with the Board, you should continue to prepare that appeal you are drafting.

In the meantime, can you please provide me the following figures:

1. The number of people we sent letters to regarding the potential Board releases (isn't it 150?) and the following breakdown, if available:
- Number living abroad.
- Number of those retired under cover versus those whose cover has been rolled back or lifted.
- Number of those who still work for us in covert/overt capacity.

2. The number of responses we received to date.

3. The number of responses to date requesting that we not release.

4. The number of responses to date saying that they did not care.

I realize you are all out of the office these days, but I would appreciate getting this as soon as you can. Thanks.

CC: J. Barry Harrelson; Eleanor E. Neiman @ DO; Frederick Wickham @ DO.
