The country's political situation has changed, but there is still no possibility of a political revolution. Counterrevolutionary forces still support the President and the oligarchs. The President's intention with regard to leftist ex-President Arevalo, who plans to return and seek the presidency in next December's elections, is an unsettling factor. The armed forces universally oppose Arevalo. Some sections want to replace Nyeriga with a civilian-military junta and call new elections before Arevalo becomes eligible to run in April. Should Arevalo return, the military will probably move to prevent his candidacy, and the coming months may be critical.

Honduran President Villeda Morales, although not a strong leader, is expected to complete his term. The ruling Labor Party will probably retain the presidency in the October elections, and maneuvering for the nomination has begun. Rodas Alvarado (Redas Alvarado), President of the Congress and one of the three leading contenders, has used his position to build up strength, but the armed forces regard him as the least desirable, and a developing anti-Plasmas coalition may prevent his nomination. Either of the three leading candidates would probably follow the present government's policies, including its relatively soft Communist stand. The Communists, while not yet a direct threat, are steadily increasing their influence in the labor field and are exploiting the country's discouraging political, economic, and social conditions.

El Salvador, faced with a serious Communist threat after two years, continues to show political and economic progress. There are clouds on the horizon: President Rivera assumed control last summer in a full return to constitutional government and still has widespread support and military backing. The government is moving ahead with its reform program, but there is some resistance to the proposed new income taxes. Communist activities have been curbed, but the Communists still retain a subversive capability, particularly among labor and student groups. There is concern over the likely election of a pro-Communist as rector of the university, a center of subversion and infiltration.

Costa Rica continues to be one of the most democratic and politically stable countries in Latin America, but there are outbreaks of unrest stemming from the deteriorating economic situation. The ruling National Liberation Party, which was reelected to power in last year's election, in a bitterly contested but open, honest election, represents the liberal left, although it includes a number of moderates such as President Orlich (Orlach) and some members of his cabinet. The Communist Party is small and weak, but is effectively led. It recently instigated unrest in the banana zone and, while not an immediate threat, has long-range potential at home. Economic conditions worsen.

25 June 1963.

UUA Intelligence Bulletin.
