Frank Church, Idaho, Chairman  
John G. Tower, Texas, Vice Chairman

Philip A. Hart, Mich.  
Walter F. Mondale, Minn.  
Walter D. Huddleston, Ky.  
Robert Morgan, N.C.  
Gary Hart, Colo.

Howard H. Baker, Jr., Tenn.  
Barry Goldwater, Ariz.  
Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., Md.  
Richard S. Schweiker, Pa.

William G. Miller, Staff Director  
Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel  
Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel

United States Senate

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities

(Pursuant to S. Res. 21, 94th Congress)

Washington, D.C. 20510

Dear Concerned Citizen:

Thank you for sharing your thoughts with me regarding the work of the Select Committee on Intelligence Activities. I am sorry to learn that you are unable to endorse the Committee's investigation and the efforts which have been undertaken to strengthen the Nation's intelligence agencies through closer definitions of their legal authority and areas of legitimate operation.

One of the possible abuses under investigation is the violation of the First and Fourth Amendment rights of Americans under the Constitution and Bill of Rights. The American system of government is unique in that it not only permits, but encourages, its citizens to voice their views on important issues. One of the rights we are trying to protect is your right to express your thoughts to me, either over the telephone or through the mails, without having your message intercepted or recorded by unauthorized persons. Highly sophisticated equipment now makes it possible to turn our surveillance techniques, which were originally designed to intercept foreign transmissions, inward against ourselves. It is important that protection be made for the lawful use of this capability, and that protection be assured our own citizens who could become the unwitting victims of this unconstitutional but nevertheless powerful surveillance technology.

I want to take this opportunity to assure you that the Committee's purpose is not, as some have suggested, to destroy, degrade, or even disrupt the legitimate functions of the intelligence gathering and law enforcement agencies of the United States. On the contrary, its purpose is to fortify these valid and vital areas of operation. However, we do intend to identify abuses or patterns of abuses which are clearly unlawful and take action to prevent their recurrence, whether they involve individuals or nations. We as individuals must live within the law; so must our Government and its agencies.

I appreciate your taking the time to write to me, and trust that the ultimate outcome of this investigation will strengthen the faith of our people in the integrity of their Government.

With all kind wishes.
