G. NOVEL Is Polygraphed by Lloyd FURR on Garrison's Charges.

A Gordon Boone NOVEL, already a fugitive witness in the Garrison inquiry, is reported in the Washington press of 27 June 1964 as having been polygraphed the previous day on the case under investigation by Garrison. According to the press reports, NOVEL submitted to a polygraph examination conducted at McLean, Virginia, by Lloyd FURR. In statements to the press, FURR indicated there was no indication of deception to NOVEL's charges that Garrison's case is a “fraud.”

B. Lloyd FURR's Relationship to Richard L. BAST and REDEX.

Lloyd FURR, a former District of Columbia policeman and now a private detective, is a self-proclaimed polygraph “expert” and sound device specialist. He has received publicity in the past for planting sound devices for the late Fulton Lewis, Jr., in the St. Mary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when he discovered listening devices being used against Bernard Goldfine.

In 1964, information was received that a Washington, D.C., man, REDEX, operated by FURR and Richard L. BAST, was attempting to sell electronic equipment to Communist China via an agent in Hong Kong (Dong Kong). TSD had unclassified contact with FURR in 1962 to see equipment offered for sale by FURR.

C. Richard L. BAST and REDEX.

Richard L. BAST, a Washington, D.C., private detective, gained notoriety in 1965 by turning up a missing witness, previously unlocated by the Department of Justice, in connection with the Bobby Baker case. He is known to operate at least four enterprises: 1) Capital Bureau of Investigation, a private detective agency; 2) REDEX Vietnam, Inc., a firm which imports a variety of commodities ranging from liquor to automobiles into South Vietnam, including, of late, U.S.-recruited go-cans for a Saigon nightclub he is planning; 3) REDEX Corp., a firm which sells almost anything to anybody abroad, other than South Vietnam; and 4) Consolidated Armaments, Inc. (ARMMENTS), a firm which sells small arms to foreign governments and private individuals abroad. BAST also produces and distributes radio and counteraudio devices in the U.S. and

GREI
