Fitness Report.

Section A—General.

Name: Jerico. Date of birth: 9 Oct 28. Sex: M. Grade: USB CS-13. Service designation: IN. Official position title: 10 Factory Park. Office/division/branch of assignment: Tokyo, Japan.

Type of report: Not eligible X. Career status: Member; deferred; initial; reassignment/supervisor; annual; reassignment/employee; pending; declined; denied.

Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: From 15 Apr 61–31 Dec 61 to 15 Apr 61–31 Dec 61. Special: Specify.

Section B—Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Rating scale: 1. Unsatisfactory. 2. Barely adequate. 3. Acceptable. 4. Competent. 5. Excellent. 6. Superior. 7. Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Monitors and coordinates with OOC&E and allied armed services the Factory Mariner's Collection Process (MCP) in North Asian area covering 50% of the area. Area is directly under MCP. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 4: Monitors and coordinates with support for commanders and officers of the various COCC&I military intelligence collection units in Japan, with support from (Co.). Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 9: Responsible for airfield collection of intelligence from North East Asia. Disseminates to ROE&M Factory Mariner's Center on all matters pertaining to the MCP in this area of intelligence. Rating No. 4.

Specific duty No. 6: Represents the interest of ROE&M generally in liaison with other OOC&E intelligence components—both collection and analysis—in Japan. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 8: Provides detailed training and guidance for native personnel and foreign allied personnel, such as Japanese, Korean, Chinese, and Vietnamese, in this section. Also includes U.S. and Japanese staff in this section. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 9: Represents the interest of ROE&M generally in liaison with other OOC&E intelligence components—both collection and analysis—in Japan.
