United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: Legal Counsel

Subject: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities

Date: 6/27/75

Allegation by John Elliff Concerning Interference with Committee Investigation

At 5:14 p.m., on 6/27/75, K. William O'Connor, Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, advised me that he had received a call from John Elliff of the Senate Select Committee complaining of what he described as an attempt to interfere with the Committee's investigation by supplying information to the press that the Committee had been furnished material which it had declined to use or to inquire into because of its sensitive nature. O'Connor said that Elliff claimed that a journalist who is friendly with the Committee had advised the Committee that he had information from a Justice Department official that the Committee had been furnished information originating in the FBI that Communist funds were used to finance Martin Luther King; that King had been related to the CP, USA and that the Senate Select Committee had treated this matter as a "hot potato" and that the information also indicated that "King laughed all the way to the bank."

O'Connor said that Elliff protested the apparent disclosures by the Justice Department to the press and claimed that it appeared an effort was being made to interfere with the Committee's work. O'Connor told Elliff he had no knowledge of anyone in the Justice Department furnishing any such information to the press and further, he told him that he did not believe that information concerning CP funding of King had been furnished to the Committee.

ST-101

62-116375-443

July 15, 1975

O'Connor said that he did not believe that the FBI had furnished such information to the news media but he wanted us to be aware of Elliff's complaint. O'Connor said that it is possible that during interviews conducted by staff of the Committee, they have received statements indicating that Communist funds were used by King, but he does not believe that any documentation of that has been furnished to the Committee as yet.

Recommendation: For information.

1 - Mr. Moore  
1 - Mr. Wannall  
1 - Mr. Hotis  
1 - Mr. Daly  
1 - Mr. Mintz

See addendum, page 2.
