Interview and Meeting Summary

Papich began with a brief summary of his experience in the FBI. During World War II and thereafter he ran certain operations in Latin America. In 1945–47, he ran counterintelligence operations in Brazil against the Communist Party of Brazil and bloc intelligence agents. In 1952 he became FBI liaison with CIA, charged with coordinating and planning, including the development of sources. He also had special assignments overseas for Hoover.

Papich presented the following overview of the issues. He has a high respect and regard for the Soviet intelligence service, its efficiency, and effectiveness. He must be shown that their philosophy has changed since 1970. The program of the U.S. intelligence community regarding KGB and GRU is very limited. In 1958, for example, the U.S. intelligence community had not yet believed there was good information on the structure. This had to be readily revised following the discovery that the premises were false. Papich stated, “They've taken us to the cleaners in the last few years.” There is no estimate of how many Soviet illegals are in the United States. The old view was that illegals would aim at middle-class government and business positions. It has been discovered that they take jobs like dishwasher to develop an employment background. There is no knowledge of Soviet objectives. Illegals may do nothing for years so they can be tapped for the future. There may be 100, 500, or 5,000 of them. Some were sent in as early as the 20s and 30s. They are the Rudolph Abel type. His network was never identified. Therefore, Papich is clearly unhappy with U.S. results in identifying Soviet operations in the United States.

Papich stated that he played a controversial “devil's advocate” role between the FBI and the CIA. He did not confer with Attorney General Mitchell after Helms called his name to Mitchell's attention. Papich assumes Helms wanted Mitchell to get a review of the history of FBI-CIA relations. Papich would not have gone to Mitchell without checking with other FBI officials.
