Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

As indicated in the last Fitness Report, Mr. Smith assumed responsibility for Covert Action training presented by this Branch in the wake of compromise of a wide range of Agency CA activities. Quite apart from all the operational consequences of these public disclosures, there were also, of course, compensant ramifications in the training field. Following careful study and examination of the new situation, Mr. Smith devised, in closest coordination with the CA Staff, a radically new and different Covert Action curriculum. The existing comprehensive courses on youth and labor operations were discontinued for obvious reasons. In place of these and the part-time Covert Action Operations Course, Mr. Smith developed a new, full-time, three-day Covert Action Operations Seminar for middle and senior grade officers. This intensive seminar, stressing the integrated nature of CS operations, was designed as a basic core around which skills-oriented seminars or workshops could be built to deal with such topics as propaganda operations, election operations, use of agents of influence, etc. To date, in line with this concept, a Politics Workshop has been created to provide training in the assessment, recruitment, and handling of assets among key interest groups, including political parties.

The resonance which these new courses has evoked confirms the soundness of Mr. Smith's creative efforts in completely revamping Covert Action training in the (cont.)

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 10 May 68. Signature of employee: Jnolel H. Smith.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 6.

Date: 10 May 1968. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Headquarters Training, Operations School/OTR. C.M. Broutsas.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: Concur. Mr. Smith has done his job with distinction and with credit to himself and his career service. His assignment to OTR is a first-rate example of quality in rotational tours. At the same time he has given a good deal to the training mission, I think it also fair to say he has gained professionally from the rather wide exposure to disciplines other than CA which he has handled extremely well.

Date.
