(3) Open 134 lines when active investigation of prospective panelist is initiated. When preliminary investigation is completed and the Bureau has approved the panelist, close the file administratively if the panelist is not contacted regularly.

Regular contacts with panelists should be noted in their respective files.

(4) Only designated Agents should handle panelists.

(5) Every four months, submit a letter of justification to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to the panel source. See section 107N, 3b, volume IV, of this manual for the form of the letter. If the source is not being paid on Bureau authorization, the Agent handling the source must prepare a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters.

(6) Gifts to sources shall not be reclaimed as blue slip items. A summary letter captioned “Panel Source Program” (Bufile 134-1113) is to be prepared and submitted to the Bureau on March 25 and September 25 each year. Use the following topical outline:

(a) Status of program. Include progress in panel development. Show the total number of new panelists developed and the total number of panelists discontinued during the six-month period.

(b) Total number of active panel sources.

(c) Names of organizations covered.

(d) Number and identities of panelists redesignated to informant or potential informant status since institution of the panel program.

d. Suggestion: Designate, where practicable, a coordinating Agent to maintain a roster of current panel members and a current list of scheduled organization activities. The coordinating Agent will notify Agents handling individual panelists of scheduled organizational functions to be covered. The coordinating Agent receives notice of coming events from Agents handling organization cases, security informants, and communist publications; e.g., “The Worker.”

6. Classification—100.

7. Character—Internal Security—letters for organizational activity or nationalistic tendency; e.g., (C), (SWP), (Miscellaneous), etc.
