Office of Performance.

1. Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties.

Directions:
a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties.
b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.
c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty. Do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only.
d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others by majority: the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.
e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are:

Oral briefing — has and uses area knowledge; conducts interrogations.
Giving lectures — develops new programs; prepares summaries.
Conducting seminars — analyzes industrial reports; translates German.
Writing technical reports — manages files; perpetuating sources.
Conducting external liaison — operates radio; refs books.
Typing — coordinates with other offices; drives truck.
Taking dictation — writes regulations; maintains air conditioning.
Supervising — prepares correspondence; evaluates significance of data.

For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

Descriptive rating number:
1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty.
2. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty.
3. Performs this duty acceptably.
4. Performs this duty in a competent manner.
5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.
7. Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.
8. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs.

Specific duty: As case officer directs and manages two well-established PP operations. Number: 5. Rating: 5.

Specific duty: Act as Deputy Chief PP. Number: 5. Rating: 5.

Specific duty: Collect and produce intelligence according to Station requirements. Number: 5. Rating: 5.

Specific duty: Act as Deputy Chief PP.
