6. Negotiated Benefits. (a)(1) If, in the performance of activities under this agreement, you incur an injury or illness which is not the result of gross negligence, willful misconduct, or intemperate act, the Government will provide medical, surgical, hospital, transportation, and disability benefits in such amounts and under such conditions as the Government, in its discretion, deems proper; provided, however, that such benefits shall not exceed a total of $5,000 for the same injury or illness.

(2) If you die in the performance of activities hereunder and your death is not the result of your gross negligence, willful misconduct, or intemperate act, the Government will pay the sum of $500 to your beneficiary(ies), less any amount paid to you under the subparagraph above if such injury or illness resulted in your death, provided that said beneficiary(ies) is acceptable to the Government at the time such payment is to be made. An acceptable beneficiary hereunder is an individual to whom payment by the U.S. Government can be made without conflicting with its avowed principles and ideals.

(b) Outstanding performance by you under this agreement and your fulfillment of obligations hereunder in an efficient manner will result in the Government undertaking your resettlement in an area mutually agreeable to both parties, to the extent deemed appropriate by the United States Government.

7. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title to or record property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situated, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U.S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever document may be required by this organization to evidence this relationship.

8. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally included in employee status.

9. Funding. If necessary to protect the security of this arrangement, monies due you hereunder may be funded in other than a direct manner. It is understood and agreed that any monies so funded constitute payment by the Government in satisfaction of its obligations under this agreement.

10. Cover. (a) It is anticipated that you will undertake a cover venture in the course of your performance under this agreement. Such venture shall be approved by the appropriate Government representative overseeing your activities prior to its initiation. Any and all documents which you may execute in the course of said cover venture are subordinate to this agreement, and any contradiction in terms which in any way amplify, extend, or restrict your rights and/or obligations hereunder shall be resolved by this agreement, which shall always be dominant.

(b) To provide capital for your approved cover venture, the Government will loan you $4,000, to be secured by a non-interest-bearing policy note, payable on demand. Said loan will be deposited to an account in a foreign bank, and a $3,000 letter of credit will be issued against its deposit. The additional $1,000 will be released from said account after approval by the Government representative overseeing your activities.
