Dulles, Novel Subpoenaed

Garrison also asserted that he "has succeeded in identifying the assassination of President Kennedy as an operation conducted by elements of the CIA." The DA further charged that the Warren Commission suppressed certain documents which may have a bearing on the case.

Garrison also claimed that while Dulles was heading the CIA this organization worked at buying trucks and other vehicles from a New Orleans firm to use in the abortive Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba, and used Oswald's (Osvald's) name. Oswald was in Russia at the time.

Granted Immunity

The subpoena request further stated that Novel, former operator of a Rampart St. lounge, had enlisted CIA aid in order to avoid having to return to New Orleans for Garrison, and that the late David W. Ferrie was employed by the CIA while Dulles was at the helm.

Ferrie died last Feb. 22. He was named by Garrison as being one of the alleged conspirators in plotting the murder of Kennedy.

In his statement to The Times-Picayune, Novel outlined his position on Garrison's latest move in five points. The text of Novel's statement follows.

"Number One: My primary business in New Orleans was, and still is, in the electronic intelligence equipment manufacturing field. I am not a night club owner. That was merely a hobby."

"My customers, beside the United States government, were many Louisiana politicians, including Mr. Garrison, and the governor and the office of the mayor of the city of New Orleans. My personal stereo and monaural tape library is extensive."

Dulles and Novel say they will be granted immunity from arrest in Louisiana on matters which may have occurred before their entrance into the state to comply with the subpoena order.

Dulles now lives in New York and Novel has been residing in Columbus, Ohio, since fleeing Louisiana last year.

The call for Novel also alleges that he was an associate of Ferrie, and had visited many times with attorney Dean A. Andrews Jr., who has since been convicted of perjury after testifying in connection with the probe.

Linked to Bradley

"Information has been given to the DA's office which located Novel at No Name Key in Florida, where a number of CIA employees were training for an invasion of Cuba," the request added.

It further says that Novel has associated with Edgar Eugene Bradley of North Hollywood, California, the second living man, along with retired New Orleans businessman Clay L. Shaw, to be charged by Garrison with conspiring to kill President Kennedy.

"Gordon Novel, by his own public admissions, sold his business, and left the city to avoid not only the aforedescribed subpoena (of March 17, 1967) but also a new subpoena which he knew had been issued but not served," continued the request.

"Subsequent to the issuance of the warrant (for his arrest as a material witness), Gordon Novel disguised himself in the clothing of a member of a particular religious order and by stealth and furtiveness returned to the state of Louisiana and removed his automobile."

A new subpoena and a renewed subpoena were issued Friday by District Attorney Jim Garrison in his Kennedy assassination probe, the first for a former Central Intelligence Agency agent, and the second for a long-sought former bar operator alleged to have CIA connections.

The new Grand Jury subpoena issued by Garrison's office was for Allen W. Dulles, held Sept. 27, 1961, who is asked to appear before the "Orleans" Parish Grand Jury March 5 and 8, to give testimony in connection with the D.A.'s investigation of the death of President John F. Kennedy.

Garrison called for the appearance of Gordon Novel; earlier efforts by him to testify have been unavailing.

Not Decided

Friday night, Novel told the Times-Picayune by telephone from Columbus, Ohio, that he had not read the new subpoena and had not yet decided whether.

Novel also said that he "may return to testify in New Orleans if President Lyndon B. Johnson and the CIA pay for his personal financial losses" incurred over the past year while included as a figure in the investigation.

The subpoenas for both Dulles and Novel were issued through the Court of Criminal District Judge Matthew S. Braniff.
