Section XI. Qualifications for Other Operations.

1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications described by Subject which could conceivably be of value for other operations. Although Subject is an intelligent, well-educated person, he should not be used directly in operations. His value is as described in Section VI. Furthermore, his political position prohibits involvement in operations.

Section X. Commitments.

1. If it is proposed to pay Subject a regular salary, indicate the weekly amount, if payment to be made in exchange for commodities, subsidy or other method. Specify and give details. NA.

2. Explain any promises, otherwise not covered herein, made to Subject. NA.

Section XI. CE and Security.

1. Indicate the field agencies and field files with which Subject's name has been checked and the results. None.

2. Indicate other investigative measures taken to verify biographical information furnished by Subject. As an outstanding public figure, knowledge about Subject is general and all “Who's Who” write-ups contain long articles about him.

3. Indicate whether or not provisional operational approval or operational approval for Subject's use has been previously obtained. POA.

4. Date approval obtained.

5. Evaluate Subject's character, reliability and security, citing evidence where possible. In addition to Section II.1, although a leader in politics, Subject's real strength lies in his being an enlightened capitalist. One “Who's Who” description says “pioneer in the job of humanizing industry.” Is a Catholic lay leader. Has held various public service positions, e.g., Lions Club, Chamber of Commerce, Council of the Boy Scouts; honorary secretary of MIT; philanthropist; etc.

6. Explain any situation or indiscretion in which Subject may have been involved which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security viewpoint. None known.

Section XII. Subject's Personal Habits.

1. Use of liquor, drugs; gambling, paramours. With Case Officer, Subject has been most sparing in use of liquor; as a political public figure any personal weaknesses would have been well aired.
