United States Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Chicago, Illinois. February 19, 1969.

In reply, please refer to File No.

“Third World Unity Conference,” Olivet Presbyterian Church, Chicago, Illinois, February 14–16, 1969.

A confidential source advised on February 13, 1969, that Luis John Cuza, leader of the Young Lords, a Puerto Rican youth gang located on the near North Side of Chicago, was heard to comment that he first formulated plans for the February 14, 1969, Youth Conference at a meeting held in his home early in January 1969. Several persons were present during this meeting, and it was decided to seek help from the Community Renewal Society and its sponsoring church to obtain money in order to hold this conference. Cuza planned to obtain the use of the Olivet Presbyterian Church, 1443 North Cleveland Avenue, as a conference site. At a meeting of the same people several days later, Cuza announced that he had obtained the use of that church for February 14, 15, and 16, 1969. Cuza said he planned to have Charles Koen, militant black leader from St. Louis and Midwest Director of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), in attendance. Cuza said that at this conference he expected members of the various Latin American and Puerto Rican youth gangs to attend. Cuza said the purpose of the conference would be to create a brotherhood between black and Latin people, and this would be a brotherhood workshop.

For a characterization of SNCC, see the attached appendix page.

The above source advised that Cuza approached Charles Koen as to whether or not he could attend this three-day conference, and Koen stated he would try to come. Koen stated that as Midwest Director of SNCC, he travels throughout the United States and has visited Los Angeles, New York, Washington, D.C., and St. Louis. Koen stated he has met with

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.
