Agent Report.

1. Name of subject or title of incident: TRINKALA, Victor L.  
2. Date submitted: 16 April 1970.  
DPOB: 28 November 1950; Rochester, Pa.  
3. Control symbol or file number: PVT - 186 42 1155; 9321 - 6006.  
4. Report of findings (Miscellaneous—Continued).

Transferred to USACS. At this time, SUBJECT was at Oakland Army Terminal with PCS orders for Vietnam. Nagell immediately sent a telegram addressed to the Commanding General, Sixth United States Army, requesting SUBJECT'S transfer to USACS since SUBJECT was a Conscientious Objector. Nagell had never met SUBJECT personally; however, the same night that Nagell sent the telegram to Sixth Army in regard to SUBJECT, Source talked to SUBJECT by telephone and at that time Nagell was introduced to SUBJECT telephonically. Source believed that neither Nagell nor Source was instrumental in getting SUBJECT separated from the service, since it is a fact that SUBJECT'S mother mentioned to Source that she was making the necessary arrangements through her Senator in Pittsburgh to get SUBJECT separated from the military service. It is Source's opinion that either Mrs. Trinkala or her Senator was instrumental in getting SUBJECT out of the military. Source knew of no other efforts or attempts made by either Source or Nagell to get SUBJECT separated from the military service. Source could not offer any further information concerning Nagell and had not seen him since that night that Nagell wrote the telegram in behalf of SUBJECT.

In December 1969, SUBJECT was discharged from the United States Army, reason unknown to Source. SUBJECT returned to New York City and continued to share Source's apartment at the Woodstock Hotel. At that time, Source recalled that he was illegally convicted and confined to the FP for the use, possession and selling of narcotics. Since SUBJECT is a young man and there is a narcotics problem in the New York City area, Source started counselling SUBJECT against the use of narcotics or drugs. Source secured a job for SUBJECT at the Clinton Hotel, 19 West 31st Street, New York, New York, where SUBJECT started working during the day shift. Since SUBJECT was working during the day, Source suggested to SUBJECT that HE register at the evening classes offered at the YMCA so that HE could finish HIS high school education. To Source's knowledge, SUBJECT never completed high school and Source was unable to state whether or not SUBJECT ever registered in the evening classes offered at the YMCA. Approximately three weeks ago, SUBJECT was at Source's room at the Woodstock Hotel with some friends, not further identified. SUBJECT left the Woodstock Hotel with HIS friends and Source had not seen HIM since then. To Source's knowledge, SUBJECT had never been approached or been in contact with anyone representing policies inimical to the best interests of the United States and it is Source's opinion that SUBJECT would report to the proper United States authorities if HE were ever approached by such a person. SUBJECT was considered to be loyal to the United States and to favor and support the Constitution of this country. SUBJECT is willing to defend the United States against all enemies.
