Date: 1-18-91.

Field offices: Memphis; Miami; Oklahoma City; Omaha; San Antonio; San Diego; Milwaukee; Minneapolis; Philadelphia; Phoenix; San Francisco; San Juan; Mobile; Newark; Pittsburgh; Portland; Savannah; Seattle; New Haven; New Orleans; Richmond; Sacramento; Springfield; Tampa; New York; Norfolk; St. Louis; Salt Lake City; Washington, D.C. Total 59.

Assistant to the Director—Deputy Associate Director (Investigation): James B. Adams.

Intelligence Division. Assistant Director: W. Raymond Wannall.

Counterintelligence Branch.

CI-1 Section: Espionage; Foreign Agents Registration Act; Internal Security.

CI-2 Section: Espionage; Foreign Agents Registration Act; Internal Security.

CI-3 Section: Atomic Energy Act—violations; Espionage; Foreign Agents Registration Act; Foreign economic matters; Foreign funds; Foreign military and naval matters; Foreign political matters; Foreign social conditions; Internal security—nationalistic tendency; Neutrality matters; Security matters and internal security; Bombing matters; Anti-riot; Act for Protection of Foreign Officials and Foreign Guests of U.S.

CI-4 Section: Domestic and military liaison; Foreign liaison matters; Foreign police cooperation.

General Investigative Division. Assistant Director: Robert E. Gebhardt.

Criminal Section: Assaulting or killing a federal officer; Assaulting foreign personnel; Congressional assassination statute; Assaulting the President (or Vice-President) of the United States; Automobile Information Disclosure Act; Bank robbery; Bills of Lading Act; Crime aboard aircraft; Crime on Indian and government reservations; Crime on the high seas; Desecration of the flag; Destruction of aircraft or motor vehicles; Extortion; False advertising or misuse of names to indicate federal agency; False entries in records of interstate carriers; Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act; Federal Juvenile Delinquency Act; Federal Train Wreck Statute; Firearms Act (A) National (B) State Firearms Control Assistance Act (C) Unlawful possession or receipt of firearms; Fraudulent practices concerning military and naval documents, and seals and symbols of agencies of the United States; Illegal manufacture, use, possession or sale of emblems and insignia; Illegal use of government transportation requests; Illegal use of railroad pass; Illegal wearing of uniform; Impersonation; Interstate obscene or harassing telephone calls; Interstate transportation of fireworks; Interstate transportation of obscene matter; Interstate transportation of prison-made goods; Interstate transportation of stolen cattle; Interstate transportation of stolen motor vehicle or AIRC.
