EP 65-951

To his demands a better rapport was established and a private interview was given him. He seemed well oriented in all spheres. Speech was of normal flow and coherent. He showed no flight of ideas. He denied delusions or hallucinations. No suicidal or homicidal tendencies were elicited. He states that his main trouble is “headaches which I have had continuously recently.” He also complains of “dizziness, and at times an unsteady gait.” These symptoms are sometimes associated with a transient loss of memory. During the interview his retention and recall were good. Sensorium was intact. When I asked him what he thought was wrong he said, “I think my trouble is physiologic.” When I asked him what he meant by physiologic he stated, “My trouble is all due to my head injury.” He felt reassured when I told him that I thought some of his symptoms were due to that mishap.

Although he smoked continuously during the interview, he related quite a story about his Army activities and his domestic situation, but was somewhat evasive about the trouble he was in while in California, especially the trouble involving the F.B.I. and some shooting event. He was presented before the Psychiatric stand and at first was somewhat reluctant to answer questions, and when asked a question that was not due to his liking he would relate, “This is my private life.” During the Staff Conference he said, “You Psychiatrists are all stereotyped.” During the Staff Conference, however, his mood was one of friendliness and not one of depression, although he will occasionally get irritable when supposedly asked a personal question.

After the interview at the Staff Meeting he approached me saying that he did not want any of the nurses aides to know about his business and that was the reason why he refused to give out any information. He further related that he keeps everything in a little book that he has done or said because he has a poor memory, although some of these memory deficits were not brought out in the interview with him. He was advised to stay on the ward for another week or two for further observation, but he felt that he did not have to since nothing more could be done for him. He also said the reason for him wishing to leave was that “he had a job in mind and was going for an interview.” Since his insight and judgment were unpredictable at times and although no psychotic behavior was noted, it was felt
