Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective the relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training/development on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section II to provide basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject is an aggressive, eager, and intelligent person who knows how to do with and where to take his projects. In the case of the project run with the local service, Subject inherited an expensive project over which little control had been exercised in either effective utilization of funds or the actual operations. After analyzing the project to determine the state of assets, capabilities, etc., Subject ingratiated himself in a highly commendatory way with the Argentines concerned to the end that Subject's ideas and positive cooperation are now sought on a daily basis. This has resulted in greatly improved project management and, better, more demonstrable results for the money spent.

Also, during this period Subject developed and recruited one new agent, a leading political scientist with access to important political leaders. In addition Subject inherited a project in the motion picture field which he has developed into an effective mechanism which now promises to reach into the newspaper field.

In addition to the above three projects, Subject is case officer for two staff agents who between them handle four projects. Subject has had these responsibilities for less than three months and during this period he has handled these assignments proficiently.

Subject's language competence (Spanish) is proficient; he is able to converse meaningfully in Spanish with persons of intelligence interest who have no English.

(continued on separate sheet)

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Due: 24 May 1963. Signature of employer: /S/

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: Eight (Fright). Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature.

24 May 1963. Operations Officer. /S/ Frederick Larkin Jr.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

I am in general agreement with the supervisor's assessment of this individual, whom I have seen fairly frequently. He is extremely active and aggressive and has moved ahead rapidly into new activities in both the liaison and unilateral field. He has only recently taken over the direction and supervision of two other case officers so it is too early to know what his abilities in this area are, but it is in this direction that he should work for broadening his career potential.

Due: 24 May 1963. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /S/ James F. Collins.
