We look forward to hearing from you and to making the necessary arrangements for your appearance.

With best personal regards,

Sincerely,

Sam J. Ervin, Jr., Chairman, Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure. Edmund S. Muskie, Chairman, Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights. Chairman, Subcommittee on Surveillance.

U.S. Senate.

Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure, Washington, D.C., April 16, 1974.

Hon. John Davitt, Chief, Internal Security Section, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Davitt:

I appreciate your meeting with me to discuss the nature of the requests by the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure for materials relating to warrantless electronic surveillances. The purpose of this letter, as you requested, is to memorialize the Subcommittee's specific requests.

The materials requested are listed in the attached memorandum. Of course, these requests are not intended to be exclusive or exhaustive, and are in addition to any other requests that may be made by the Subcommittee.

I appreciate your cooperation in seeking to ensure that these requests be met promptly. If all the materials requested are not readily available, I would appreciate the Department's providing the materials in increments as they are assembled.

I will look forward to working with you on these and related matters. With best regards.

Kenneth M. Kaufman, Assistant Counsel.

Materials on Warrantless Electronic Surveillance Requested by the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure

1. For a representative group of electronic surveillances, please provide the materials listed under either “A” or “B” below. By “representative” is meant a group that is representative with respect to (a) the statutory categories of Section 2511(3), Title 18, United States Code, used by the Attorney General in authorizing the surveillances; (b) the types of targets of the surveillances; (c) the type of surveillance, e.g., telephone, microphone or other; and (d) the date of authorization of the surveillances, both before and after the Supreme Court decision in United States v. United States District Court, 407 U.S. 297 (1972).

A. Copies of documents containing: (1) requests for authorization of electronic surveillances from the Director of the FBI to the Attorney General; (2) authorizations signed by the Attorney General; (3) requests for reauthorization of existing electronic surveillances from the Director of the FBI to the Attorney General; (4) reauthorizations signed by the Attorney General; and (5) communications between the FBI or the Department of Justice and a telephone company regarding the installation, maintenance, or discontinuance of electronic surveillances. These documents would be for actual, as opposed to hypothetical, surveillances, but not necessarily surveillances which are currently active. Names and other data which identify targets of the surveillances could be excised. The documents would be given to the Subcommittee staff on a confidential basis, and appropriate measures would be taken to ensure that they remain confidential. They could be shown to appropriate staff of the Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights and the Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Surveillance under the same condition of confidentiality.

B. Copies of the same materials referred to in “A” above except that the documents would represent hypothetical, rather than actual, electronic surveillances. The materials would, however, accurately reflect documents for actual.
