Vice-Intelligence Division  
Montgomery County Police Department

Continuing Investigations Reports

Subject/Case Reference: CARRAFA, Eugene Michael

Date observations/investigation conducted/expenses

Roselli, LCN — late Sam Giancana's Chicago family, disappeared from his brother-in-law's residence, 5220 S.W. 10th Court, Plantation, Florida (Joseph E. Daigle and Edith); telephone (305) 581-6585. It is noted that the late Janice Mae Piccerelli allegedly dated organized crime figures in Chicago. On 7 August 1976, John Roselli's decomposing body was found in a 55-gallon oil drum floating in the ocean near Miami. The oil drum had been weighted with heavy chains, and a preliminary autopsy report notes that Roselli died from asphyxiation, similar to CARRAFA's demise and disposition.

It is further noted that a piece of paper relating to a change of vehicle title (Md.) was found on CARRAFA's body, and the transaction had been handled by Mrs. Carrafa.

It was learned from Det. J. Arnold that a uniformed car responded to a family fight at the CARRAFA residence on Sunday night, 08-08-76. It was further learned that D/Sgt. J. Mangan, Crimes Against Property, observed Det. Ronald Smisek going through Det. Arnold's box on his desk on the weekend of 8/7–8/8/76.

Writer contacted Det. Carl Shoffler, Washington, D.C. P.D., O/C, and Shoffler related that he knows Louis Anthony Piccerelli from Fran O'Brian's Anthony House, and he thought Piccerelli was in Detroit, where he has LCN connections. Shoffler further related that a source told him that a “hit” man was “in town” at Fran O'Brian's Anthony House last week. The subject was operating a yellow Cadillac, Md. reg. EHB 608, and the same is listed on a 1976 Cadillac to Allied Construction Co., 18805 Briars Court, Olney, Md.

Shoffler also stated that there has been extensive traffic between Florida, Washington, and New York, and one Bobby Vannuchi (AKA Bobby Van, who has a TV show at 1130 hours daily) has been coming to Washington regularly. Vannuchi reputedly has O/C connections in Florida. It was also learned that Lawrence Luxenberg, AKA Larry Lux, is the Vice President of National Auto Brokers Wholesale, Inc. Luxenberg (Luzenberg) is a known gambler and a member of Joseph Francis Nesline's family. Nesline reports to Charles “The Blade” Tourine, 69, AKA Charles White, and Tourine has been identified as a high-ranking member of the New York underworld family formerly headed by the late Vito Genovese.
