Federal Bureau of Investigation

Date of transcription: 9/2/71

On August 27, 1971, Special Agents Martin J. Gass, Thomas E. Tierney, and Robert H. Waller went to the residence of 130 North 4th Street, Camden, New Jersey, in an effort to locate and apprehend Reverend Edward J. Mc Gowan, a federal fugitive. Information had been received that he was at the address of Dale S. Cunningham.

Special Agents (SAs) Waller and Tierney went to the front of the residence, and SA Gass went to the rear door.

In the act of going up the steps to the front door, which was open, a house number was not observed. Miss Lianne Moccia, who had been arrested in the act of destroying Draft Board records in Camden, New Jersey, on August 22, 1971, was observed at the front entrance, and when she saw the approaching agents, she ran quickly inside.

A white male, later identified as Dale S. Cunningham, met SAs Tierney and Waller on the front steps and foyer.

SA Waller identified himself and SA Tierney and explained the reason for their presence, namely, the existence of an arrest warrant for Edward J. Mc Gowan and information that Mc Gowan either was at this residence or had been there a short time ago. He asked whether Cunningham would produce Mc Gowan or permit a search of the property in order to locate Mc Gowan.

Cunningham became outraged and stated that no one was going to search this property and refused to confirm or deny the presence of Mc Gowan. The agents left the premises.

SA Waller then telephonically verified that Mc Gowan was definitely believed to be at Cunningham's residence.

SA Waller again proceeded to the Cunningham residence, 130 North 4th Street, Camden, New Jersey, with the following SAs: Albert W. Carroll; Eugene S. Debbaudt; Martin J. Gass; Don G. Owens; and Thomas E. Tierney.

Interviewed on 8/27/71 at Camden, New Jersey. NEWARK 89-56.

SAs Albert W. Carroll, Eugene S. Debbaudt, Martin J. Gass, Don G. Owens, and Thomas E. Tierney; and by Robert H. Waller (A). RHW/m². Date dictated 9/2/71.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency, and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.
