Versus area division prerogative in the conduct of operations. Noting that there might have been some immediate reasons for the CI Staff to take on operational aspects in its efforts to increase CI activity, nevertheless it concluded these reasons were not necessarily based on the best operational and organizational procedures and methods. The normal staff functions, the survey opined, could be carried out effectively with a much smaller but highly experienced staff whose impact and counsel would more favorably be received by the operating elements of the DD/P. The team also concluded that there had been insufficient attention given to penetrating hostile intelligence organizations and recommended that:

“Chief, CI direct the efforts of the CI Staff toward the development of programs for the aggressive pursuit of penetration activity against hostile intelligence services.”

In a foreword to the report, the Inspector General of the day, Lyman Kirkpatrick, directed special attention to one particular aspect of CI work.

“The Special Investigation Division assists the Office of Security in using DD/P assets to trace leads concerning CIA employees. This is probably a necessary assist to the Office of Security but should be handled with the utmost of discretion and security. It would be very seriously damaging to the efforts of the CI Staff if it ever became known that it was engaged in any activities involving CIA employees. An analogous situation is the stir caused by the occasional misimpression created abroad that CIA reports on other US Government employees. Thus within CIA the Office of Security must be the sole unit to bear the stigma of being concerned with fellow employees.”

Unfortunately this sensible warning was not heeded by CI Staff management, or by the management of the Clandestine Service as a whole for that matter. Instead, in the mid-1960s the CI Staff, with SIG in the vanguard, hypnotized by the allegations of Golitsyn, launched HONETOL—the active investigation of numerous Agency employees (five in particular)—with generally
