Telegram Information Report Telegram.

Central Municipal Asset.

Country: Germany/Last Cενματ/Last Εκδογι. Subject: Highlights of Military Weekly Summary No. 48. Date of information: 20–26 November 1963. Place and date acquired: Germany, Munich, 29 November 1963, in text. Appraisal: 3, except where otherwise indicated. Field report No. ECK-27398.

This is unevaluated information. Source grades are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: official West Germany service from informants of varying reliability.

Following are highlights from the German service military weekly summary No. 48/63, covering the period of 20–26 November 1963.

1. During the week under review, there were no indications of preparation for attack by Soviet Bloc forces.

2. Part A. General.

Last week’s exercise and training activities in the Soviet Bloc armed forces were normal and were thus in keeping with the general pace of training at this time of year.

Soviet and satellite forces reacted to the assassination of the President of the United States, November 22, with precautionary measures of a general nature which may be

Telegram Information Report Telegram.

DA IN 157472.

PS 110 Commissioner New York City Council delegation. February 1974 hearings opened on December 15, 1973, at 1:00 p.m. by President Johnson in secret form. The commission is now setting up its charge. The case will be heard by Judge Joseph H. Kay, of the District Court, in the Eastern District of New York, at its present seat in the City of New York, at the address given below. The commission is composed of ten men and ten women, elected by electors who are citizens of the United States and of the State of New York, duly qualified under the laws of the said State; and thereof shall be composed a majority of five men and three women, and of whom not less than two shall be women. The electors shall meet with the commission, in the presence of the judges, before being called upon to elect the commissioners, who shall then be elected and appointed by the judges, as therein provided. The commissioners shall elect one commissioner, who shall be known as the President, and one commissioner, who shall be known as the Vice-President, and shall sit in
