Mr. J. Barry Harrelson  
April 16, 1997

CIA-IR-05 Possible foreign source for records on Oswald.

CIA was informally requested, more than two years ago, to use its contacts to pursue certain records related to Oswald that were orally described to CIA. The Review Board believed that, for reasons of security classification of information, it would be appropriate for CIA to make the initial inquiries rather than the Review Board. Under separate cover, we are providing documentation of the action the Review Board has taken to further this request.

CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT (QKenchAnT).

The Review Board seeks information regarding the purpose of QKENCHANT and its connection with Clay Shaw, Howard Hunt, and Monroe Sullivan.

The Review Board was initially provided some information in regard to this request that now appears to be incorrect. CIA is now seeking additional information to correct or to clarify its previous answers. The Review Board seeks an immediate, full, and accurate response to this request.

CIA-IR-07 Claude Barnes Capehart.

The ARRB staff has reviewed all records that CIA has been able to locate to date. During the course of this review, additional questions were raised that you agreed to pursue. You also agreed to conduct additional searches to determine whether there may be additional retrievable records on Mr. Capehart.

CIA-IR-08 Unredacted copy of the “Family Jewels” memoranda.

HRG will locate this item.

CIA-IR-09 George Bush computer search.

The Review Board provided CIA with a copy of an FBI document, dated November 29, 1963, prepared under the name of John Edgar Hoover, which states: “The substance of the foregoing information [on the assassination of President Kennedy] was orally furnished to Mr. George Bush of the Central Intelligence Agency ....” We have been informed that the DO has no record of a “George Bush” being in the employ of CIA in 1963 with the exception of Mr. George William Bush who has already given a sworn affidavit that he is not the
