4. Subfiles

a. A subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters where a subfile is necessary only in those instances involving possible prosecution. The original of each statement, whether personally written by the informant or furnished orally and reduced to writing by contacting Agent, should be filed in this subfile. Executed form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items set forth on form FD-306 should be stapled to the original of each such statement.

b. Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for secure filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any portion of statements or notations thereon.

5. Channelization

Excerpts from the informant's statement are to be included in the regular investigative case report when information of value is submitted. Form FD-306 may be used to disseminate this information to the case file in lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired. If so used, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy of the informant's statement being channelized. Channelization should be noted on original FD-306 and on all copies under "Remarks."

6. Channelizing memoranda — destruction following submission of reports in security cases

For instructions concerning the destruction of channelizing memoranda in security cases following submission of reports, see Manual of Rules and Regulations.

7. Dissemination of information

Information submitted by informants, potential informants, confidential sources, or sources of information should be reported to the Bureau and interested offices and other agencies whenever necessary by the appropriate means of communication under captions showing the subject matter of the information.

8. Correspondence

Correspondence submitted to security informant and potential security informant matters should be strictly limited to the administrative handling of the informant and should not contain information more properly furnished to the Bureau under a substantive case option.

9. Maintenance of files

a. All pending files on security informants shall be maintained under lock and key under the personal supervision of the SAC, ASAC, or field supervisor as the informant indices are maintained and described in subsection K.

b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in the open files section, provided there is no disclosure of the informant's identity on the statements.

c. All informant files should be maintained in such a manner as to ensure that all information furnished by a particular informant will be immediately available upon the request of the Bureau.

d. In addition, these files should be maintained in such a fashion as to protect the identities of the cases in which an informant has furnished competent evidence can be furnished immediately to the Bureau by simply referring to the file of the informant and without the necessity of conducting extensive research.

10. Use of informant by Department — filing correspondence re

From time to time, the Department expresses an interest in using a particular informant for testifying when he becomes available as a witness. As a result, there will be correspondence showing this situation between the Bureau and the field. Place copies of all such correspondence in the informant's file. Occasionally such correspondence may be voluminous and apply to more than one informant. In those cases, summarize the information concerning each particular informant and place the summary in the appropriate informant's file.

11. Form FD-238

Form FD-238 (printed on pink paper) has been approved for use in security informant and potential security informant files. It is to be used in the nature of a table of contents or as an index to show where in the file particular data can be found. This form is to be kept as the top.

4-18-62
