Novel Believes Young Is Scapegoat in Probe

Speaks of Action in State from Ohio

BATON ROUGE, La. (AP)—Gordon Novel, sought for questioning in New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison's Kennedy assassination probe, said Saturday a former aide to Gov. John McKeithen (McKeliban) is an obvious scapegoat in a probe of criminal influence on state government.

Novel described Aubrey Young as “one of the finest people I know, as a human being,” adding, “It looks like he is talking pretty good. Maybe he's trying to pay some people back.”

Novel, reached in Columbus, Ohio, said the crime investigation is interrelated with the ex-sanatorium probe, which he called a Garrison home.

He offered to return to Louisiana and try to get immunity from Garrison, who has tried without success to have Novel excommunicated.

WON'T HEAR ME

He can give valuable information, Novel said, but a lot of people down there don't want to hear and talk.

Novel was asked if the top-piled cigarette magazine with information on telephone conversations between Young and Corbin Marcello, New Orleans area rackets figure, was a pretty big rumor down there now.

“I would rather not say,” Novel said. “The people of Louisiana haven't seen anything yet.”

Young, who turned state's witness (turned, slabs a witness), which has led to the indictment of some men for bribery, is a former security officer for McKeithen (McKelivan). He was convicted two days before the East Baton Rouge Parish grand jury.

Young brought bugging and distracting evidence from Novel in the state Attorney General's office. Novel said Young also is the person who gave him a commercial bribe to generate his commission on the governor's graft.

SHARK AFTER SHARK

McKeithen (McKeliban) has said Young denied giving Novel the commission, and the governor has denied having any connection with Novel (Novak), a former New Orleans district attorney.

Novel said the crime investigation is his pool of sharks after each other.

He said he will be in Chicago Friday, Oct. 2, for a meeting with Corbin Marcello, the group financing the Garrison probe, and the Postmaster General. He said those interested probably will have to go to Colorado.

The planned later in Europe prominent Baton Rouge and New Orleans persons in what he called a graveyard party, in which a corpus of a column will be doing up the.

Novel said she will shed light on the selection of the downed platform star in New Orleans, who selected the site and why?
