Betsy Palmer

Review of Files – Manuel Ray y Rivero

DCD Documents

May 2, 1978

1. Memo dated 24 Oct 1962 to Chief, Contact Division, from Chief, San Francisco Office. Subject: Suitability of Manuel Ray and Miro Cardona for Important Roles in a Possible New Cuban Government.

Information received from Dr. Robert North, Professor of Political Science at Stanford University and long-time source of exceptional value. Dr. North visited in Miami and contacted about 25 former Castro supporters representing a broad political gamut. Dr. North got the impression from many of the Cubans that they suspected Ray of being a “possible Communist sleeper.” Dr. North was reluctant to pass along this information because accusations were very broad.

2. Information report dated 16 July 1962 and earlier.

Source: Cuban national (Alien File #A-12570921) who asked for an interview on occasion of first contact with CIA.

Cannot vouch for his bona fides. Had credential indicating membership in branch of revolutionary army’s intelligence service, now in exile in U.S. and maintaining connections with colleagues in that country.

A friend of his reports plans to assassinate top Castro leadership in Cuba. To be done by poison—“Clostridium Botulinum,” which is strong, odorless, and tasteless. Takes about 12 days to kill. About 5cc would do the job. Waiting for next visit of major delegation from a Communist country—dinner in honor of the occasion should bring together most of the important members of the regime, and that is when the attempt will be made.

3. Cable dated Oct. 3, 1961—WA CITE NYOR 4902. Support (Travis) information, L/A Branch, from Daniels. Source is Ernesto Dezaldo, Cuban lawyer now living in New York City. Stated the MRP in Havana is far less radical than under the leadership of Ray, who has been completely discredited in recent months. Primary purpose today is (a) assassination of top leaders in Castro regime and (b) sabotage of important industrial and government installations in Havana. Strength of MRP in Havana estimated to exceed 1,000—success measured more in terms of fundraising ability and blowing up of buildings.

3. Information dated June 4, 1961. Subject: Underground Student Leader Comments on Post-invasion Cuba. Reporting officer talked with Isidro Borja, one of the leaders of BRE. Borja says top DRE members are in jail or in a friendly embassy in Havana, but said new leaders have been selected and will resume sabotage activities shortly. Thought the underground could restore tension in Cuba in 3–4 months. However, said outside help was needed to get rid of Castro. Claimed that prior to invasion, it was possible to buy almost anything in Cuba from Castro officials—they were tainted by corruption. Since Castro’s victory at Bay of Pigs, his popular support is estimated to be around 80–85%. Most support is out of fear because the people believe he will be in power permanently. Borja said DRE outside of Cuba was working hard for release of former leader Alberto Muller from prison.
