May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? A “No” will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for Hearing Examiner positions.

7. Dates of employment: From 9/73 to present time. Salary or earnings: starting $0 per hour; present $same per hour. Avg. hours per week: 15. Place of employment: Washington, D.C. Number and kind of employees supervised: 0. Name of immediate supervisor: Bernie Richards. Name of employer and address: BGH Reporting Agency, 24th & Penn. Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. Reason for wanting to leave: Course related—for experience only. Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments: Sat in on public hearings, took minutes of hearings, observed courtroom procedures, and transcribed notes.

8. Dates of employment: From 5/13/74 to 6/14/74. Salary or earnings: starting $4.50 per hour; final $same per hour. Exact title of position: Legal Secretary. Kind of business or organization: Congressional Office. Avg. hours per week: 37½. Place of employment: Washington, D.C. Number and kind of employees supervised: 0. Name of employer and address: Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman, Longworth House Office Bldg., 3rd & C Sts. S.E. Reason for leaving: Temporary position. Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments: Worked with research group on impeachment of Pres. Richard M. Nixon, wrote letters to constituency around the country, handled phones, took dictation, and transcribed.

9. Dates of employment: From 3/70 to 3/71. Salary or earnings: starting $6,500 per year; final $7,000 per hour. Exact title of position: Secretary. Kind of business or organization: Educational Association. Avg. hours per week: 37½. Place of employment: Washington, D.C. Name of employer and address: American Association of Junior Colleges, One Dupont Circle, N.W., Washington, D.C. Reason for leaving: Moved to N.Y.C. Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments: Secretary to Director of Veteran Programs, kept records, arranged for travel and conferences, handled phones, and typed general correspondence.

If you need additional experience or quality in a standard for an I-A or blank sheet, see instruction sheet.
