Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams Memo

RE: SENSTUDY 75

Regarding the Atlantic City matter, they would not interview the two Bureau secretaries, Mary Ann Massa and M. Ann Mierzejewski. (The request concerning the interview of these Bureau employees, who are Newark Office employees, is the subject of a separate memorandum captioned and dated same.) He requested SA Paul V. Daly to contact Mark Gitenstein in an effort to determine what type of response the Committee expected concerning the Atlantic City incident.

On 6-4-75, SA Daly contacted Mr. Gitenstein, who advised that the Committee knew of the existence of certain memoranda, in particular a memorandum from former Assistant to the Director C. D. DeLoach reporting a conversation with the President requesting Bureau coverage at the Convention. Gitenstein stated that, with regard to the Atlantic City incident, if a summary were prepared concerning this incident that would in general show the types of people whose conversations were monitored, the type of information collected, and the type of information disseminated, along with furnishing the Committee certain important documents, it would not be necessary to interview Bureau personnel. He indicated that among the documents they would expect to be furnished would be the DeLoach memorandum, along with other “benign” documents that would not involve a privacy consideration or other considerations that might preclude their being made available to the Committee. Gitenstein indicated that it is the Committee’s feeling that information of a political nature, such as the credentials argument at the Convention, was collected and furnished to the White House and that the collection and dissemination of this information is not apparently in concert with the ostensive purpose of electronic surveillance. He felt that the summary need not and should not identify individuals monitored, but rather describe them as a senator or by some other descriptive phrase to describe the individual whose conversation might have been monitored. He said that, as to verification of the information contained in the summary with the information in the files, that subject would be addressed by the Committee at a later time.

Gitenstein again mentioned that if such information were furnished by the Bureau, their need to interview employees would be muted, as what they are attempting to learn through interviews of Agents involved would have already been furnished by the Bureau. He volunteered that the Committee is relatively well informed concerning this particular matter. It is obvious from the specific mention of the DeLoach memorandum, along with other observations and statements he made, that this could well be true.
