Extradition Moves Are Made

Baton Rouge DA Seeking Smith, Novel

By JACK OWENS  
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP)—

The district attorney here Monday made the first formal move toward extradition of Dalton Smith from Denton, Tex., where he surrendered on a grand jury indictment for public bribery. Dist. Atty. Sargent Pitcher also circulated a document intended to give Gordon Novel additional assurance that he will be arrested in the New Orleans Kennedy assassination probe if he comes here to give what he calls sensational testimony about racketeering.

“If necessary, I will give him a personal escort,” Pitcher said of Novel.

The former New Orleans barkeeper has found refuge in Columbus (Co-lumbus), Ohio. Dist. Atty. Jim Garrison of New Orleans has sought without success to question him in his Kennedy assassination probe.

Pitcher advised the district attorney at Denton that he expected extradition request papers for Smith to be signed later this week by Gov. John McKeithen.

SMITH INDICTED

Smith was indicted by the East Baton Rouge Parish Grand Jury in its probe into published claims that racketeers exercise influence over state government.

He was accused of offering Aubrey Young, former aide to McKeithen, $25,000 to influence him in his post, an offer which authorities said was part of an effort to buy freedom for former Teamster Union President James Hoffa. The former Teamster boss was imprisoned for jury tampering.

A man who said he was Smith turned himself in to authorities at Denton, and was released on $1,500 fugitive bond. His attorneys have offered to produce him whenever a court hearing is set on his extradition.

Smith is the only person so far indicted by the grand jury, which has recessed its probe until Wednesday.

Young has said he received telephone calls from Carlos Marcello (Mar-celio), New Orleans area racketeer figure, in McKeithen’s office.

He has said he arranged for Smith a meeting with Edward Grady Partin, local Teamster official who claims he was of
