Names of Russians we should try to track down about Lee Harvey Oswald, Yuri Nosenko, and the JFK assassination:

1. General Oleg M. Gribanov, head of the Second Chief Directorate of the KGB in the early 1960s, where Nosenko says he worked primarily against American tourists as deputy chief of the Seventh Department. Nosenko described himself as sort of favored by Gribanov, and he said Gribanov instructed him, after the JFK assassination, to retrieve the Oswald file from the Minsk KGB right away.

2. Anatoliy Koraleenko, deputy chief of the Second Chief Directorate or one of its departments at the time of the JFK assassination. Nosenko said that when the file arrived from Minsk (Minski), he and Koraleenko were going over the all-important first volume—and finding that the KGB had nothing to do with Oswald—when a KGB officer from the First Department came in and picked it up on Gribanov’s orders, to review it and write a summary of it.

3. The officer who picked it up was Col. Matveev, deputy chief, I think, of the First (or American) Department, Second Chief Directorate. Did not have first name.

4. Chief of this First Department was Col. Sergei M. Fedoseyev or Fedoseev, and presumably he would have had a hand in or supervised preparation of the “spravka” or summary.

5. Gribanov and more than 40 other KGB officers were kicked out because of Nosenko’s defection, according to Nosenko. Is that right? What happened?

6. Maj. Georgi Rastrusin. In 1959, was a senior case officer in the KGB responsible for Intourist matters. Nosenko says that it was Rastrusin who told him about Oswald and how he wanted to stay in the Soviet Union. Nosenko said Rastrusin said Oswald “doesn’t present interest” to the KGB, and Nosenko checked this out with his superiors. Word came back not to bother with Oswald. Nosenko was told to tell Rastrusin to tell Intourist to deal with him.

7. Rastrusin returned the next day and said, “We got a problem.” Oswald tried to kill himself, etc. The KGB washed its hands of him and decided to let Intourist deal with him. Intourist was then part of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Nosenko said he believed the question of what to do with Oswald was run to the top of that ministry and beyond, to Khrushchev (Khruschev) or one of his deputies. In any case, a decision was made to let Oswald stay in Minsk. But not, Nosenko says, by the KGB.

8. In the fall of 1963, a KGB colleague, M. I. Turalin, Service No. 2 (counterintelligence in foreign countries), First Chief Directorate, told Nosenko orally that the Mexico City station had just sent a cable about a request by Oswald for a visa to re-enter the Soviet Union. What should be done?

Nosenko said he said, “Wait a second. How come he’s back in America?” At that point, Nosenko said he hadn’t known Oswald had gone back.

9. Nosenko said he said, “Let’s go to the chief of the department,” whom he identified as Col. Cheinekov or Cheinenko, but later seemed to say his timing might be off and somebody else may have been chief of Nosenko’s department at the time. In any case, Nosenko quoted the chief as saying, in effect, “I remember this crazy (crary) nut. No. No. No. Tell them we don’t have any interest.”

Cable back to Mexico City advising the KGB there to get rid of Oswald by telling him to go back to his own country and apply for a visa at the Soviet Embassy in Washington, etc., etc.

10. Col. Gruzdey was chief of the KGB department in Minsk that was responsible for foreigners there.

11. Oleg Nechiporenko, one of three KGB officers stationed in Mexico City who reportedly interrogated or dealt with Oswald on his visit to the Embassy there. Now living in the Moscow area.

The other two Mexico City officers, both still alive in Russia, are Valeriy Kostikov and Pavel Yatskov (Yatzkov).
