Samuel Adason Jaffe

During interview concerning his handwritten report, WF T-2 furnished substantially the same information. He stated he did not know whether Jaffe was a KGB agent or operative contact; however, he knew Kuskov was meeting with Jaffe and had obtained some information from him. WF T-2 indicated that Kuskov obtained an agreement with the 10th Department that the 1st Department would work against Jaffe in order to have an agent who could move in American Embassy circles in Moscow. WF T-2 said he thought Kovshuk had contact with Jaffe, probably posing as a diplomat and using the name Komarov. The informant does not know whether or not Gryaznov knew Jaffe.

WF T-2 was asked why he was sure Jaffe was actually a KGB agent or operative contact. He replied: “When we (KGB) were planning to work against a group of businessmen—very big businessmen—there was a plan of work and there were different, different, one, two, three questions (of) which agents to use—not only 7th Department, but 10th Department, 1st Department—and there were put agents—to use the agents against this group—and 1st Department—Jaffe’s name was there, and Kuskov was coming and giving information which he had received from Jaffe.”

WF T-2 recalled there was another case involving a visiting group in which KGB plans called for the use of Jaffe. WF T-2, who in the matter, but who formerly had worked with the Khrushchev, telephoned and asked: “How about receiving information from your agents on whom you can rely—you must help us.” WF T-2 said ordered Kuskov to use Jaffe against this group. WF T-2 stated: “I know they were received by Khrushchev and (it is) highly demanded in KGB every time when Khrushchev was receiving anybody to know after that—what was said (by the individuals visiting Khrushchev).”

WF T-2 advised that probably in 1963 Kuskov was appointed Chief of the 2nd Section (operations against individuals suspected of being with American Intelligence and use of double agents against American Intelligence), 1st Department, SCD; however, “Kuskov still kept Jaffe as an agent or contact.”
