III. Communist Penetration and Influence in Racial and Other Organizations

Field offices should set out information concerning only the local branches of the organizations which are in their territory.

The office covering the national headquarters of an organization should set out pertinent data as to the national headquarters, as well as any local affiliates in its territory, separating the national from the locals. The number of members, nationally and by locals, should be indicated. Include under each organization information as to officers and others in positions of influence who have present or past subversive connections; information as to other subversives who are merely members; specific evidence of influence wielded by subversives; policy concerning communist participation in the organization's activities, such as prohibition of communists holding office or membership (if no such policy, so indicate); and use and distribution of communist propaganda.

IV. Miscellaneous

If at all possible, information to be included should be set out under the basic rules headings I, II, or III. However, should there be some pertinent information to report which does not lend itself to the first three parts, it will be permissible to include it in Part IV—Miscellaneous.

c. The term “communist” should be interpreted in its broad sense as including persons not only adhering to the principles of the CPUSA itself, but also to such splinter and offshoot groups as the Socialist Workers Party, Progressive Labor Party, and the like.

d. Any office which has no information to report should so advise the Bureau by letter in lieu of a report. If any positive information, however limited, is available, it must be submitted by report. The same appropriate local dissemination to other agencies should be made as is made for the quarterly reports concerning the CPUSA. Except as otherwise indicated above, the regular report writing rules for security reports shall be applicable.

e. Follow rule set out under item 3a, (2) (f), above, concerning listing of those Communist Party members named in the reports who are not in the security index.
