Flash from Dallas

Just as Secret Service men reacted instinctively, rushing to protect the presidential party, reporters reacted instinctively to get the news—sketchy as it was at first—to the world. United Press International's Merriman Smith, dean of the White House correspondents, describes on pages 32–33 his frantic rush to call the Dallas UPI bureau. Reproduced here is the result of Smith's first efforts—the actual teletype copy that almost immediately clacked out of hundreds of UPI machines in newsrooms, radio and television stations, pressrooms, and business offices all over the world.

At 12:34 the teletype was supplying copy on a Minneapolis murder trial.

“Detectives were there and they ‘asked him to look in there (the brief-case) for something.’

“The case was opened and an envelope was found containing 44 $100 bills, the witness said. The state had said it would produce that piece of evidence but it had not listed it as one ‘of the seven links.’ The defense has implied it will take the line that Carol's death after a savage bludgeoning and stabbing in her home was the result of an attempted moreda.”

Precede Kennedy

Dallas, Nov. 22 (UPI)—Three shots were fired at President Kennedy's motorcade today in downtown Dallas.

The Dallas bureau, alerted by Smith over radiotelephone from the press car as it careered toward the hospital, sends out the first sparse news.

Minneapolis starts to add more details on the murder trial. The New York bureau, knowing that ace reporter Smith is covering the President's trip, tells all bureaus to “uphold”—get off the wire. “Dallas, it's yours.”

Atlanta tries to interrupt, but is quickly squelched by the New York bureau.

Urgent

1st add shots, Dallas—downtown Dallas.

No casualties were reported.

The incident occurred near the county sheriff's office on Main Street, just east of an underpass leading toward the Trade Mart where the President was to ma—

Flash

Kennedy seriously wounded

Perhaps seriously, perhaps fatally by assassin's bullet.

The Dallas operator begins sending the rest of Smith's account from the press car.

At the hospital, Smith sees the President's limp body in the car and races to a telephone. At 12:39, nine minutes after the shooting, the grave news flashes over the wire.
