The Anti-Draft Committee of the VDC has been working on ways to end U.S. aggression in Vietnam by developing an effective and broadly based protest against conscription. The draft is basic to carrying on the war. The draft call has been increased to over 45,000 men for December, and it will continue to rise.

Program

1. Encourage high school and college students and non-students of draft age to apply for Conscientious Objector (SS Form 150) status on a political moral basis. Encourage and assist high school students to organize anti-draft and VDC chapters within their schools.

2. Distribute general VDC educational material to potential inductees at induction and draft centers.

3. Give, and urge others to give, all possible support to those who wish to destroy their draft cards, to those who prefer prison to fighting an immoral war, and to other protests of conscience.

4. Begin an immediate and widespread protest against the involvement and cooperation of the universities with the draft system.

5. Demand the removal of ROTC programs from college campuses.

Where: Work areas should include:

1. High schools.

2. College and university campuses.

3. Induction and draft centers.

4. Coordination with other groups with similar programs, such as SDS and M2M, on a nationwide level.

How:

1. Literature.

2. Informal counseling, perhaps by retaining legal advice.

3. Rallies, street meetings, and demonstrations, where such tactics will have maximum effectiveness.

Arguments for a Strong Anti-Draft Program

1. Answers questions of many students as to what they can do about the draft and creates opportunities to inform more people about the war.

2. Creates opportunities for radical marches and demonstrations.

3. Makes the Draft Law Service System.

4. Has an extremely large potential for rapid and sustained growth, at the lowest level through self-interest, at the highest through genuine concern about the war.

5. Is a relatively long-range program with immediate and substantial political effect, such as tying up the draft system and creating many problems for Selective Service.

6. Innumerable possibilities for strengthening both the anti-war and anti-draft movements around the country, by creating new opportunities for mutual cooperation and mutual aid with various individuals and organizations.

7. Development of an anti-draft movement on a massive and nationwide scale will hit the Washington militarists right where it hurts—in their cannon fodder.
