Memo Donahoe to Belmont

Re: Intelligence Coverage of Friendly Foreign Countries (Semiannual Evaluation)

Field Evaluation and Expansion Consideration

Bulet 6/29/59 requested 12 field offices directly or potentially involved in this program to evaluate live source development under third phase and offer suggestions for improvement. As a result, three specific questions arose for consideration.

1. Are our targets too restrictive?

2. Are our interview procedures too conservative?

3. Shall we endeavor to extend the program to reach higher-level noncommunist officials and possibly communist officials?

The first question relates to whether we should attempt source developments in establishments outside Washington, New York City, and San Francisco and whether we should alter present instructions that potential sources be limited almost exclusively to employees of foreign establishments who are U.S. citizens.

The second question relates to whether we should relax the present requirement that all authorized interviews with potential sources be initially conducted under a suitable pretext, preferably in connection with a criminal matter unrelated to the employment of the person interviewed.

The third question relates to whether we should utilize present sources, who generally occupy clerical positions, to identify noncommunist officials who are (1) strongly pro-Western and (2) in social or business contact with communist officials, for the purpose of approaching the noncommunist officials and working through them to reach the communists for defection or double-agent purposes.

From our experiences in this program, at this time it is not believed our targets are too restrictive or our interview procedures too conservative, nor should we try to reach higher-level officials, bearing in mind the risks involved. However, the experience of the field would be invaluable in a thorough discussion of these matters, and accordingly they will be scheduled for discussion at the next conference with field security supervisors. Recommendations thereafter will be submitted.
