This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: USSR/West Germany/France/Poland. Report No. OO-B-321/27474-67. Subject: Yuri I. Moskalev’s (Y I Moskalev’s) paper on delayed effects of bone-seeking radionuclides; disappearing/personality notes; attempt to propagandize at West German scientist’s expense; France and Poland fail to participate. Date distributed: 16 October 1967. No. of pages: 2. References: DCS Case 49,991. Date of information: September 1967 and earlier. Place and date acquired: September 1967 and earlier.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: U.S. citizen, an active researcher in the field of long-range effects of radionuclides.

1. I was quite surprised when I arrived in Sun Valley, Idaho, to participate in the International Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone-Seeking Radionuclides to find that Dr. Yuri I. Moskalev (Y I Moskalev) of the Institute of Physics, Moscow, had arrived two days earlier. Moskalev had traveled alone to Sun Valley and apparently was able to use his knowledge of the English language to get along on his own. However, he complained to the chairman of the conference that he did not know enough English to read his paper, which also required condensation because it was too long for the time allowed. A colleague who had known Moskalev from earlier meetings said Moskalev’s knowledge of English improved greatly after a few drinks. However, during this conference, he did not drink at all. He did mention, however, that he had written the English version of the paper he presented himself and said he could read and write English quite well but was deficient in the spoken language.

2. Moskalev’s paper concerned the results of a series of experiments utilizing an unusually large number of rats and mice. The numbers he used were far in excess of those that would be used in a Western laboratory. These figures were undoubtedly meant to impress his Western associates. The data he presented was primarily on Strontium 90. His findings indicated that Strontium 90 was much more toxic than had been reported anywhere in Western literature and that it was more carcinogenic than had been previously reported. His technique was almost exclusively injections of radionuclides. The control he had on his animals was not explained, but very likely was very poor. He claims to have been able to induce cancer in laboratory animals at permissible exposure levels for atomic workers in the U.S. The animals were not examined for radioactivity, only for the existence of cancer. A respected U.S. scientist with much more experience than Moskalev flatly stated, in private, that he did not believe Moskalev’s findings. Moskalev did not ask questions during the question periods. However, he did talk privately to several scientific reporters after their presentations.

Dr. Heinz Spiess, West Germany, reported on the results of injections of Radium 224 made during World War II in a wide section of the population in Germany. At that time, there was a mistaken belief that Radium 224 had a very beneficial effect on a person’s health. He reported on 242 cases in which all types of cancer were appearing. The results of his observations in human population exposures were very similar to experiments.
