Microfilm Material Not Processed for Release (Pending Discussion with the Board):

Oswald 201 File: This appears to be a duplicate of the hard copy 201 file reviewed in 1993. 12+ reels, approximately 30,600 pages.

CIA Staff Employees' Personnel Files: Approximately 10,800 pages located on 7 different reels. Request that these files not be considered part of the JFK collection as a matter of privacy. Only a small portion of these files have any relevance to the JFK investigations, and we believe that the documents related to their roles in the JFK story were released in the JFK hard copy collection. We have reviewed each of the OP files and prepared a classified summary for the Board.

Non-Related Material: Most of these documents fall into three major categories:

Individual 201 Files: These files cover the entire period of agency interest or contact with a person. For individuals who are not “key figures” in the JFK story, those sections of the file that are outside relevant time frames or cannot be linked to Oswald, the assassination, the various investigations, or any of the conspiracy theories have been treated as non-related.

Project/Operational Files: Many of these cover the complete life of a project. Sections of these files deal with operations that have no connection with the assassination or fall in only part of a relevant time frame. For example, there are over 3,000 pages on the Mexico City Photo operation covering the 1960s and 1970s. The only related material is that falling in the time frame of Oswald’s visit to Mexico City and the investigation following the assassination.

Cuban Exile Groups/Operations: The anti-Castro activities of the Cuban exiles in the U.S. during 1960–1963 are considered relevant to the assassination. However, some of the organizations and individual members continued to run operations against Castro into the 1970s. The exile activities after the assassination are generally not considered related unless they involve plots to assassinate Castro, the continuation of pre-assassination projects, or the Garrison Investigation.
