2 February 1981 Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 110032.

Section A: General. Name (last): James. First: James. Middle: S. Date of birth: 20 February 1926. Sex: M. Grade: GS-9. Service designation: DI. Official position title: Records Management Officer.

Section B: Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1 — Unsatisfactory. 2 — Barely adequate. 3 — Acceptable.

Specific duty No. 1: Liaison with R&D, DDP/RMD, DDP/MMD, other Division records officers, etc., regarding implementation of DDP records management program. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 2: Training and assistance to FE personnel in records management procedures. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 3: Planning and development of Division vital materials program. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 4: Assistance to FE personnel in problems of retention and retirement of records DC54. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 5: Guidance to field records officers. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 6: Implementation of various records purges and records programs. Rating No. 5.

Section C: Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position — performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

a. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
b. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
c. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
d. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
e. Performance in every important respect is superior.
f. Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Section D: Description of the Employee.
