“Security Informant” shall not appear.

J. Indices

1. Alphabetic name index and symbol number index

Are to be kept by SAC, ASAC, or security supervisor consistent with maximum security and best administrative practice.

a. Alphabetic name index

In all offices maintain card index showing true identities of all security informants, potential security informants, and security confidential sources. This is to be known as alphabetical name index. File cards in alphabetical order.

b. Symbol number index

This index shall contain a card for each individual to whom a symbol number has been assigned. File cards numerically, and any symbols which consist of fictitious names shall be filed alphabetically behind the numerical symbol index.

c. Where good reason exists for an Agent to obtain information from either of these indices, it should be furnished by the official having custody of the cards. These indices should be used as a guide only; the informant’s file must be reviewed to determine the specific nature of activities and the type of information he furnishes.

d. Index cards

Index cards (FD-348) shall be executed for the alphabetical name index and symbol number index. Execute only the following items:

Symbol: (Informant, potential informant, or confidential source)

Name:

File No.:

e. Contacts with informants should not be posted on index cards since this information is shown in the informant’s administrative file.

2. Index entitled “Informants and Sources in Other Divisions”

a. A separate index may be maintained for use of Agents on informants and sources in other divisions who may be available for assistance.

b. If such index is maintained, a separate index card is to be prepared on each informant and source included.

c. Cards should contain brief background data and the identity of Bureau communication showing background data.

d. File cards alphabetically by name and/or symbol number. Duplicate cards may be prepared to be filed geographically and/or by subject matter.

3. Agents’ informative index

a. An Agents’ informative index may be maintained by the same official as set out in item 1 above, for use of Agents on the type of informant coverage in the division.

b. File cards by geographical location, arranged alphabetically by states, cities, subdivisions within cities, etc.

c. Behind each geographical location, place a guide card indicating the type of information which can be furnished, such as Communist Party, Polish Activity, etc.

d. On the guide card, set forth symbol numbers of informants and confidential sources who can provide coverage.

f. When an individual can provide more than one type of information, set forth his symbol or identity on as many guide cards as applicable.

g. Guide cards should show the above data, and it is permissible to place alongside the name or symbol number the names of contacting Agents.

h. Also, symbol numbers of informants who move outside the division and who still may be excellent sources regarding past activities may be set forth on guide cards.

i. Names or symbol numbers of individuals contained in the index entitled “Informants and Sources in Other Divisions” who can be of assistance to your office may be set forth on appropriate guide cards in this index.
