1967 and 1968, was registered with Missouri auto license AG 1283. No other information was on file.

27. Captain Robert E. Wessel, Chief, Intelligence Division, St. Louis County Police Department, obtained the following information from a reliable confidential informant, employed by the County Division of the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company: Charles R. Broz, residing at 10069 Puttington Drive, Apartment C, Affton (Lakeshire) Street, St. Louis County, Missouri, 63123, has unlisted telephone number 638-1149. His business connection is that of a partner with one Ray Campbell in the Arco Auto Electric Service, 1811 Pestalozzi (Pestolozzi) Street, St. Louis, Missouri, with telephone PR 1-8811. No additional information was filed.

28. Records of the Dun & Bradstreet Office in Chicago contained a file on the M. F. Hughes Oil and Coal Company, above shown address in Chicago, Illinois. Thomas F. Hughes, Jr. is listed as President. The firm has 100 employees, a net worth of $914,000, annual sales of $3,000,000 and was founded by the family in 1900. Thomas F. Hughes, Jr. is also listed as the President of Heidco Coal Company, Inc. Dun & Bradstreet records also show that in 1961, he was President of Playboy Club of New Orleans.

29. The criminal records of the Chicago Police Department were checked in the name of Thomas F. Hughes and there was no record.

30. A reliable, confidential source, who is personally acquainted with Thomas F. Hughes, Jr. furnished the following observations on Hughes: That Hughes was born and reared in the South Shore area of Chicago; that Hughes inherited the family business, Hughes Oil and Coal, and has built it into a successful business; that Hughes seems to have an income sufficient to maintain a 30-foot boat, patronize the smart and expensive restaurants and night clubs, live in an expensive apartment and dress in a stylish fashion; and that Hughes has a reputation for “liking the ladies” and is a steady patron of the Playboy Club and other night spots. Hughes is regarded as a “man about town” who enters frequently around the night club circuit. His tastes are expensive. The confidential source further related that Hughes may have some effeminate mannerisms, but nothing derogatory was known in that regard. The confidential source further related that he has always wondered about the source of Hughes’ money. Hughes has various business investments, including some apartment buildings and an interest in the Maryland Hotel. The source pointed out that the Maryland Hotel has always been identified as having ownership in the Chicago syndicate. The source speculated that Hughes may be a front man or have some support from the Syndicate; however, he, the confidential source, has never known Hughes to be involved in any Syndicate operations or activities.
