Office Memorandum — United States Government

To: Mr. Belmont  
Date: 8-13-58  
From: S. B. Donahoe  
Subject: Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of Friendly Foreign Nations

Intelligence reports of other agencies in July, 1958, reflected a growing concern over Libya's position in the Middle East. Indications were that a coup may be attempted in Libya in the near future by pro-Nasser forces. (Memorandum Sullivan to Belmont 8-1-58, re “Precarious Position of Libya in Middle East”).

A State Department representative on 8-7-58, while discussing Deputy Under Secretary of State Robert Murphy's recent trip to the Middle East, advised that Sudan, like Ethiopia and other countries in that area, is fearful of Egyptian subversive tactics. He noted that while Sudan and Ethiopia are basically friendly to the U.S. and the West, the Egyptians have been corrupting a number of officials of these countries by bribes. (Memorandum Roach to Belmont 8-8-58, re “Robert Murphy”).

It is noted that on 8-7-58 we obtained State Department clearance to explore the possibility of developing sources and informants at official Sudanese establishments in the U.S., in view of data received indicating Nasser reportedly was making concentrated efforts to overthrow the Sudanese Government. The Field has been instructed to institute this program. (Memorandum Donahoe to Belmont 8-6-58, re “Sudan Activities”).

Information published by CIA on 8-11-58 reflects that reliable sources are pessimistic over the outlook for the continued stability of Iran, and there is an undercurrent of rumors concerning changes in government and military hierarchy with reference to the desirability of a coup. CIA also published data on 8-9-58 indicating that the Saudi Arabian Government may make an accommodation with Nasser of the United Arab Republic (Egypt and Syria) consisting of some type of association with the United Arab States (Egypt, Syria, and Yemen) or a revival of the Egyptian-Syrian-Saudi Arabian military alliance. (CIA, Office of Current Intelligence Reports dated 8-9 and 8-11-58).

It is noted that a program for the development of sources and informants who can report on the activities of the official establishments of Iran and Saudi Arabia is already in effect.
