WFO 105-8906

He was issued Passport Number 36093, San Francisco series, on 2/25/55. This passport is not valid for travel to Albania, Bulgaria, China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, or the USSR unless specifically endorsed by the Department of State as being valid for such travel.

A letter dated 2/23/55 on the letterhead of the “Nation,” 68 Post Street, San Francisco, California, signed by JAFFE as West Coast Correspondent and addressed to the Passport Agency, Department of State, San Francisco, California, relates that his Far Eastern trip will be made as a working journalist; that the trip will last approximately three months; and that he will visit such countries as Japan, Burma, Pakistan, India, Indonesia, Hong Kong, and Thailand.

A letter dated 2/25/55 on the above letterhead, signed by JAFFE as West Coast Bureau Chief and addressed to Mr. HARRY H. BOLDS, Passport Agency, San Francisco, California, relates that, as the “Nation” magazine’s West Coast Bureau Chief, he is classed as a member of the Publications Board of Editors. Thus, he is in the position of an editorial executive. He wrote further that, as he explained to BOLDS, those in authority at their home office in New York are on vacation. While in the employ of Time, Incorporated, “Life” magazine, he made a trip to Asia in an editorial capacity; that BOLDS’ New York office asked him to write a letter on “Life” stationery stating the purpose of his trip abroad, though at the time he was making the journey for some other publications. He explained this and the fact that he was only a reporter. This, JAFFE wrote, seemed to make no difference as long as the New York agency had a letter on file.

An application for amendment of Passport Number 36093, San Francisco series, as above, dated June 22, 1955, and signed by JAFFE, Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, India, was forwarded by the American Consular Service at New Delhi to the Department of State, Washington, D.C., for consideration and decision. The application reflects that JAFFE desired his passport be made valid for travel in Communist China. In the application he referred to an attached supplemental statement.

The supplemental statement is dated 6/22/55 and is on the letterhead of Hotel Imperial, New Delhi. It shows the following:
