I 
I. 
r~······ • --···-·----··-··---··-·--------·---·--··"•··--~- -·-··· • • • • • • • -; _;-.•_:::. 
f 
0 
l 
Referring to Panama, Mro Helms observed tha~ CIA"appeared for the moment to 
•. have backed the right candidate -- Rebles. 
With reference to Brazil, Mr. Helms said_ that the coup was Brazil - I I 
inspired and spontaneous, not a U.S. operation. He added that Brazil had 
come close to being lost to the Conununists through subversion from the top . 
(Goulart). 
Turning to the subject of Southeast Asia; Mr. Helms said that there have 
been many lengthy discuss_ions about South Vietnam and about getting the Viet 
Cong out of that country .. This objective has been talked to death, and all 
possibilities considered; but no one seems to be preoccupied with finding a way 
to replace the political fabric that was lost in South Vietnam when the Diem regime 
was overthrown. The present government is all a military show. Mr. Helms added 
that the Bhuddists are a political group but not cohesive. As for prospects of~ 
effecting intelligence infiltration of North Vietnam, Mr. Helms said that CIA 
had be1en trying, but the target country is small and there is not much intelli- , 
gence to obtain there. At present MACV is in charge of sabotage efforts against/,/ 
1 North Vietnam. In ~r. Helms' opinion there is a clear need to create a new / 
political structure in South Vietnam or else there will be little use in 
"striking against the North". 
In Laos, Mr. Helms said, the Pathet Lao can take over at will. He noted 
that the Meo's are still intact (only one battalion) and are being supplied 
by CIA air drops (from Thailand) of weapons, food and medicines.· 
Mr. Cord Meyer referred to the crisis of the AQoula government in the 
.Congo. There are 200 men in Brazzaville, with Chicom support, ready to 
assassinate cabinet officers. When the UN forces leave .on June 30 the 30,000-man 
Congolese National A~y will have a big job.to do. Mobutu and officers of the 
Army are wary of providing much training down to. the pla_toon level, because they 
distrust these troops in a~s. Mean~hile, CL\ has supplied the Army with 6 ,/ 
airplanes and pilots, and authority-·has now been received by CIA to deuble this 
support. 
Regarding'Cyprus, Mr. Helms said that the Turks are threatening to go 
onto the island with troops within 24 hours. 
Messrs. Helms and Meyer left the Panel meeting at this pointo 
The Board Panel meeting was next Joined by Mr. Alexis Johnson of the· 
,State Department. He filled the Panel members in on the latest Cyprus development 
including the President's message to the head of the Turkish government; and 
~eneral Lemnitze:_js trip to Turkey to point out the hazard to Turkey's NATO 
relationships if Turkey moved into Cyprus with troops. ( 
Panel Chairman Murphy asked Mr. Johnson for any comments he might,have 
regarding State Department relationships with the Special Group, and with 
the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. 
- 3 -
NW185 
Docld:2504 
N~i24 
Docld:346!71 Page 5 
i 
