"'- . 
. ' . . ,••··· ... 
·.: . 
• • L. ALTERNATIVES (_ 
In addition to the recommended plan set for~h i~· 
preceeding sections, there are several alternative courses 
of _action we might take: 
1. We could take the position, and seek. ways to implement 
it, that the entire field of foreign intelligence collection 
in the U.S., both overt and covert, should b0 handled by 
tho :FBI. Such an across--'cho-boaz•d approach would exclude 
CIA and other U. s~ agencies from ·foreign intelligence 
collection in this country and would place exclusive 
responsibility and jurisdiction in -this :field on the FBI. 
As indicated in Section I, -this ·would require a revamping 
of.existing legislation and directives and would necessitate 
drastic changes in the Bµreau 1 s operations, including major 
increases:·. in personnel and costs and a substant~al expansion 
in our recruitment'and training programs, and other reorganiza­
tion. We do not feel this approach is warranted nor do .. we 
believe i-t would be a practical and sound one. • ....... :- • 
2. We cou.ld recommend that" CIA continue to be 
responsible for overt collection of foreign intelligence in 
this country but that the FBI exclusively handle covert • 
·f 0:i:"0ig:;,-;. iutclligc;:..cs collection,. This ~a.s 8evera::L o.b:vious 
<lrawbacks. First, we would be assuming a wide range of 
heavy and fixed respons:..bilities which in many cases would 
be completely divorced from the Bureau's internal security 
and counterintelligence interests. Second, we would become 
to a large extent a service group for other U.S. agencies 
and departments {including CIA, State, the military and othe:cs) 
,in the handling of a host of foreign intelligence requirements 
levied by other agencieso This would involve a considerable 
commitment of manpower 1 communication costs, etc. on the part 
of the Bureau. In addition, such an approach would necessitate 
significant changes in our recruitment and training procedures 
and would also place on our shoulders a definite accountability 
•in connection with any failures in U.S. intelligence foreign 
·collection. It is not: elieved that this approach is.as sound 
or desirable as our recommended plan of action: namely,· that 
we expand our foreign intelligence collection efforts but on 
... a .. selective .. basis- .and withou~c.c.oµ_r. a$$Uming ~c,111 .respon~;i..bility. 
• - • # • • ~ • • .. • .. • • 4. • : ..... •• • ... • " ! . . . ··•. 
- 99 -
