• 
' 
\ 
1 •· 
\ 
As will be noted in the table se out hereinafter, 
case loads are excessive in very sensitive areas of the Bureau's 
responsibilities, e.g., Soviet espionage and black and NeW 
Left extre~ists who are daily escalating t~eir revolutionary 
activity in our streets. 
The utilization of manpower on specials, such as 
the current nine men on McLek, will receive extremely close 
scrutiny and will be reallocated to these other pressing work 
areas as soon as possible as I do not believe the current 
case loads allow adequate supervision for any extended period 
of time. 
No one realizes the potential threat which the 
Red Chinese pose to the security of this country better than 
I. We must recognize, however, that there has been considerable 
planning on the Bureau's part dating back to the 1950s when we 
had first indications that.the United States might recognize 
Red China. But the fact is that we have more important 
prio~ities at this particular time evidenced by bombings, 
assassinations, arsons and other terroristic acts daily 
occurring by exi:r:emi::,i:, ~l~111ents wi t-hi·n our in;;a;;tigati va 
responsibilities. We are faced right now with a very serious 
internal security threat which demands immediate attention. 
This does not minimize the Red Chinese threat at all' but we 
must reccgnize it is still a "potential" and until diplomatic 
channels are opened and active espionage activity begins again 
we must put "first things first." I believe affording one man 
.to that work area is the limit of our available resources at 
this time; 
With respect to the clerical reduction of 11 clerks, 
which is to occur by attrition, I feel that a reduction of 
this magnitude will definitely result in a hardship on the work 
of the Division. I have repeatedly stressed that wherever 
• possible Agents should be relieved of as many duties as possible 
by •Competent clerical personnel, thus resulting in considerable 
savings of Agent manpower throughout the Division. A reduction 
of the number of cle>ks, as recommended Qy the Inspector, 
certainly will hamper our past streamlining efforts . 
NW 38601! Docld:32989fi.J8 319 . ';:._ 
