QUESTION: 
ANSWER: 
conclusion. I can assure you absolutely that 
this is my policy, is the policy of the Bureau, 
and that we will pursue them as vigorously as 
we possibly can. There's nothing worse in my 
estimation than the betrayal of trust and that's 
what we have when one of your own people defects 
and gives sanctuary and assistance to the 
crminal world. 
How do you account than for the fact that there 
has been no one who has strayed across the line 
in all these years? It's almost unhuman. 
Well, I appreciate your compliment, Mr. Kelly, 
which I agree with, there has been none. There 
have been; of course, some allegations made 
from time to time, all of which have been pursued 
and found to be groundless. I think that it's 
inherent in an organization which is closely 
scrutinized, an organization which has a strong 
inspection system but, more than anything else, 
is the choice of people who are not susceptible 
to this type of thing. Unquestionably, in such 
a screening process some might get through. 
But, than, within the FBI is a built-in system 
which further prevents this possibility and that 
is a tremendous pride in this very matter. That 
is, that there has been no corruption. And, I 
am confident that Agents working with one another, 
although, will, of course, on occasion be sym­
pathetic to an Agent who possibly may be drinking 
too much or may possibly, for other reasons in 
the area the morals might digress to some extent, 
they absolutely will not countenance corruption 
or defection to the criminal element or otherwise 
contaminate that splendid reputation of the Bureau. 
It's a unique situation. It's difficult for some 
to understand. But, it's a built-in barrier to 
an extension of this type of activity and, some­
thing of which we will have tremendous pride and I 
personally would not hesitate one second to pursue 
any allegations such as this, feeling that although 
it may get wide publicity, although it may, to some 
extent, harm the credibility of the FBI, it must 
be done. And, I assure you, will be done. Unusual 
perhaps, but nonetheless, it is present and we will 
persist with this type of activity. We don't ask 
our Agents to squeel on one another, we point out 
the splendid reputation that is inherent within 
our tradition and is one of the finest traditions 
you can possibly build. 
- 20 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fi26 164 
