•' 1~,J.r lVi.r. Felt -
..,upervisory Reorgan.ion of Functions ai:id •. 
Personnel; Crime Research Division 
. . - -
special photogr·aphs in Director 1s Office; American Legion and veteran liaison 
matters. • 
Recommended Agent Trans£ er; 
Inspectors James F. Bland, David Wo Bowers and Jack E. Hermgt~n. 
OFFICE OF ACTING ASSOCIATE Dll{ECTOR 
To assui:neheview and analysis of correspondence received by the Dir~ctor 
and the FBI and preparation of replies to the correspondenc~ F-ormerly handied by 
the Special Correspondence Unit (correspondence of special importance to Director 
and Nation) a1:1d the Non-Special Correspondence Unit (correspondence from th~ 
pu.bli"c and requests for publications). • 
Functions and Related.Responsibilities:· 
Replies to ~orrespondence regarding subversive activities and field ~ivisions; 
-file reviews and necessary research to determine identity and pe_rtinent background 
of the correspondent; file review and research necessary to reply to inquiries and ;· 
requests from private citizens, law enforcement, Government representatives on • 
local,· st~te and national l~vel; initiate instruction~ to field offices in connection with 
correspondence; processing of letters dealing with public relations, general ne_ws· 
!<J.Pili::i; -rP.qu.ests and inquiries from law enforcement officials, Government . • • 
repre&entatives and others in-foreign countries; chronic mail; and requesi:s for 
publications. • •• • 
Recommended Agent T!'an sfer: 
Section Chief Gord01 E. Malmfeldt and SAs Homer R. Hauer (Number One 
11an), Ralph W. Engeimeier, Marion S. Ramey, Paul L. Andrews, John \V. Dalse~,­
Robert C. Dean and Richard E. ·White. 
OFFICE OF LEGAL COUNSEL· 
. . . 
To assume formal liaison with tre American Bar Association, National -
District Attorneys Association, National Association of Attorneys General, 
Federa 1 Bar Association., and the American La\v Institute. These functions formen y 
handled by the Administrative Review Unit. Also research· and preparation of legal: 
briefs in connection with urgent-policy n:iatters (formerly· handled by-Research- Unit).: 
Recommended Agent Tran sf er; '-
SA James C. Farrington .. 
I 
LNW-Ui0l!-Oodd;32939609 e.a~ 
-2- CONTINUED - OVER 
