. '. ! 
' i. 
.. \ 
' ,. 
There appears to be much confusion in professional 
circles regarding the use of the term "positive intelligence." 
Some profess:bnru.s use the term "positive intelligence" synonymously 
with tho term 11:Coi·oign intoll ig-onco. 11 Xn still nnotho)." 
usngc, ''positi.ve :l.11tell:.tgence 11 and "intelligence" are used 
interchangeablyo In another useage, which is closely related 
• to the definition utilized in this study, "positive intelli­
gence" is described as· what is left of the entire field after 
"security intelligence" has been subtractedo This source 
continues that both ttpositive intelligence" and "security 
intelligence" can be against domestic targets, as well as 
against foreign targets. For example, the Department of State, 
in connection with its formulation of forcign·policy, encounters 
.. -
. a large number of organizations of Americans whose parents came 
from foreign countries. Many of these organizations--the Poles 
for example--have strong views on what United States policy 
should be toward Poland. The views of these organizations 
regarding our foreign policy is likely to be a matter of some 
importance to the Department of State in its policy formula­
tiono The knowledge of what these organizations think and 
do can be a very significant phase of what might be called 
11 d~mecti~- pos~ -t:i:vP, i.ntellig-ence ft" In addi tion 1 the connections 
which these organizations may have with the foreign country 
such as Poland sometimes provide a source of "foreign positive 
intelligence.n , . 
SCIENTIFIC INTELLIGENCE pertains to the progress of scientific 
-research and development and usually this intelligence is 
·within the framework of how it affects military or economic 
.: ·.·_··'potential of a nation. 
:· .i:.-. '· SECURITY INTELLIGENCE is basically the intelligence behind the 
police function to protect the nation and its members from 
. .. those working to our national and individual detriment. For 
example, this would include intelligence regarding clandestine 
agents sent to the United States by a foreign power. 
·socIOLOGICAL INTELLIGENCE pertains to the social, cultural, 
psychological, or ethnic structure and characteristics of a 
peopleo 
STRATEGIC INTELLIGENCE is the ~ntelligence required for b~oad 
and usually long-r.ange planning; especially with regard to 
military operations& .... 
•s::· 
. . ' ~ . 
. :~ . .... • . ' : : .. - : ·-. •. . • 
.. .. , ; ' 
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989fi29 284 
