2 "'."' 
I 
! . 
I . 
The Unit coordinated the preparation of material 
for the Division's participation in the conference with 
police officials concerning attacks on police and prepared 
a special packet of material for distributi.on to those police 
officials in attendance. 
This Unit also was responsible for coordination of 
preparation of-damage assessments relating to Domestic 
Intelligence Division documents stolen in the burglary of 
the former Media, Pennsylvania, Resident Agency, and handling 
other aspects of the Medburg case as related to this Division. 
In addition, the Unit also collected and prepared 
. -. •... material for various articles, speeches, and surveys. Personnel. 
... • • _: of the Unit have handled lectures on subjects of communism, the 
• :. new left, and racial extremism. These have consisted of 
.:. : • classified lectures to Bureau's New Agents and In-Service 
classes, appearances before other intelligence agencies and 
: 
0
=-.-. - National Academy classes and appearances before outside groups . 
. Special Records Unit . : . 
• 0 • • •• • • • • • This Unit. is .primarily responsible for records 
.. ··. ,. keeping for emergency planning. Further details concerning 
. •. ·r. programs handled by this Unit are set forth in Section 4-H . 
.... :; :: Civil Disorder Reporting Unit : .... 
. .. This Unit, formerly called the Racial Reporting Unit, ·_. ·, 
. has continued to coordinate all phases of disturbances, violence 
.' ~. :·and other developments where race is a factor as well as infor­
• '.'.. ·-.>.-·mation bearing on the potential for violence throughout the 
: . : :_::· country. Material being reported on a daily basis by the field 
, .· ·,.··offices is reviewed, coordinated and disseminated to interested 
< : ··' officials and agencies and current teletype summaries are 
• .. , . :;<furnished to the White House, Attorney General, and other 
• :- • high officials. Statistical data on civil disorders, school 
disorders and attacks on police is extracted from communications 
. . . .. received from the field and ·1s maintained in this Unit for use 
in the preparation of special papers. Detailed statistical 
data is prepared for automatic.data processing. 
• - •• ,· This Unit also prepares on demand certain studies 
.- .. and briefs concerning specific subject matters relating to 
racial extremists and racial situations. Examples of these 
are a detailed study on the extent of foreign influence on 
the black extremist movement completed in February of this 
year. A current document on this subject matter is presently 
NW 38ti-Oa Doeld:32989ti38 ~age 52 
