~ 
--~ - C)~· ,, 
•• 
• 
.,. ... 
,. 
0 0 
#' 
• 
. 
\ 
. 4 .. ~hould the FBI Director be appointed for a tern1 of years? 
(All the issues surrounding the appointment and tenure of the Director 
should be explored. ) I 
I 
I • 
1 \ 5 .. Should the FBI be an independent agenGY or continue as part 
• of the Justice Department? The pros and cons of this recurrent questi'on 
should be analyzed again with the purpose of adopting a firm policy. 
6. Assuming the FBI remains a part of the Justice Department, 
what should be the relationship of the Director to the Attorney General? 
All the organizational and substantive relationships should be examined 
7. Investigative techniques. The whole question of the variety 
of techniques from clearly legal to clearly illegal should be e;xamined 
in some detail. In addition, the question of authorization and 
Congressional oversight should be touched upon in this examination. 
8. The whole question of files and their disclosure must be 
studied with a view toward understanding why ·files are kept, what 
categories of files there are, what information is contained in the 
files and whether the purposes for maintaining files are being met 
under present policy. In the issue of disclosure, when, where, and 
to whom must also b_e thoroughly examined. 
I 
9. The question of a Civilian Review Board for the intelligence 
gathering activities of the FBI should be examined. This is a recurrent 
suggestion which came up at the Princeton conference in addition to 
other forums. • 
.. 
10. What should be the relationship between the FBI and the other 
Departments and Agencies._ of the Federal Government? To what extent 
should the FBI keep tabs on., other Departments and Agencies through 
the development of sources ~~d informants in those Agencies ? 
11. Should ~he FBI have foreign offi_cer~ .. I.,~RQ:r:ting,.dir.e.ctly. ~to-
the Director ? • ' 
This list is not exhaustive, but should get us started toward an 
indepth examination of some of the problems facing the Bureau in the 
future. 
• 
WDR:fhm 
Docid:32989541 
