• • '.l 
• • 
Based on the foregoing, reliance on the September, 1939, 
directive or even the earlier ~onfidential arrangement worked 
out by the President, whether considered a Presidential directive, 
Presidential mandate, or some other manifestation of Executive 
power, for current investigative authority appears to be unwise. 
Placing the 1939 directive and the earlier arrangemen~ i~ thi{r 
proper perspective is very important. Both were laid in a period 
when the world was on the brink of World War II. The concern for 
national security was related to two international movements. There 
were no laws, such as the Smith Act of 1940 or the Internal 
Security Act of 1950. Although there were undoubtedly some purely 
American groups which received no direction or control from abroad, 
there was no national _co~x:.rn for indigenous anarchists or other 
groups desiring to overthrow the Government. 
PRESIDENTiAL DIRECTIVES SUBSEQUENT TO 1939 
As mentioned previously, the directive dated 
September 6, 1939, was reiterated subsequently by directives 
dated January 8, 1943; July 24, 1950; and December 15, J.953. 
The jirective dated January, 1943, signed by President Roosevelt, 
was simply a reaffirmation of the earlier 1939 directive and 
was broadened only to the extent that it called on all patriotic 
organizations and individuals as well as local law enforcement 
officers to report information to the FBI. Th_e . .J.uly_1 19?0, 
directive, signed by President Truman, contained the phrase 
"subversive acti11lties and related matters," which on the 
§J,l:tfa_ce_ would indicate that President.Truman intended to broaden 
-!?-~ __ scope._of .authority it might convey to the FBI. However, 
closer ex~mination reveals that the Truman.directive actually 
misquoted the earlier two directives of President Roosevelt and 
included the phrase "subversive activities and related matters" 
which did not appear in the Roosevelt directives. 
Since no information is available concerning Executive 
intent behind the issuance of the 1950 directive, it cannot be 
determined whethe! President Truman was aware of the possible 
additional authority he might have conveyed to the FBI as the 
result of changing the language of the two prior directives to 
include the phrase "subversive activities and related matters." 
The fact of the matter is, the United States was at the 
time engaged in the "police action" in Ko-rea and there was 
unquestionably a great deal of domestic subversive activity 
at the time, most of which could be traced to the Communist Party. 
We do know that President Truman signed the 1~50 directive 
on the advice of the National Security Council. 
There is one document available which tends to reveal 
the concern President Truman had rel~tive to increased subversive 
activity involving domestic cases. In a letter dated July 17, 
1946, the Attorney General said he felt that in the troubled 
period in international affairs, accompanied by an increase in 
- 6 -
-f; 
! ' 
