OPllOMM POkM MO. 10 • SOI0-106 
MAY 1962 I0IJIOM : • A. 
~";i~irts~ ATES GO v·l:.~MENT •• 
M emoranduni 
TO :MR. FELT 
FROM 
\ \, ;t1 
CALLAHAN rtt 
i 
DATE: 12/18/72 
'SUBJECT: SUPERVISORY REORGANIZATION OF 
XUNCTIONS AND PERSONNEL; 
«;.;RIME RESEARCH DIVISION · 
By memo dated 12/14/72 from Mr. Walters to Mr. Felt the 
reassignment of Special Agent personnel of the former Crime Research 
Division to other Offices and Divisions at Headquarters was set forth. The 
purpose of this memo is to establish what clerical personnel will be assigned 
to each Office or Division. This 'inforrriation is necessary to effect changes 
in appropriate records. 
'For control purposes, each of the listed individuals should advise 
of the c18rical personnel needed to carry out the functions and related 
responsibilities reassigned to the respective Ufrice or Division. All cleric-al 
personnel assigned to the former Crime Research Division must be accounted 
for. Accordingly, the listed individuals should consult with each other if' 
there is any question concerning assignment, excessive or needed clerical 
personnel, coordinating inforipation with appropriate Office representative 
or Division head. Identities, positions and grades should be set forth under 
. ~he _'respective Office or Division. 
Inspector James F. Bland, Office of the Act~ng_ :pirec~o~ 
Section Chief Gordon E. iv1almfeldt, Office of th.~1Acting 
Associate Director 
SA James C. Farrington, Office of Legal Counsel 
Section Chief Milton A. Jones, Training Division 
SA William H. Stapleton, Administrative Division 
SA Edward J. Kilday III, General Investigative Division 
SA Thomas B :·coll, Special Investigative Division 
RECOMMENDATION: 
• That the reassignment of the clerical personnel of the former 
Crime Research Division be accomplished as set forth above with resuits 
furnished to the Administrative Division so that 9-ppropriate records can 
be adjusted'.· • 
This document is pr d • nation outside our e'f/r.e _in response to yoz~r :equest and· is not for dissemi-
yo11;r Committ y d ommittee. Its UBe is lirtfited to official proceedings by 
nel· without thee an the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-. e express approval of the FBI . 
60 
