I 
• t 
ANTIWAR MOVEMENT I 
This Unit is responsible for the investigation of 
dissident protest groups in order that their potential threat 
to the inte.rnal security of the country can be assessed~ This 
includes development of informant coverage and the dissemination 
of timely intelligence information, as well as possible 
violations of Federal laws. 
The organizations concerned are the communist 
Socialist Workers Party (SWP), its youth group, the Young 
Socialist Alliance (YSA), and the Student Mobilization 
Committee to End the War in Vietnam (SMC) which is controlled 
by the SWP/YSA. All three of these groups utilize the National 
Peace Action Coalitioµ (NPAC) as a vehicle to project their 
antiwar message. The Peoples Coalition for Peace and Justice 
(PCPJ), continuation group of the New Mobilization Committee 
to End the War in Vietnam (NMC), also exercises considerable 
influence in the antiwar movement and is a target for 
infiltration by the Communist Party, USA (CP). The May Day 
Collective (MDC), organized by Rennie Davis, is a militant 
group which split from the PCPJ following the May, 1971, 
demonstrations in Washington, n·o ·c·; -.also of considerable 
interest is the Vietnam Veterans Against the War (VVAW) which 
came into prominence during the Washington demonstrations. 
We have disseminated on a daily basis hundreds of reports and 
memoranda concerning the activities of these and other groups, 
as well as information regarding principal activists. This 
dissemination has been augmented by the preparation of several 
CINALs pertinent to specific demonstrations, conferences, or 
• activities. 
Of particular value has been our coverage .of national 
conferences and conventions sponsored by various- groups which 
are used to plan future antiwar activity and demonstrations. 
We have been able to cover these sessions most effectively and 
·have furnished other interested Government agencies with 
advance information of their plans. Included in these 
conferences were the following:_ 
. 
2/i9~21/71 -- National student antiwar conference, 
Washington, D. c., sponsored by SMC. 
5/15/71 -- 'SMC National Steering Committee_me~ting. 
·6/25-27/71 PCPJ national conference, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin. 
- 11 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989638 65 
