U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO 
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH 
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
O. RICHARD HAMILTON BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
trip involving investigations of any FBI matter occurring 
withtn that road trip and such assignments were not neces­
sarily connected with the Security Squad. SA Hamilton 
advised he was reassigned to the Security Squad in Atlanta 
during the Spring or early Summer of 1964 or 1965, anq he 
believed that, according to his best recollection, this 
was in 1964. 
The SSC Staff Members questioned SA Hamilton as 
to what, if any, assignment he had regarding the inves­
tigation of ~r. Martin Luther King, Jr., or with the 
Southern Christian Leaclership Conference (SCLC). SA 
Hamilton advised that upon his reassignment to the Sec~rity 
Squad, he was assigned to monitor a wiretap;. on SCLC and 
on the residence of King. The Staff Members inquired as 
to the number of lines monitored and as to the location 
of the technical installation. SA Hamilton recalled 
that lines on the SCLC switchboard and SCLC Wide Area 
Telephone Service (WATS) as well as th~ residence tele­
phone of King were monitored. The St~ff Members inquired 
whether tapes of conversations we~e made from the techni­
cal installation and SA Hamilton replied that occasionally 
when it was necessary to record more than one telephone 
conversation occurring at the same time, that he occa­
sionally would tape one conversation while preparing a 
handwritten log of another, that thereafter the conver­
sation recorded on tape was reduced to a handwritten log 
when time permitted. The Staff Members asked what was 
done with the recorded tapes following the completion of 
the recording and Hamilton advis~d that when the conver­
sation had been reduced to writing on a log and the tape 
was used up, that as best as he could recall, the tape 
was erased and then reused. The Staff Members asked 
whether such tapes were reviewed by other FBI personnel 
and SA Hamilton stated he could not recall any situation 
where this occurred. The Staff Members inquired as to 
whether such tapes were further maintained or placed 
- 2 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989626 33 
