NW 38614 
• • -., 
FBI Relationships with the Senate and House Select ComiLtii::tees_ 
Senate Select Committee -
FBI relationships with the Senate Select Committee generally 
have been harmonious with responses to the Committee requests· 
delivered promptly. When diffi·cul ties :have occurred· they 
have been overcom~ by negotiation and tolerance on both sides. 
Future difficulties that may be confronted and require similar 
resolution include the scope of any pubiic hearing regarding 
electronic surYeillance of foreign nationals or-their agents 
and establishments. 
House Select Committee 
In the past -the FBI has experienced .the following di_fficul_ties 
with·the House Select Committee: 
·c1) It has held public hearings which were orchestrated··_ 
to present adverse views without an opportunity for 
prepared rebuttal, such as occurred on Qctober 9, 1975, 
·regarding electronic surveillance matters_; • 
. 
(2) It has demanded delivery of docu,ments· on unreas~ 
onably ~hort notice considering the time necessary to· 
locate and prepare for delive:rythe en9rmous quantity 
of documents called for; 
(3) It has interviewed employees, former employee~ 
and confidential sources of the.FBI without:first 
advising the FBI of the proposed interview and has 
demanded-the appearance of agents below ~he· policy~ 
making level. . • • . •• • 
A large number of docu:r:nents dealing with electronic surveillance 
conducted without a warrant between 1970 and July 30, 1975,· were· 
furnished to the Committee on Friday, October 10, 1975. Certain 
excisions·in these documents were made and it• remains to be .seen 
whether the Committee will accept the determinations made as to. 
what types of information, e.g., identities of sp.bjects who were 
monitored, should.have been excised. 
The overriding concern for the fui::ure is the need to·establish· 
an understanding on both sides of the policies··· to be followed .by 
each in responding to the Committee's mandate. - General agreeme~t 
to specified operating procedures would alleviate the suspicion 
·on the part-of the Committee and the fear of Committee ~sponsi-
bility on the part o·f the FBI. 1 YJ'e 
26 • 
