.e 
(d) On May 9, 1934, President Roosevelt called 
a White House conference attended by the Attorney General, ·, 
Secretary of Treasury, Secretary of Labor, Director of FBI 
n.nd Chief of United Stn.tes Secret Service to deal with 
the problem of growth of fascist organizations in the 
United States. The conference agreed that there should be 
an investigation of these groups and their activities for 
intelligence purposes. Since the only Federal lnw believed 
applicable at the time was the Immigration Law, the Presi.dent 
decided that the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization 
Service would confer with the Chief of Secret Service and the 
Director of the FBI to work out details of the investigation.·. 
Mr. Hoover immediately issued orders to FBI 
personnel to conduct an intensive and confidential~investi­
gation of the Nazi movement. This was the first general 
intelligence investigation made by the Government into 
fascist activities in this country. 
,,:: .. 
(o) As n result of President Franklin Roosevelt's 
concern over activi tics of the communists and other subversive··, 
; • ~n.,up::., ,,.. s0r~..:::; of confcrcn(:~.S:: •r:i..s i,.-.; <l in thP. latter Dart 
of August and early September, 193G, participated in by the 
President. tho Secretary of State nnd the Director of the FBI. 
As a result of his concern over the intcrnationn.l character 
of cor:u:iunisr:l nnd :fascism, the President stated the FBI should 
conduct necessary investigations and coordinate inforr.ation 
upon thc~c mutt~rs .:in the possession of the 'Military 
:Cr.:-a..:..::..:,;•~nGt:?· Division, the Naval Intelligence Division and 
the State Department. 
It is noteworthy that it was specified the 
• investigation was to be for intelligence purposes only. 
The Presidential Order was implemented by the 
Director in a letter to all Special Agents in Charge, 
September 5, 19360 • 
(f) As a r~sult of opposition primarily by the 
State Department. against accepting the FBI as the coordinating 
agency in the investigations of all subversive activities in 
the United States, President Roosevelt, on June 26, 1939, issued 
a confidential directive to Cabinet members which established an 
Interdepartmental Intelligence Co.ordinating Committee composed 
of the FBI and the Intelligence.Divisions of the War Department 
and the Navy. He named the FBI .as the coordinating agency to 
receive a~l reports on subversive activities. 
,. 
. , . ,. 
. ., 
' - .... ...-._ .. - ··-·--· --~, -· ·- -. ., 
·, ... 
i ', ' 
,, 
. 
