"friendly" or "neutral" country embassies in Washington in 
the early 1940's and frequently referred to the fact that 
this was being done by OSS with knowl~dge that ~ts juris­
diction in this country was based only on the theory that 
a foreign Embassy is not American soil and is technically ~ 
outside the jurisdiction of the FBI, which had full juris­
diction for counterintelligence in the western hemisphere. 
Our file on the ass is replete with incidents 
indicating OSS recruitment and counterespionage activities 
in this country during the early 1940 9 s. 
By memorandum dated May 22, 1945, Stanley J. Tracey, 
advised of a converpation overheard between two high-ranking 
State Department officials. The conversation dealt with OSS 
attempts to take over Bureau SIS operations in Latin America 
.with one of the State Department officials, Aura Warren, 
stating that officials of OSS felt that organization was 
~better equipped to handle worlc than FBI personnel attached 
to various American Embassies in South America. In response 
to this attempt of OSS to take over our duties, the Director 
commented: "I would like i.o know wht:re Wa.:..~:;;e:u gat3 t!:i3. 
According to-Ladd our contacts in State Department have no 
knowledge of such OSS efforts. Also Tracey should point 
out it is State Department duty to initiate it as we would 
'service it' and the State Department in fact started the 
SIS project. H" (62-64427-1059.) 
An interesting evaluation of OSS operations is 
·provided in a report prepared by Colonel Richard Park of 
the War Department as a result of a survey of OSS operations 
made as a special and confidential mi$sion for the President 
in 1944 and 1945. Colonel Parle commented: "Without going . 
into details I was everywhere left with the same impression 
of utter.incompetency on th~ p~rt of OSS leadership .... , 
"Everywhere that the subject of OSS.came up, 
unsolicited remarks clearly brought out the very well known 
am.a~eurish na~ur~ of ,the organization. 
"The OSS has been restricted from active operations 
in South America by Presidential directive .... " 
Despite the absence of any jurisdiction in or 
responsibility for counterintelligence operations in the 
western hemisphere, an ffficer of ass was reported to have 
.. 13 -
- .. 
,,. 
