I· -
consensus of the Board that the CIA was pl~cing too much V 
• stress upon covert action activities·, with insufficient J 
emphasis placed upon the acquisition of intelligence. 
Later in the discussion, Mr. McGeorge Bundy said that in· .\ _ 
line with the Presidept's wishes, a list w~s being prepared 
of all pro·grams involving covert • support to politic al 
parties abroad, and support to individuals associated with i 
political parties, with a view to ass~ssing the direction 1 
and value of those progra.ms--Mr. Bundy noting that certain 
of these problem areas which had been referred to by Ambassa­
dor,Galbraith in connection with covert actions in .India 
had been recently reviewed by the Special Nsc-5412/2 Group. 
Board Chairman Killian informed the President that in the 
Board's view the responsibilities of the U. S. Ambassadors 
should be clarified to make sure that each Ambassador is 
cognizant of the-intelligence collection and covert action 
activities ·which are,conducted in or from his country of 
assignment and for the-purpose·of assuring that such activities 
are consistent with the over-all national security policies 
) 
of the President. Later on in the discussion, the President 
commented on a suggestion that he not be publicly identified 
with clandestine or covert action activities, saying that 
he thought -this raised a question about the desirability of 
setting up on the White House staff. a "Special Assistant . 
for Intelligence." (Mr. Bundy thought it would be all right 
to establish such a position, provided that the Special 
Assistant was himself not publicly identified with any 
responsibility for covert operations.) 
Meeting of June. 30-July 2, 1961: 
A portion of this Board meeting was attended by Mr. Mc-
. George Bundy who, at one point, read to the Board the letter 
fr.om President Kennedy appointing General Taylor 
1
as J1ili t?,ry 
Representative. Mr. Bundy· emphasized that General Taylor 1' s 
appointment was not exclusively military in character, for the 
- President desired that General Taylor counsel him with respect 
to certain intelligence matters, and in the field of covert 
·action activities the President wished to look to General 
Taylor for special guidance; and therefore the President had 
a~pointed General Taylor to serve as Chairman of the Special 
5412/2 Group. Mr. Bundy mentioned that recently a two-hour 
briefing had been provided to the President, Mr. Bundy, 
General Taylor and Mr. Coyne by Messr-s. Dulles and Bissell 
concerning major covert action programs currently being 
carried out by the Agency. 
) 
c· 
