• 
Legal Counsel to Adams Memorandum 
Re: SENSTUDY 7 5 
• 
which provides that members of the House shall have access to all 
Committee records. He said Congressman Robert N. Giaimo (D-Conn.) 
has indicated that he will not accept any limitations on access. Colby 
said he will appear in an open session before the Committee sometime 
in the next few weeks to discuss, in general terms, the agency's position on 
collection of intelligence information. 
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities 
Mr. Wilderotter said that F. A. O. Schwarz., Counsel to 
the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities; has agreed to identify 
in advance specific allegations of abuse that will be reviewed by the 
Committee. Wilderotter said he will then appoint a task force or some 
other coordinating mechanism within the executive branch to examine each 
of these areas in depth. The purpose will be to develop an executive 
department brief on each subject which can be used to respond to Committee 
requests. He felt that this might enable the Administration to gain the 
initiative on these issues and perhaps limit the Committee's inquiries to the 
\ 
boundaries set ·forth in the Senate Resolution. He asked that the agencies 
make an effort to :.identify abuse subjects so that the Whtte House can pull 
together all the information available on each topic. He said it is already 
clear that the Committee will examine such subjects as assassinations 
and the CIA 's role in the internal affairs of Chile and the Dominican Republic. 
Mr. E. H. Knoche, Assistant to the Director , Central 
Intelligence Agency, reported that Mr. Colby has made three appearances 
before the Senate Select Committee and on each occasion discusse,d 
assassination matters. Mr. Colby will meet with the Committee .three times 
next week, and it is expected that he will be asked about the Phoenix program 
and the covert activities of the CIA including political., counterintelligence; 
and clandestine intelligence collection. The Committee will trace the agency's 
operations back to the 1947 directive in an effort·to determine how they 
relate to policy objectives of the Government. 
Mr. William G. Hyland, Director of Intelligence and Research, 
Department of State, said the Committee has requested position papers 
• on the Department's activities in Laos and Chile and to explain of the Depart­
ment's approach to covert action and whether it was a supplement or instrument 
of policy. Mr. Hyland raised the question of whether the agencies had any 
moral oblig~tion to advise former employees that documents were now being 
CONTINUED - OVER . 
- 2 -
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989588 84 
