l 
•• 
Memorandum to Mr. W. R. W annall 
.Re: General Accounting Office (GAO) Review of FBI Operations 
62-56866 
office has completed only 68 out of a projected 90 summaries. Springfield has 
indicated they will make every effort to complete all 90 summaries not later 
than mid-October.) 
• Legal Authority 
I 
GAO testified that the FBI did have legal authority to conduct domestic 
intelligence investigations , but that this authority was in definite need of clarification, 
as its basis is in some instances shrouded in ambiguity. 
" ... ·.. .. 
. Miss Geraldine Rubar of the GAO Legal Office discussed with 
precision the Presidential Directives, the 1936 Hoover memoranda and the 
various statutes conferring authority. Mr . Drinan loudly stated his opinion 
that the FBI was operating for forty years in this field without legal authority 
and asked to be shown where the term "extremists" appeared in any Presidential 
Directives or statutes. Miss Rubar replied that the term was not in vogue at the time 
but that it was used by Attorney General Ramsey Clark in a 1967 memorandum to the 
FBI when he ordered intensified investigation and coverage in the area of 
,black?nationali-st groups .and ,extvemists . 
Mr. Drinan· repeatedly, but unsuccessfully' attempted to get 
\
Miss Rubar to state the FBI had no -investigative jurisdiction in the Subversive 
and Extremist field even to the point of inquiring if even one of GAO' s staff 
attorneys -had perhaps reached that minority opinion. Miss Rubar replied 
that there was agreement among GAO's legal staff that the jurisdiction was 
there but was in need of clarification and updating. 
Initiating Investigations 
Mr. Staats testified that, from GAO's reading of the FBI Manual, there 
was a degree of vagueness as to the type and avJ,ount of evidence ~eeded to 
open an FBI investigation in the Extremist and Subversive field. GAO 
l 
arbitrarily categorized cases into those opened on the ba~i~ of hard, . 
medium or a soft degree of evidence and said 36 percent of the 676 .c~ses .. 
reviewed were opened on a "soft degree" of evidence. . • • • •. • .• 
• > 
CONTINUED - OVER 
-3-
NW.38608 Docld:32989570 Page 99 \ 
1 
I! I< 
[ 
f, 
r 
.t I 
I 
. I; 
'. 
i1 
" - ' ,i 
