,f 
• l • 
,., O(>'?':'ONAL l-'OA~ NO. to 
'.lJL"l 1073 i':QITION 
C.i;A l'PMR'l4l :.:FRI 10l•l 1.G 
• 'i.JNITED STATES GOVERNlvfENT 
lfd~emort1ndum 
• 
,: . 
To : The Deputy Attorney General DATE:. July 18, 1975 
Attn: K. William O'Connor 
I' 
FROM (}rIDK~ctor' F B1 
SUBJECT: 
NW38 
PROPOSED PROCEDllilES FOR ACCESS 
TO DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE FILES 
In 1·esponse to your memorandum dated July 18, 1975, 
captioned as above: we observe that the "substantial negotiations 1' 
which produced the proposed procedures did not include participation 
by a representative of the FBI and that the request for our views 
concerning disclosure of highly sensitive FBt material was first 
received at 11:14 a. m. today ·with a reply expected by 2:00 p. m. 
today. \Ve respectfully suggest that not only should you afford greater 
opporfamity for an expression of our views on this matter, but that 
any such proposed procedures should be presented to the President
1
s 
Coiliisel for concu:::·rence and f.or an expression of the President 1s views 
as to the general poiicy of the Executive Branch in this regard. F'...irther, 
you may want to consider addressing the problem of the impact such 
general disclosure of files would have on pending criminal investigations. 
A preliminary review in the time available revealed that 
ce:t:tain items require considerable modification. For example, Item (3)(c) 
should be reconsidered with the foJlowing language: 
"An exception to (a) and (b) above is made for information 
that would tend to identlfy sources to whom the FBI has 
an ·obligation of confidenti.alit-y-as to which no access 
vri.11 be furnished unless the identity already has been made 
known to the Committee, or unless the Attorney General, 
the Chai.rman and the Vice Chairman jointly agree on the 
limited disclosure of such identity to the Ch.airman and the 
Vice Ch.airman. 11 
UL 18 197 
K\1'/0 IC. 
· .. • • • INFORMATION CON'l'AINED · 
=htW<:WJk,,W YR 
.. ld:32989640 P~s:µ(1.S. Savings Bonds R.egutarly on the Pa)'ro(l Savings Plan 
