~ 
.,.J-, 
1J 
y 
~ 
.,, 
,._ 
, .. , • 
shall be open to the inspection of the Director of Central • 
Int~lligence·, and such intelligence as relates to the . 
nat
1
ional security and is possessed by such departments and 
other agencies of the Government, except as hereinafter 
provided, shall be made available to the Director of 
Central Intelligence for correlation, evaluation and 
dissemination: Provided, however, that upon the written 
request of the Director of Central Intelligence, the Director 
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall make available 
to the Director of Central Intelligence such information . • 
for correlation, evaluation and dissemination as may be 
essential to the national security. 11 c. 
¥ 5. If I am requested to provide certain materials and 
investigation indicates that the material asked for involves a document 
which originated within an organization other than the Intelligence • 
Community Staff or the Ce,,ntral Intelligence Agency, the requestor 
will be asked to redirect .li.is inquiry to the office of origin.• 
. 6. It already is apparent, however, that the documentation · 
being requested inevitably is going to include references to inter­
relationships among various of the elements of the intelligence 
:·cot.nr:ri"t?-iiity. Clearing· each and:every i:;u-.:i.J. J.·i:::Ze.1. ciu..:..o;:; wttl.: c ·.·c-:.:;· 
agency mentioned could manifestly be extremely consu~ing of time 
and manpower. . • :• 
., 
" 7. I propose the ,Ad Hoc Group agree on the following procedure. 
Where it appears that truly sensij:ive matters al;'.e involved, the • 
material will be sanitized by t;he ·agency concerned and a check will 
be made with the appropriate;'Thir"'d Agency organization 7 be-f'.ore . 
release. Where the reference concerns a Third Agencr. .indi:r,.ectly) ,..--=-~ ~ ~..,. ½µ"_,.)is not considered sensitiv'r and does not pose policy conc-e-rrrs; th-3 
agency concerned may .forward the material to the requesting Select 
Committee without an Hem-by-item; mention-by-mention clearance 
with Third Agencies. However, in all cases notification that such 
material has been forwarded will be made to the central index and 
~ NW-38608 Docld:32989618 Page 136 
, . . . 
