I \', 
'-
··: 
recruit a source in the Uo S., the Agency takes the 
position that if the source can be of help td the Bureau· 
we should levy require~ents on CIA and not usk for access 
·to.the source unless it clearly appears that only through 
access we can prop0rly dischar~o our responsibilities. 
CIA takes a very strong. view that once a source is 
developed it is busically unsound to introduce another 
agency into tho relationship. The devaloping agency 
may have used techniques peculiar to its own organization 
and may have developed a relationship under varied cir­
cumstances, and when a new agency is introduced this 
relationship with the source could be unfavorably disturbed. 
CIA does not dispute the fact that informant and Agent 
turnovers sometimes are absolutely n:-9-e·ssary. 
CIA ~aintains that if the Bureau is given access 
to a CIA source we would be responsible for the counter­
intelligence aspects, but if the source produces foreign 
intelligence CIA should be responsible for handling this 
information, including the dissemination. CIA's position 
is that it is better qualified to evaluate the information 
and correlate ~t with the foreign intelligence being 
d.e'tfE'! 6pr--rl. Ph:r:-0::1.0" Fo" e:x-n.m.ple,. if 2. N:tge:r:-in:n sour~e of CXA; 
also available to the Bureau, furnishes information regarding 
the Nigerian Foreign Office, CIA claims that it can better 
handle the report and dissemination. 1 
. Discussions and agreements with CIA, including 
the actions stemming from meetings with ·the representatives 
of that agency in November 1965, have resulted in a greatly 
improved coordinating m~chinery. There still are areas of 
potential conflict which will necessitate improvement. 
They are: 
1) DOD personnel receives leads or tips pertaining • 
to possible access to Soviet-bloc diplomats. This CIA 
Division pursues these leads and is inclined to take the 
position that such individuals contacted.by CIA are their 
"CIA-controlled sources." If we permitted this to go on 
over a period of ti~e, CIA would have a vast network of 
sources not directly available to the Bureau. This is 
basically unsoun~, and there is no reason CIA shouldn't 
immediately give us the lead or tip for exploitation. 
We can recognize that, depending upon circumstances, it 
might be favorable to us and CIA for the Agency to handle 
a particular indi_vidual, and if so, it would be clearly 
- 72 -
-··NW--38fifflt-EJudd:32989629 • 
l r. 
I 
!' 
