I 
• I 
assists in preparation of daily summary memorandum; and assists in prepara-
tion of weekly White House summary. \ . 
• ,,JI.?.,.J,.,,; M,Q_!:g];ll, as case Agent, has primary responsibility for 
supervision of SALT Lek case; reviews all incoming correspondence and 
sets out pertinent leads relative to SALT Lek; assists in preparation of daily 
·memorandum summarizing investigation in all three major leak cases afore­
mentioned; assists in review of daily teletype traffic in all three major leak 
cases; review of dissemination of weekly reports in SALT Lek; assists in 
preparation of White House summary. 
L. J&; B~}~ handles all ELSUR checks; reviews, correlates 
and conducts necessary research relative to all material received from 
Department of Defense in Ellsberg investigation; responsible for backup file 
reviews in connection with New Left contacts by Ellsberg; assists in preparation 
of weekly White House memorandum; assists in preparation of daily summary 
memorandum. 
T. J. Seabaugh assigned exclusively to a comprehensive study, 
.charti11g and resei·1r~h into extensive h:ay§tpe:rforme_d bv Daniel Ellsberg; 
responsible for setting out leads to insure complete coverage of all details 
of travel facets of investigation. 
J. P. Benedict responsible for extensive file reviews regarding 
numerous news meaia personnel and personalities involved in Ellsberg 
investigation to ascertain their susceptibility to interview as cooperative 
sources; conducting extensive research and charting of the considerable 
telephone traffic involved in this matter, including traffic from Daniel 
Ellsberg, Anthon%._Ru1ss,g, tJ,i~_§J~~J}..alJ;~, "The New York Times," the 
• Washington bureaLS of all newspapers involved, traffic from various hotels 
utilized by Ellsberg and his contacts, and all other individuals whose 
te~ephone traffic has been subpoenaed as a result of Departmental action via 
Grand Jury subpoena. 
. W. W : .. HJ~H.1,1;J.l~q~ assists in preparation of daily summary memo-
randum; responsible for review and appropriate pre·paration of all summary 
teletypes for dissemination to Department of Justice; file reviews on the 
numerous news personalities being considered for interviews as potential 
cooperative sources in the Ellsb~rg investigation; handling of correspondence 
connected with leads obtam::rlfrom daily teletypes; assists in preparation of 
White House summary. • 
1., NW 38601! Docld:32989638 Page 31 
