J. M. Sizoo assigned exclusively to the research and preparation 
of an extensive biographical write-up on Ellsberg. In this regard, facts con- . 
cerning Ellsberg's life, behavioral patterns, associates, education, political 
views, personality transformations, family, and influences will be studied 
and analyzed. 
. In addition to the above specific assignments, each member of 
the unit on a daily basis is required to participate in Section, Unit and/ or 
Branch conferences for resolution of investigative facets of the Ellsberg, 
Toll Lek and SALT Lek investigations. 
Some of the problems involved in this investigation are: 
(1) Whether Ellsberg was alone responsible for this crime, or 
whether he was part of a small or large- scale conspiracy. 
(2) Whether the purpose was for idealistic reasons (anti- Vietnam 
War beliefs), to discredit the Executive Branch of the Government, or to 
make ava.ila.ble clasaified information to a foreign nation. 
(3) Investigations have been conducted by agencies other than 
the FBI: State Dep~rtment, Department of Defense, NSA and the Attorney 
General's Office, and it is the Bureau's responsibility to review and analyze these 
investigations.· 
{4) To determine what other persons and newspapers received 
these documents and from whom they received this data. 
(5) Innumerable interviews involve newspapermen, Government 
officials, and persons having far left leanings, against U. S. policy in Vietnam, 
and antagonistic toward the present Administration. These are all delicate 
interviews. 
. (6) To determine whether the New Left and/ or any anti- Vietnam 
peace groups are involved fn this case. 
(7) All logical avenues of investigation to bring this case to a 
successful prosecution must be explored. An unsuccessful prosecution would 
open the door for anyone at whim to disclose classified information which 
could easily endanger the stability of the Executive Branch and impair our 
relations with other nations. 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989638 Page 32 
