E. Type of Information Disseminated 
Name check requests received from agencies within the Executive 
Branch, as a general rule, are checked against FBI Iiles for Hsubversive-type" 
references only anct· criminal-type references are not revie-wed. However, for 
some agencies, at their specific request, all references in Bureau files are 
reviewed. All agencies are aware of the li.mitation on the type of search made 
:is they are furnished a copy of an FBI booklet describing procedures for 
reque.sted name checks. 
The policy of disseminating only "subversive-typeh information is based 
on the fact that any agency desiring to obtain a copy of the individual's identificatio 
reco.rd shov.'ing hi.s arrests may do so by submitting a separate request directly 
to the Identification Division. A second reason for limiting the search is due to 
economy as searching criminal-type references would require additional personnel 
and an increase Lr1 the cost of conducting name checks. 
. -In response to name check requests, the Bureau disseminates the results 
of Bureau investigations, information received from reliable sources concerni'ng 
1nembersP..ip in subversive groups, pertinent public source information~ and. 
j_nformation wJ,..ich good judgment anq co1nn1on sense dictate shquld be furnished.· 
Information fallL11g in the category of rumor or gossip which is found in Bureau 
files is not disseminated u..rtless a compelling reason exists therefor, and when 
such information is disseminated to a requesting agency, that agency is alerted 
to the nature of the information and the fact that it has not been verified by the 
FBI. • 
Derogatory· information on Federal employees is furnished to the Civil 
Service Commission a.i.-id where common sense dictates, it is also furnished to 
the employing agency. 
F. How Dissemination is Made 
!. Nan1e Checks 
\Vhen possible a copy of the FBI con1munication~ is fu1·11ished to the 
rcqm~sting agency. A ~ecord is maintained .on the original of this com1nunication . 
. that a copy was furnished to the particular a:gency. \Vhen information is loc~ted 
in nu111e1·ous FBI communications, the pertinent data is abstracted ai.'1d summarize 
into a sepaxn.te communication. A copy of this com11nmication is retained. in FBI 
files. • 
i ~ . 
[~0-8--Gee-~ • 
- 7 -
