1' 
• 
Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall 
Re: Senstudy- 75 
62-1163@5 
• 
Pages 193, 194, refer to CIA participation in prepara­
tion of several short intelligence memoranda dealing with the 
foreign connections of U. s. organizations and activists • 
involved in the anti-war movement. Reference is made to.· 
collecting information from their own sources "and through 
liaison with the FBI." A reference is also made to primary 
source of ·information being "sensitive intercepts produced 
by NSA. 11 While these page's do no;t directly comprqmise 
Bureau operations, disclosure of NSA intercepts could well 
indirectly adversely ,affect Bureau operations by disclosure 
of sensitive techniques which. produce extremely v:aluable 
information to the intelligence community, of which the FBI 
.i,s a part. 
Pages 197, 198, refer to the response to an inquiry 
as to involvement in domestic affairs by the Director, Central 
Reference Service, CIA, and in no way compromises Bure.au 
operations. -
Page 203 refers to a similar response by Director, 
Foreign Broadcast Information Service, CIA, and includes a 
reference to their monitoring foreign broadcasts of Jane 
Fonda and Ramsey Clark and furnishing transcripts at the 
request of the·FBI ana Department of Justice for consideration 
for possible trial use. There is no compromise of Bureau 
operations involved as this was to be evidence in a public 
trial and would have required CIA personnel to publicly 
testify. 
Page 330 agairi makes reference to "Restless Youth" 
land use of FBI reports. It also refers to a 19(57 CIA study 
of "SDS and its foreign ties." The page, itself, does not 
compromise Bureau operati~ns. 
Page 482 refers to a "project MPLODESTAR," which 
involved manipulation of assets against targets in the 
!
"leftist and communist milieu in various parts of the world." 
Comments include "each case is cleared with the FBI ... " The 
page itself does not compromise Bureau operations. 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
~W 38608 Docld:J2989626 Page 3 
