Venceremos Brigade 
4. Regarding foreign travel such as that in which 
the VB is engaged, it is recognized that the best interests 
of this country would undoubtedly be served by prohibition 
of such travel. The Internal Security Act of.1950" contained 
sanctions restricting travel on the part of Communist Party 
members. After extended litigation, the Supreme Court in 
June, 1958, ruled in the Kent and Briehl vs. Dulles passport 
case that the State Department could no longer deny passports 
to individuals with past history of subversive affiliations. 
In June, 1964, the Supreme Court in the Flynn - Aptheher 
passport case ruled that the right of U.S. citizens to travel 
abroad is protected by the due process clause of the 5th 
Amendment. In January, 1967, in the Laub decision specifically 
dealing with travel to Cuba, the Supreme Court ruled that the 
State Department could not confiscate an individuals passport 
simply because the individual traveled to Cuba without 
State Department sanction. In December, 1967, in the Lynd 
decisio?2., the Df~t-ri~t: of Columbia Court of Appeals, ruled 
that anyone can travel to a restricted country if they did not use 
their passport to enter that country. 
A·number of bills have been introduced into Congress 
in recent years to remedy the above situation, most of which 
have never cleared committee. The Senate currently has a 
bill, the Eastland Bill, before the Senate to impose criminal 
'penalties for violation of travel restrictions. A pending 
bill, H.R. 1493, was in December, 1969, introduced to restrict 
travel in violation of area restrictions. This bill has.been 
sponsored by approximately 20 Congressmen. In view of the 
above, this Division has not considered it warranted to suggest 
additional legislation along·these lines. 
5. As to technical violations regarding false or 
erroneous statements made by members of the VB on passport 
applications, all information developed along these lines has 
been furnished both to the Department of Justice and the 
Department of State for whatever action they deem feasible. 
To date neither Department has requested that additional aqtion 
be taken in this matter. 
6. The Inspector's suggestion regarding the placing 
\
of name stops with the Identification Division and the NCIC 
Unit for information concerning hard-to-locate VB members, is 
well taken. This Division will coordinate this matter with 
NCIC to determine wha.t information is necessary to place 
such stops and the manner in which this can best be effected. 
1 
Instructions will be issued to the field regarding 
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989fi38 Page £07 
