• 
Bl.ACK PANTHER PARTY 
VII. TACTICS 
The Black Panther Party is a violent revolutionary group whose members pro­
voke confrontations with law enforcement officers and whose leaders incite racial 
hatred and preach urban guerrilla warfare. 
Target: Police 
Panthers claim that black communities are occupied by the police in the same 
way and for the same purpose that foreign troops occupy conquered territory and 
that these forces, operating under "establishment" orders, are engaged in gradual 
annihilation of the black race. Blacks, according to the Panthers, must, through 
urban guerrilla warfare, use guns to liberate themselves from the ever-present 
repressive enemy. Children in Panther "schools" do their exercises to the rhythm 
of: "There is a pig upon the hi II - if you don't kill him the Panthers will." 
Numerous claims have been made that the Black Panther Party is an innocent 
victim of police persecution and genocide. This charge is rendered absurd by fact. 
During 1970, 6 police officers were killed and 22 wounded through acts of violence 
traced to the Panthers. One officer, in 1969, was killed by a Panther with a shot­
gun blast at point-blank range as the officer lay wounded and helpless on the 
ground. 
Out of 20 members named by the Panther Party as "killed in cold blood" by 
the police, four were killed by members of a rival black extremist group on the 
west coast; one died of barbiturate intoxication; one was shot and killed by 
a store owner during a robbery attempt; one was killed by his wife over a love 
affair he was having with a female Black Panther; and another was allegedly tor­
tured and killed by Panther Party members. Of the remaining twelve, two were 
found dead on the street, the victims of unknown assailants, and ten were involved 
in shoot-outs with police officers. 
Attacks on Others 
Panther attacks have not been limited to the police. While claiming their 
intent to protect the black community, Panthers have assaulted and threatened 
citizens who have tried to assist the police. 
Neighborhood stores have been forced to "contribute" food supplies and 
money under fear of Panther violence. Many other persons have also been victim­
ized, as shown by the fact that in 1969 alone 348 Panther members were arrested 
for serious crimes, including murder, armed robbery, rape, bank robbery, and 
burglary. 
On April 21, 1969, 21 members of the Black Panther Party were charged in New 
York in a 30-count indictment with conspiring to bomb public places and murder 
policemen and with possessing dangerous weapons. 
15 
W 38614 Docld:329896;()6 138 
