f---,- -·-----~- -~--~---- ~- -- ~--~-----·--··--·-· ----~~~-------~---- .. -- ----- •····•-------·•·---,-·~ ·- -----~----- --·' -
I • 
! ( ~ 'D 
':POP SECRE'f' SENSI'f'IVE 
4 
10. Cable, dated December 14, 1960, from headquarters 
to Leopoldville. The cable criticizes 1Leopoldville for using 
QJWIN for the purpose of recruiting the 1 ~.ugos_la-v )major, since 
this was not his primary purpose in Leopoldville !I Cable con­
tains the following statement: "Would like restrict QJWIN to 
activity directly pertinent his mission Leopoldyille or forth­
coming mission Dakar and possibly elsewhere (e.g., Milan) for 
KUTUBE/D purposes. He our only as6et of this type and we 
wish keep him clean of any operational involvement other than 
that originally planned for him." This is the first cable 
from headquarters on which the name of William K. Harvey appears. 
11. Cable, dated December 17, 1960, from Leopoldville 
to Director. This cable concerned a new asset entering the 
picture for the first time, who arrived in Leopoldville on 
December 2. The cable states that WIROGUE was the asset ·with 
whom initial contact has been made in Leopoldville. WIROGUE 
is living in the same hotel as QJWIN with whom he conversed. 
QJWIN has reported: "WIROGUE had offered him $300 per month 
to participate in intel net and be member execution squad. 
When QJWIN said he not interested, WIROGUE added there would 
be 1 bonuses for special jobs. Under QJWIN questioning, WIROGUE 
later said he working for PBPRI~E service.". 
12. Cable, dated January 19, 1961, from Director to 
Luxembourg. This cable apparently indicates that the Agency 
plans to use QJWIN in Leopoldville for more than one particular 
mission. It dontained the following statement: "Inform 
QJWIN we planning use him Leopoldville indefinitely as dis­
cussed with him there." 
13. There follows a series of cables reflecting the 
fact that QJWIN proceeds to Italy to recruit other assets. 
One cable admonishes field agents to tell QJWIN not to give 
reason to any of the candidates to be recruited in Italy, to 
believe that ODYOKE or.·· PBPRIME: is invofved. I get the 
impression that ODYOKE refers to the U.S~ CIAr and PBPRIME 
refers to the intelligenc~ service of some other nation. , 
However, no document uncovered so far confirms this. Cables 
which follow seem to indicate that the people QJWIN was to 
recruit were intended to be professional burglars. There is 
no indication that they are intended to be assassins. There 
are many other indications that these recruits were intended 
for safecracking and breaking ilnd entering. QJWIN told them 
he could offer a job for a large firm which wanted certain 
commercial documents stolen . 
. 
':FOP SE€RE':F SE~~SI':PIVE 
Page20 
