) 
, 
◄ ' 
• 
Th~s brings up another point mentioned-ty 
Professor Elliff in his study. Elliff related tha~ the 
FBI had a policy from Mr. Hoover's appointment as Director 
until 1936 of "closed end" investigations" but that this policy 
~ave way to intelligence coverage involving continuing investiga­
tive activity within a broad range of delegated authority. By 
"closed end" investigations, Elliff means that a crime was 
committed, a prosecutive opinion was received, an investigation 
was conducted, a prosecutive opinion was sought and the case 
was either prosecuted or closed for ~ant of pTosecution. On 
the other hand, an intelligence-type investigation would involve 
·.continuing investigation without any thought of closing the 
cise by virtue of.prosecuti·on or inability to prosecute. In 
a case involving a purely criminal act, it can be seen that 
a "closed end" investigation is possible. But in th~ fast-moving 
world of today, with its organized crime problem tied into space­
age concepts even in purely_ criminal cases, the "closed end" 
investigation is often far from a reality. 
PREVENTIVE INVESTIGATIONS 
In analyzing_ the concept of "closed end" investigations 
versus continuing intelligence-type investigations, several 
factors must be considered, especially where the national security 
is involved. Ordinary criminal acts such as the bank robbery, 
theft, burglary, fraud, etc., can in no way be compared to crimes 
involving the national security. Usually we would have no 
occasion to conduct investigatio~ prior to the commission of any 
of the above-named crimes. But, a crime against national security 
is an entirely different matter. No one but a fool or one 
dedicated to the destruction of democracy would advocate that the 
Government take no action to prevent a crime which could destroy 
the Government. In other words, it would be an unusual case to 
conduct a "closed end" investigation of an attempt to overthrow 
the Government by force and violence. It would appear that the 
FBI would have a constitutional obligation to conduct the 
necessary preventive inve~tigation (intelligence?) to insure that 
an attempt to overthrow the Government does not occur. 
Taking into consideration that any, court in the land 
would take judicial notice that the Soviet Union and its satellites 
are engaged in espionage directed against the United States and 
that it employs intelligence-gathering techniques· against us, it 
logically follows that the same courts would take judicial notice 
that the United States Government would have to employ counter­
espionage and counterintelligence methods to combat this threat. 
It is believed that the same can.be said for other situations where 
the facts are such to lead any prudent and cautious individual to 
believe that a threat exists to commit sabotage; to incite to 
- 16 -
