• 
RESEARCH SECTION 
It is noted under the proposed reorganization of 8/3/71 a supervisor from 
this Section would be reallocated to another. It is felt this could-be accomplished 
regardless of the reorganization. It is noted in this regard that this Section is 
presently operating efficiently with an Agent supervisor assigned to the_Klls.!2_er~. 
case. Addressing ourselves to the lack of a Section Chief, it is felt your 
recommendations regarding filling Mr. Cotter's vacated position should be handled 
by separate memorandum. The replacement request f<r SA .MW,gJJ. ... S ... ~~y~ 
transferral to another Division is being handled separately. -
NEW LEFT SECTION 
Subversive Individuals Unit 
This Unit has an authorized complement of 6 Agents but is presently 
adequately handling the work with 5 ,. one being assigned full time to a special. 
Even though the case load is high, approximately 2500, leaving 500 cases 
per man, many of the matters are quite routine and can be handled with bare 
minimum of supervision. Because of this, Agents assigned to this Unit are able 
to handle a large number of cases and it is felt that the Agent presently assigned 
to the special should not be returned. 
ESPIONAGE AND RACIAL BRANCH 
Extremist Intelligence Section 
During the last inspection you requested two more supervisors due 
to the fact that your case load had increased to a total of 6642, breaking down 
to 349 cases per supervisor. Your request was authorized. During May, 1971, 
one supervisor was permanently transferred from your Section leaving you 
a complement of 20 supervisors plus Section Chief and Number One 'Man (total 
22). No replacement has been requested for this supervisor. Since 7/19/71 .. 
you have had one man on loan to the Nationalities Intelligence Section on a rotating 
basis and as of 8/9/71 a second man on loan. There has been a definite decrease 
"in your case load since the last inspection. However, a slight increase would 
be anticipated due to the absorbing of the Klan and White Hate Groups matters. 
For the last 6 weeks you have been without the services of 1 supervisor on a 
• rotating basis and for the last 3 weeks a second one. However, the Unit has 
still operated efficiently. As there is an imbalance as to cases and the number 
of men assigned it is felt that 2 supervisors could be transferred out of the 
Section leaving 20 (including Section Chief and Number One Man) to handle 
the necessary assignments (including Klan and White Hate). 
NW 38608 Docld:32989£-38 Page 311 . ·~ ... 
