• 
territories and to follow these reports wi ha report each 
quarter, similarly captioned, showing the status of the 
movement and its activity during the preceeding three-
month period. These reports have enabled the Bureau and 
the submitting field offices to assess the potential 
dangerousness of the New Left movement, determine from one 
document the divisive or unifying issues within the movement 
and whether the activity is increasing, decreasing or 
continuing at the level indicated in the previous report. 
Since individual reports have not been required on the many 
small local New Left groups in each territory in lieu of 
adequate LHM, inclusion of· pertinent data concerning these 
groups in the quarterly report alleviates the need for 
regularly submitted reports and puts the activities in a 
better perspective within each field division. Additionally, 
these reports have presented on a continuing basis a clear 
cut picture of the entire New Left movement which identifies 
its leaders, sources of funds, propaganda outlets, and shows 
the extent to which the New Left movement has been influenced 
by domestic and foreign subversive elements. This program 
has enabled t!ii:> BnJ'.'A?n ~no the .fial.d. to make ~, ~elf analy:;;;is 
of all facets of our investigation of the New Left movement 
so we may expand and intensify our investigation of those 
phases indicating a need thereof. These reports have served 
as a valuable research tool at the Bureau and afford the 
individual field divisions an opportunity to evaluate the 
direction and success of their investigations in the New Left 
movement. • 
New Left Movement - Finances 
( In February, 1970, ~-
~f.z§_j.si.2.A.W.-~~~~JbV 0 ~41"Q._~~ 41~~,: requested' for the President 1 available inIBmation concerning income 
sources of various revolutionary groups. Since that time, 
inf9rmation of this nature has been gathered and transmitted 
periodically by memoranda to the White House, Attorney 
• General, Deputy Attorney General, and Assistant Attorney 
General, Internal Security Division, afte~ approval by the 
Director, • 
Key Activist Program 
The Key Activist Program, described in detail in the 
Special Investigations Unit - West ·write-up, is coordinated by 
the New Left Groups Unit. 
- 9 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989fi.J8 Page 120 
