j 
... •', : ,' • / ·::.-:::, "r '' ;· ;• • ,, • •• ,.,. •• 
,1 
The above-noted chart is believed to be representative of the 
high volume of communications received daily. Many of these communications . 
were lengthy and/or complicated requiring close analysis by one or more 
supervisors assigned to this "Special." Also, a check of the work devoted to 
the preparation of daily summary memos and of weekly summaries disclosed • 
a supervisor would arrive at the office at approximately 5:30 a. m. each morning, 
Monday through Friday, to have the daily memos dictated and typed by 8:15 a. m. 
the same day, and the Supervisor responsible for the weekly summary due each 
Monday would spend approximately 6 hours preparing this communication on 
the prior Sunday. Noteworthy, too, is the fact that many responses to the 
letters from the Attorney General's Office require extensive re1:?earch. 
With the approval by the Attorney General to interview newspaper­
men, it is anticipated that the work load will increase rather than decrease in 
the immediate future. Initially there will be at least 75 newspapermen to be 
interviewed and numerous additional leads will be developed from these inter­
views. This investigation involves numerous facets and requires extensive 
work and supervision. 
Presently there are 9 Supervisors assigned to this case and their 
J.'.:esponsibi~i~i~s-_are ~s follows: • 
!,_.,Jioeij~~l!~. _pnit Chief, reviews all outgoing correspondence, 
reviews incoming reports in .bllsberg case; supervises preparation of daily 
summary memorandum, weekly White House memorandum in Ellsberg case, 
SALT Lek case (leak of classified information concerning Strategic Arms 
Limitations Talks appearing in "The New York Times"), and the Toll Lek 
case (leak from State Department cables concerning alleged misconduct of 
Bert M. Tollefson,_.Jr ;J; assists in setting out leads from daily teletype 
correspondence from field. 
J. R. Wagone:r:., as case Agent in McLek, responsible for review 
of all incoming reports as fo adequacy of reporting and leads; maintains and 
supervises operation of lead box in _Ellsberg case; responsible for follow-up 
communications on outstanding leads; has basic responsibility for preparation 
of weekly White House summary; assists in preparation of daily memorandum 
summarizing prior day rs investigative activity in the field. 
J. R. Hagx,, as case Agent, has all supervisory responsibility 
for Toll Lek; conducts research on all New Left aspects of Ellsberg investi­
gation and responsible for preparation of comprehensive analysis of New 
Left implication in the case; responsible for setting out leads relative to New 
Left associates and contacts by Ellsberg; responsible .for following field 
investigation; corroborating attendance by Ellsberg at New Left functions; 
assists in leads obtained from daily teletypes in McLek and Toll Lek cases; 
NW 38608 Docld:32989638 30 
