• 
Memo to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
Re: Senstudy 75 
62-116395 
• . SECRET 
CIA communicated with FBIHQ by lettens dated 
7/6/71 and 2/24/72, concerning the Nunez-Toro and 
Deborah Fitzgerald matter, requesting each time records 
review of Bureau files of numerous individuals of interest 
to CIA. On each occasion CIA was provided with the results 
of such checks. However, by letter dated 3/2/72, FBIHQ 
responded to CIA letter dated 2/24/72, by stating, "We have 
made a study of our f.ile concerning this matter (Nunez-Toro 
and Fitzgerald) and a detailed review of the referenced 
material. At the present time, it appears the paramount 
concern is whether Nunez and Deborah Jane Fitzgerald are 
obtaining intelligence information concerning your Agency, 
and you have established a network of sources to cover that 
aspect. As you indicate, there is no specific evidence 
that Nunez or Fitzgerald has any connection with a hostile 
intelligence service or a foreign government. We, therefore, 
will defer to your Agency until completion of your investigation 
or the development of information showing they are engaged 
in subversive activities within our primary jurisdiction." (S) 
The FBI did not conduct an internal security-type 
investigation regarding the relationship of Nunez-Toro and 
Fitzgerald. The FBI did conduct an internal security-type 
investigation of Nunez-Toro in 1965 as a result of his 
reported disaffection for the United States while living 
abroad. /we reopened that investigation in 1969 when it was 
reportehhat :t{uuez-Toro communicated with the Cuban Embassy,/, 
Ottawa, Canada( 1.That investigation was ·closed when it was 
established h:ilrs:::family desired to return to CUba and his ,. 
contact was in that regar9(s) 
A • f FBiuQ f • I ""~"'~1L~.J. • f • review o il i es GGR-.::i,.ll'R no in ormation 
that any FBI employee was knowledgeable, before or after 
the fact, of a surreptitious entry on the part of CIA 
personnel, into the premises of Nunez-Toro and Deborah 
Fitzgerald. That surreptitious entry by CIA personnel into 
the premises of Nunez-Toro and Fitzgerald located in 
Fairfax, Virginia, received considerable publicity recently, 
when it was alleged that Fairfax police assisted the CIA 
during the entry.($) 
ASSESSMENT: 
No compromise of an on-going FBI operation. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989633 Page 5 
* SECRET 
- 2 -
CONTINUED - OVER 
