• 
The BNPA is maintained in all offices. BNPA includes 
a photograph and biographical data on leaders of black extremist 
organizations, militant black nationalists who are known to travel 
and black extremists who are Bureau fugitives. Each office pre­
pares a form on such individuals within its territory and the 
form is then furnished to the Bureau and all offices where it is 
maintained in a complete album. In the event of travel by any 
of these individuals, the office covering the area being visited 
already has a photograph and biographical sketch of the individual 
immediately available. The album is also furnished to the Legats 
in Ottawa and Mexico City and to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police 
and Central Intelligence Agency, in the event of foreign travel. 
Over 470 extremists are currently carried in this album. Informa­
tion concerning fugitives was included to insure each office has 
a photograph and biographic sketch immediately available for its 
use in conducting investigation to locate or apprehend them. 
To insure broad circulation among investigative personnel 
a4d to serve as an avenue for greater utilization of informants, 
especially extremist sources, we initiated the Black Extremist 
Bureau Fugitives List in June, 1970. This list, which is prepared 
quarterly and sent each field office and selected Legats, 
identifies those Bureau fugitives who by reason of their activities 
or organizational affiliations are black extremists. For the 
months in which no quarterly list is prepared, all offices and 
·selected Legats are advised of deletions and additions to this 
list. Currently there are 64 fugitives listed, 20 of whom are 
IO fugitives. This list has given greater emphasis to the 
location of these fugitives, particularly among Special Agents 
handling extremist matters and extremist informants and has been 
effective in affording greater exposure of these fugitives among 
e~tremist informants, Thirty-two of these fugitives have been 
arrested since the list was initiated. 
j 
Bureau airtel 11/12/70 advised the field of formation 
of Black Extremist Section of Single Fingerprint File in Latent 
Fingerprint Section of the Identification Division. Field was 
instructed to insure all black extremists who have a propensity 
for violence or who would logically be considered suspects in 
s'erious crimes in which the Bureau may have an interest were 
included in the Black Extremist Section. 
