• 
- 4 
, ,, 
I 
\ 
I 
The case of E~ic Neison PSI, IS-R, 
was assigned to me on 12/17/70, 
therefore, I was not responsible 
for instruction or direction of the 
office of origin in this matter 
prior to that date and it has not come up for review on tickler 
as yet. With regard to the case of .:V:,l,a,g,imj.r G .• _,Azar,y_an., IS-R, 
this case is closed and has never been assigned to me. 
With regard to questions raised by the Inspector, 
the following is set out. 
It is presumed question one relates to our super­
visory policy with regard to the development of informants 
to be targeted against Soviet officials and/or Soviet agents, 
not against our double agents. It is our policy to encourage 
informant development of as many individuals as possible 
against a Soviet target to provide the widest spectrum of 
information concerning his social, business and personal life 
in order to develop data essential for in depth defection' 
!'.~?..lysis~ In ~-d~; ti nn.; ~P. Reek to identify those individuals 
whom the Soviets appear to be selecting for recruitment and 
to develop them to act in our behalf against the Soviets. 
Such highly controlled actions serve either to involve the 
Soviets in time consuming and costly operations in which they 
can only receive carefully selected and screened information 
or disinformation or may provide us the basis for effective 
counterintelligence actions against the Soviets, as is so 
well illustrated in the Aza,t,y~case. Our supervision in 
the development of informants is accomplished through the 
close review and analysis of the periodic progress letters 
submitted on Soviet officials; the direction which we afford 
to contact cases and to the cases resulting from the DESECO 
Program. • 
As the result of ari excellent counterintelligence 
effort formulated and carried out by the New York Office 
with Bureau guidance and direction, a defection approach 
was made to Aza:r;.x::i-aa by .JiX,,.,El.:m-s.._o;i....,,6~7.J!.'\, This informant 
had previously been handled by Yurix K •. Kitaev, another 
experienced, aggressive KGB officero As a result of this 
action, both Soviets departed the u. So almost immediately. 
The loss of these two experienced operatives most certainly 
caused a serious disruption in the activities of the 
~ew York Residency of the KGB. 
NW 38600 Docld:32989fill! Page £20 
