• • 
• • r 
SENATE SELECT COl1MITTEB ON INTELLIGENCE ACTMTIES (SSC) 
RE: DECEMBER 18~ 19'15, LETTER TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
FROM SENATORS .MONDALE AND BAKER 
The FBI is very reluctant to draw any conclusions from these 
General Accounting Officets statistics, and we maintain no records or 
statistics which would either refute or substantiate the inferences v1hich 
you apparently draw irom their interim report... The two percent may 
represent hundreds of eitizenst lives and thousands of dollars in potential 
property damage. It may only represent one life - a policeman, a citizen, 
perhaps a President or publie official. How does one measure the value of 
this type of information? Surely not solely in terms of percentages. 
You should perhaps consider the base from which the General 
Accounting Office apparently drew their statistics.. Their interim report was based 
on their review of 676 FBI domestic intelligence cases under investigation during 
Calendar Year 1974, in ten varied. u. S. cities. Over 50 percent otthese 6'16 cases 
were admittedly only preliminary inquiries.. These were limited investigations 
designed primarily to fully identify the subject through established sources 
nnd to ascertain whether that subject was in fact associated with an extremist 
group or organization, or was likely to engage in viol~nce himself .. That 
little advance information of planned violence evolved from these limited 
investigations is not surprising. 'Most of the information concerning planned 
violence would normally come from well-established informants 1n groups 
and would not likely show up in these individual case files. 
Also• had the General Accounting Office used as its base the 
years of greater incidence of domestic violence, such as. 1967-72, the figures 
might have been appreciably different .. 
Item 3 was a request for any analyses of the General Accounting 
Office's September 24, 1975. report. 
The FBI has not prepared any analytical memoranda or any analyses 
of the preliminary findings· of the General Accounting Office as presented to the 
House Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Constitutional Rights on September 24. 1975. 
-2-
NW 38601! Docld:32989570 84 
