:.: 
3. We want an end to the robbery by the 
Community. 
We believe that this racist government has robbed us and now we are 
demanding the overdue debt of forty acres and, two mules. Forty acres 
and two mules was promised 100 years ago as restitution for slave labor 
and mass murder of black people. We will accept the payment in currency 
which will be distributed to our many communities. The Germans are now 
aiding the Jews in Israel for the genocide of the Jewish people. The Ger­
mans murdered six million Jews. The American racist has taken part in 
the slaughter of over fifty million black people; therefore, we feel that this 
is a modest demand that we make. 
4. We want decent housing. fit for shelter of human beings. 
We believe that if the white landlords will not give decent housing to 
our black community. then the housing and the land should be made into 
cooperatives so that our community, with government aid, can build and 
make decent housing for its people. 
5. We want education for our people that exposes the true nature of this 
decadent American society. We want education that teaches us our true 
history and our role in the present-day society. 
We believe in an educational system that will give to our people a knowl­
edge of self. If a man does not have knowledge of himself and his position 
in society and the world, then he has little chance to relate to anything 
else. 
6. We want all black men to be exempt from military service. 
We believe that Black people. should not be forced to fight in tbe mili­
tary service to defend a racist goveniment that does not protect us. We 
will not fight and kill other people of color in the world who, like black 
people, are being victimized by the white racist government of America. 
We will protect ourselves from the force and violence of the racist police 
and the racist military, by whatever means necessary. 
7. We want an immediate end to POLICE BRUTALITY and MURDER 
or black people. 
We believe we can end police brutality in our black community by or­
ganizing black self-defense groups that lre dedicated to defending our 
black community from racist police oppression and brutality. The Second 
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States gives a right to bear 
arms. We therefore believe that all black people should arm themselves 
for self-defense. 
8. We want freedom for all black men held in federal, state, county 
and city prisons a11d jails. 
We believe that all black people should be released from the many 
jails and prisons because they have not received a fair and impartial trial. 
... _._-.,; :-.-w:•·:,: --· .. :::·· .... ... •• 
4 
NW 38614 Docld:32989ti-06 Page 127 
