: \ .. ,. .. . 
11 .. , . 
s • ._->•,· •• . . 
. •, 
' ~~ .. , . ' 
, .· 
·... . ...... • ., •, ~ ... - J.-:. :-
. . --·. 
'·· . . . ~ 
. . • • The specific issues with regard to domestic cases are: (1) Is 
the threat to the safety and tranquility of U.S. society posed by certain 
domestic groups of such magnitude to .justify electronic ·surveillance as an 
intelligence-gathering device to be used against them? (2) If so, is the 
threat of national, i.e. , Federal dimensions, or is the threat primarily to 
local or regional interests? (3) If this coverage is needed, has Keith 
presented obstacles; and if so, how can they be overcome? (4) If 
enabling legislation is the answer to (3), should the electronic surveil­
lance intelligence-gathering authority be given to the· Federal or local 
government, or both as in Title III? What should enabling legislation 
• entail? (5) ls there any option other than enabling legislation? 
The primary issue with regard to foreign cases is: Is 
Presidentially approved, warrantless electronic surveillance in cases 
involving a II significant connection" with a foreign power constitutional, 
or "legal. 11 On the resolution of this issue hangs· all else in these cases, 
viz. , admissibility of electronic surveillance evidence in court; degree of 
disclosure to be required in criminal proceedings; and if held illegal, 
the judicial review procedure to be proposed in order to continue such 
surveillances, if they are deemed of sufficient importance to continue them 
in the ~ace of additional risks inherent in a judicial review. 
4. Options for Future Policy 
The chief issue for future policy· consideration is, will the 
Department support the argument for the need for intelligence electronic 
surveillance? In foreign ~ases? In domestic cases? 
If so, then· the discussion centers on Department policy 
regarding the means to effect such surveillances. 
Foreign national security cases: 
Hopefully. the examples of intelligence value set out in the 
classified appendix of the attached study carried the argument that 
electronic surveillance in these cases is highly desirable, if not essential, 
to our counterintelligence efforts and to our foreign policy considerations. 
Even without specific examples of value derived from these surveillances, 
the bottom line argument is that electronic surveillance of foreign intelli­
gence services is at least an inconvenience to them, and makes it more 
difficult for them to carry on their intelligence activities. 
NW#:8~608 DocI•d: 32 98 9541 
-. 
I 
I 
