• • 3 
. ,,, ~Emergency Detention Program 
The Emergency Detention Program (EDP), which is field-wide, 
involves the planning for apprehension and detention of persons 
considered potentially dangerous to the national defense and public 
safety of the U. s. in time of a national emergency and for the 
search and seizure of contraband. The EDP is not a program as 
such but is based on Title II of the Internal Security Act (ISA) 
of 1950. The basic responsibility for the operation and implementa­
tion of the EDP rests with the Attorney General. Detailed plans 
regarding the EDP are drawn up and included in the "Attorney 
General's Portfolio," copies of which are in the Bureau's possession. 
This program has been maintained in an up-to-date status. 
Administrative plans for the implementation of the program in each 
office are maintained in the form of a "Detpro Survey." Lists of 
individuals to be detained are furnished to the Internal Security 
Division of the Department each month and the listing of places to 
be searched under authority of the Master Search ~arrant are main­
tained on a current basis. The Seat of Government and all field 
di visions J wi. th the exception of Honolulu, maintain essential 
records at safe locations for successtul implerueni:..at.ion o.f the EDP. 
Each office also maintains instructions to be turned over to the 
U.S. Attorneys and U.S. Marshals upon implementation. 
·This program is coordinated by Special Records Unit, 
Research Section. Primary responsibility rests with the De-partmerrt: 
and changes can be made only upon approval of the Department. We 
merely recommend and/or suggest any desirable changes. Periodic 
checks are made to insure that all records connected with the EDP, 
stored away from Headquarters cities, are current. Field division 
surveys are kept up to date and the Bureau is advised semiannually 
of the status. 
- Legislation was previously introduced in Congress to 
repeal Title II of the ISA of 1950. -when the 91st Congress ended, 
no· affirmative action had been taken in this regard. In the event 
Title II shotil..d be repealed at a future date under new legislation,_ 
the Government's inherent right to protect itself internally will 
continue to be safeguarded by the Bureau under its_basic responsibi 7 -
ity for protecting .this Nation's internal security. 
This program is under constant supervision and 
·re-evaluation so that any necessary changes and streamlining 
may be made. A memorandum justifying the continuance of this 
program was last submitted on 1/12/71. 
--NWdtiffl! Dociil:J~-~ 
