-
' ' ' 
' 
\ 
0e 
4-H 
I 
• This ability to produce such information has been recognized, as noted, 
by Dt .. Kissinger at the White House and by variou~ officials of the 
Central Inteffigence Agency in frequent contact with the Bureau. 
Specific comments regarding the HILEV program and its productivity 
may be found in the work papers of this inspection under Section 4-E, 
Accomplishments - Special Coordination Unit. 
: .3. Extent and Nature of Current Supervision 
The program as it relates to all friendly foreign countries 
(except West Germany) is coordinated by the Number One Man of the 
· ·_Nationalities Intelligence Sectton working through the separate supervisors 
assigned to the individual country's desk within the Section. 
4. Current Justification for Continuation 
This program continues to produce information of substantial 
value relative to Bureau investigations as well as substantive foreign 
political information of vital interest to the White House and members 
of the intellig0:::1ce ccm~'..!!'!:ity. The information r.optin11P.s to illustrate 
the FBI' s ability to produce valuable intelligence information relative 
, to foreign political matters and to solidify the Bureau I s position as a 
valuable source of foreign intelligence data. It is recommended that this 
program be continued; ... 
5. Periodic Justification 
. . Program is evaluated annually and was last justified by 
memorandum dated 5 /5 /7-1. . ... . . . . .~ 
. ~ '. 
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS - DANGEROUS 
ALIENS OF NATIONS OUTSIDE THE SOVIET BLOC 
. Program was initiated in April, 1951, to create a centralized 
compilation of undesirable and potentially dangerous aliens with diplomatic 
immunity agai11st whom State Department can, when wartime emergency 
arises, initiate steps for deportation or lifting of their diplomatic immunity. 
The program applies only to aliens from countries outside the 
Soviet bloc employed in the United States in international organizations 
within provisions of International Organizations Immunities Act. The 
NW 38608 [!ocld:32989£38 Page 180 
