• • 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence 
of FBI matters, in which Mohr told me that he has been called to be interviewed 
at 10:00 a. m. on Friday, May 9, 1975, at Room G-308 in the New Senate 
Office Building. Mark Gittenstein was identified as the interviewer. 
I told Wilderotter thi~ concerned me because we have no basis on which 
to advise Mr. Mohr as to the appropriate guidelines that may be followed 
during the course of such an interview and in the absence of knowledge of 
the subject matter of the interview we have no way of counseling him as to 
sensitive areas that should be deferred for discussion with members of 
the Committee or with the Chairman of the Committee. 
Wilderotter said he understood myv concern but he saw no way 
in which the matter could be resolved in time for guidelines to be 
established for the Mohr interview. He told ine he would work on the 
preparation of a position paper to be used by the White House .and the 
intelligence community to establish a policy that could be discussed with 
the Committee. 
Inspector Hotis and I then at approximately 11:10 a. m. went 
to a conference already in session in the office of Assistant Attorney General 
Scalia attended by representatives of the CIA, Department of Defense, 
NSA, Department of State and the Department of the Treasury. The other 
agencies were advised of the results of the meeting with the Senate Select 
Committee staff on May 6, 1975, and a general discussion ensued as to 
the willingness of the agencies to agree to interviews in the absence of 
agency representatives. The representatives of the State Department, 
Mr. Hitchcock and Mr. Jennings, indicated that State was adam~t that 
interviews would not •be conducted in the absence of representatives. 
I spoke privately with Assistant Attorney General Scalia and 
advised him of my conversation with Wilderotter and of the fact that 
John Mohr had been called for interview on Friday, May 9, 1975. I 
told him of my great concern that Mohr's interview would be sensitive 
because of his broad knowledge of the Bureau and told him that it was 
essential that appropriate guidelines be developed concerning such inter­
views as soon as possible. Scalia told me that he had just finished 
speaking with Wilderotter and her.shared my concern. He then 
called Wilderotter and subsequently advised me that Wilderotter said 
that he, Wilderotter, would immediately contact Schwarz to request ai 
postponement of the interview of John Mohr pending the establishment 
of guidelines. In the event he would be unsuccessful, Roderick Hills and 
Philip BlIChen would discuss the matter with Senator Church and Senator Tower. 
- 3 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38601! Docld:32900532 98 
