Q 
0 
• 
SECRET - SENSITIVE 
\vhich would accon1plish the activities. This \Vas because, if anything 
\Vere discovered by virtue of the action which ·would lead to a prosecution, 
the ~ction should be taken by the FBI, since the Department of Justice 
\Vould have responsibility for the prosecution. 
The only possible exception to the absence of any 11breaking and entering 11 
by the CI staff was the Tofti case. Tofti was a- long term employee of 
the Agency, who put. his house up for rent. Coincidently, another Agency 
employee went to look at the house for possible rental. In the course of so 
. doing, the second employee found that there were quite a number of 
classified documents on the third floor of the house. The employee then 
reported what he found to the Agency, which sent personnel over to recover 
the documents. (The documents related to \vorld-wide proprietaries of 
the Agency with which Tofti had been involved. Ultimately, Tofti explained 
that he intended to write a book about these matters and that was why_-_.the 
records \Vere in his home.) The Agency undoubtedly did not have time 
to advise the Bureau much in advance (if at all) of the Agency's effort to 
recover the subject documents. Stein also noted that this incident did not, 
in fact, involv~ ''breaking and entering" since the house was already opened 
to allow prospective renters to examine it. 
Stein said that he had found no instances of physical _surveillance done by 
the CI staff, although the staff would probably have been a\va.re of surveillance 
accomplished by other agency components or by the Bureau. , Stein cited 
as an example an instance where a female Agency e~ployee was found to 
be living v.,ith a man who could well have been working for a foreign 
Government. The Office of Security, therefore, put a surveillance on her house 
for approximately three \veeks. Discussions were also had with an informant 
within the Agency concerning this employee. (Files on this case would be 
maintained by the Office of Security). 
Stein found no evidence of any electronic surveillance or telephone taps 
accon1plished domestically by the CI staff. The staff had no personnel 
who could actually take any action. The staff~ in this regard, would 
have had an advisory capacity, if it participated at all. The CI staff 
\Vould simply advise the Bureau or other components of the Agency such 
as the Office of Security or the Office of Technical Services. In such 
instances the CI staff would not hold the file, except perhaps a memorandum· 
relating to t,1e .Pj ticular case, but Stein found no such memoranda. 
' I 
SECRET - SEf>JSITIVE 
2 
372 Page 3 
