,·. 
I 
I 
l,Nw 38£02 
j 
't:· 
' • 1 
If 
• • 
"No investigations should be conducte·d by any investi­
gative agency of the Government into matters involving actually 
or potentially any ~spionage, counterespionage, or sabotage, 
except by the three agencies mentioned above." 
"I shall be glad if you will instruct the hea.ds of all 
other investigative agencies than the three named, to refer 
immediately to the nearest office of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation any data, information or material that may come to 
their notice bearing directly or indirectly on espionage, 
counterespionage, or sabotage. 11 
It is to 
the language, with 
deals with matters 
be noted that in this statement or directive~ 
the exception of the word "counterespionage" I 
coming clearly within legislative enactments.J 
The September, 1939, directive stated, "The Attorney 
General has been requested by me to in,.struct the -Fede.r.al Bureau 
of Investigation of the Department of Justice t~take charge of 
investigative work in matters relating to espionage, sabotage, 
and violations of the neutrality regulations. 
"This task must be conducted in a comprehensive and 
effective manner on a national basis, and all information must be 
carefully sifted out and correlated in order to avoid confusion 
and irresponsiblity. 
"To th i s end I re q u es t a 11 po 1 i c. e o c er s , sh er i ff s , 
and all other law enforcement officers in the United States 
promptly to turn over to the nearest representative of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation any information obtained by them relating 
to espionage, counterespionage, sabotage, subversive activities 
and violations of the neutrality laws. 11 
In this document it is particularly import~nt to note 
that the language says the FBI is to "take charge of investiga­
tions" and not "assume jurisdiction" or "have authority to 
investigate" matters relating to espionage, sabotage, and 
violations of the neutrality regulations. The statutory authority 
Jo investigate the enumerated crimes was already present, but _the 
directive fixed responsibility for the FBI to conduct the 
investigations. In other words, this directive conveyed no 
authority not already possessed by the FBI by legislative enactment 
but merely established that no other investigative agency should 
handle the matters. 
- 3 -
Docld:32989ii09 Page 138 
