• f 
LEGAL ATTACHE OFFICES FOREIGN LIAISON 
~ . · COMMENTS OF SECTION CHIEF W • R. WANNALL:~ In response to the 
Inspector's inquiry, 
comments follow concerning (1) the 11 foreign offices in 
operation prior to the expansion in December, 1970 1 (2) the 
6 new offices opened in December, 1970, and (3) the 6 
additional offices which we proposed be opened in response 
to the Director's inquiry in May, 1971. With respect to 
-categories (1) and (2) it is noted that these 17 offices 
. have just undergone inspection, most of them during the 
·current month. As very few of the inspection reports are 
yet available, these comments are necessarily based upon those 
facets of the ·work which it is possible to observe from the 
Seat of Government. 
(l)· Offices in Operation Prior to Expansion 
·.·BERN· . ' 
·-
1 
Our operations in Switzerland are most delicate 
because of the fierce independence of·the Swiss, who would 
not permit the use of "Legal Attache" as it was considered 
too-widely identified with the FBI.· As a result, our 
._·repres~ntative is known in the Embassy and in Switzerland 
• merely as'an Attache. The office has become increasingly 
• · . • :· ,. important in the criminal field very recently-as a result of 
:: • the large scale thefts of.securities in the United States 
-=··. • ··.and their transportation to and attempted sale or hypothecation 
:·~n Switzerland. In addition, it has long been the goal to 
·obtain access to information concerning bank accounts opened 
" ... ;. 
in Switzerland by subjects of our investigations. Progress 
has been slow but we have been able to secure ·11mited 
information and the cooperation received is the direct r~sult 
0 ·of the personal liai~on of our Legal Attache. 
• .. , • Productivity 
During fiscal 1971,·the office located 7 fugitives 
and arranged 4 "informal deportations." Its pending case load 
· as of 6/30/71 was 83 which is approximately average on a per 
agent basis in the foreign field. Through 8/23/71 Bern had 
submitted 7 HILEV items of which 5 were actually disseminated. 
This is the smallest number of submissions of any Legal Attache 
and the second smallest number of acceptable items. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
4-H-1 
8/23/71 // J? 
NW 38608 ~111~ Page 191 
