.. 
NW38608 
.. • 
• • 
u. s. Senate- Select Committee 
to Study Governmental Operations 
With Respect to Intelligence Activities. (SSC) 
lvhere possible, steps have been taken to· insure that these cases 
are kept to an absolute minimum. lt is not~d prior to July, 
1973, the FBI co~ducted inv~stigatiOn$ ~oncerning nonprofessional 
positions in connecti9n with Departmental applicant/U. s. Court 
applicant inv~tigation$, sqch as general clerical personnel. 
It was determined and agreed upon thf;l.t -these investigations could 
be handled by the Civil Service Commisston and, therefore, they 
were transferred to that agency. 1 
\ 
\ ' 
A manpower utilization survey conducted during ffarch, 
197 5, disclosed that 2. 3% of field investigative -time by FBI • 
personnel was being devoted to these applicant-type investigations 
conducted for other Government agencies. This low percentage 
is indicative of the Bureau's efforts to hold down applicant-
type work to that ~ssential and necessary to meet our various 
commitments in thi$ field. We have an4 will continue to oppose 
legislation seeking to involve the FBI in routine applicant-type 
investigations. 
1 - The Attorney General 
NOTE: --
Senator Baker's question re Inspector General appears 
on pages 2473 and 2474 of the galley draft of Director Kelley's 
testimony. It is felt the answer given is proper in that any 
comment made r~ Inspector General concept governing other agencies 
would, in fact, be a comment on behal~ of the Director regarding 
conditions existing in and/or rteeds of oversight~ etc., of other agencies which could be misconstrued. Senator Hart's questions 
concerning COINTELPRO are contained on pages 2498 and 2499 of the 
proof and Senator Church's questions appear on pages 2506, 2507 
and 2508 of the proof. This matter has been coordinated by the 
Senstudy Project with Legal Counsel Division, Section IS-2 of 
INTD and the Employee Security and Special Inquiry Section of 
the Special Investigative Division . 
... '9 -
