. . 
j 
·.1 
i 
:J-L 
i 
I 
i ! 
\-cl<*1t•t':n+tccl!::::d&<t:et»b1~, ,r:w:0r1\ado1U•K1:JQM.:a..o• n »tw?feskxsrlr1ile>1 • 1-r•>·Si--e7rt1l0Hist-:rfi ,,....,.,,••<:-:eitti M&?Jtce>oo'>»t n1V$Unnin"'m'b:M.._..,, 
. ' . . . .. . . . . . ·,:, 
C. Type of Information Contained in the Files 
' Generally spea...ldng, there are no limits as to the type of information 
in our files. The FBI, by the very nature of its jurisdiction and its worldwide 
reputation as an elite law enforcement agency, attracts information. In addition 
to being responsible for investigations relating to interstate criminal activity 
throughout the United States, the FBI is also responsible-for the Internal Security 
o.f the United States. Ar1y intelligence organization survives on information 
uncovered by investigation or received from gther sources. Citizens write to 
the FBI regarding any matter which they feel is against the best interests of the 
United States or where they feel an individual or organization might be violating 
a law. The average citizen is not aware of the jurisdiction of the various 
investigative agencies, local, state or Federal and many of them bring their 
problems to the FBI. The FBI will promptly disse1ninate any 1natter which is 
under the jurisdiction of another agency to that agency. The nondisseminated 
information is either acted upon and filed, -or filed because no action is required. 
In addition to the filing of material relating to criminal and security 
1natters, the Bureau is responsible for a number of applicant-type (backgrov.11cl) 
investigations ai1d i:he information developed during Lhese investigations is filedo 
D. Disclosure of Information in FBI Files 
1. Responsibility for Proper Utilization of Inforn1ation 
Arnong the foremost of the FBI's responsibilities is the proper utilization 
of in.formation received either through investigative activities or through other 
1ne1ns as this information may be of vital interest to another Government agency 
or a local law enforcement agency. It is e},.,'i:remely important that the FBI keep 
these agencies informed concerning matters in which they would hav8 a legitimate 
interest. Information is disse1ninated at both field and Headquarters level, with 
FBIHQ making the information available to Federal agencies at the national level. 
2. Basis for Dissemin~tion 
ao To Government Agencies 
The FBI is under obligation to act as a clearing house for information whicb 
affects the Internal Security of the United States. This obligation is based on the 
following: 
\NW#:88608 Docid:32989541 
LI-. 
