• 
- 3 -
I 
I 
• 
A representative number of informant files were checked where the 
full amount under SAC authority was not utilized and it -&as determined pay­
ments were over a 3. 3 month period, for an average monthly payment of 
$73. 00 for each source. Subsequent to receiving approval to pay the source 
on a regular basis each source received an average of $152 over the next 
6-month period. It is concluded that if payments had continued for a longer 
period under SAC authority before paying on a regular basis, an average of 
approximately $80 less per month would have been expended in each case. 
On an annual basis this would be $960. Estimating that as few as 33% of the 
present number of Security Informants including New Left, Old Left (CPUSA), 
Extremists, Klan and other White Hate Groups have been developed in the 
past two years of the 1507 total number of Security Informants presently being 
-paid on a regular basis, this could b~ projected into $240, 000 less having been 
spent each year on these soµrces. 
Consequently~ it appears every effort should be expended to insure 
.that payments to informants on a regular basis should be initiated only after 
the source has furnished data on a continuing basis for at least 6 months and 
after he has been paid. the full amount under SAC authority on a COD basis 
for value received. There should be no objection to the field's obtaining 
Bureau authority to pay source up to another $400 SAC authority before paying 
on a regular basis. Certainly, the request to approve an individual as a PSI 
should not be coupled in the same communication with a request to pay that 
individual on a regular basis. (Of course, in exceptional and unusual cases 
facts could warr:µit conclusion that some sources could be paid on a regular 
basis in a shorter period of time.) This will also help to preclude informant's 
obvious conclusion that he is being paid on a salary basis because of the 
s_imilar amounts paid to him each month. 
In addition, all communicationR. a.w~roving the initial payments on 
a regular basis to security informants/Y>1e0¥6'o.ted through Mr. Tolson 's Office 
for review and ap_proval. • 
. It is felt a wider usage of payments under SAC authority to security 
informants, will in tne long :,;un, serve to substantially reduce total payments 
to them and further implement efforts to curtail costs in accordance with the 
Director's and President's recent directives on economy. 
Comme.nts of Assistant Director requested. 
3/r/ 
NW 313'600 332 
