I, 
' t 
• e . 
hung over America. Anti-German, anti-Italian and anti-Soviet 
sentiment swept over the country. People began to look for spies 
under their beds. It became very necessary to direct the 
Nation's energies in that regard into a sinile channel.· We could 
not have every police officer, sheriff and special deputy sheriff 
in the country running around investigating spies. By the same 
token, it was very necessary for the Government's resources to be 
directed towards identification and neutralization of very real 
espionage rings and potential saboteurs. The June, 1939, directive 
assured that the F~I would take charge of domestic internal 
security instead of several agencies working at cross purposes. 
The September, 1939, directive placed local law enforcement-brr 
notice and simultaneously provided for information of possible 
value to be funneled to the FBI which was responsible for the 
coordination and investigation. 
The September, 1939, directive, although not conveying 
any investigative authority to the FBI, did result in an 
additional workload for the FBI by .virtue of the fact that local 
police and other Federal agencies were referring matters to the 
FBI for investigative attention which were not previously called 
to our attention. While some of the matters could be logically 
fit into one of _the statutory crimes of espionage, sabotage or 
neutrality regulations, others could not be since the original 
information was often nonspecific or so nebulous that it could 
be categorized only after some inquiry was made locally. 
We were also faced with the reality of war and the 
fact that Germany, Italy, Japan and the Soviet Union had espionage 
apparatuses directed against the United States. While we might 
not ordinarily institute an investigation before the com_mission 
of a crime, such as the case of a bank robbery, motor vehicle 
theft, etc., the crimes of espionage and sabotage relate to the 
national security. It would hav~ not 6nly been folly, it would 
have been insane to wait until we had evidence of the commission 
of crimes of espionage or sabotage. Rather than wait until 
we had a complaint alleging the commission of one of these crimes 
we went .out and conducted· intelligence-type investigations to 
determine if there were espionage rings operating or if there 
were persons cons·piring to sab·otage the national defense. So the 
September, 1939, directive did affect our investigative operations. 
Not by giving us some new inv~stigative authority, but by assig-ning 
us the responsibility of coordinating all investigative activity 
in this regard. We were, of course, already in the intelligence­
gathering business as a result of the confidential arrangement 
agreed upon in August and September, 1936, among 
President Roosevelt, Director Hoover, and the Secretary of State. 
- 14 -
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989ti-09 149 A 
