SECRET = SEP'fSITIVE 
The ATP program for filing was simply that wh~n a name \Vas reported 
to CI staff, it was mechanically processed by personnel who exercised 
no judgment in recording the name. The names of both the Soviet and the 
American people involved in the contact \.vould be recorded. As a result of this 
process, the ATP file index \Vas able to develop a great deal of information 
on Soviet contacts with Americans. If, as a result of information obtained, 
CI staff had reason to believe that a aprticular person had been recruited 
. by the Soviets, that information would be forvvarded to the Office of Security 
for the Agency, if an_y Agency officer were involved, or to FBI, if an American 
outside the Agency was involved. 
·stein explained that this program was condu: ted by CI staff instead of by 
the FBI or State, because the program might vvell contain information 
\vhich would be relevant to CIA purposes, but not relevant to the purposes 
of the other Agencies. Thus, the files might \vell contain inf or mat ion 
concerning krown KGB Agents. That information, in turn could have .:• 
derived from a sensitive source, the identity of vvhich CIA would not \Vant 
to have revealed. Accordingly, the information was stored by the Agency 
rather than the other possible .Governmental components. Information 
relevant to those components, however, was made available to them from 
the ATP proj_ect. 
The information utilized l>y ATP could have be en derived,as noted, from 
reports of other Governmental components or from info: mation provided 
by any American. This \.Vould be information provided voluntarily, either 
by a person actually having a contact with a foreign in.telligence officer 
or by persons with knowledge that someone else had had such a contact. 
The information could be parti~ularly useful, not only to the CIA, but to 
other Governmental component's. For example, the State Department's 
Office of Security might report that a State officer had had a contact over 
a long ·period with a Soviet. The CI staff could check all its information 
on that Soviet and confirm whether they had reason to believe that the 
Soviet \.Vas in fact an agent. 
Another source of files on Americans held by CI staff might be the product 
[?f code-breaking by NSA_:- Thus, in reading codes, nan1.es of Americans 
may appear_] Some of these may be innocuous,· and some may be spies. 
In any event, all these names are also indexed, although the index is 
separate from ATP, because of the~~nsi..tivity of the NSA prograr£,lis well 
as the information derived therefrom. • 
SECRET SENSITIVTY 
4 
372 Page 5 
