• ..... 
• • 
u. s. Senate Select Committee 
to Study Governmental Operations 
With Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC) 
by the Director with members of tha House Subcommittee rega:-cding 
this Bureau•s efforts to neutralize groups and organizations involved and that there was no. critical comment made in regard 
thereto. 
kn FBI Headql.larters supe'.t'Visor who was assigned 
responsibility for COINtELPRO matters during the period 1964 to 1967 recalls that on a number of occ&siorts he was required to prepare informal memoranda and sUllllllaries relating to COINTELPRO 
actions. It was his understanding this material was to be 
utiliz¢d by Director Hoover in connection w!th briefings of various Government officials. 
A review of FBI files has not located any document indicating higher authority was formally advised of the existence 
of the COINTELPRO effort directed against r~.volutionary New Left 
elements. It should be pointed out the program that targeted 
the New Left was qnly in existence during the period 1968 to 
1971 (35 months) and only 285 actions were approved, which 
represent .approximately 12 per~ent of all actions approved in the 
basic COINTELPROS. Additionally, during the time period of the 
New Left program this Bureau was engaged in extensive. reporting 
and dissemination of information relating to activities and 
violence. perpetrated by revolutionary elements,. including_ the 
so-called New Left. 
The Chairman,. Senator Frank Church. inquired as to how 
much time and money is being spent by the FBI in conducting 
investigations on pOS$ible Presidential appointments to Federal 
offices~ plus any other information which would indicate what 
proportion of the FBI's time and eff9rt was absorbed in this kind 
of activity. Senato~ Church also asked the Director ~o supply 
the number of such investig~tions conducted e~ch year beginning with 1970 and also info'rlllation as to- what offices are now 
covered by such investigations. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989570 Page 108 
