r 
) 
.. 
• 
. .. 
(4) Puerto Rican independence groups, specifically those 
who seek to bring about independent status for Puerto Rico by 
means of force and violence, are the subject of intelligence-
type investigations. No groups seeking independence of Puerto Rico 
by lawful means are investigated. The violence-prone grciups have 
committed acts ranging from attempted assassination of the President, 
accompanied by murder, to acts of terrorism involving bombing, 
arson, and shootings. Much of the violence-prone groups' activity. 
is planned in communist Cuba. Many of the leaders of the violent 
pro-independence groups are communists or followers of Leninist­
Marxist philosophy. 
Nationalities Intelligence Section is of the opinion that 
the aims and activities of the above-mentioned groups and similar 
organizations border on statutory violations; that while we do not 
rely on statutory prohibitions for authority to investigate them, 
it must be recognized that the reason investigations are initiated 
closely approaches the elements involved in conspiracy violations. 
Nationalities Intelligence Section opines that if we must look 
toward actual written authority for this kind of investigation, 
it appears we must rely on the Executive order (directive?) dated 
September 6, 1~39, and subsequent reaffirmations of that order, 
noting that the 1939 directive and later supporting directives 
were published at a time when this country was involved in armed 
hostilities abroad. 
Nationalities Intelligence Section observed that it 
appears necessary at this time to seek a properly worded Executive 
order which clearly sets forth the desires of the President in 
his capacity as the chief administrator of our country. Such an 
order should carefully distinguish betw~en acts which are clearly 
opposed to the constitutional basis under which we operate and 
those which, no matter how unpopular, are nothing more than an 
expression of ideas. Finally, Nationalities Intelligence suggests 
that detailed guidelines from the Attorney General should be 
issued, based on the Executive order or directive. 
COMMENT - REBUTTAL 
While I agree completely with the suggestion that a 
detailed Presidential order is needed, along with guildelines 
issued by the Attorney General, I disagree that we cannot investigate 
the violence-prone Puerto Ricans and the Revolutionary Union and its 
spin-off, the Venceremos Organization, under existing statutes. 
I feel also that all we need to cover the JDL and the Arab terrorists 
like a blanket is a request from the Secretary of State to the 
Attorney General under the statutory authority relating to 
foreign relations which has previously been described herein 
and in accordance with Title 28, USC 533, set forth in the 
- 31 -
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989ti-09 166 
