. . ' , , 
J J •• 
.. 
•.,_, I 
' ' . . ' • 
2. Counterintelligence 
• 6 
. Electronic surveillanc¢s assist our counterintelligence 
efforts by providing personality data and information regarding 
the contacts and activities of known and suspected foreign 
intelligence officers. This information assists in planning 
counterintelligence activity, assessing defection potential, 
analyzing routines and patterns, conserving manpower, and in 
directing fiources against these officers. , 
Sf!NS1n11e /:'oltl!I GN JNT~lLIGEIJ~e. lf.Jf:D~MAnou l 
. There are currently ·-ill known and _J.!l.. suspected Soviet· 
intelligence officers, and 72 known and 43 suspected Soviet­
:hloc intelligence officers in the United States. 
Examples of information obtained via electronic 
su~veillance of value to our counterintelligence responsibility . 
. are as follows: • • 
An individual was detected ·in contact with a hostile 
-intelligence service in September, 1972. He expressed a desire. 
to defect and to offer information regarding United States naval 
intelligence to which he had access. Although the interception 
did not give us his name, it provided sufficient information to 
conduct an investigation which established his identity, con­
firmed that he had been engaged in very sensitive naval 
communications intelligence, and disclosed that he was a fugitive. 
wanted on local charges. He was arrested on November 23, 1972. 
• In one case, electronic surveillance furnished infor­
mation, within four days of its installation·, of a contact 
between an official of the Soviet Illegal Support Branch and 
ah individual who appears to be a Soviet illegal agent. 
Electronic surveillance furnished information con­
cerning an attempt in 1969 by a United States serviceman to 
defect to the Soviets. 
An example of the value of electronic surveillance 
coverage in foreign terrorist matters involved an Al Fatah leade~ 
formerly in the United States. In the Summer of 1972 he 
departed this country for a visit to.the Middle East .. He later 
applied for a reentry permit which was denied. In late 
November, 1972, a telephone surveillance disclosed a contact 
by an individual suspected to be the Al Fatah leader. An 
SECRET 
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION/NO DISSEMINATION ABROAD 
- iii -
.Ooc.I.d..:..3,2..9$ ~4.L 
