' ) 
\ 
I 
CIA also becomes involved in poiitical and 
psychological warfare type of programs directed against 
targets in foreign countries. The Agency broadly refers 
to this activity as· "covert action." Tho'programs aro 
essentially designed t6 influence individuals, organizations· 
or governments through various news media, and this will 
include the utilization of "agents of influence .. " Tl\iS 
activity falls under tho International Organizations"" 
Division (IOD)· o~ CIA, which has no responsibility to 
collect information .. IOD does use people in the 
United States to help implement the overseas programs 0 
Quite often the Agency uses cutouts or covers for such 
• .an operation. Alth~igh IOD does not engage in intelligence 
• collection, it is a CIA division which should be.kept in 
mind~ since its activities quite often will be tangent to 
matters of interest to the Bureau. For example, IOD 
becomes involved in the World Youth Festival, where its 
objective is to neutralize communist influence. We, of 
course 1 have had an interest in the Festival because of the 
participation of Americans, including members of the CPUSA. 
Theoretically, IOD is required to coordinate closely with 
other appropriate components of CIAo We do not believe 
that this coordination has neen effective enough. 
There is no doubt that there are individuals 
in CIA who aspire to broaden the Agency's operational 
activities in the United Stateso Such individuals would 
like to see an arrangement similar to one currently in 
:force in England where MI-6 has a free hand to assess and 
recruit all foreigners, including diplomats, where there 
is no evidence that they are engaged in intelligence 
-activity. If such evidence is obtained, MI-6 is required 
to coordinate with MI-5 .. There are people in CIA who 
would like to see similar machinery and in addition would 
want the freedom to conduct certain investigations and 
maybe even institute technical surveillances. 
In summary 1 CIA so far has a very limited 
. capability to recruit foreign diplomatic sources in the 
•••• :··:;_··!·united States,' but· the Agency-appears-,to,ha-ve-·done. fairly ..... ,'•:··= 
well with a relatively small staff; however, it can be 
anticipated that this capability will increase. CIA's 
effectiveness will probably be adversely affected for 
some time to come because of the Agency's well-known 
cte·f i:ciencies·, such as lack· of discipline, loose admin- L. 
•. istr~tion~ an4.lack of skilled and talen~ed perso~nel.· 
·1 . ,.. : • • 
- 63 -
