V , 
U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
ALDEN F. MILLER BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
SA Miller was asked whether charges were incurr.ed·for such 
service, to which he replied payments were made for all 
services rendered by the Southern Bell Telephone Company, 
whether it be leased lines or other telephone-type service. 
SA Miller was asked whether he had issued the orders for 
leased lines or other service and if so, what name was 
utilized in issuing such orders, to which SA Miller replied 
that if leased lines or other service was ordered through 
the Security Office of Southern Bell Telephone Company, that 
he had ordered same, however, he could not recall at this 
time the name utilized for such service. 
SA Miller was asked further did he issue the order 
for having a private working number installed in the monitoring 
plant, to which he replied he could not recall whether such an 
order was issued or given by him and if it was, whether it was 
done through the Security Office or done in a routine fashion 
like any person requesting normal telephone service. 
SA Miller was asked if he recalled where the 
technical installations were made, towhich he replied he 
did recall and could point out the locations, however, could 
not recall the addresses of these locations. SA Miller was 
asked the location of the monitoring point, to which he 
replied an apartment in an apartment building located 
diagonally across the street from the Federal Building 
housing the offices of the FBI. 
SA Miller was asked whether he was resp0nsible for 
renting the apartment which was· used for monitoring this 
technical installation, to which he replied he dld not think 
that he was, but was of the opini0n that the case Agent 
rented the apartment. SA Miller was asked where in the 
apartment building was the apartment located, to which he 
replied he could only recall it was in the upper portion 
of the building, pn0bably above the tenth or twelfth floor 
and that it was located immediately adjacent to a wire closet. 
SA Miller was asked the cover name used in renting this 
apartment, to which he replied at this late date he could 
not recall the exact name utiliz~d, but was of the opinion 
- 4 -
NW 386iOI! Docld:32939626 53 
