SURVEYS, PROJECTS, AND/OR INTENSIFICATION PROGRAMS 
SECTION CHIEF GEORGE C. MOORE 1~ ~ 
EXTREMIST INTELLIGENCE SECTION 
BLACK "EXTREMIST MATTERS 
4-H 
Racial matters investigations were intensified through 
establishment of the Racial Intelligence Section on 10/2/67. 
By memorandum dated 7/14/71 it was reconnnended, and 
the Director approved, that the Racial Intelligence Section 
would, thereafter, be kno,m as the Extremist Intelligence Section 
and the character ·of cases supervised would be changed from 
Racial Matters to Extremist Matters. This action was taken as 
th~ maj'ority of ext:r.@mi~t activity in U.S. is not based ~olely 
on racial hatred but based on a destre to overthrow U.S. 
Government by revolution. 
Jhis section handles extremist matters investigations 
involving black extremist organizations and individuals. 
Objectives are to identify organizations and individuals that are 
involved 1n extremist activities, that advocate or had actually 
connnitted or have conspired to connnit acts of violence, that 
advocate revolutionary or terrorist activities and that violate 
Federal laws. The dangerousness to the U.S. of such individuals 
must be assessed and a determination made as to whether they 
should be included in the Security Index. The extent of 
foreign influence or influence of the Connnunist Party or other 
domestic revolutionary groups among black extremists, especially 
black extremist orgaµizations, is a prime objective. To 
accomplish these objectives, sources have been developed who 
can furnish quality and timely info:pnation concerning individual 
extremists and extremist organizations. Such sources likewise 
have forewarned us of potential violence and enabled the Bureau 
to stay on top of the black extremist situation. These sources 
have assisted the Bureau in executing its responsibilities of 
alerting local authorities, and of keeping other Government 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/19/71 . 
·T.n.J A • 1 ,f J 
-~~rf-1 
4-H t.: 
38ti-Oa Docld:32989fi38 Pa e 137 
