• 
. 
• 
As to the Espionage and Extremist Intelligence 
Branch clerical reduction recommendations, the following 
comments are made. 
Nationalities Intelligence will reduce one clerk 
as recommended. 
1 
In the Espionage Section there are 16 substantive 
desk supervisors with 13 clerks actually performing the work 
for these supervisors, a ratio of .81 per supervisor. To 
reduce this number by four would result in the ratio .~6 or 
roughly 1/2 clerk per supervisor. 
The Clerk-Stenographer position provides the 
incumbent to perform clerical work only 20 per cent of her 
time. The use of a Clerk-Stenographer in the Special Cases, 
Officials - New York, and Officials - Washington Field Units 
thus would not absorb the extra work placed on the remaining 
clerks in these Units and such is not considered feasible. 
The use of a Special Clerk now handling cases in lieu of a 
Special Agent supervisor in the Satellite Unit to handle clerical 
functions for a Supervisor would defeat the purpose of 
establishing this position and would place an unfair burden 
of responsibility on that Special Clerk who should be free to 
concentrate on the supervision of her own cases. 
·In summary, it is felt that the present clerical 
assignment is the minimum number necessary to handle the 
voluminous, work associated with 5,575 cases currently 
assigned to this Section. 
The Racial Intelligence Section can absorb the 
case load of 559 cases but will need a minimum of one clerk 
to accompany these cases. This Section was not recommended 
by the Inspector to reduce clerical complement and it is 
not felt practical to absorb 559 cases and no clerical • 
personnel. This is particularly true when it is considered 
no Agent personnel are being received with these cases. 
, 
I believe the above reductions, totalling three, are in 
good faith with the Inspection Staff's and my own desire to 
obtain maximum utilization of personnel and continue an 
efficient and practical operation. Further reduction would 
merely result in Agents performing clerical f4nctions, and with 
the continued escalation in case loads and current special cases 
being handled, I do not believe further reductions can be made 
within the bounds of good personnel management amlbest 
utilization of clerical vs. Agent manpower. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989£.JB Page 325 . •.,... ... 
