,/,I .... 
• 
The Deputy Attorney Generai. 
After assuming the office of Direeto:r. I have had ~.n 
opportunity to afford further thought to this question and atpreciate that 
there are some substantial considerations that question whether the 
Director of the FBI should be restricted to a given term of office. From 
a practical standpoint, it is doubted that legislation to specific&Uy restrict 
the tei .. m of office of a Presidential appointee is necessary o • 'll/e know of 
no clear-cut authority to remove an official who has received a Presidential 
appointment. However, in the final analysis, the President would likely 
get his way because he has the power to appoint a successor t in this case 
the Director. In effect, in absence of tenure, the Director will be serving 
at the pleasure of whoever is President. 
Should the position of Director of t11e FBI be singled out for 
restriction as to term of office? An informal check by this Bureau has 
disclosed no restrictions on the tenure of beads of other investigative 
agencies; namel~r, Central Intelligence Agency, Drug Enforcement 
Adm!nistrationj and Seeret Se1-vice. Accordingly, to single out the 
Directorship of the FBI would be in effect an exception. To provide 
tenure for tha Director of the FBI would be tantamount to placing him 
in the same category as heads and commissioners of regulatory bodies 
and the Inte1·state Commerce Commission who do serve for specific 
periods. The latter officials make regulatory decisions affecting the 
Nation and specific tel"ms of office have the effect of assuring a 
continuing balance of political power. The office of Director of the 
FBI is not political. 
Experience has. shown that cooperation by other law 
enforcement agencies and the general public has been instrumental 
in FBI investigative success. While it cannot be precisely meas11red, 
the degree of con.fidence inspired by the individual serving as Director 
influences the quality and quantity of such cooperation. The office of 
Director, a non-political one, has been charged with the responsibility 
of providing factual information upon which administrations of diverse 
political persuasions could formulate prosecutive policy and look after 
the internal security interests of the country. Singling out the position 
• ' 
-2-
NW :88608 Docid:32989541 
. i t 
I l 
