1 ! 
I 
i ," I 1 
1Government in these files, I would estimate that a conse;rvative minimum of 
over two pieces of correspondence originated at Seat bf Government in each 
of the 105 classification group as a whole. With an average caseload of 
280 per Supervisor, this would mean that 560 outgoing communications 
would be submitted each year. Minus weekends and holidays, there are 
252 workdays in a year and I would estimate an average of 32 days per 
man would be accounted for by annual leave, sick leave, inspection assign­
·ments, tour assignments, firearms and physical examinations. This would 
leave 220 days for productive work per Supervisor. This would mean 
that each Supervisor would be required to review the necessary files and 
dictate approximately two and one-half communications per day. I feel this 
is perhaps a conservative estimate inasmuch as many of the cases involved 
relate to foreign diplomats and in each case, at the inception, we have to 
prepare a communication to Department of State setting forth basic facts 
about the individual and obtaining authority to investigate, and, thereafter, 
issue appropriate instructions to the field. Thus; in these cases, there 
are two outgoing communications prepared at the very inception. 
In addition to measuring work on the basis of outgoing corres­
pondence., I think note must be taken of the fact that the Espionage and 
Nationalities Intelligence Sections have a responsibility with regard to over 
130 countries. The vast majority, of course, are of concern to the 
Nationalities Intelligence Section. Supervisors on the va,rious desks have 
to be aware of conditions existing which affect the Bureau's responsibilities 
in the intelligence field and this encompasses the review of much intelligence 
material which shows up in the incoming mail count, all of which must be 
properly reviewed and coordinated. 
During the inspection a mail count was kept for five days and 
the results, of course, are available to the Inspector. In this connection, 
during the five-day period, each Supervisor in the Espionage Section 
received an average of 255 pieces of regular incoming mail (such as, Seat 
of Government memoranda, letterhead memoranda, teletypes, airtels, 
cables, letters from field, and letters from outside agencies) for a total 
of 37 8 pages. Other incoming mail (such as intelligence reports and cables 
from other agencies, Bureau Source 6 and Bureau Source 200 items, 
publications, visa notifications and similar such items) averaged 40 items 
per Agent in the Espionage Section and the pages totaled 213. With regard 
to outgoing mail, there was an average per man of 11 items and 18 pages 
of dictated material and 7 9 items and 157 pages of outgoing nondictated, 
all of which involved prepa;ration of material for dissemination to other 
agencies. In the Nationalities Intelligence Section, the comparable average 
figures per Supervisor were 213 items and 416 pages of incoming regular 
mail, 109 items and 440 pages of other incoming mail, 22 items and 40 
pages of outgoing dictated mail, and 68 items and 169 pages of outgoing 
nondictated mail. 
