I. 
I 
I 
' 
\ 
. '· 
; • I 11 . • !I 1:i: • , ii 
: . -
I) I 
•. ·. ,, .tJ ~-.• 
II. BACKGROUND OF FEDERAL ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE LAW 
The term electronic surveillance encompasses both 
wiretapping (tap), i.e., the interception of a telephone 
conversation by a third party, and microphone surveillance 
(bug), i.e., the interception of a nontelephone conversation 
by means of a microphone which can lead either to a recorder 
or merely transmit the conversation to a third party, or 
both.· Both wiretapping and microphone surveillance can be 
•• conducted with or without the knowledge and consent of the 
parties to the conversation. Consensual monitoring, i.e., 
tapping or bugging with the consent of one of the parties 
to the conversation, has generally been held to be legal, 
and is not considered in the following discussion. 
The separate development of the law pertaining.to 
.wiretapping and microphone surveillance is, since passage of 
·Title III of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
1968 and the Keith decision, apparently of historical interest 
.. only. 
Prior to Title III and Keith, the law that developed 
around electronic surveillances concerned itse+f primarily 
with the admissibility of evidence obtained from electronic 
surveillances rather than with the basic issue of the 
• "legality" of electronic surveillance itself. ·Evidence, or 
evidence obtained from leads, g?,thered via wiretapping was 
excluded from any criminal prosecution on the basis that pre-
·sentation of such evidence was a "disclosure" prohibited by 
Section 605 of the Federal Communications Act; and evidence, or 
evidence obtained from leads, gathered via a microphone surveil­
lance or a wiret·ap was excluded if it was determined the instal­
lation required a "trespass" and was thus an unlawful ~earch and 
seizure. {These decisions often turned on technicalities 
s~ch as minimal physical penetration by a "spike mike.") 
Title III established the Congressional intention 
that electronic surveillance, under specific conditions, is 
to be lawful and the evidence obtained therefrom admissible. 
Title IlI also, while not ·conferring any statutory 
authority on the President, indirectly recognized that he was 
authorizing warrantless electronic surveillanqes in matters 
... > "'< 
I 
i • I 
