, NW 38ti-Oa 
U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO SWDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
DONALD P. BURGESS BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
SA Burgess was then asked about the personal type 
information regarding personal misconduct, whether or not 
he felt the collecting of this type of information was 
justified. SA Burgess replied that information regarding 
personal misconduct or immoral activities on the part of 
King was not the prime purpose or interest of the telephone 
monitoring, but that he did feel that evidence of gross 
personal misconduct and completely amoral activities was 
significant in this particular case, bearing in mind the 
original justification for the telephone monitor and the 
fact that Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr. was a moral leader 
of world stature and a religious personality. SA Burgess 
said that he therefore felt a complete dou~le standard of 
personal conduct as opposed to public image was significant 
inasmuch as such behavior would make Doctor King subject 
to pressure or blackmail by the worst criminal or subversive 
elements in our society. 
SA Burgess was asked if the type of in~ormation 
regarding Doctor King's personal misconduct was disseminated 
to other agencies or the press and SA Burgess replied that 
he did not know. SA Burgess was asked if he ever disseminated 
any information regarding the personal misconduct on the 
part of Doctor King to the press or others, and SA Burgess 
replied he had not. 
Mr. Epstein Said that he assumed that SA Burgess 
was aware of some of the allegations that had appeared in 
the press regarding FBI dissemination of this type of 
information, and SA Burgess replied that he was aware of some 
of these allegations but he had no specific knowledge regarding 
these matters. • 
SA Burgess was asked if he ever reviewed the 
communications regarding Doctor King based upon informatio~ 
monitored, and SA Burgess replied that he merely recorded 
the results of the interception of telephone conversations. 
- 3 -
45 
