U. S~ SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
DONALD P. BURGESS BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
where the possibility of violence existed so that firsthand 
observation of any possible violation of Federal statutes 
could be • • h~g. • by impartial observers, and that any 
subsequent investigation would not be dependent upon the 
_sometimes impassioned observations of persons on either side 
of a controversial issue. 
At this point in the conversation, Mr. Epstein 
was reminded by SA Burgess that the purpose of the interview 
was the investigation of Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr., and 
Mr. Epstein replied that he was interested in observations 
of ~ivil rights matters insofar as Doctor King was involved. 
SA Burgess replied that the only specific demonstration 
or civil rights activity he recalled in which he acted as an 
observer where Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr. or SCLC was 
involved was in Americus, Georgia, in 1965, and he could recall 
very little regarding this matter. 
SA Burgess was asked at one point during the interview 
if, during the time he served as a monitor on the telephone tap 
of Doctor King, there was a tap on SNCC. SA Burgess repiliied 
that he had no recollection of a telephone tap on SNCC, (Student 
Nonviolent Coordinating Committee). 
Mr. Epstein asked why SA Burgess was removed from 
monitoring telephones mentioned above. SA Burgess said that ~t 
:was at his request as he had completely recovered from a 
debilitating illness and was very frankly quite bored with an 
inactive assign..ment. 
Mr. Epstein asked if SA Burgess remained on the 
Security Squad in•the Atlanta Office and what type of cases 
he handled after that period. SA Burgess replied that he 
did remain on the Security Squad until December, 1966 or 
January, 1967, and that he had handled geµeral security matters, 
but not the investigation of Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr. 
Mro Epstein asked why SA Burgess was reassigned and 
was advised it was a routine aclministrative reassignment. 
5 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989626 47 
