QUESTION: 
ANSWER: 
QUESTION; 
ANSWER: 
QUESTION: 
ANSWER: 
NW 38601! 
• 
permiss~on. There is some dictum to indicate, at 
present, that this may be b-rought up later. But, I 
know of no authori~ation which can be obtained per se 
for a surreptitious entry. And, at this point, of 
course, the feeling is tpat these confined as they 
are to foreign counterintelligence it flows from 
presidential authority as it applies also to the 
warrantless wiretaps. 
Weren't the civil rights groups, Mr. Kelley, among 
some of the organizations who were burglarized? 
I'm not going to say anything about where they were, 
or against which organizations they were directed, 
only to say that they were, Mr. Nelson, and I hope 
that will satisfy you, and I hope that if there is 
any revelation to be made later that they can be as 
complete as possible because, again, we feel that 
the intent was a very good one and there was no 
illegality concerned. And the impact of it was to 
protect the country. 
Sir, how can you say that there was no illegality 
concerned if the Constitution says that you have to 
have a search warrant to make an entry and without, 
as I understand it, even checking this with the 
Attorney General, these Agents burglarized private 
premises? 
The resolution of the problem which you now present 
is up to the Department and the courts, and I, of 
course, will not engage in anything except to say 
that in the defense of the men who authorized and 
participated, that they had this intent and within 
every criminal violation there is a necessity that 
there be the ingredient of intent and there was none 
here as far as I can determine. 
Mr. Kelley, would you say, sir, that most of these 
requests for surreptitious entry flowed from presi­
dential authority? Is that what you said, sir? 
No, I did not say that. I did not give a complete 
outline as to what the authorization was. And, this 
again will be a matter which will be discussed in 
the reviews of the Department and the various Congres­
sional committees. 
- 14 -
