VENCEREMOS BRIGADE 
s. MILLER: The Venceremos Brigade (VB) 
originated with a group of 
Americans who traveled to Cuba in January, 1969, to take 
part in the celebration of the tenth anniversary of the 
Cuban revolution. The national organization of the VB 
obtained support from a wide spectrum of leftist organizations 
including the Communist Party, Socialist Workers Party, and 
the Progressive Labor Party, as well as violent revolutionary 
groups such as the Black Panther Party, La Raza (a militant 
Mexican-American civil rights group), and the Weatherman 
faction of the Students for a Democratic Society. 
The idea of aiding Fidel Castro in meeting his 
proposed quota of harvesting ten million tons of cane sugar 
for 1970 quickly took the fancy of the young revolutionaries.· 
Two hundred sixteen young Americans went to Cuba in November, 
1969, to cut sugar cane and returned on February 11, 1970. 
The second contingent of 687 American youths left New Brunswick, 
Canada-, 011 F-ebr~a.I'y l3, l970 1 ~00?_'.1"''2 ~- onrii:rp'l'.'-f:e{l Cnb!1n c::1ttle 
boat and returned 011 April 28, 1970. The third contingent of 
407 individuals sailed for Cuba aboard the Conrado Benitez 
on August 25, 1970. They returned to New Brunswick, Canada, 
on October 21, 1970. Presently a fourth group is being formed 
to leave on or about March 1, 1971, to stay in Cuba until 
appro~imately May 15, 1971. 
While no evidence has been received tlat those persons 
who traveled to Cuba received guerrilla warfare training in 
Cuba, they were constantly told that they were the vanguard of 
the revolution in the United States. They were told the only 
way to defeat the imperialistic Government of the United States, 
which must be overthrown, is through revolution. 
Under the current instructions individual cases are 
opened to locat~, interview, and recommend placement on the 
Security Index·on each person who traveled to Cuba. The SAC 
may authorize the interview except where the person is under 
21 years, is currently a student or professor, has some connection 
with an institute of learning, or is a journalist. In these 
instances Bureau authority must be obtaineq for the interview. 
Investigation of these persons, under the current instructions, 
is that the case remain open for one year with 90-day verifications 
of residence and employment after their interview. The purpose 
is to determine whether their inclusion on the Security Index 
~l/ after the interview is warranted • 
. /J((f \\DO:MESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
f_J, 1/20/71 
Pf.\i. ·:PJD: maz .J t)' 
