NW38608 
,, .. 
£ • j 
-tract~~l obligations. The deter. ,.1ation of th~~ need. -
shall be made by officials having responsibility for the 
classified information or material. 
D. Consent of Originating Department to Dissemination 
~ Reciuient. Except as otherwise provided by Section 
102 of the National Security _Act of 1947, 61 Stat. 495, 50 
U .S .C. 403, classified information or material originating 
in one Department shall not be disseminated outside any 
other Department to which it has been made available 
without the consent of the originating Department. 
E. Dissemina.tion of Sensitive. Int~lligence Information. 
Informa·tion or material bearing the notation "t1ARNING_ 
NOTICE -- SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND 
METHODS INVOLVED 11 shall not be disseminated in any. 
manner outside authorized.channels without the permission 
of the originating Departme:n,t and an assessment by the 
senior intelligence official in the disseminating Department 
as to the potential risk to the national security c).nd to the 
intelligence sources and methods involved_. , 
F. Restraint ~ Special Access Requirements. The 
establishment of special rules limiting access to. distri­
bution and protection of classified i:n,formation and material 
under Section 9 of the Or_der requires the specific prior 
approval of the head of a Department or his designee, 
5. Examples of the application of the Third Agency Rule are: 
(a) In a national security estimate, contributions are. 
received from all members of th,e I!1telligence Community a,,,Jl. • 
then disseminated to members of the community under the 
authority of the DCI; . -' 
•. . 
(b) A CIA intelligence report disseminated to _the State 
Department may not be sent by the State Department to 
the Departmep.t of Commerce without the permission of the 
CIA; 
. . 'l . . 
(c) Information which the CIA furnishes the President's· 
Commission may not be di.sseminated to other agencies or 
to the Congress without the concurrences of CIA. Thus, • 
a request from the Congress to the Commission for CIA 
information should be referred to CIA for action so that· 
the necessary protection of the information can be insured. 
P.age 169 
'. 
