.. 
• •GUIDELINES FOR PARAPHRASING SENSITIVE INFORMATION IN 
CERTAIN DOCUMENTS PROVIDED SELECT COMMITTEES 
·l. The Director of Central Intelligence has recently discussed 
with Senator Church the need for special consideration and treatment 
by the Select Committee of certain sensitive aspects of intelligence 
activities and the Senator has expressed his recognition of this need~ 
It is anticipated that appropriate arrangen1ents can be rrlade so as to 
avoid the risk of exposing such matters and at the s~me time satisfying 
the Select Committees I need for a full under standing of the intelligence 
comm.unity's activities. Included in such matters az'e the identities of 
sensitive sources, the material provided to the United States by • 
• cooperating foreign intelligence services, the details of technical 
devices and systems and of operational •methods, the identities of 
certain employees whose safety could be jeopardized if revealed, the 
identities of American citizens and organizations who have cooperated 
with US intelligence and some additional materials· the public disclosure 
of which would create serious foreign policy or national security 
nroblerr~.E. Such mate~ial sh0 1 ... ~ld be p~0tected not C'!lly fr0r!'! ex;?0.= 1."!:.e 
but inde~d the risk of exposure. Further, recognition should be given 
t9 the need to protect certain other information which, if improperly . • 
disclosed, might impair the privacy rights of individuals. • 
2. Proper procedures should enable intelligence community 
members to prevent risk of disclosure of sensitive sources and 
• ·methods and at the same time present to the Select Committees the 
necessary details to allow for their proper understanding of community 
activities . 
. . 3. The procedures described herein are not to be used as 
downgr~ding or declassification guides. All concerned should be 
mindful that application of these procedures will not declassify, 
downgrade or remove from compartmentation controls any documents 
or information provided the Select Committees, unless individual 
advice to that effect is--provided as well. 
4;· What May Be Paraphrased 
While it is not possible to anticipate all requirements.which 
may be ·levied by the Committees for documenting material and not 
Docld:32989532 166 .. 
