I· 
' ,• 
,: •• 
. . 
• • ,: 
... ,. 
u. s. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON 
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) ; 
INTERVIEW OF SUPERVISOR RICHARD H. BLOESER 
BY SSC STAFF MEMBER 
Supervisor Bloeser responded that he vaguely remembered such 
proposals but without reviewing the file had no definite 
recollection. Mr. Seidel did not·request that the file be 
reviewed. 
. . 
Mr. Seidel inquired specifically about a business 
card which ·allegedly had been prepared by the Bureau bearing 
the phrase "Karen_ga is impotent. 
11 
Mr. Seidel requested 
Supervisor Bloeser's views on the distribution of this card 
by the FBI. Supervisor Bloeser responded.that he vagueiy 
remembered the card, that he thought it was humorous, and. 
that the word impotent had variou·s meanings. • 
Mr. Seidel then inquired about the blood feud 
which existed in the past betwee!} the US Organization and 
the BPP and the efforts of the Bureau .to keep this feud. 
alive .. and thus promote violenqe. He· specifically 1nquired-
as to the personal £eelings of S.upervisor Bloeser concerning· 
any counter intelligence proposals _which, if placed in 
operation, could lead to violence between the two groups. 
. Supervisor Bloeser responded_ first that. personally· 
he had no apologies for the counter intelligence program as 
• a whole, that proposals submitt-ed six or _seven years ago-·,. · .:, •• • ... 
• w~:i;:-.e: .pelieyed necessary at that ·ti~e.1.due to the circnimst-ane::ets j-'.· • • ·-~·· 
specifically that at that time the BPI' and the US crgcrni:c.at:f.ofr 
were involved in violent activity against the community as a 
whole. Mr. Seidel was informed that ·the feud between the US 
Organization and the BPP occurred long before the FBI 
COIN':j.'EI,~RO became involved.• in the feud and that .any proposals 
~pp,rove<;l by the Bureau had .rela.'tiv:ely :little effect -on the 
viqlence committed by ei t.her .. g:Jtoup-. •1Mr. s·eidel was also 
reminded that six or seven years ago -the Congress of the 
United States fully supported the war in Vietnam in which 
thqus~nds of people were killed,but that under today1 
circumstances no support has been given to South Vietnam. 
--
- 2 
NW 38608 Docld:32989640 Pl\'lge 347 
