( 
C 
' 
I 
._,________ 
I 
• 
DCS disseminated 26,000 such reports. DCS dqes not 
have any responsibilities in the clandestine collection 
of intelligence, and in that sense it is very. • 
specifically not op0rationalo DCS definitely cannot 
engage in any activity of an internal security naturep 
and within CIA it is clearly understood that DCS ,is .. 
not to be operational under any circumstances. '\ 
DCS has boon tho subject of some controversy within 
CIA. There is-one school o:f thought which maintains 
that DCS should be an appendage of the Deputy Director 
of Plans, who is responsible for all clandestine 
operationso The other school which has prevailed 
holds ·to the line that DCS should be separate and-. 
continue under the supervision of the Deputy Director 
of Intelligence (DDI). This situation not only has 
caused headaches for CXA but also for the Bureau because 
of situations which arise where the u1eft hand does not 
know what the right hand is doing.,"· 
DCS is essentially carrying out CIA' s / • 
responsibilities emanating from National Security Council 
Intelligence Directive (NSCID) No. 2 wh:i.ch has its roots 
in a simi.Lar ai:rective issued unde:,; th.:;. m~.tic~~l 
Intelligence Authority in 1946., It has been in business 
for approximately twenty yearso Per agreement, DCS 
cannot interview an alien without first clearing with 
the Bureau., . This is done on a daily basis. With regard 
to· American citizens, Bureau approval is not required 
unless the Bureau has indicated a prior interest in the 
individual; however, DCS nevertheless submits name 
checks ·on Americansr and i:f it so happens that the 
subject of such an inquiry is a Bureau source or 
involved in a Bureau investigation, we are in a position 
to move to protect our interestsQ It should be noted 
that although DCS is enga~ed primarily in positive 
int0llig0nc0 collection, it is required to be.on the 
alert for sources who possibly might be useful to CIA's 
clandestine operationso For example, if-DCS encounters 
an alien who can be utilized in an overseas operation, 
the lead is passed on to the appropriate division. 
At the present time, DCS alerts the newly created 
.Domestic Operations Division (explained below) regarding 
potential sources. 
Our current controls with regard to DCS are 
functioning efficiently. We regularly examine the 
. .... ·60 -, . . . . ,, ,, .,., 
; . : ':.'/ /·_;;-:: ::.,: ,-::;: :;-. ·: : ,• •• 
..... ~ 
.,, ... . ... . . 
=----- ......... -..-.,.-7·;~~ ~- .. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989619 Page 132 
r • 
