NW 38608 
-, •1£ 1 t M • .,_ t icz .. :+ Ttb: 'fj ,- ,, .:!' hr ... ' :tntft ~= 
' 
. 
- 4 - \ \ 
\ \ 
INSPECTOR D~NALD E. MOOR✓ The comments and observations 
(1-24-71 :f$GS .. :EWJ_i:DEM/djw:ekn) of the Inspector dealing with 
(t • ~~---,-•,.,,Ml!_ a "POTENTIAL DOUBLE AGENT 
PROGRAM" have been carefully reviewed and the following comments 
are responsive to the questions raised: 
For purposes of clarification it is important that 
the terminology and designations used be defined. The 
designation "Poteritial Double Agent" (PDA) is a descriptive 
term denoting an individual usually already approved by the 
Bureau as a Potential Security Informant (PSI) or as a Security 
Informant (SI). The approval of a PSI or SI is based on his 
current or potential capabilities to furnish information of 
intelligence or security interest. If individuals in either 
, ... J 
of these categories have an association with a Soviet-bloc official, 
for statistical purposes they are considered as PDA's. This 
labeling is incidental to their primary designation as a Bureau­
approved PSI or SI, and their administrative handling at the Bureau 
conforms with overall Bureau policy and instructions relating 
to all Bureau approveci sources, whether or not ~hey are 
considered to be PDA's, and this designation does not alter 
the administrative handling of these cases. 
Justifications for Bureau-approved PSI's and SI's 
are required on a six-month basis following definitely 
estrolished form. The primary purpose of this justification 
.is administrative in nature to insure the individual 
involved continues to meet Bureau standards. Substantive 
information which may have been furnished is reported in 
detail in the 134 file ma:intained by the Office of Origin 
as required by Bureau regulations. This information is 
then reported to the Bureau under appropriate substantive 
captions. Normally the only occasion when substantive 
data received from a source appears in the informant case 
file is in the semi-annual justification letter in extremely 
abbreviated form. See Section 107K, paragraph 7, page 13, 
Manual of Instructions which states, 
r 
"Correspondence in security informant and 
potential security informant ~atters should 
be strictly limited to administrative handling 
of informant and should not contain information 
more properly furnished under substantive case 
caption." 
