• 
SURVEYS, PROJECTS AND/OR INTENSIFICATION PROGRA~ 4-H 
New Left Movement 
s·ection Chief: R. L. Shackelford I 
The following surveys, projects and/or intensification 
programs are in effect against the New Left movement: 
By airtel to SAC, Albany, and all offices, dated 
10/23/68, the field was instructed to expand its Key ~ctivist 
programs and these programs were intensjfi~Q. Each office 
was instructed to submit its recommendations on individuals 
considered as Key Activists. The field was instructed to 
maintain high-level informant coverage on these individuals. 
The purpose of this program is to render Key Activists 
ineffective and thereby drastically reduce their influence 
.in·;thfL·New Left movement. At the present time there are 75 Key 
Activists under intensive investigation. A Key Activist Album 
which contains phot9graphs and biographical data on each Key 
Activist has been assembled and has been furnished to all offices. 
The Key Aativist Album is maintained in a curren~ status, 40 
are subjects of prosecutive action. The Album has proven to 
be invaluable in following the activities and travels of New 
Left activists, both for the Seat of Government and for the 
field., 
By airtel dated 3/1.0/69 to SAC, Albany, and all off ices, 
the field was instructed to submit summary reports every three 
months on those individuals designated as Key Activists. The 
field was also instructed to prepare an appropriate communication 
suitable for dissemination in the event any of these individuals 
held a speaking engagement and whenever they made a statement 
indicating a propensity for violence or urging student agitation. 
The purpose of this program was to develop information in 
respect to the securing of testimony and evidence concerning 
violations of statutes within the Bureau's jurisdiction in 
c.onnection With leaders involved with campus disorders. 
By letter to all offices dated 5/5/69, the field was 
instructed that when it is ascertained that a Key Activist is 
scheduled to speak oncampus, in addition to the coverage of 
his appearance, they should determine through established 
sources the amount received by him and the source of the funds. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
1/12/71 
.. WNP:d;r _.~-
4-H 
Docld:32989fill! Pa e 436 
---------...1.....L---~-~--- -~ 
