• 
sketch concerning each individual included in the BNPA 
and to amend those sketches then included in the Album 
to show such data. 
The BNPA was also broadened to include black 
extremists who are Bureau fugitives. This insured each 
office having a photograph and biographical sketch immediately 
available for use in conducting investigation to locate such 
fugitives or in apprehending them. 
By SAC Letter 70-65, item (D), dated 11/17/70, the· 
field was advised that, henceforth, deletions of individuals 
from the BNPA would require Bureau authorization since Bureau 
did not agree with some deletions made by field which resulted 
in unwarranted action by all field offices. 
To insure broad circulation among investigative 
pe-rAo:rinP1 Rnil to ~ervP as an avE=mue for greater uti.liz.ati.on 
of informants especially racial sources, we initiated the 
Black Extremist Bureau Fugitives list in June, 1970. This 
,list, whiqh is prepared monthly and sent each field office 
and selected Legats, identifies those Bureau fugitives who 
by reason of their activities or organizational affiliations 
are black extremists. Currently there are 45 fugitives carried 
on the list, 9 of whom are IO fugitives. Twenty of these 
fugitives are reportedly living outside the U.S. This list 
has given greater emphasis to the location of these fugitives, 
particularly among Special Agents handling racial matters and 
racial informants and has been effective in affording greater 
exposure of these fugitives among racial informants. Fifteen 
of these fugitives have been arrested since the list was 
initiated, with 5 being arrested in December, 1970. One of 
.those arrested in Dec~nber is the reported leader of the 
Black Panther Party (BPP) underground. 
Racial Intelligence Section prepares monthly a 
Racial Calendar pertaining to the Black Nationalist Movement 
in this country. This Calendar identifies scheduled racial 
events throughout the country which are more than local in 
nature as well as all major scheduled events which could 
NW 386iOI! Docld:329896'38 I;..() 
