• 
I 
forth above under the caption, "The History of Foreign Intelligence 
Collection in tho United States - Prior to World War II, 0 
President Roosevelt conducted certain conferences following 
which he issued instructions with regard to investigations of 
• :fascist and communist act:f.vitios in· tho United Stat<:H3e Thcso 
investigations were to be for intelligence purposeso For the 
most part, they took on a counterintelligence·aspect; however, 
during the course of .them foreign intelligence information was 
developed. either as an outgrowth of 'investigative activity or 
through the conducting of technical surveillances. 
We found no record regarding the designation of the 
FBI as the agency responsible for collection of foreign intelligence 
information in the United States as of the time the Office of 
Coordinator of Information was created on 7/11/41. Neither did 
we find any record indicating such responsibility had been 
delegated to any other agency. 
1).. ·Requests From Other Agencies. 
From time to time the Bureau has received specific 
req U(;:;:, i.;:; i:CvJJ1 otl;,'Oi"' agon~i~s '!Ja$ec. 1.!P0!1 '1.7h.1.0:h WA b~ve uu..da~taken 
the collection of foreign intelligence information in the 
United States in a clandestine fashion. Two instances of this 
nature were based on requests from the Department of State and 
:from· .the Whi ta House. 
(1) Department of State Request - Recognizing n gap 
in our intelligence coverage of friendly governments, on 
10/21/55 we discussed with the then Deputy Undersecretary of 
State, Robert Murphy, the question of instituting limited 
-disc·reet technical surveillances on official establishments of 
selected foreign nations, principally those lqcated in world 
,., trouble areas. We pointed out that the FBI stood ready to 
institute such coverage as might be desired by the Department 
• o:f State. 
Mro Murphy was ·quite receptive to this idea, stating 
.• -ihat limited coverage sufficiently flexible to·change with 
• changing world·conditions might be highly desirable,' After • 
•••• • ··:ru:rfiler discussions it was-agreed· that·a·program; -.'!progressive"•· .. •· 
in nature, would be inst°ituted. • By this, Mr. Murphy explained 
that he did.not feel at that time that all desirable coverage 
should be instituted at a given date, but rather .that cove·rage 
should be placed on one country at a time as moving events abroad 
might dictate~· On this·basi-s this.type coverage.was instituted 
•. 
I ', • •' 
. . . 
NW'lffllim!:"""Doclil;JZ9lf!Hi,ig;-: Pa e :lj · •• 
... 45 • 
' . .. 
. . ". " 
. · ..... . . .. 
