•• 
• I \ . ' 
\ 
I i. 
The creation of DOD within CIA was and still 
is a somewhat controversial Agency subject. DCS saw 
• DOD as an interfering element. The area desks were 
reluctant to have a new-division to take over their 
• ngonts. Some of tho non porsonnol arc vory capable 
and seasoned intelligence officers 0 Many ,of them~are 
considered of mediocre capability 1 and there is \ 
a frequent rumor that other CIA divisions send their 
misfits to Don; From C1A9 s standpoint there appears 
to be a definite need for a much stronger ~eam ~ithin DOD. 
Theoretically, DOD is required to be on the 
alert for all potential sources who can be used by CIA 
in its intelligence operations~ and the approach is 
basically one of a long-range nature. DOD is required 
· to make use of -all leads emanating from :fellow employees 
who may have developed social contacts or associations 
·with foreigners abroad or who might meet potential. 
sources in the United States. Since CIA personnel 
operat0 under diplomatic cover when abroad, they do get 
the opportunity to move in diplomatic circleso Similarly, 
vndercover ~gents of CXA t~aveling throughout the world . 
also make contacts which offer potential exploitation if 
and when the target stops in the United StatesG 
Since January, 1964, when DOD actually began 
moving, it has recruited approximately ten individuals 
in the diplomatic field. :Most of these were in the 
nonco:ra,~unist-bloc area. All of those recruited appear 
to have been in a fairly low-level category. All of them 
were career diplomats~ and there was no evidence that 
the individuals were connected with any intelligence 
service. 
In addition to the activities of ncs·and DOD, 
there is a certain amount of CIA operational movements 
which do not fall UPder either of the foregoing divisions. 
One example is the (;iA base in Miami which was set up 
for CIA's operations directed against the Cuban Government. 
~ This base is used for the training and dispatching of 
agents into Cuba and to some extent into other countries 
in the Caribbean, particularly the Dominican Republic. 
This base is directly responsible to the Western 
Hemisphere Division of CIA9 which could be called the 
Latin American Division. 
