r~~~ .. :.a:.;.: ... l>: •• ,.:,.:.;L,;;. ·;.-:-·.··p··•;";,.;;.,,_~ 
I 
! 
• 
- 6 -
Paragraph f notes many instances of cases 
concerning "PDA's" have been opened for varying periods 
of time, and, again, the lack of extensive outgoing 
communications noted. It is again stressed that the 
designation of "PDA11 is an arbitrary one, these files are 
evaluated and administered on an individual basis in 
accordance with Bureau requirements related to PSI's and 
SI's, and not solely on their double-agent potential. 
These requirements are met in these cases. 
. The Inspector has commented in his Survey that 
"virtually no direction is given the program." The 
foregoing comments have established 1.) the designation 
of PDA to a SI or PSI does not require administrative 
supervision or handling by SOG over and above that required 
for any SI or PSI, 2.) if direction and instruction is 
necessary and practical in a particular case, such is 
given in the overall supervision and handling of the 
substantive case file of the Soviet-bloc natfonal involved, 
3.) in accordance with current Bureau policy and instructions 
relating to the handling of these files, they cout~lu a 
minimal amount of information relating to the productivity 
of the source, and 4.) the labeling and designation of a 
SI and PSI as a PDA is an administrative device adopted 
for the purpose of emphasizing the need for Double-Agents. 
There is no program as such, for the handling of these 
cases. 
To the general consideration expressed that the 
.298 cases are mere numbers from a supervisory standpoint, 
the above comments clearly indicate such is riot the case. 
These cases are not opened and maintained as a program. 
They are opened on individual mer_i t and maintained in 
accordance with Bureau standards under the .same requirements 
as all other PSI and SI cases at the SOG. 
In summary, it appears that the criticisms leveled 
in this particular-Survey are due to a misconception involving 
terminology. "PDA" is a label. It carries no requi·rement 
for administrative handling over and above supervision afforded 
the case as a PSI or SI. These cases are basic and vit~l 
investigative tools. Administration of such _cases are 
guided by rigid Bureau standards; the comments made by 
Inspector do not indicate these standards have been breached. 
Thus, no corrective action is considered necessary and none is 
·recommended. This does not mean that I will not continue to 
exert every effort to see that qualified informants will 
continue to be developed and that carefully considered and 
logical means will be employed to have these informants 
