r· 
• . . 
~ 
• , 
. 
• 
• 
• 
General Counsels of all USIB Agencies and the Department of Justice, 
the NSC, the 0MB, and other Executive Branch elements involved in the 
inquiry. Since the inquiry can result in the int:i=oduction of legislation, 
the: IC Sta.ff lawyers will also provide to the DCI ap_?ropriate legal briefs 
for his use. The recording of these briefs will also be made by the. 
central index. The lawyers will also assist the DCI and USIB· in ensuring 
that the Select Comrnittees 1 procedures are developed in consideration 
of the legal and constitutional position of the USIB agencies and. employees 
thereof. • 
.. - • 2. \Ve can anticipate the Select Committees will ha:ve 40-50 staff 
NW 38601! 
personnel involved in the inquiries and that they will normally proceed 
directly to the agencies concerned within their functional areas of interest. 
Cross agency activity coordination and substantive comparisons will occur 
within the Select Committees' staffs .. It is in the interest of th~ USIB _____ _ 
Agencies to assure equally good coordination: behveen and among the 
members and Executive Branch elements as appropriate in the material • ' and testimony provided anci that a general quality control of the product 
is exercised. The Ad Hoc Coordinating Group provides the ioru:i;n for keeping 
USIB Age!').cies informed on responses provided in the course of the inquiry 
and avoiding surprise. Further, the IC Staff will establish a small quality • 
control and evaluative function. and be alert to the indicators available as 
the investigations proceed of pot_e.ntial actions or further inquiries that coulc;l 
derive from materials qr testimony 'provided by the various agencies. 
3. There will be a range of 11 skeletons 11 and allegations which may 
surface in the course of the inquiry. USIB Agencies will seek to assure that 
all the facts are found and addressed so as to be responsive to the Select 
Committee inquiry and in co:isideration of the Administration. 
E. ALLEGATIONS AND PUBLICITY 
1. The nature of the investigation will undoubtedly continue to afford 
considerable public discourse. Many press allegations will cause further 
inquiry. A system to check the veracity of such a\legations shouldbe . 
e\tablished }>y eacn USIB A~~ The IC Staff ~vill also undertake to· _ 
moriit'or press allegations and discuss them with the agencies involved 
as appropriate. 
22 
