• 
SECRET 
U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
'l'O STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
Wlffl RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE 
ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
RE: VISITS OF SSC STAFF 
MEMBERS TO FBI 
LEGAL ATTACHES 
• 
Department of State advised that the primary objective of 
the visitors was to discuss with the Ambassador and 
members of his staff the relationships and exercise of 
authority by the Ambassador of the intelligence activities 
in the field. The Department of State further advised that 
operational details, sources and methods were not construed 
to be legitimate avenues of inquiry by the SSC Staff 
Members. 
Legat, Brasilia, was interviewed on September 22, 
1975, by Messrs. Aaron and Truehart, with Aaron being 
dominant in the interviewing process. The interview was 
directed mainly toward attempts to elicit examples whereby 
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) had withheld dissemination 
of information of interest to other agencies. Inquiries 
were made concerning CIA activities inside and outside the 
Embassy. Specific questions were placed with Legat to 
ascertain if the FBI was involved in Soviet Embassy 
ttwalk-ins" as well as recruitment of double agents and CIA­
oriented operations. Discussion concerning Legat's role 
and functions in Brasilia appeared to be routine~ with fcwt 
if any, pointed questions directed at FBI operations 
overseas. The subject of two paid confidential sources in 
Brasilia was briefly discussed and both SSC investigators 
appeared understanding and in agreement with the necessity 
of each confidential source to serve FBI1 s and u. s. 
Government•s best interests in Brazil. The question 
seemingly bearing the most weight during the interview 
concerned possible unauthorized activities of CIA and its 
lack of cooperation and coordination with FBI and the 
Defense Attache's Office. The duration of the interview 
was approximately forty-five minutes.(s) 
Legat, Buenos Aires, was interviewed by the two 
SSC Staff Members on September 26, 1975. Again Aaron 
played the dominant role during interview. He commenced 
NW 38608 Docld:32989550 66 
SECRET 
- 2 -
