il I I, 
11 ( 
i , ... 
:I 
t 
The· FBI was cited as one of the four members o·f 
the Interdepartmental Intelligence Conference (IIC), created 
by the NSC, approved by the President 3/23/49, to coordinate 
"the investigation of all domestic ospionage, counterospionago, 
sabotage, subversion, and other related matters affecting 
internal security·." 
xt· was noted that the xrc charter did not disturb 
responsibilities of its member agencies but made mandatory 
action by those agencies deemed necessary to insure complete 
investigative coverage in compliance with the.needs of the 
IIC, which had full responsibility for coordination of the· 
investigation of all domestic espionage, counterespionage, 
et cetera, affecting internal securityo 
The Committee stated, "The Central Intelligence 
Agency is, by law, excluded from duplicating the internal 
security functions of the FBI. However, the CIA does develop 
~ within and without the U. s., sources for foreign (positive) 
intelligence, and incidental thereto may develop leads as to 
subversive activities within this country. In such cases 
• CIA i..ul:·m..i:g,l' ... liaiscu gi ;,-es i-ts i!lf◊rni.,:i-1:;i_on t.Q the FBI. n 
A Task Force survey revealed, "Through the Central 
Intelligence Agency's d0 . .-10stic field offices, contacts are 
.. made on a highly selective basis with business concerns and 
:other nongovernmental agencies, as well as with previously 
. cleared individuals who travel abroad ... Under the 
·,provisions of DCID 7/1, each member of the Intelligence 
Advisory Committee is required to establish in Washington 
a focal office for the purpose of interviewing nongovernment 
visitors ... Any visitors to these offices demonstrating . 
good intelligence potential are referred to the CIA for further 
exploitation.". 
The Task Force noted that as far back as 1939 
President Roosevelt by executive order directed the FBI-to 
coordinate and conduct domestic counterintelligence activities. 
In 1949, according to the Committee's survey, the IIC was· 
formalized and by charter restricted to coordinating investi­
gations in intellige_nce matters ~omestically. 
... 
Ii . 
l:l_ . • L • NW-88tiiOS-Docld:~~e . .31.5. __ 
