I 
t 
' 
I ., 
J 
' 
'. '.,., . 
• I J a 
... 
• 
considerable information was brought out concerning the FBI's 
invclstigative authority. Of greai interest is the impact ~he 
National Security Act of 1947 had ·on the gathering of intelligence 
in the United States. This Act, which is reported in 50 USC 401 
et seq, established the National Security Council (NSC) and under 
it the Centeral Intelligence Agency (CIA). The legislative 
histo~y of the Act notes the concern Congress had that CIA could 
develop into a gestapo if permitted to become operational in the 
U.S. James Forestal, then Secretary of the Navy, testified in 
a hearing before the Committee on Expenditures in the Executive 
Departments, that "The purposes of the Central Intelligence Agency 
are limited definitely to purposes outside of this country, except 
collati,on of informati.on gathered by other government agencies." 
He went on to say, "Regarding domestic operations, the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation is working at all times in 
collaboration with Geneial Vandenberg (then head of CIA). He 
relies upon them for domestic activities." The P-apich Committee 
study no~ed that there is tacit acknowledgement in Section 403 (e) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 that the FBI gathers 
information affecting the national security: "That upon the written 
request of the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the 
Director of the FBI shall make available to the Director of Central 
Intelligence such information for correlation, evaluation, and 
dissemination as may be essential to the national security." 
The Papich Committee report reveals that there is ample 
indication that Congress was aware of FBI intelligence functions, 
particularly with respect to foreign intelligence activity in 
the U.S. The Executive Branch was obviously depending on the FBI 
to provide intelligence data which CIA, by law, could not collect 
in the U.S. A task force headed by General Mark Clark in 1955 
_took notice of the fact that the FBI dealt in security intelligence. 
The task force report cited the fact that the FBI was one of 
four members of the Interdepartmental Intelligence Conference (IIC), 
created by the National Secuirty Council, approved by the President, 
March 23, 1949, to coordinate "the investigation of all domestic 
espionage, counterespionage, sabotage, subversion, and other related 
matters affecting internal security." 
It was noted that the IIC charter did not disturb 
responsibilities of its member agencies but made mandatory 
action by those agencies deemed necessary to insure complete 
investigative coverage in compliance with the needs of the IIC, 
whi~h had full responsiblity for coordination of the investigation 
of all domestic espionage, counterespionage, etc., affecting 
internal security. 
The task force mentioned above, in commenting on the role 
of the FBI, noted "The Federal Bureau of Investigation, however, 
is the recognized center of the domestic aspect of internal 
security incl-ud-ing counterintelligen'ce within the United States 
a1id- its possessions . 11 It is to be noted that this task force took 
- 38 -
NW 38tiiOB Docld:32989fii09 Page 173 ,: 
