• ~(tire'"'[• 
'\: , 
. , ,D " 
Memorandum to 11r. W. R. Wannall , , ~!\lb • 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
62-116395 
Sensitive Investigative Techniques 
Mr. Elliff felt that much could be accomplished in 
!
responding to the SSC request of 5/14/75 if the Bureau could 
pull together the basic FBI documents delineating our legal 
authority to engage in the following investigative techniques. 
(1) Electronic surveillances, including consensual 
electronic surveillances; (2) all forms of mail surveillances 
including covers and openings; (3) physical surveillances 
including Special Agent (SA) infiltration of target groups; 
photography and remote viewing and sensing devices (laser 
beams); (4) surreptitious entries; (5) incomnrunicado interroga­
tions; and (6) bank credit,and other personal information. 
It was Elliff's opinion that if the Committee could 
~
e allowed to review the legal authority for such surveillances 
long with the documents showing how the decision-making process 
orked in instituting, approving and discontinuing such operations, 
much of the misunderstandings some members of the Committee have 
would be clarified. Elliff also felt a detailed briefing of the 
Committee with whatever limitations the Bureau desired to place 
I
on th~ number and level of those to be briefed would be extremely 
helpful in assisting the Committee in developing some authority 
for the FBI to legally engage in such sensitive activities in 
the future. 
Three Top Priority Items of the SSC 
Elliff advised that in his judgment the three top 
priority items of the SSC regarding the FBI are as follows. 
(1) Develop legislation to clearly delineate the Bureau's 
jurisdictional authority in the security and counterintelligence 
field. (2) Provide the Bureau with some authoritative basis, 
either statutory or otherwise,to engage in certain counter­
intelligence activities, i.e., surreptitious entry,electronic 
surveillances, incommunicado intervi"ews, in national security 
cases when the need for such activity has'Jbeen clearly established. 
(3) To improve the coordination between the FBI and the rest 
of the intelligence comnrunity. 
- 2 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989fi09 Page 185 
