• 
Division. While it is realized that logically these should be placed in the 
New Left or Ext~emist Intelligence Section, to balance work load 1 they 
could be considered for assignment to the Internal Security Section if proposal 
is approved. The Research and New Left Sections would each be decreased 
by one Special Agent Sup; rvisor, the Extremist Intelligence Section by two. 
The Nationalities Intelligence Section, excluding the Front Office, would be 
increased by one Special Agent Supervisor. 
OBSERVATIONS: 
Considerable time has been devoted to this phase of the inspection to 
assess as accurately as possible manpower requirements of the various Units 
and Sections. In addition to ticklers and file reviews your outgoing mail was 
reviewed for one wo:i;k week. 
During the course of this mail survey covering a five-day work period, 
715 pieces of mail or 143 pieces 1 day were generated and reviewed. Of 
this number, 268 pieces or 37% were directed to the Front Office for review 
and 497 pieces or 63% went directly to the field or other agencies without 
Front Office review. This indiraes an average of 6 pieces of outgoing mail 
per Agent are being prepared per work week. 55. 6% of the total pieces of 
mail were of a routine nature, setting forth a niin.imum degree of supervision 
and direction. 36. 1% contained a moderate degree of supervision and 8. 3% 
contained a considerable degree cf. supervisory instruction or direction. 
Of the average of six pieces of mail per Agent 3. 3 pieces were of a 
·_ routine nature requiring minimal supervision ; 2. 2 pieces moderate supervision 
and . 5 pieces (1/2 letter, etc.) considerable supervisory instruction or 
direction per week. 
Examples of minimum supervisory content would be communications 
permitting routine interview or informaµt payment (stamp). An example 
of moderate supervisory content would be a letter to the Attorney General 
with cover memo bringing AG up to date in a particular case. As example 
of supervisory content of considerable degree would be instructions to interview 
key witnesses on top priority cases setting out pertinent points to cover in the 
interview or would furnish supervisory direction of a substantive investigation . 
313 . ·..:.. 
