I 
I 
;,.. 
I 
ll 
I: 
I 
i'. 
Memo for Mr. Tolson 
Re: Personnel Transfers to Effect Proposed 
Reassignment of Supervisory Responsibilities 
in J~ .. acial ].iatters anq. Racial Informants 
SA F. H. ·Freun<} has responsibility for Klan organizations for all 
field divisions and ~upervises other classifications for 11 western and 
midwestern offices. . 
SA L. A. Giovanetti has alternate responsibility for Klan organizations 
for all field divisions and supervises other classifications for Atlanta, 
Little Rock, Savannah and 4 other midwestern offices .• 
SAC. A. Parkis•has responsibility for other hate organizations (8 
currently active) for all field divisions and supervises other· classifications 
for Birmifigham, Mobile, Cleveland and the 4 Texas officeso 
SA F. Po Smith supervises cla~sifications (other than racial informants 
and organizations) for New Orleans, Memphis, Knoxville and 7 western 
offices, and spe~ial cases. 
SA H. E. Trent supervises classuications (other than racial informants 
and organizations) for Charlotte, Savannah, Baltimore, Washington Field 
office, Louisville and 2 midwestern offices. • 
Based on the distribution of work, Inspector's. analysis reflects that it would 
take 5 of the 7 men assigned to the Organizations '{J'nit to handle racial matters and 
racial informants under the approved change of responsibilities. There are 7 clerical 
employees -assigned to the Organizations Unit of the Civil Rights Section and it is 
felt that 5 of these clerical employees who generally hanclie the work being transferred 
from the General Investigative Division to the Done stic Intelligence Division be 
transferred along with the -supervisors. Assistant Directors Rosen and Sullivan are 
in accord that the proposed personnel changes are equitable, consistent and correspond 
with the transfer of responsibilities . . 
RECO:M1V1ENDATIONS: 
1. That Supervisor in Charge Joseph C. Trainor and Agent Supervisors 
Deegan, Freund, Giovanetti and Parkis be transferred to Division 5 (Domestic Intelligence 
Division) concomitant to the transfer to that Division of sipervisory responsibility over 
racial nR tters and racial informants (if approved to be handled by Mr. Mohr's Office). 
SEE NEXT PAGE 
L NW 38tiiQ-8 Docld:32989fi29 Pag,e 16_1. -· 
