NW 38608 
: 
1 
I 
• 
\ 
I 
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR C. D. BRENNAN,~- Te following are my 
cqmments requested in 
Inspector's Suggestion Memorandum entitled "Preparation of 
Interview Reports (FD-302) in Security Type Investigations:" 
Inspector notes at outset that from a review of the 
FBI Handbook, Manual of Rules and Regulations and Manual of 
Instructions in regard to the various types of security 
investigations, no mention is made that information which may 
be the subject of later testimony in judicial or administrative 
type hearings must be made a matter of record on an interview 
report (FD-302). Inspector does recognize that the Manual of 
Rules and Regulations, Part II, Section 4, page 4a, makes 
reference to the preparation of interview reports in security 
type cases. 
In Section 4, Part II of the Manual of Rules and 
Regulations, which Section pertains to Communic~tions, there 
is a subheading entitled "Reporting Information That May 
Become Testimony," which is covered on pages 4_and 4a. It 
ts ~pe~"i.f ically stated on page /4:_,. pa;ragraphs 2b and c, that 
FD-302s should be used when information is obtained which may 
be the subject of testimony. At the very top of page 4a, a 
specific reference is made to security-type cases and the use 
of an FD-302 in these cases. The requirement for using an 
FD-302.is further reiterated in paragraph 6 on page 4a. 
Part I of the Handbook has a section commencing on 
page 36, i'tem 48, entitled "Reporting Information That May 
Become Testimony." This is the counterpart to the Manual of 
Rules and Regulations provisions cited immediately above. 
The requirement for the use of an FD-302 is enunciated in item 
number 48. 
Of particular significance is the fact that both the 
Manµal of Rules and Regulations and the Handbook provide in 
their respective Indices for the requirements discussed above. 
In the Manual, the material is indexed under "Reporting 
information that may'become testimony" as well as under 
"Testimony--reporting information that may become." The 
Handbook index has the same two references. It is therefore 
obvious that the requirements for the use of an FD-302 are 
1ogically and· easily retrievable by ref~rence to either or both 
the Manual and Handbook~ 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/24/71 
SFP:rrd_ 
<! 336· 
. ·..::. .: 
