1 ., ) • 
• 
Mr. Hoover immediately issued orders to FBI personnel t~ 
conduct an intensive investigation of the Nazi movement. This, 
evtdently, was the first general intelligence investigation made 
by the Government into fascist activities in this country. But 
note that this general intelligence investigation was based in 
law, namely the Immigration Law. We have here an example of 
the exercise of inherent Executive power tempered by the fact 
that the Presidential desire for intelligence investigations would 
be implemented because there was a statute c~vering the situation. 
Basically, the same applies to the 1936 arrangement between the 
President, the Director of the FBI and the Secretary of State. 
The law permitting the Secretary of·State to request the Attorney 
General to investigate certain matters was the legal basis for 
the subsequent FBI investigations. 
CONCLUSIONS 
In summary and conclusion, it is believed that the facts 
clearly show that while there is a labyrinth of conflicting infor­
mation and opinions concerning the FBI's authority to conduct 
intelligence-type investigations in the national security 
field, there are a few basic points requiring clarification. It 
is believed that we must first sweep away the myth that the FBI 
now has any investigative authority based on the Presidential 
directives dating from 1939, and that any investigative 
responsibility we ~erived from those directives is so outdated as 
to be very questionable if not entirely void. This is, of course, 
taking into consideration the national situation at the time the 
directives were individually issued. 
Secondly, it is believed that the FBI does have a valid 
reason to conduct intelligence-type investigations based on 
the fact that there are laws prohibiting all the various types of 
spbversion truly affecting the national security and that the 
Government has the right to protect itself from destruction by 
conducting whatever preventive or intelligence-type investigations 
are necessary to see that indiv:i,duals and organizations 
do not do those things, in violation of the law, which could 
threaten the national security. Preventive or intelligence-type 
investigations would include the use of confidential informants 
and sources of information, the cal ling on law enforcement officers 
and patriotic citizens and organizations to furnish all information 
concerning subversion to the FBI, the collection of overt 
intelligence data from publications and other pu~lic source 
material, including congressional hearings, and the f11ll scale 
investigation of allegations r~ceived from all sources. 
- 40 -
NW 38W. Docld:32989ti-09 175 
