l 
3. Live ·Sources With Evaluatioti 
At present we are making active efforts to develop live 
informant coverage in the diplomatic establishments o.f 37 non­
Soviet bloc countries. This list of so-called "target countries" 
varies from·time to time but essentially we are seeking informant 
covcra~o ~n countries considered critical from an intolligonco 
standpoint such as those leaning towards the Soviet bloc or 
countries in which the United States has paramount political or 
military interests or which·n.ie otherwise of primary concern. Tho 
current list includes virtually all Latin-American countries, a 
number of ·Middle East ·countries, and scattered countries throughout 
Africa and the Far East. • 
Our program ·was initiated in the early 1950s, and we 
are now using some 50 sources (Th.is number fluctuates due to 
.transfers, resignations, etc.) .. In each case, we clear with 
State Department prior to designating any country as a "targettt 
and we also clear with State prior to conducting interviews with 
employees at the tttargetn establishment. In a number of. instances, 
including most Latin-American countries, State has asked us to 
r~strict our efforts to American citizens. This, of course, is 
a highly limiting factor. 
Over the years this live informant coverage has on many 
occasions produced foreign intelligence of rcil. value. Our sources 
have frequently provided data regarding proposed political, 
diplomatic or economic action by the countries concerned, on 
occasion in advance of other forewarning to U.S. intelligence. 
They ~ave also been able to furnish a considerable amount of 
information regarding the whereabouts, background and general 
activities of individual foreign officials of security interest, 
thereby s.aving investigative time. These sources have been 
especially valuable in connection with the· Program and 
other sophisticated attacks on foreign establishments, providing 
us with data regarding the pµysical secu~ity, location of code 
rooms, etc., of the various foreign establishments. 
In addition to so-called "target" countries which are 
in the non-Soviet bloc area, the Bureau has developed a number of 
• informants and defectors-in-place in Soviet-bloc establishments 
who have been able to furnish a substantial amount of foreign 
intellige4ce. In the Soviet-bloc field, we have also developed 
a number of sources in quasi-official establishments, such as 
trade missionst who have produced valuable foreign intelligence. 
In the Soviet-bloc field, of course, our live informant development 
has been aimed essentially at internal security and count_erint.elli­
gence ·needs of the Bureau. 
- 66 
••• NW fflflifflr"Docl~19. Page 238 
