• • •t, 
It • 1,1""" 
, •I;,• /•••.,,.' •j 
, 
i , 
:.--· •. ;?.-:"~ . • .. 
United States citizens, unles·s it has a "significant conrie.ction" 
with a foreign power, its agents or agencies; by 
11
significant 
corinGction" the FBI and the Department of Justice understand 
that the domestic organization must be substantially financed 
by, controlled by, o~ in active collaboration with such foreign 
power for the purposes of committing unlawful activities against 
the United States Government. The FBI presents its request to t~e 
Attorney General with all the facts and circu~stances on which t::e 
request is.based, and he must exercise an independent judgment as 
to whether the request falls within this standard and the letter, 
spirit, and rationale of the Keith decision . 
. . 
.. 
!:,.• !-: •.• 
··, ·senator Kennedy has expressed concern in the past 
that a political appointee, the Attorney General, rather than 
-career professionals, is the final author~ty on these matters. 
This is a two-edged sword. r-f the ul_timate authority were non­
public career professionals, there would be less response 
from them than from the appointee of an elected official· 
to public pressure criticizing procedures and decisions. 
. • O~ the other hand, the Attorney General's decision 
. could possibly be based more on personal political attitudes and 
motivation than on his interpretation of the ~aw. 
The present procedure attempts to meet both short­
comings. The Attorney General 'does not recommend or initiate 
.electronic surveillance requests; they _are initiated by and 
processed through several levels of career professionals who at 
each step judge whether the request falls within the standard. 
The re.quest is then sent to the Attorney General, who refers it 
to the Internal Security Section, Criminal Division, of the 
.Department for its independent judgment, before he makes the· 
ultimate decision. Thus, any electronic surveillance request, 
it makes it to ~he Attorney General, has already been approved 
by the career professionals.· It is arguable that a career 
professional might be more cautious if he, and his agency, bore 
the final authority and responsibility rather than passing bot~ 
on to another agency. There is no airtight response to this; 
it is a question of human motivation, sense of obligation, duty 
and responsiblity. The impulse to be less than diligent is 
countered by an employee's professionalism and career 
conside·rations. 
*******·*** 
10 
. -,-........ 
L 
• , • • .'· l 
