.. . . 
:.3. .cooperative Services 
In its traditional .role of .seeldn,g professionalism :at ~11 levels 
•<>flaw enforcement, the FBI is enthusiastically ·com·mitted to providing 
,expert assistance to local, .State and Feder.al law enforcement agencies . 
..,Some of the facilities of the FBI .available to Feder.al ·In.w enforcement 
.. ;agencies are: 
(a) The FBI Identification Division. ·The :F.BI is the central ·repository for 
--fingerprint identification information. • Data from the identification records 
.are furnished to law enforcement and governmental agencies at the Federal, 
:State, and local levels for .official use ,only. 
·(b) The FBI Laboratory. The F.BI maintains a well-equipped technical laborato1 
at its Headquarters in \Vashington, D. C., for the investigative :and probative 
use of local, State and Federal law -enforcement agencies., ·and prosecutors 
-throughout the United States. A."l excellent worldng r.elationship now exists· 
.between.the FBI Laboratory ::L"l.d the laboratories of other Federal Agencies 
.for the exchange of technical ·data and ·procedures. _The seFVi-ces .of the FBI 
Laboratory are,. n1ade available on a :cost-free basis to .all ::Federal Agendes in 
---civil and criminal matters, .and to State.and local law·-enfor.cement.ager..cies 
in criminal mattet,s only. Expanded .programs of .scientific ·aid and trainingto 
·-state and local crime laborator.ies -ar.e presently under development and will 
involve the continuing, close cooperative efforts .. of local, State and Federal 
Agencies and the FBI. 
-(c) ""'l'he National Crime Inforn1ation .Center (NCIC). Tl1e FBI's lfCIC is a 
-computerized infor..mation syste1n established as .a service to all law enforce-
ment agencies--local, Staie .and Feder.al. ·The system operates by mc211s 
··of co1nputers, data transn1ission over com1nunication lines, :and teleco:mmunica· 
tion devices. Its objective is to improve the effectiveness :0f Im.,, enforcen1ent 
through the more efficient handling and -exchange .. of documented police jnforn1a.­
tion. In the beginning NCIC contained data -concen1ing stolen property nud 
wanted persons. Jn Noven1ber, 1971_, N.CIC operations we1·e expanded to· • 
include a file of offenders' criminal Jiistories, which is known .as the Computeri 
Criminal History .(CCII) file. 
(d) The FDI National Academy. Since its establishment in 1935, the FP.I 
Nation~! Acade1ny has provided a profe.ssional ti:aining progran1 of .highest 
·quality to career officers from throurJ10ut the law enforce1ncnt .co1nmtmity . 
. At its new trainin~ facilities at Quantico, Virginia., dur.ing 'Fiscal 1973, • 
l, 044 officers from various local, :state., Federal and .friendly. ioreign law 
_..enforcement agencies completed .the intensive 12-:w.eek course. This ,cotu·£c. 
is -dc>sig11cd to cnh:u1c~ an officer's cap:1.l>ilities as a law enforcement 
• "administrator and to 'better prep:i.re ·him to teach.his fellow officers. 
NW#: 88608 • DocI°d: 32989541 
