-., 
I -
I 
' - 13 - 4-H-1 
' ·' 
• l "i 
COPENHAGEN I 
This office was opened to exploit the potential 
of the Scandinavian countries handled on a road trip basis 
from London prior to the expansion in December, 1970. A 
large number of deserters, Selective Service subjects, and 
-·other fugitives have been granted asylum in Sweden and 
the liberality of the laws in Denmark has served as a 
magnet for youth from the United States. In addition, the 
entire area is attuned to moves from the Soviet Union and 
it was hoped that there would be a reasonable volume of 
.-regular Bureau work together with a steady flow of political 
intelligence. The potential of the office has not yet 
been reached. The unfortunate security breach which 
resulted in the change of Legal Attaches has put an 
experienced man in charge but he has been- there less than 
two months and has not yet been able to bring the office 
into line. There has already been a marked improvement 
in the rate of HILEV submissions and we expect the office 
to be more successful under new management. • 
. Productivity 
~ I 
[ Twenty-eight persons wanted in the United States 
• .... were located by the Legal Attache during the first six months 
• ·of 1971. One "informal deportation" was arranged. The case 
.. :' -load as of 6/30/71 (prior to arrival of the new Legal Attache) 
•• • was 43 representing the smallest per agent assignment of any 
Le·gal Attache. Through July, 1971, Copenhagen had submitted 
8 HILEVs of which 2 were used. Already in August, 4 submissions 
have been received for a total of 12· and 3 have been used for 
a total of 5 with 1 still pending. This is the ·smallest 
HILEV production of any Legal Attache and Bulet 8/4/71 
•• pointed this out and insisted upon improvement. Results thus 
far in August indicate that the Legal Attacne is responding. 
Personnel 
While the present case load does not, on the surface, 
·justify continuation of a two-man office, we believe the 
potential for far greater achievement exists in the Scandinavian 
countries and we feel that the new Legal Attache should be 
given an opportunity to exploit this potential . 
. , .. _ 
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989fi38. P.!:!ge 203 /ftJ 
