I 
-l 
I 
.-. 3 -
BUENOS AIRES 
-
l . . 
, .· . 
" . 4-ij-1 
I . 
I • ,. •. 
I • 
For several years this was a one-man office 
attempting ·to cover not only Argentina but also Brazil, 
some 1,200 miles away and larger than the United States. 
Although we had a very capable Legal Attache, he could 
• barely touch the high spots in his territory and maintained 
a very low case load. Two additional agents-were assigned 
·~n December, 1970, and Paraguay was added.to the Legal 
Attache's responsibilities as was intelligence reporting , 
on Chile. We believe the results have justified this 
move although one agent is still trying to cover Brazil 
on a road trip basis. 
Productivity 
.. 
. . During fiscal 1971, 38 persons wanted in.the 
United States were located in th~ territory. The pending 
case load as of 6/30/71 was 294 and above average on-a 
per agent basis. As of 8/23/71, the office had submitted 
47 Hil,,!5V items of which·21 have been used and 2 are still 
pending. This is well above the aver~ge. 
Personnel 
One agent and one clerk could be-transferred from 
Buenos Aires if an office were to be opened in Rio de Janeiro. 
Under present circumstances, the personnel is adequate but 
·three agents and three clerks would not be needed if Brazil 
was removed ~rom their territory. 
Recommendation 
Qontinue. At present; this is our only point of 
coverage fo~ an enormous area of South America. 
HONG KONG 
. (. 
Originally opened to provide coverage· of Chinese 
communist activities, Hong Kong fell heir to the entire 
Southwest Pacific area when our office in Manila was closed. 
We believe the area has a high potential both for cases 
pertaining to the Bureau's domestic jurisdiction and for 
items of high-level intelligence. The intermittent road 
. -.. . 
trips, however, do not permit adequate development of contacts 
,who can be relied upon to look out for our interests. In 
addition, the Legal Attache has required an abnormal amount 
NW-&llfi{)L.Doc:ld;J29;1NfilQ e.ag.e,,,,193 
