ADEQUACY OF PERSONNEL\ 6-E 
This Division consists of six Sections. The attached 
write-ups of the Section Chiefs disclose adequate authorized 
Agent complement with exception of R. D. Cotter, Research; and 
W.R. Wannall, Nationalities Intelligence Se~tions. Authorized 
is underscored since Agent personnel are on loan to the Nationalities 
Intelligence·Section because of the McLek Case as follows: 
Espionage (1), Extremist Intelligence (2), Internal Security (2), 
Research (1), and New Left (1). 
Concerning comment in write-up of R. D. Cotter, Research, 
Item 6 refers to assignment of Cotter on a temporary basis to 
Department and need for complete staffing of that Front Office. 
Originally Cotter's assignment to the Department was not considered 
to be full time in that he was to be in the same building, readily 
available for consultation, and capable of handling special problems 
which might arise. However, the situation is not desirable for a 
long term arrangement and the term of that assignment is not known. 
Recognizing this, the adjustment of work assignments detailed in 
my memorandum to Mro Sullivan of 7/29/71 proposed elimination of 
one Section, making Section Chief Arbor Gray available to take over the 
Research Section. This would eliminate that problem with no 
additional personnel required. That proposal also makes No. 1 
Ma?.'! Ce. 11 ahan of Internal Secur;i ty. ~.ec.~ion available for case 
assignment. 
Concerning write-up of Section Chief W.R. Wannall, 
several points must be considered. Wannall's suggested build-up 
of the Chinese Unit to five men from present .complement of three 
at this time to "handle the current work in the Unit and expand 
into areas which are considered necessary •.• 11 is reflective of 
.a· provincia'l outlook and a limited concept of the relative 
importance of proposed work in his area of responsibility in 
.relation to the overall limitation of Bureau manpower and resources. 
Obviously some differentiation must be made to establish priorities. 
We must first cope with the immediate problems at hand before 
assigning manpower to projected problems. 
Concerning Wannall's reference to needing a man for the 
Foreign Liaison Desk, my observations contained in my memorandum 
to Mr.Sullivan dated 8/16/71, which is attached to Wannall's 
write-up, still apply~ I would add to that an observation that 
much of the material received from our Legats is actually handled 
on the related substantive intelligence desks responsible for the 
respective countries and not by the Foreign Liaison Desk. With 
the current special cases requiring extensive manpowe~ commitments, 
I believe that desk can continue as is until the manpower si~uation· 
is alleviated somewhat. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/30/71 
CDB:mls 
6-E 
