JI 
,.; 
I• 
-~ . ~ . :, .... : . : ..• 
:l. • I T : 
•· 
··.• .. . . .. · . , .,, .,, 
• '-".;· • The present policy is to support the legality of the President's 
authority to conduct this surveillance without warrant, to restrict disclosure 
of the existence or contents of such surveillances, and presumably, to_ 
support the argument that any evidence obtained from such surveillance is 
admissible in a criminal proceeding. 
These issues ar~ discussed very well in the Government's 
petition for rehearing in U. S . v . Ivanov , attached. . Also attached is a 
classified memorandum summarizing the case up to the petition for 
rehearing. 
Until these issues are resolved, .consideration of future policy 
options would be speculative, and may be unnecessary. 
Domestic nati9nal security cases: 
The FBI Intelligence Division f e~ls there is something of 
intelligence value to be gained from electronic surveillance coverage of 
some domestic groups. The opinion of former Assistant Attorney General 
Olson and Deputy Assistant Attorney General_ Maroney is that there is no 
• need to utilize this type of electronic surveillance and therefore no need 
to seek enabling legislation at this time, but that if a need does appear 
the Government will seek such legislation. 
The examples set out in the classified appendix to the attached 
study show the value that can be derived from intelligence coverage of 
• domestic groups. ls information of· this type worth the financial man-
power expenditure (which is considerable) to obtain it? Is it worth the 
task of trying to write ~nabling legislation (providing for judicial review 
to satisfy Keith) to allow intelligence electronic surveillance in domestic 
cases? Is it worth the fearsome battle such a bill would cau,se in Congress? 
Does such a bill have a chance at this time, or in the foreseeable future? 
Upon reconsideration, the blanket pessimisim on chance for 
passage of such legislation in the attached • study seems extreme. It is 
believed that the Department and the FBI should attempt to wr-:ite a bill, 
with as restrictive judicial control ~s necessary in order to obtain Con-_ 
gressional approval, to permit intelligence. electronic surveillance against 
domestic groups which threaten death or "extensive damage" (to be either 
defined or specifically enumerated, e.g. , plane hijackings, bombings, 
., . 
NW#:88608 Docid:32989541 
