/ 
This would permit CIA to levy requirements on 
us. For ex~ple, if we recruited the Third Secretary 
of the French Embassy, CIA might wish to ask any number 
of questions dealing with the French political situation. 
If we felt that the request w~s reasonable, we could 
handle this through our source. 
It will be noted that the pro~ram dooc not 
preclude CIA from development of foreign intelligence 
sources in the U.S. for fulfilLuent of CIA responsibilities. 
CIA will continue to operate under existing ground rules 
which are designed to protect Bureau interests. 
We believe .,chat if .,che program is implei:lented 
and jells we ·will be in a position to 11 spot" sources 
required by CIA and othe~ agencies to discharge their 
responsibilities. This would apply to cases where the 
target was in the·U. S. for a visit or if he had some 
specialized knowledge not related to our internal security 
responsibilities. These would be targets which other 
agencies could handle without interfering v,i th ou:r operations 
and without J:12.king us carry a load for another agency.· 
This particular concept should include a Bureau ~ttitude 
that any nnct every source handled. by ::ui.u ;..hlb.1..·· ...,5 crn:.._y li.l t~.:; 
U. S. potentially ca .. be useful to us. We should have an 
outlook that all sources shou~d be exploited to the fullest 
extent and under secu~e conditions. If another·agency has 
a capability to open a door we should take advantage of the 
situa ... cion. 
In those instances where CIA has a source in the 
United States, we should prod that agency to seek inforP-ation 
of interest to the Bureau, and where obviously necessary we 
should arrange access to the CIA source. The iraportant 
feature of this neu concept is that we assuwe the role of 
projecting initiative, leadership and aggressiveness. Our 
position should be such that we push the other agencies to 
use their resources even to the point of.healthy irritation. 
We have looked at CIA as the "other agency" in 
this picture, but we should not neglect.the pbtential of 
agencies such as ACSI, Air Force, O~I and State. All of 
them have entree·to diplomatic circles. The day-to-day 
contacts which officials of these agencies have with 
personnel of foreign goverD.!-u.ents produce many npieces" of 
·personality data which, when added up over a period of .tiwe, 
.. 96 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fi29 374 
