I l 
living many miles from Harrisburg under an assuml) identity and is 
gainfully employed through the assistance of the Bureau. All of· 
these problems have been coordinated through the Bureau to insure 
the security of this valuable source. As an example, the informant's 
father recently died and unfriendly members of the news media 
became aware of funeral arrangements. By instructions of the 
Bureau and. through very competent handling by the field, the 
security of this informant was maintained in spite of the presence 
of unfriendly members of the press at the funeral. It will be 
necessary to continue to coordinate any other problems of this 
nature until his testimony is heard during trial. In this regard, 
as the trial date approaches, other problems develop requiring 
Bureau assistance such as arrangements for "in depth" conferences 
with the Department's prosecutive team under secure circumstances. 
This will be a very important conference since the informant has 
only been interviewed (briefly) by the Department on one occasion, 
and no opportunity has existed since his appearance before the FGJ 
to further explore his testimony. 
We have also developed another informant, PH 1223-S, who 
is a clo~e f~iend of ,Philip Berri~a1},,_and active sympathizers in 
the Berrigan antiwar movement. He is the only individual who has 
obtained-any identification of possible MEDBURG suspects from 
.. c!..2JJ»<e.e..J:~r_G¼~sx.,.(arrested in the Camden Federal Building break-in 
872U71). Grady indirectly claimed credit for that action and by 
inference nameaother people who are considered prime suspects. 
The informant has recently accepted a position of running a 
newsu~yez at Harrisburg, Pem1sylvania, on behalf of The Defense 
Committee, the legal, bail bond, and public r~lations arm of the 
Be~¾iKc\J!_antiwar movement. He is a unique and cunning individual 
who is now in a vital position to keep us informed of the on-the­
scene and behind-the-scene activities in Harrisburg during the 
·EASTCON trial. Oneextremely important example of the valuable 
information this informant has furnished resulted in our initiating 
(as a corollary investigation to EASTCON) an Espionage - X-type 
case based upon information he received from an ardent Berriga,n. 
supporter who has stated the intention to obtain classified 
documents from the Lyndon B. Johnson Library in Austin, Texas, 
to be publicized for the benefit of the antiwar movement in the 
same manner as those circulated by Daniel Ellsb~~ 
With respect to The Defense Committee,investigation is 
being coordinated as to the activities of this loose-knit group 
due to its direct relationship to the EASTCON case. There has 
evolved a national organization, and the activities of local 
groups, as they become organized, will be followed by the Bureau 
for intelligence information. As an indication of the potential 
of this body, recognizing that its real push for funds 
