I 
I I 
• J 
i I ; ,1 
'. 
• 
r II i, I , l, , I If 
f I . 
1 Ir 1, • 
! I I I 
I. 
l 
! : f i I, 
t; I 
t l I • l 
I • 
I 
• 29 
All Agents are to be reminded that in deaiing with 
informants, they are to be particularly alert and not _ 
leave themselves open for critici~m or false accusations. 
The importance of having an alternate contacting Agent, 
or another Agent along during the course of certain, 
interviews is advisable in case any compromising situation 
is attemp'ted . 
. ·With the recent enactment of Senate Bill 30 you 
should concentrate on increasing your informant coverage in 
the areas covered by this legislation. Also in regard to 
the passage of Senate Bill 30 dealing with gambling, which 
you are aware does not now require interstate activity, you 
should not overlook the utilization of vour racial informants 
to furnish information to your office c;ncerning gambling 
activities. Other divisions of the Bureau have been 
particularly successful in coordinating the information 
from racial informants in to the CIP and IGA programs. 
During the fiscal year {fy) you recorded two convictions 
'in the CIP-IGA category. During the fy 1970 your .office had 
~hree convictions. During the first three months of fy 1971 
you have recorded one conviction in this category. 
;, According to the information furnished by your office 
: you have four cases pending prosecution, two of which are 
in the 159 (LMRDA-IM) category and two are in the 92 
• (Anti-Racketeering) category. Only one of these cases is 
in the CIP-IGA program. A review of your files indicates 
that in file 179-24 in a case captioned JAMES FRATIANNO, 
EXTORTIONATE CREDIT TR~NSACTION (ECT), the subject was 
indicted:·under Title 18, Section 894 of the .. u.s. Code. 
Your office was working the case under Anti~Racketeering 
classification and the file was opened after the ECT 
indictment. ~ .-. 
In regard to the possible statistical accomplishments, 
from the above file it would appear the local office of the 
United States Attorney will seek indictments under the ECT 
statute. A review of your cases in this category reveal only 
three Office of Origin cases. The files also indicate instances 
wherein there are shylocking activities among the gamblers 
where there are large debts outstanding. A review of your 
LNW-88fiiWLDoc!rl:32:989fiJ:3 f!age 141 
