.. 
,· ••, . . . 
III. NATIONAL SECURITY ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE 
: • ... . 
-- w. 
. J -· 
A. Domestic ~ . .. . ... 
. ·. 
1. The Keith Decision 
·~, ::; ':: ... . . ,••' :.• ... . .. 
"· . ·';' ~ . . , 
. -. .,,.· 
. The case originated as U.S. versus Plamondon, 
et al., and involved Federal prosecution of defendants accused 
• of bombing the CIA office in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in 
.September, 1968. Pursuant to a defense motion, Federal 
. Government electronic surveillance ~ecords were checked and 
revealed Plamondon had been intercepted via a national security 
wiretap on the Black Panther Party office i~ Oakland~ California . . 
-~· Under current court procedure r~garding national 
security electronic surveillances, the Government is regu~red 
.-:to disclose to the court all interceptions; the judge then 
determines whether the interception was legal or illegal . 
If he finds it to be illegal, he orders the prosecution to 
·make available to the defense all the logs and tapes pertaining 
·to the interception so that the defense can determine if any 
. of the case against it is based on illegally obtained electronic 
surveillance evidence. 
The trial Judge Damon· Ke_ith held that the President 
had no power to authorize electronic s.urveillance of the 
·Black Panther Party without prior judicial approval, i.e., 
a warrant, that therefore the wiretap was illegal, and the 
prosecution had to turn the logs and tapes of the conversation 
over to the defense. 
The Government appealed this decision to the 
Supreme Court, thus the cas~ at that level was titled U.S. 
versus U.S. District Court fo-r the Eas·tern District of ~-1ichigan, 
commonly called the Keith case. 
On June 19, 1972, the Supreme Court affirmed Keith's 
decision and held that the President has no warrantless, 
national security power to authorize electronic surveillance 
of domestic organizations (or their members). The Supreme 
Court defined a domestic oroanization as one having no 
"significant bonnection" wifh a foreign power, its agents 
or agencies. .. 
6 -
NW#:88608 Docld:32989541 
/ 
-r ( 
! 
r ! 
-I 
r 
f . 
