• 
• 
The Attorney General 
killing of police officers who, by their uniform, are a symbol of the democratic 
establishment; hijacking of aircraft in furtherance of revolutionary movements; 
terrorist assaults on foreign diplomatic personnel and establishments; and open 
declaration of war on our form of government are only. a few of the violent acts 
which have been perpetrated by domestic subversives who seek to destroy or 
• seriously cripple our Government. Terrorist guerrilla attacks v,rhich were 
• once confined to fro• away places and related to problems of no immediate con­
cern of ours are now possible in this country. Foreign terrorist groups in 
collusion with domestic terrorists have laid plans for an airport massacre of 
the type which recently occurred in Israel. Other foreign terrorist elements 
have laid plans for terrorist atta.cl{s on American soil. Already one foreign 
official has been assassinated , possibly by terrorists . 
It would be folly to a<:Iopt an investigative policy based on 
the concept of investigation only when there is reason to believe a crime 
involving- the national security has been committed. The FBI must 
obviously anticipate the crimes described above. We believe that in 
,order for the Government to be in ,position to defend itself against revolu­
tionary and terrorist efforts to destroy it, the FBI must have sufficient 
investigative authority to conduct intelligence-type investigations not 
normally associated with enforcement of the statutes. ln other·words we 
think the President has the inherent Executive power to expand by further 
defining the FBI's investigative authority to enable it to develop advance 
information concerning the plans and aspirations of terrorists and revolu­
tionaries who seek to overthrow or destroy the Government. However, we 
also believe that such eii..rpanded authority must be formally set forth in an 
Executive order and that this recommendation is responsive in the Attorney 
General's expressed interest in laying more formal guidelines to our work 
in areas where definition is not now clear. 
We consider the issuance of a new Executive order delineating 
our jurisdiction, authority, and responsibility to gather and report intelligence 
information relating to the national security to be a very important and high 
priority matter. We believe the issuance of guidelines by the Attorney General 
under 'l'itle 28. Soctiv.1.1 533. United States Code, to be equally irnport_ant. 
-7-
( . -+' ••➔•,-
/' Pocid: 3298954'1: 
, 
' i 
l 
I . 
J 
'.! 
ii 
11 '• ,I 
' 11 
' ' 
!I 
.I 
• r 
