,.• ""· 
' ''i Ir • 1 
•j.:· 
• -
The last paragraph of this particular directive, which 
was actually a request of· all local law enforcement agencies, 
used the words "counterespionage" and "subversive activities." 
However, the context of the statement appears to merely be 
<l'es i gned to broadly define act i vi ti es which might touch on the 
national security so that all such matters, irrespective of the 
legal definition or name, would be turned over to the FBI. 
A logical conclusion, based purely-on examination of 
the language used in the September, 1939, directive, Js_. that 
the. directive merely put everyone on notice that the FBI had the 
responsibility to investigate the statutory crimes named; th~J 
.J:.!-: Pl.:'O_\!:ided no so-called "constitutional" or, "exec:u\Jve 
authority" for the FBI to investigate matters not covere<;l _by 
lig{siative enactment. This is not to say that the President 
has no such constitutional authority (he has), but only that it 
was not exercised here. 
As a matter of particular interest, Professor Elliff, 
in questioning whether President Roosevelt was aware-that he 
was shifting FBI authority from Congressional enactment to 
Presidential directive since he assumed that he had granted such 
autbority in 1936, was at least half correct. While no shift 
of authority appears to have occurred as a result of the 1939 . 
directive, we have historical evidence to show that the President 
instructed the FBI to conduct subversive intelligence-type 
investigations of radicals in 1936. In this regard, there appears 
to be little doubt that Roosevelt conveyed some degree of 
Executive authority to the FBI. 
AUTHORITY CONVEYED EVEN BEFORE 1939 DIRECTIVES 
Confidential memoranda written by Mr. Hoover in August 
and September, 1936, clearly reveal that President Roosevelt was 
very concerned about the iubversive activities of fascists and 
communists in the United States and discussed the matter with 
Mr. Hoover during personal meetings. These memoranda indicate 
that President Roosevelt was obviously cognizant of the lack of 
statutory authority to conduct intelligence-type investigations 
of fascism and communism. Yet, the President desired the FBI to 
conduct such investigations. Mr. Hoover pointed out that the 
FBI appropriation contained a provision for the FBI to conduct 
such investigations if such matters were referred to it by the 
Department of State. The President was hesitant of having a 
formal request come through State Department, however, because 
of the many leaks in the State Department. 
•. 4 -
