• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
Re: Sensi;:.udy 75 
• 
Select Committee would· be unwise. It cannot he predicted what 
level ·of FBI employee will be contacted for interview or whether 
any employee ·contacted would have sufficient factual knowledge 
in order to provide ·a full responsive reply to Committee questions. 
Moreover, an employee without a full understanding of the material 
being inquired about may not he aware of the sensitive nature of 
the· answers. that might be_ given. 
As written, the employment agreement provides that 
the burden is ·on the employee to deter.mine prior to disclosure 
whether .informati·on may be disclosed and that the 'Director of 
the. FBI is in a bette-r position than the. ·employee to make such 
a dete·rmination. Therefore, it is the. opinion of Mr. Mintz .and 
the Inte·lligence Division that if no general letter of release is 
issued to all employees, any member contacted for interview inay 
rely upon the ·provisi·ons of the employment ·agreement as ·guidelines 
for his ·or her appropriate res·ponse. sp·ecifically, such an 
employee would be obligated to bring to the. attention of the 
Bureau any such request for an interview and in addition, he or 
she would be obligated to describe the. general nature of the 
inquiry. At .such time as request for interviews are made we will 
be in a better position to determine whether the employee is 
the. appropriate person and to. evaluate the sensitivity of the 
mate·rial in question. 
REVIEW OP: WIHT,E: HOUSE' DOCUMENTS: BY S·ENATORS: CHURCH AND TOWER: 
Mr. Hills advised that both Senators Church ·and Tower 
have tentatively agreed to review sensitive White House documents 
the. BSC is interested in in White House· space. They have tenta­
tively accepted the fact that should they believe such documents· 
are necessary for retenti·on in SSC files, they will accept a 
paraphrase of the original document. This arrangement has not 
been complete·ly agreed to by Senators Church ·and Tower but 
Mr. Hills ·is hopeful such an arra~gerrient can be worked out. 
• BRIEFING op· THE' 'SSC' BY THE' :INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY :STAFF · 
Mr. Colby advised that during the week of 4/13/75 he 
and Mr. John Clarke, Associate Deputy to the Director of Central 
Intell~gence for the Intelligence Community, will brief the Senate 
- 3 ._ CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989532 110 
