, ... .........:..... ......... -·• 
e 
4-H 
NAME CHECKS OF ALIENS HOLDING DIPLOMATIC AND 
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION VISAS 
I 
This program was initiated in January, 1952, as a means of 
keeping the Attorney General advised of information of a subversive 
nature relating to the diplomats and officials of foreign countries entering 
the United States in official capacities. These data are required by the 
Attorney General to assist in discharging his responsibilities under the 
Immigration and Nationality Act for exclusion and/ or deportation of 
foreign officials where their activity requires such action. 
The basis for this program is found in the procedure by 
Immigration and Naturalization Service in its submission of a form 
advising of the arrival of the alien officials in this country, which form is 
sent to member agencies of the intelligence community. The separate 
agencies perform name checks on the data in these forms with the results 
being cha!l!leli~ed to the FB!_ WP r..nrrAhlte this information with. gc:1tg ___ . 
from our files and furnish same to the Attorney General. In those 
instances where additional investigation appears warranted, we obtain 
clearance from Department of State and issue appropriate instructions 
to the field_ for active investigation. 
Since the program was initiated, 617,290 Immigration and 
'Naturalization Service forms have been processed and we have 
undertaken 452 investigations based on results thereof. 
The program continues to supplement our overall coverage in 
the intelligence field with the majority of the work being handled by 
trained clerical personnel within the Nationalities Intelligence Section 
and some isolated instances of involved investigations being handled by 
substantive desk supervisors within the Division. Based on the limited 
number of active investigations opened since the inception of this program, 
the cost of the program consists mainly of name check expenditures. The 
program continues to serve a necessary purpose in our overall intelligence 
coverage, serving to alert us to the presence in this country of persons 
having a capability for intelligence activities or who may pose a security 
threat to the United States. 
The program is justified annually, with the last justification 
having been made February 9, 1970. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
1/11/71 
,j,E,B,}!:~j&., 
.'-t' 4-H 
.NW 38601! Do:::ld::3~t89lli38 Page 476 
