. · 
• I I J 
• 
.. 
'l'ho Attorney General 
,. . 
11Where~1:; the President of the United Stutes has the constitutionally 
imposed responsibility of defending the Constitution and the existence of the 
Government thereunder; and 
"Whereas there have been continuing unlo.wful acts of violence 
perpetrated ag;ulnst the Government of the United States or agninst citizens 
of the United States or against persons entitled to the protection of the 
Unite,d SU1t0s thereby endanr,:ering the domestic tranquility. threatening the 
corrmion defense, and j9opardizin[{ the genoral wclfore of the people of the 
United Statos; and 
"Whereas the Congress has enacted laws prohibiting acts such as· 
treason, soditi?n, sabotc:.gc, cspionup;e, insurrection arid robellion, sciditious 
1;uw:1pi.1:w.;y , t,;·~ V 2:i. ui.::;viJt:U.Lt.:;,W,!U, r.iui..ing·. c.tt,l:H.!!:iSinui.ior1, kidn.aping, aepr1vn1 
of civil rights, e.nd co:·1spiracies to commit such acts; und • 
"Whereas the President of the United States as Chief Executive 
in the maintenance of the Government thereunder must have intelligence 
infm:nmtion for appropriate. decisions in the discharge -of J1is constitutionally 
imposed i·esponsibiJ.itfos; 
"Now by euthor·ity vested in me by the Constitution and statutes 
of the United States and in the interest of O1~ctcrly operntion of this Government 
and in fu1•focrunce of the domestic trarlquilit'f. common defense I and gcne1·ul 
welfare of the people of the United States it is ordered that; 
11The Attorney General prcpnr0 and issue guidclinco, conforming 
to the pd.nciplcs of the Constitution and the Bill of Hights, und outlining the 
necens.1::ry direction, coordiz:iation, D.nd guidanc:c of investigations to assure 
that the FccJc:cul I3urNm of Investignt.ion provides on a continuing basis 
intelligence information ossential to the exccuticn of laws pertaining to sub­
veruivo activity and other ::mch activity affecting the national uecurity, 
domestic trunquility, and rrcnernl v;relfare of the United Stutes. 11 
I 
The Nation has been e·oing tlu.•ourr,h a time of fo1•ror. The concept 
of urban guerrilla tan•orism has been adoptccl by various oxtremist clements 
in the Unitud St_utes. Bombings of public builcJing·s Hnd national ins1Jtutions; 
-6-
NW 38608 Bocld:3.2989628 Page 104 
) . 
..... 
