.. 
-- \ . . .. . 
• • 
4. Sentiment that the provisions of 18 U.S. C. ·2511 (3) (quoted above). 
are incompatible with Fourth Amendment rights has spawned a Senate bill and 
over a dozen House bills (some of these identical) aimed at closing what the 
sponsors view as "the national security loophole" in current surveillance la'Rs. 
A distinctive approach to national security surveillance is taking shape which 
would prohibit the use of warrantless surveillance for any reason whatsoever, 
treating national security surveillance under a single rubric, without distin­
guishing between gathering foreign intelligence on the one hand, and national 
security surveillances aimed at the discovery and prosecution of criminality, 
on the other . • 
(a) S. 743 by Senators Nelson and Kennedy would amend 
18U.S.C. 2510, et seq., as follows: First, repeal 18 U.S.C. 
2511(3) thereby withdrawing whatever congressional recognition 
that section gave the foreign intelligence surveillance powers of 
the President. Second, prohibit intercepting the communications 
of an American citizen or alien admitted for permanent residence 
until a_prior judicial warrant is obtained issued on probable cause 
that a specific crime, e. g. , espionage, has been or is about to be 
• committed. Third, prohibit intercepting the communication of a 
foreign power or its agent until a prior judicial warrant is obtained 
by establishing probable cause (a) that such interception is 
neces~ary to protect the national defense (note narrower standard 
than national security); (b) that the interception will be consistent 
with the international obligations of the United States; and (c) that 
the target is a foreign power or foreign agent. (A foreign agent i~ 
defined as any person, not an American citizen or alien lawfully 
admitted for permanent residence, whose activities are intended 
to serve the interests of a foreign power and to undermine the 
national defense. Each application for such an interception would 
be made to the D. C. Federal District Court on personal and written 
authorization of the President and would provide detailed informa­
tion on the target, the purposes and justification of the interception.) 
Upon court approval, only the FBI would be authorized to intercept 
the communication. Fourth, require that. every American Gitizen 
. targ~tted b.e informed of the specifics of the surveillance within a 
month of the last a:uthorized interception. • (This disclosure could 
be postponed if the Government satisfies the court that the target 
is engaged in a ·continuing criminal enterprise or that disclosure 
would endanger national security interests. A foreign power or 
its agent need not be informed· of interceptions. ) Fifth, require the 
Attorney General to report to the Congress, at least quarterly, the 
details of each interception undertaken on national security 
grounds, to be filed with the Senate Foreign Relations and 
Judiciary Committees and the House International Relations and 
Judiciary Committees. 
NW 38601!· Docld:32989ii09 Page 125 2 
