NW 38601! 
·- . . . 
Venceremos Brigade 
To date, less than half of the VB members have been 
located and a large portion of those lo~ated have been 
uncooperative insofar as the interview i~ concerned. Over 
100 of these persons have been placed on the Security Index, 
and it is anticipated that numerous others will-be listed. 
Many have been arrested for engaging in acts of violence since 
their return, have participated in anti-Vietnam demonstrations, 
or demonstrated at trials involving members of the Black Panther 
Party or the persons involved in the October, 1969, "days of 
rage" indictments in Chicago, Illinois. 
It is proposed that prior to closing any of the VB 
cases after the interview and a year of following the 
individual's activity on a 90-day reporting basis, he be 
interviewed a second time. For those who were initially 
cooperative, we should make every effort possible to convert 
these persons as informants. Those who were initially 
~:::;.~~~por~;!::ivc sh0uld be c0ns:i.df!rEHJ for Prio;i;-ity II handling, 
and those who have met the requirements for Security Index 
inclusion in the initial stage should be re-evaluated to insure 
they still meet those requirements. 
Since the members of the VB have made blatantly 
false statements in their passport applications by not 
disclosing their true destination, a technical violation of 
. the law exists. In addition, many of the applications 
contained either false or out-of-date information including 
incorrect or old addresses and places of-employment. These 
technical violations and items of incorrect information should 
be brought to the attention of Assistant Attorney General 
Robert c. Mardian who has recently been appointed in charge of 
the Internal Security Division of the Departnient. of Justice. 
He, together with Attorney General John N. Mitchell and 
James o. Eastland, United States Senator from Mississippi, 
has· publicly indicated they were considering some antisubversion 
bills making it a crime to give aid and comfort to the enemy, 
particularly the North Vietnamese who had representatives in 
Cuba to meet the VB, and toughening the law against advocating 
the overthrow of the Government. The passport violations could 
certainly be reviewed and brought under their consideration for 
prosecution under current laws or :t;or new legislative proposals. 
Inasmuch as some of the VB members have indicated 
they were going underground and the fact that a majority have 
- 2 -
