... ·.·• • 
~(•! l 
rr 
i ic .... 
~/· TO·P SECRET ' 
,. ,., 
h 
rr: 
l: '·· ~ .-::Ji:~j'}finutes of the October 9, 1962 Meeting 
• . ':'-~l~-/~'of the Special Group (Augmented) 
~ . ':. : 
Present for this meeting were the Attorney General, 
Mr. Bundy, Mr·. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, Genera~ Taylor, Mr_. Mc­
Cone, Mr. Wilson, Dr. Charyk, Dr. Scoville, Colonel Steakley, 
and Colonel Ledford, CIA. 
The Group discussed various possibilities of accomplish­
ing reconnais~ance of Cuba, ranging from low-level coverage 
by tactical aircraft to high-performance aircraft and drones. 
Overflights and peripheral flights were discussed. It was 
agreed that the first priority is one high-performance mission 
in the western part of the island, to be accomplished by all­
out ELINT support, and depending on the results of this, a 
number of similar sorties might be mounted. (The first mission 
was later approved by higher authority, with the decision on 
the second proposition left open. The entir~ package was to 
be discussed at the USIB and by the Chiefs on Wednesday, 
October 10.) 
Along with the minutes of this October 9 Meeting there 
was in file a memorandum from Mr. Parrott to Mr. Bundy, dated 
October 11, 1962. It was reflected in Mr. Parrott's memorandum 
that Mr. Gilpatric had called at 2:15 P.M. to say he and Mr. 
McCone had finally agreed that the one high-performance· flight 
would- be flown as a military flight with a SAC pilot. CIA had 
wanted to stick to the existing system for the fi~st flight, 
simply to avoid any delay. The SAC pilot would require some 
additional training·because the equipment in the improved 
vehicle was new to him, but Mr. Gilpatric and Mr. McCone 
apparently felt that this was an acceptable delay and it was 
hoped to get the flight off over the weekend. It was further 
stated in Mr. Parrott's memorandum that it seemed agreed that 
within the terms of the authorization given by higher authority 
it would be necessary to go back for approval of the next 
phase~ contemplating two or three more high-performance missions, 
ano Mr." Gilpatric seemed to· feel that the discussion which had' 
taken place with higher authority was explicit enough to get 
an emergency authority by telephone. Mr. Parrott further in­
formed Mr. Bundy that the Cover Committee (Messrs. Charyk, 
Hilsman, Scoville, Parrott, 
11
et al
11
) had met that morning and 
had agreed on a new cover story for a military pilot and a 
revised cover story for civilian pilots, and with the necessary 
changes it was thought that the cover story would be ready 
that afternoono Mr. Parrott pointed out to Mr. Bundy that,on 
the military side, the flight is characterized as military 
reconnaissance of the periphery of the target area, with parti­
cular reference to the Secretary of State's recent comments to 
the OAS Ministers to the effect that we are increasing surveil-
~ lance activities. (A penciled note on the file copy of this 
1r~-,7':;!~ Uta nvrr1 ~ ~ fJ ,Ui~t \:6. UV IC V~tii1 
°'1 ,7.,,(' ~ ~us"-nm L ~Hn u:; ll:J 
Page9 
- 5 -
- TOP SECRET 
I i 
f 
