/ 
C 
SECRET 
Castro's Resources for Continued Subversive Activity 
13. Arms. (See Annex B.) Castro has substantial stocks of arms. 
In addition to Soviet Bloc materiel there are stores. of arms· inherited 
from the Batista regime not being used by Castro forces and available 
for distribution outside Cuba. In the past he has apparently been ham­
pered in his efforts • to use arms for subversive purposes by problems 
of transport and delivery. He has at his disposal, however, 11 IL-14 
transports belonging to Cubana. airlines which could be used to deliver 
arms under certain circumstances. The IL-28's now in Cuba are in­
appropriate for subversive purposes. However, they could be used for 
air drops. Cuba has many small craft suitable for, infiltration of men 
and arms. The 6 Khronshtadt subchasers, 16 P-6 motor torpedo boats, 
• and 12 Komar missile boats· obtained from the Bloc could also be used • 
for arms deliveries. If the projected trawJer base is built up, trawlerS-:. , 
both Cuban and Soviet-could be used· for arms deliveries. If Soviet / 
sub~arines call at the trawler base or at other Cuban ports, they, too;/ 
could be used in support of subversive activities. We see no evidence 
that Cuba has or is developing·· a sophisticated amphibious warfare 
capability, and all the means of delivery of arms by sea noted above 
would be vulnerable to precautionary measures by Latin American mil-'­
itary and· naval forces. 
14. Propaganda apparatus. Castro's propaganda machine remains 
intact. For ·the time being, however, his diplomatic missions are likely 
to find it harder to disseminate propaganda than in: the past, both be­
cause of new precautions by local governments and because of a reduc­
tion· in the numbers of cooperative volunteers outside the organized . • I 
Communist· gr~ups. 1 ; . . 
• i . 
15. Money and equipment. Despite differences b,etween Castro and 
the USSR concerning dismantling Of the missile bases, we believe that the 
Soviets will continue to supply Castro with money, supplies, and equip­
ment for subversive activity. The Soviets have certainly supplied Castro 
with sophisticated instruments of intelligence collection, sabotage, and 
clandestine communications. 
16. Organization. The organization of Castro's subversive assets 
throughout Latin ·America was shown by .. the recent crisis to be loose 
and otherwise faulty. We estimate that Castro will make a strong 
effort to strengthen and improve it, and that he will continue to receive 
support in this effort from the Soviet apparatus, both in Cuba itself, 
where the Soviet Amb~dor is a ·veteran officer ·of the KGB, and in 
other important centers of Soviet activity . such· as Mexico City • and 
Montevideo. 
SECRET 
NW 38601! Docld:32423995 10 
) 
