• 
mechanism has been functioning effectively. We have 
frequent conferences. Bureau personnel lecturesbefore 
CIA officers. Dissemination of_information is excellent. 
The atmosphere for negotiating and discussing unusually 
complicated problems is ·very good. Personnel can work in 
the same area with a minimum of problems, as evidenced in 
the Dominican Republic. We attend USIB meetings and are 
actively engaged in tho work of several committees attached 
to USIBo All of this is commendable progress and certainly 
beneficial to national security. ✓ 
All of the foregoing was set forth in the way of 
background in order to better understand the current source 
of differences vith CIA, namely the Agency's desire to assess 
and recruit foreign int~lligence sources in the U.S. in th~ 
foreign diplomatic establishments, including United Nations,· 
and to some extent among foreign visitors. CIA fully 
acknowledges our int~rnal security and counterintelligence 
responsibilities. Tnis is clear-cut and free of any 
debatable question; however, CIA feels that we have no• • 
legally-established responsibility in foreign intelligence 
collecti.on and that somebody (in this case, CIA) should 
be fully exploiting the foreign intelligence potential in 
the United States, bearing in mind that there are approxi­
mately 10,000 foreign officials and employees in this countryo • 
CIA argues that a foreign diplomat can be recruited anywhere 
in the world but raaintains that there is no better place 
than the United States for assessment, -recruitment, training 
and orientation of an informant. CIA further maintains that 
if the Agency moves on a target, such as an Argentine 
diplomat who may be a career officer not connected with a 
foreign intelligence service, there should not be any con­
flict because the activity is in no way related to the 
internal security functions of the Bureau. CIA has also 
expressed the attitude that in the communist-bloc field 
CIA should be permitted to assess and recruit those 
individuals not connected with an intelligence or internal 
security service. 
~•, •~ :.~ ..... ,;:• •• • •: ".• •". "¥"•. ,,. ,. '.-.. •. ,.:•· •• ·:,:· • •• •.. • ::,. •••• ,"•,.l· ~ -.~•: ..... ••• .... ... "• . . . . • 
• • There· are some people· in CIA· who are of· the ••• • .. , •• , •• 
' 
opinion that in the field of foreign intelligence the Bureau. 
should be exerting more effort to actually assist CIA in 
·spotting sources and, when needed, give CIA support in 
.developing an individual through such means as surveillances, 
neighborhood investigations, etc .. When CIA is permitted to 
•· . .:. . ! ... ,_ .. 
- 71 -
~NW-&lltimLDocld:32§\8%.2:9 Page 243 
