1 1' 
• 
, 
• 
The 1953 directive actually did not reiterate either of the 
three previous directives except for the language quoted above. 
Instead, it cited the FBI's responsibility to investigate all 
violations of the Atomic Energy Act and requested all patriotic ' 
organizations and individuals as well as all enforcement officers 
to report violations of the Atomic Energy Act to the nearest 
representative of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
IMPLEMENTATION OF 1939 DIRECTIVE 
All of the foregoing documents have obviously been 
subject to various interpretations. However the language might 
be interpreted, the Septemher, 1939, directive, was implemented by 
the FBI and Congress was made fully aware of the extent of 
investigative ictivity the FBI was conducting as a result of the 
directive. In Mr. Hoover's testimony on November 30, 1939, in 
connection with an emergency supplemental appropriations bill, 
he said, "In September, 1939, we found it necessary to organize 
a General Intelligence Division in Washington. The establishment 
of,this division was made necessary by the President's proclama­
tion directing that all complaints of vioiations of the national 
defense statutes and proclamations be reported to the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation. This division now has compiled extensive 
indices of individuals, gr.cups, and organizations engaged in 
subversive activities, in espionage activities, or any activities 
that are possibly detrimental to the internal security of the 
United States. 
"The indexes have been arranged not only alphabetically 
but also geographically, so that at any ti~e, should we enter 
into the conflict abroad, we would be able to go into any of 
these communities and identify individual; and groups who might 
be a source of grave danger to the security of the country." 
During the same testimony Mr. Hoover was asked if any 
of the funds being requested in the emergency supplemental 
appropriation would be spent for any of the purposes'for which 
funds were denied at the previous session. Mr. Hoover .replied 
thBy would not; that the entire sum would be spent for intelli­
gence work. 
Subsequently, in June, 1940, Mr. Hoover again testified 
before a House Subcommittee on Appropriations. At that time he 
referred to his appearance before the committee the previous fall 
wherein he testified that authority had been requested to set up 
a separate division with the FBI to handle national defense 
matters under an assistant director. Mr Hoover offered a chart 
showing the organizational structure of five divisions of the 
Bureau, on~ of which he referred to as the National Defe~se 
Division. He said that this Division would handle and direct all 
investigations dealing with espionage, sabotage, national defense 
matters, and violations of neutrality statutues. 
- 8 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 143 
