r 4· . .. 
, 
~·-
• • - • 
,, 
DISSERTATION ON PROCEDURES FOR 
OPENING, CLOSING AND MAINTAINING 
DOMESTIC SECURITY CASES IN PENDING STATUS 
\: 
The FBI opens , continues pending investigation, and closes 
domestic security cases based on legal considerations. The Bureau is charged 
with the investigation of violation of numerous criminal statutes, as well as 
duties imposed by Presidential Directives and Executive Orders concerning 
internal security and employee loyalty matters . 
The procedure for handling such investigation is dictated by 
the facts and circumstances of each case. Upon receipt of a fact situation from 
any of a myriad of sources, the Agent must necessarily make a judgment to 
determine whether these facts reasonably indicate an activity falling within 
the scope of the FBI's jurisdiction. 
Domestic security investigations. are initiated regarding individuals 
when allegations establish that he, individually or as an active group member, 
acts to unlawfully alter the Government in viqlation of the Smith Act, the 
Rebellion or Insurrection Statute, the Seditious Conspiracy Statute, or other 
related enactments. Special emphasis is placed on those practicing action 
or violence in furtherance of their goal. If the allegation shows facts clearly 
within the scope of these statutes, a full investigation is conducted and continues 
so long as facts exist to indicate a reasonable possibility that these ends could 
be achieved. 
In some instances , allegations regarding the individual do not 
clearly fall within the scope of authority. Self-imposed restraining regulations 
require that such inquiry be limited to a "preliminary investigation" consisting 
of contacts for informational purposes only with established sources,. such as 
police bureaus , records departments of local governments, and private record 
sources; informants; public source information; and Bureau records. These 
investigations are limited to 90 days. An earnest effort is made to distinguish 
as soon as possible between mere unorthodox political views or qissent on the 
one hand and revolutionary and/ or criminal activity on the other. If to exceed 
90 days, a report is made to FBI Headquarters specifically stating the allegation, 
the jurisdictional authority and such facts as would justify continuance of the 
investigation. A concurrence of Headquarters is necessary for continuance. 
When an allegation is received that a group may fall within the 
jurisdictional criteria, Headquarters is immediately notified and investigation 
is limited to the "preliminary investigation" as described above. Any investi-
. NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989532 81 
