. ' 
-2-
6 
Pursuant to the Resolution, the Committee Rules include 
prrivisions relating to the· confidential treatment of material 
received by the Committee. These provisions are contained in 
Rules 6.11; 7 (and each of its subsections), 9.3 and 9.4 which 
provide the following: 
n6.11 Release of Testimony ·and Other Matters. No 
testimony taken or material presented at an Executive 
.session shall be made public, in whole or in part or by 
way or summary, unless authorized by a majority vote of 
the Committee. Unless authorized by the Chairman the 
• -name of any wi tnes•s scheduled to be heard by the Committee 
shall not be released prior to his testimony. 
"RULE 7. Procedures for Handling Sel~ct Committee 
Classified or Sensitive Material 
117.1 Staff offices on the first floor of the Dirksen 
Office Building shall.operate under·strict security 
precautions. One guard shall be on duty at ~11 times by 
the entrance to control entry. All persons, before entering 
the of.fices shal-1 identify themselves. An additional guard 
shall be posted at night for surveillance of the secure 
area where sensitive documents are kept .. 
.. 117.2 Sensitive documents and other materials shall 
be segregated in a secure storage area. They may be 
examined only at secure reading facilities. Copying or 
duplicating of such documents and other materials is pro­
hibited except·as is necessary for use in Committee 
meetings or to prepare for the taking of testimony· or-for 
interviews. 
117.3 Each member of the Committee shall at all times 
have access to all papers and things received from any 
source by subpoena or otherwise. The staff director 
shall be responsible for the maintenance,.under appropriate 
security procedures, of a record of all p~pers and thi~gs 
in the possession of the Committee, which log shall be 
available to any member of the Committee. 
117.4 Access to classified information supplied ~o 
the Committee shall be limited by the staff director, the 
chief counsel and the counsel to the minority, and to 
141 
