I - -::;;,;--- i 
ADDENDUM (,. . ., _ ~ .. / 
INSPECTOR E. S ;,.,.:M:rLLER: 
{ESM:bhg, 9/9~~~- v 
Your comments ·and proposals with 
respect to the reallocation of Agent 
personnel within the Division appear 
logical and are acceptable. However, exception must b~ made with 
respect to clerical employees. 
I 
You state it is necessary and warranted to retain 2 of the 3 clerical 
personnel in the disbanded Klan and White Hate Groups Unit for utilization 
in the Subversive Individuals Unit of the Internal Security Section. Based 
upon figures available the case load within the Subversive Individuals Unit 
approximates 2700 cases handled at present by three clerical employees 
giving an average case load per c~erk of approximately 900 cases. Retaining 
one of the Klan clerks would result in an average case load per clerk of 
675 cases which is not felt unreasonable or intolerable a burden. Further, 
it is not felt that less than 1 clerk per Agent is too great a load for the Unit. 
Turning now to the Espionage Section based on our survey it was felt 
that 4 clerical posit.ions e;oulcl be vuidc<l U:n·ough attrition, ba8t::u p:.rima:r:-ily 
on greater utilization of clerk-stenographers on clerical duties. You state 
that.the clerk-stenographer position provides the incumbent to perform 
clerical work only 20% of her time. At present there are 10 secretaries 
and clerk-stenographers available for transcription of communications. 
A survey of communications conducted during this inspection revealed that 
the Espionage Section dispatched 121 pieces of correspondence during a 
5-day period, 'which results in approximately 12 communications per 
secretary or slightly over 2 communications per day per employee. This 
does not indicate a great work load on the secretarial force and consequently 
it is felt that clerk-stenographers could be freed for clerical functions where 
necessary. In view of this it is felt that at least two clerical positions 
could be dissolved through attrition within this section. 
With respect to the Extremist Intelligence Section, you indicate that 
the case load of 559 cases .can be absorbed but a minimum of one clerk r 
will be needed to handle these cases. Based upon case load figures available 
should this clerk. not be made available the average case load per clerk 
within the Black Nationalist - East Unit would increase from approximately 
470 to 660 cases. Black Nationalist - Central from approximately 715 to 
940. Black Nationalist - South from approximately 780 to 1000, and the 
Black Nationalist - West from approximately 210 to 350 cases per clerk. 
Particular note should be made of the average case load per clerk increase 
NW 38608 Docld:32989£.JB Page 327 
