I·-­
! 
I l!i. .. ; ~; 
I, 
I 
I 
l 
I 
ACCOMPLISHMENTS ' 
FOREIGN INFLUENCE AND PRO-CHICOM UNIT 
A prime responsibility of the Bureau and the intel­
ligence community is to develop intelligence relating to efforts 
of foreign hostile governments, organizations, and individuals 
who influence, direct, or dominate the domestic subversive and 
extremist movements. There has been considerable evidence 
compiled over the years of this foreign influence. Since the 
last inspection, the following noteworthy achievements in our 
'investigations relating to foreign ~nfluence have been 
accomplished: 
lo In March, 1971, a coalition of leftist individuals 
including subversives and ·extremists under the sponsorship of 
the Clergy and Laymen Concerned About Vietnam, American Friends 
Service Committee, and Fellowship of Reconciliation traveled to 
Paris where they were in contact with the North Vietnamese and 
other elements antagonistic to the UoS. We developed two informants 
-to participate in this travel and as a result, identified all 
170 pedple in•attentl~u~e, their activitias, 0ontacts, a~d 
objectives. All information developed was afforded dissemination 
to appropriate Government agencies and we were commended by one 
iµtelligence agency for the excellent coverage. 
2. The World Peace Council is the leading Soviet-
dominated international effort to discredit and subvert U.S. 
,domestic and foreign policy. Upon determining the World Peace 
Council would hold a General Session in Budapest, Hungary, in 
May, 1971, an effort was made to obtain informant coverage. An 
informant was developed for the travel and coverage resul!Bd in 
the identification of all American participants including the 
Communist Party, USA, delegation and the activities of these 
individuals at the meeting. All pertinent documents relating 
to the Conference were obtained, as were the contacts and 
activities of American subversives at the Conference. Widespread 
dissemination of intelligence relating to this Conference was 
made and both the W~ite House and Central Intelligence Agency 
favorably. commented on its exceptional value. 
3. During the past six months, the Unit has afforded 
specific coverage to the travel of u.s; citizens to three hostile 
communist countries: North Vietnam, North Korea, and Communist 
China. All individuals traveling to these countries during 1970 
have been identified and, where pertinent, investigations have 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
1 8/18/71 
.t.-n ... ~_.,,sJ.~ 4-E· • 
- 3 -
NW 38600 Docld:32989638 Page 46 
