• 
VENCEREMOS gz: 
/ASSil?trANT DIRECTOR C.D. BRENNAN: The Inspecto;'s keen 
cf 
analysis and thoughtful 
suggestions in regard to the investigation of the 
Venceremos Brigade (VB) is sincerely appreciated. In 
connection with the above, the following ob~ervations by 
this Division are set forth: 
1. As the Inspector is aware, security 
investigations are being conducted concerning each participant 
of the VB. These investigations require that background 
data including any prior subversive activities be ascertained, 
each individual participant be considered for interview, and 
that the field make a recommendation as to the inclusion of 
each VB subject on the Security Index (SI). Upon conclusion 
of the above, the field is to advise the Bureau each 90 days 
for a period of one year as to the whereabouts and activities 
of :Pi'"io:..~ity II, 1':;:-io!'ity I!!; ~nd any non-SI sub,iects who are 
VB returnees. Priority I VB subjec·is are regarded as 
extremists and this Bureau is notified each 45 days of their 
activities and whereabouts. 
· 2. As to the difficulty in locating VB returnees, 
it is to be noted that the first and second contingents of 
. the VB were comprised of approximately 900 individuals made 
up of ~oung revolutionaries who were college dropouts leading 
nomadic and communal existences. This mode of living inherently 
ma.Res the Bureau's job of locating these subjects for purpose of 
interview more difficult. In contrast, investigation to date 
of the third contingent, which was composed mostly of 
established college students; indicates that these indiyiduals 
will be more easily located. Since the third contingent 
returned to the U.S. approximately 90 days ago, these 
investigations as to background data are now being completed 
and the initial in~erviews will be promptly conducted. 
3. The suggestion that these subjects be reinterviewed 
upon the expiration of above-mentioned one year peri?d, will 
be given serious consideration and instructions to this 
effect will be issued to the field upon approval of the 
Director. Efforts will be made to develop as informants those 
VB subjects who are cooperative and the need for further 
investigative attention regarding uncooperative individuals 
will be evaluated on the merits of each individual case. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
1/21/71 
_TJM:cae 
ld~3293:!Hi38 Page £06 1 ? '} 
