r 
I .. 
• 6 -. 
F. An.Inspector General .. In addition to the above options, 
an independent Inspector General shotild be created to 
investigate improprieties by the FBI. This option··is 
adv~nced by thqse concerned about the inadequacy of the 
FBI's investigation of the disappearance of former 
Director Hoover's personal files, its limited .inquiry 
.into the so-called Atlantic City convention case, and 
the absence of any internal investigation of the abuses 
in the King case. • 
In weighing this option, the Committee should consider • 
the following issues: 
1. Whether it is possible to maintain· the independence 
of an Inspector General within the Department of 
Justice when be.th the Inspector General and the 
Director of the FBI wi1·1 be r·esponsible t6 the same 
officia~, the Attorney General. 
2. Whether the Inspector General should have "complete" 
access to Bureau files, inciuding information per­
t~i~1ing to the ide3:1ti ty and rel.iabili ty of i\'}formants • 
and confidential sources. 
• 3. Whether an Inspector General with access to extremely 
~ensitive information might not become a serious 
threat to the independence of the Bureau from politi­
cal influence and to the civil liberties of American 
citizens. 
G. Congressional Oversight. In addition to the above 
options, the creation of an oversight coTILmittee(s) in the 
Congress,· to which the Bureau wo~ld be required to report 
and which would have the power to investigate abuses . 
. ·.;: 
In weighing this option, the Committee should consider 
the kinds of problems· posed by·the Justice Department 
oversight and Inspector General options discussed above 
to the independence of the FBI and the confidentiality 
of its files. 
H. Public Reporting and Disclosure to Subjects. In addition 
to the above options, the requirement that the FBI make 
frequent public reports on the details of its internal. 
security intelligence programs and policies and reveal 
the details of improper intelligence investigations to 
the subjects of those investigations. 
l NW 38614 Docld:3,?98960~ 
