- . . .. 
C 
C: 
OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
(Attachment to February 6, 196'.3. p_aper: "Current USIA Pro1rams on Cuba") 
Current Voice or America Progrannning on Cuba 
The Voice of America broadcasts 8 3/4 hours in Spanish daily 
to Latin America, of which 2 3/4 hours.is tailored-especially for 
the Cuban audience. The transmission times of the Cuban hours are 
6:00 to 7:00 a.m., and 10:00 to 11:45 p.m. 
The "Appointment with Cuba" ho~ (10:00 to ll:00 p.m.) consists 
of 15 minutes of news, followed by a five-mi.nute commentary on some 
development in the Cuban situation, a JO-minute Miami-produced packa1e 
(interviews with refugees, commentaries refutin1 the latest Cuban 
. propaganda claims, excerpts of letters received from listeners inside 
Cuba), and a ten-minute sports feature emphasi~in1 the activities or 
Cuban athletes in the U.S . 
. The 11:00 to 11:45 p.m. broadcast opens with 15 minutes of news 
and is followed either by a half-hour drama.ti~ation or a 15-minute 
news documentary and 15 minutes of features. A 150-installment series 
of a soap-opera type adventure, featurinc three brothers combattinc 
a Ca·stro-like regime, was run at this time until recently. A new . 
series of this drama.ti~ation is now being produced under contract in 
. Miami with Cuban writers and actors and will soon be broadcast to Cuba 
• in the same time spot. 
The 7:00 to 8:00 a.m. broadcast to Cuba also opens with 15 minutes 
of world news and repeats the Miami packace and features of the previous 
night. • 
In the six hours of daily broadcasts to the general Latin American 
audience, which can also be heard in Cuba, the total material relating 
_to the Cuban situation averages approximately one hour. This consists 
of commentaries, interviews with refugees, and news do.cumentaries . 
. In addition to the short-wave broadcasts (relayed also to Cuba 
on medium wave by two mobile transmitters), the main features on Cuba 
are sent out as tapes to all USIS posts in LatinAmerica for placement 
with some 1500 local radio stations. The number-of .listeners reached 
by this means is many times greater than the_ shortwave audience. 
The main themes emphasized in the Voice's Cuban progr~ng are: 
l) Castro's betrayal of a legitimate national revolution; 2) the sub­
servience of the Cuban regime to international communism; 3) the economic 
failures of the regime, relating these to the pattern of communist failures 
in the rest of the world; 4) the isolation of Cuba in the face or continental 
solidarity opposµii Cuba's alliance with the communist blo~; and 5) the
1u.s. 
position that. Cuba will 9ne day be free. , • .
1 OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
. ,;11•: :--: ;•:;\.:•'.-/ .. ·:. ' 
49 
I 
I 
I 
I 
