r 
I 
I 
" 'r ., 
• 
exhibit accompanying this study. Some additional authority is 
also present, at least for the time being, in Executive Order 
10450 (based on Executive Order 9835). Additionally, there is 
authority, particularly with respect to JDL, under statute 
having to do with assaulting foreign diplomats. 
INTERNAL SECURITY SECTION VIEWS 
The Internal Security Section pointed out that the 
security investigations supervised within that Section are 
conducted within the purview of authority set out in original 
position paper of the Dome~tic Intelligence Divison dated 
May 19, 1972, entitled "Investigations of Subversion," which 
paper was to have been discussed during meeting of the Bureau's 
Executive Staff with Mr. Gray at Quantico the last week of May. 
The position paper was abandoned by Mr. Miller in favor of a 
different position, the essence of which has been expressed 
heretofore _in this study. 
The authority referred to by Internal Security Section 
essentially is based on both statutory and Presidential documents, 
including the 1939, et seci"-:-directives.--Internal Security pointed 
out thai it should be stated at the outset that while FBI 
investigations conducted with sped, fie reference to a statute 
will develop some intelligence it is not possible to base all FBI 
activities in the collection of intelligence on statutory 
authority alone. Internal Security further points out that it is 
true that the initial Presidential directive(s) of 1939 picked 
up the term "subversive activities 11 as incidental to their 
primary thrust, but that it is just as true that President Truman's 
directive of July 24, 1950, however intentional or 
unintentional it may have been specifically stated, said that the 
FBI had charge of investigative work in matters relating to 
espionage, sabotage, subversive activities and related matters. 
Internal Security feels that whether or not the initial Presidential 
directives fully embraced the concept of subversive activities 
would appear irrelevant after such a definitive order signed 
by Truman. Internal Security Section is of the ·opinion that whether 
we had it spelled out beforehand is unimportant because obviously 
T~uman's order of July 24, 1950, made our investigative interest 
in subversive activities valid at that time. 
COMMENT - REBUTTAL 
Without going into detailed rebuttal here, the Truman 
directive is discussed in ·detail heretofore, it must be reiterated 
that Truman's directive contained a misstatement of fact concerning 
the previous directives, and I feel that under the magnification 
of a critical analysis of the Truman directive, particularly by 
- 32 -
LNw &8£01!• Doc!rl:32:009:6-0:9 page 167 
