........ ., 
( 
( 
e. The Director's Stand Over the Years 
.... j 
' .• 
The Director's stand over the years with rea-pect 
to jurisdiction concerning foreign intelligence matters 
within the United States is reflected in numerous comments 
he has made dating back to the days when the Central 
Intel+igence Group .. (CIG) was being :formed. 
In June, 1946, General Vandenberg, then head of 
CIG, sent a memorandum to the Director proposing that the. 
National Intelligence Authority issue a directive extending 
the powers and duties of the Director of Central Intelligencei 
which position General Vandenberg occupied. The memorandum 
was analyzed on June 21, 1946, in a memorandum from c. H. 
Carson to D. M. Ladd in which it was pointed out that it 
was inevitable.that CIG must enter into the domestic 
picture because of sources of foreign intelligence in that 
• = field. An addendum was placed on the memorandum by Mr. Edward A. 
•• Tamm and Mr. C. A. Tolson which was followed by comments by 
the Director which is most pertinent to the subject matter .. 
un~e~ discussio~. The ~dde~du..~ ~ead: 
"Mr. Tolson and Mr. Tamm do not concur with 
the conclusion expressed in this memorandum that 
·'It is inevitable that the Central Intelligence 
Group ·must enter into the domestic field picture 
.·insofar as intelligence·is concerned because of. 
the sources of foreign intelligence existing in 
that field.' They feel that a coordinated pro-
gram for the exchange of information between the 
Central Intelligence Authority and the FBI, 
permitting a free and comprehensive exchange of 
information in matters of mutual interest, will 
enable the Bureau to work in the domestic field 
without interference from the Central Intelligence 
Authority in· the same manner that the Bureau works, 
for example, with local police departments or other 
governmental agencies within defined jurisdictional 
lines. We believe that the attached letter to 
General Vandenberg is satisfactory." 
I 
1 The Director commented as follows: 
"I am ··not as optimistic as are Tolson & Tamm. 
I think it is inevitable that there will be a 
collision with CIG over our domestic jurisdiction 
I 
- 50 -
