F·. CURRE1'1"T CAPABILITIES OF THE FBI 
l. Manpower Being Devoted \. 
It is most difficult to \give any specific figures as to 
how much manpower the FBI is curr0ntly devoting strictly to 
foreign intelligence collection, separate and apart from the 
Bureau's internal security ~nd counterintelligence functions. 
Much of the foreign intelligence developed by.the Bureau is'\._a~ 
outgrowth of our internal security investigations and cannot\be 
neatly separated in terms of manpower or time. 
A substantial amount of our foreign intelligence activity 
is concentrated in two offices where most of the diplomatic 
establishments in the United $tates are located; namely, New York 
and Washington Field. Both offices were requested to furnish • 
estimates as to how much manpower is being allocated to foreign 
intelligence matters,·including both live sources developed and 
technical coverag~. In both cases, the estimates provided were 
highly tentative and both c:fices stress that manpower commitments 
in this area fluctuate widely from week to week depending on 
international politics and other unpredictable factors. For 
instance, during the_Cuban missile crisis of 1962P both offices 
greatly increased the±r· normal manpower commitment to the develop.a 
men~ ox curren~ xoreign intelLigence. The present·vominican crisis 
which involves production of foreign intelligence to a large extent 
represents another "abnormal" situation. 
However, for what it is worth, WFO and New York have 
estimated that at. the present time they are allocating approxi­
mately 35 Agents and 20 clerical employees to the full time task ' 
of foreign intelligence collection. Virtually all of the clerical 
time and about 40 per cent of the Agent time is related to 
technical coverage and the balance is aimed at the development of 
live sources. 
In addition, of course, all of the other offices, including 
our Legal Attaches abroad, have devoted manpower to~reign 
intelligence collection in varying degrees. }.Anagram perations • / 
conducted in different field· offices have invoI'ved e assignment 
of as many.as 10 or 12 Agents for temporary periods. In connection 
·,· ... : ·• ,··.• wit_h .. i t·s·· respon•sibi'lit•ies ·in:•'the· Cuban and Latin-American fields, 
tlle Miami and San Juan offices have d,evoted considerable manpower 
to.th~ development.of foreign intelligence in recent years. The 
Chicago Office in connection with its handling of our[op-level • 
. Sol_gJ informant has devoted manpower to the development .. of foreign 
·'intelligence. • These represent only· a few examples. • •• • • • ·-
. ··On· an overall. basis and bearing ·in ni"ind the :.-difficulty i.in 
citing any precise figures, it i"s estimated that the Bureau probably 
averages approximately 50 to 75 Agents and 25 to 30 clerks assigned 
primarily to foreign _intelligence wor~. . . . . ·I 
- 64 -
: '" . 
----------,,----,--...-:----,,-~_ .-=.-.--:--..,..,--.-; ,, 
·-Nw-NfiiOl!~DIX:ltt~2989fl29 ·-Pag~2--~ -- ••• --· 
.: .. I 
l 
l i 
1 
• J 
