1. None 
2. None 
3. None 
4. None 
·SPECIFIC COMMENTS 
\ . 
I 
l 
• 
5. During the period since the last inspection 
manpower savings have been effected in that the following 
Supervisors for the periods indicated have been assigned 
elsewhere in the Division. Supervisor J~mes P. Benedict 
has been assigned elsewhere in the Division for the entire 
period since· the last inspection except for approximately 
12 days that he was working in the Internal Security Section. 
Most of this period he was on temporary assignment in the 
New Left Section on the Special concerning the East Coast 
Conspiracy to Save Lives case. More recently he has been 
on temporary aB8ig1uue11i. to the Nat±onali t·ics Ii"i i;elligcuce 
Section on the McLek Special. Since 8/13/71 Supervisor 
~h.,has also been on temporary assignment in 
'the Nationalities Intelligence Sectio~ on the McLek Special. 
6. When Special Agent supervisory personnel 
currently assigned, temporarily on loan to other Sections, 
are retur~ed, we will have adequate personnel to handle 
existing case load~ There is, however, an area of pending 
work which could greatly increase the supervisory work load 
and require expeditious file reviews, analysis of cases, 
availability of witnesses, reviews of informant reports and 
preparation of correspondence. Funds were recently appropriated 
by Congress for the implementation of ExecutiveOrder 11605 
·which broadened the powers of the Subversive Activities Control 
Board (SACB) to enable the Board to hold hearings and designate 
violence-prone extremist organizations as subversive. The 
Department has indicated that it intends to initiate proceedings 
before the SACB as soon as possible and there are a number of 
organizations· being ·handled in the Internal Security Section, 
such as the Revolutionary Union and Progressive Labor Party, 
which are like_ly to be se~ected for presentation. Based on past 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/19/71 
SFP:ebc 
6-E 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fill! 278 
