I , Iii 
! 
I I 
' South Vietnam to lay down their arms or turn their guns on the 
real "pigs." Wefers' incendiary comments were broadcast over 
Radio Hanoi. tntens'ive investigation has been and is continuing_ 
to be.conducted and the Department has indicated an interest to 
prosecute :w,_e~under the sedition statutes at an early date. 
This will represent the first prosecution under the sedition 
statutes since the 1950's. 
A suit was instituted against the Director and two 
Special Agents of the Memphis Office seeking preliminary 
injunction against the FBI and punitive and compensatory 
damages amoun"tjng 1D over $100,000 against the Director and 
the Agents. The suit was instituted by the Southern Conference 
Educational Fund claiming harassment and intimidation of war 
resisters. Former communists, extremists, and subversives 
were involved as plaintiffs. In July the plaintiffs dropped 
their plea for a preliminary injunctione Excellent information 
identifying the principal plaintiff, on whose statements the 
false allegations were based, as having a criminal record 
involving furnishing of false information and theft, has been 
furnished to the Department as well as the fact that he is the 
subject·of a c~rreat 0utstaildiilg State DenGh Wa~~ante It !s 
anticipated when this matter is argued before the court, the 
plea for punitive damages will be dropped, much to the embar­
r~ssment of the communist subversives and extremists involved. 
The Unit endeavors to keep track of all efforts to 
discredit the u.s. military effort through organization of 
ftntiwar cqffeehouses, oriented groups, and publications. Last 
January we intensified investigation on Peoples House, a 
coffeehouse operated by subversives in Clarksville, Tennessee. 
Excellent information has been developed, all the principal 
subversives participating have been identified, and details 
have been furnished to the Department and interested military 
intelligence agencies. The House Committee on Internal Security 
has taken an interest in this coffeehouse and it is expected to 
be the subject of a Congressional hearing which will publicly 
expose the invplvement, tactics, and objectives of the extremist 
eiements behind this, subversive endeavor. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/18/71 
_ DR :gY{_,. 
-~~E - 5 -
I, NW 38601! Docld:32989ti38 Page 48 
