Editorials 
Through editorials, readers are advised of Party positions on national and 
international issues and are presented with the opinions of the hierarchy on inter­
Party matters. 
THE BLACK PANTHER, SATURDAY1 MARCH 13, l~I PAGE 2 
STATEMENT 
OF DEFENSE 
HUEY P. NEWTON, MINISTER 
THE BLACK PANTHER PARTY 
SUPREME SERVANT OF THE PEOPLE., ON 
BY 
OF 
AND 
THE OCCASION OF REVOLUTIONARY 
INTERCOMMUNAL DAY OF SOLIDARITY­
Power ta the People, Brothers and 
Sisters, 
First of all I would like ta thank all 
of you far my very presence here, be­
cause if it weren't far the Power of 
the People, I wouldn't be here tonight. 
I'm not here because of the Black 
Panther Party; I'm not here because of 
'lny grout, I'm not here because of a 
graup of kamakazis. I'm here because 
of the Power of the People. 
We must remember that Revolution 
is a process. It's not a conclusion; 
becaitse once we conclude, then we be­
come counter-revolutionary. And that 
means even with the gun in aur hands, 
because fascism also has a gun. And 
I would like ta say tonight that the Black 
Panther Party stands against all farms 
of fascism, including sexual fascism. 
That we are against all kinds of chau­
vinism, including racial chauvinism; 
we'te against sexual chauvinism, 
national chauvinism. We're intercom­
munalists. Before I wenJ to prison, 
most of you know, you are aware, that 
I never made any speeches, you see, be­
cause I'm not a very eloquent man. 
I'm better known by the actions. And 
the Party was built upon the actions, 
And the action itself is a process. 
And we're not ever fixated. We haven't 
accepted any dogma. And we will not. 
And I wou1a llke to say this, that 
from now on the Party itself will be 
better known by its contributions to the 
People, for the simple reason that same 
people araund us seem to want to be 
known through the Media. But the Party 
can only judge itself through establish­
ing certain survival programs, pending 
Revolution. Because remember, you 
make the Revolution. We can't free 
Political prisoners, only the People can 
free political Prisoners. And a people 
who are not free cannot free their pri­
soners, can~ot free the prisoners that 
fascism makes. Sa I wauld like ta say 
that we must work very Izard in order 
to lift the consciousness of the people. 
We m"st free our Chairman Bobby 
Seale, Angela Davis, Rucl1ell Magee, 
the Soledad Brothers, the seven and 
the 11,ree, and all other political pri­
soners. Randy. We lzave to free all of 
them~ 
But we must remembe1· that we must 
exhaust every possible lactic. And we 
must let it be known that never broad-
W 38614 Docld:32989ti-06 144 
MARCH 5., 1971 
cast military tactics for military rea- to be able to fight in a protracted 
sons. It's perfectly correct to broad- war. And that is why it is necessary 
cast military tactics for political rea- for us to develop the correct ideology, 
sons. That's what Uncle Ho said, and which is a system of thinking. And we 
I agree with him, So we would like for must not rely upon and conclude with 
the people to know that there are many the Philosophy, which isn't necessarily 
things that we will not discuss in public. a conclusion. 
But what yau can do is watch the fn,dts So we're ideologically revolutionists. 
of our work. And we would like to say We're in a conslant state of change. 
that our Party became an intercommunal And we fight with all people who want 
Party upon its actions. And Ithinkthat's to change, because we know change will 
very good. So I'm asking you in order offer our hope. So after all of this, we 
to free all political prisoners, free the must pay more attention ta what is 
people, free the woman and also the happening. The news media has at­
man, that we have to get together in tempted to discredit the Party by saying 
unity by substituting verbal expressions that it's over, because they don't see 
for action. The final test of the pie is anyone. I think aur programs are better 
the action. We'll stand on the Black than the Party. The communities are 
Panther Party. TheBlackPantherParty involved in forty-four cities. We must 
from 1966 when it was formed will support these; we must expand them. 
stand on its record, will stana on the Because I read an article, recently, a 
action. We won't claim to beultra- few months ago, where Che had some 
leftists; we won't claim to be infan- problems in Bolivia, because the peas­
tile leftists. What we'll do is act in ants were so unconscious until he could 
accordance with the particular set of not rally them even with the "focos". 
conditions and the particular problem They did not understand why the mili­
that we have at a time. So please judge tary, the regular military was dropping. 
us upon our actions and we will develop So what did he do, He attempted to 
like. that. We will not· develop with lip form certain programs that he called 
service coming from anyone.And some- survival programs. He attempted to 
times I'm very thankful that I don't form a free health program in order 
talk too well, because that's only one to get the peasants inside, to help 
way of communication. We say that a them, and also to Provide things for his 
picture is worth a thowland words, but focos. He also look to form a free 
action is supreme. breakfast program, a free shoefactary, 
But what kind of action yau take will and a sporting good store ( for obvious 
depend upon the particular set of con- reasons). So programs are good. Be­
ditions. And I say all of this, because cause an act that might be revolutionary 
you know the Party and the world to- might be caunter-revolutionary, if the 
day is under turmoil. And this is very correct preparations are not made. 
good. We always have welcomed all Sa to be a serious revolutionist, we 
forms of contradictions. Because with- must know that we are involved in a 
out the contradiction there is no trans- process, and not a set of principles 
formation, Sofromthecontradictionthat or conclusions that are of face-vali,e 
has developed now in the world and in revolutionary. I do not know one thing 
the Party, we hope to have a qualita- that is revolutionary in itself. And all 
live leap. If this leap eliminates some things might be revolutionary in con­
of us, then, of course, we'll weep for text. In other words, capitalism was 
that. But we must not stop the Reva- revolutionary when it kicked out feudal­
lution, I will not stop the Revolution. ism. And now we have a situation where 
You should not stop it. And, for all the capitalists have became the imper­
that it's worth, we know that words ialists, and the People of the world, 
will never stop it. Words will not start of the communities of the world will 
the Revolution either. Only action. have to kick them out. So in order to 
'Sixty-six kicked off the armed mani- free Angela, Bobby, Ruclwll Magee 
festation of Revolution in this country, and all other political prisoners, we 
because it focused upon the need far must kick the fascists out. And we can­
the People not only to aefend them- not do it with lip service, 
selves, but also to develop a conscious-
ness necessa,·y ta perform and to act POWEii TO Till: Pl-"OP r F 
21 
