ADEQUA -cy:· OF PERSONNEL 6-E 
The need for uniformity in case count submitted by Sections was 
stressed to them, as was the need to establish a logical and 
current basis for a regular and periodic assessment of work loads 
and manpower needs within the Division. 
. Because of (1) a continued shift in manpower needs, and 
(2) a growing imbalance in caseloads between Sections and 
manpower demands of special cases, by memorandum to all Branch 
and Section Chiefs, I instructed Section Chiefs G. C. Moore and 
R. L. Shackelford to conduct a thorough survey of the Division 
and make suitable recommendations for manpower adjustments to 
cope with current needs of the Division. My memorandum to 
·Mr. Sullivan dated 7/29/71 detailed their findings and recommended 
~hey be approved. 
Addendum of Inspection Division 7/30/71 approved this 
except for assignment of Special Coordination Unit to Research 
Section, recommending it be retained in Nationalities Intelligence 
Section. Mr. Felt's memorandum to Mr. Tolson dated 8/4/71 
~~~crr.iiu~ndsd proposed 2dj~stm~nt of work assignments in Dom~~~~c 
Intelligence Division be deferred pending his study and Director 
noted, "OK. Expedite." We are awaiting a decision. 
Based on figures developed during the survey of G. C. 
Moore and R. L. Shackelford, it was obvious my previous instructions 
to the Branch Chiefs had not been effectively carried out, because 
case count figures still were not as meaningful or consistent 
-between Sections as they should have been. To correct this 
situation and to establish what I intended in my original 
.memorandum to the Branch Chiefs on this subject, I instructed 
two Supervisors, with Inspection Staff experience, to do a complete 
survey of case counting procedures and prepare tight recommenda­
tions to achieve the objectives previously sought. 
This was done, and after discussion of their findings 
with Branch and Section Chiefs,.these new procedures were adopted 
beginning 8/13/71. The results of this procedural change is 
detailed in "Pending Work and Delinquency," 4-D-l, and .I believe.:. 
validates the recommended work adjustments contained in my 
memorandum to Mr. Sullivan dated 7/29/71. 
It must be strongly pointed out· here this procedural 
change does not bear on work load, but rather deals solely with 
tabulation of case count into a more accurate gauge of pending 
work and where the work is by desk, Unit, and Section. The· 
work remains the same. 
DOMESTIC 
8/30/71 
CDB:mls 
6-E 
INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
W 313'600 Docld:32989fill! Pa e 267 
