• 
,. . ,, 
CURRENT CAPABILITIES OF CIA IN 
THE FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION 
FIE~ I~ THE UNITED STATES \ 
In order that thore may not be any 
misunderstanding regarding CIA's capabilit~es to 
collect foreign intelligence in the Uni~ed States, 
we should first clarify that one of the components 
. o~ the Agency which has o~fices in the United States 
does not engage in this particular activitYo 
The Office of Security, which is responsible for 
personnel and physical security, maintains several 
oxfices in the United States under authorized 
Treasury Department cover. Personnel of this 
office conduct investigations of applicants, firms 
or :i.ndividuals :who may be utilized by CIA on 
a contract basis to support intelligence operations 
overseas. 
The overt collection of intelligence by 
CIA is handled by the Domestic Contact Service (DCS) 
(:fo:i~merly called Contact Divis;ion) e, • CIA estimates 
that DCS has a capability of tapping approximately 
15 per cent of the total potential of intelligence in 
the Uo s. This Division has 18 field offices and 
16 resident agencies in the United States, and each. 
office is openly identified as being connected with 
CIA: Personnel totaling approximately 140 carry CIA 
credentials. The Division regularly has a number of 
officers from the various military services who are 
assigned to this Division on a temporary basis. 
These military officers concentrate on the collection 
of that foreign intelligence which relates to the 
immediate United States military needs. The personnel 
of DCS interview aliens, tourists 1 officials of 
import-export firms, students, scientists, and the 
information collected covers a very broad spectrum in 
the positive intelligence category. DCS•claims to have 
contact with about 7200 organizations, institutions, or· 
businesses and has approximately 60pOOO contacts or 
sources of informationo The information is reported in 
the :form of "Information Reports, 0 which is disseminated 
throughout the intelligence comm~nity. During/1965, 
.,. 
NW 886im! Docld:32989fi29 231 
