.... . . ' 
.. •'•.'• 
;••:.(- :. 
' • f. 
_._.i·-· . 
,I •/ 
I ·, 
,· · .. 
' 
Mr. Gray pointed out that assessments appearing in the Jun~ l 
prelimi.nary report of the USI.B Security Couxnittee differed from the DCI' s 
estimate that serious damage _was done·. Mr. McCone said that General Carter 
and M.r. Bannernw1n of CIA think that· the 'damage was very eevt:re; but the 
DCI added that he had not studied the US.Il> report inasmuch as he was out of the 
country attending the Honolulu coriference. 
I · Chairm:~ ®.ifford remarked that the Moscow incident_ indicates a dis­
regard for security on the part of the U~ S., for example, the 1962 report of 
_ the Sovi.et defector was riot acted_ upon.; . Mr~: .Cl_ifford thought the question is 
what can we as Americans do to·bring attent:.io~ to and correct this fouled-up 
situation. Mr. McCone replied that in CIA there is an extremely competent 
group which is devoted to personuel and ot~er security matters. The Dun.lap 
case study showed that CIA's personnel security program is particularly good. 
Now there is a need. for the State Depnr.tment or some agency to be designated as 
responsible for not only technical security sweeps but phys'ical security matters 
as well. There must be ail insistence on conformance with security safeguards. 
(Here Mr. McCone recalled that in Bangkok the u. S. Ambassador mentioned that 
he ha-i sent his furniture out to be upholstered by local people; and when the 
DCI aske,i about the possibility of listening devices being planted in the 
furniture, the Ambassador said that this had not occurred to him. Mr. Mc:one 
observed ·t:hat in. various parts of the world, CIA would be happy for an opµor­
tunity to take advantage cf a situation 6£ that kind, for intelligence purposes.) 
Chai1:-;uan Clifford pointed to the ·1oose security attitude that prevail~d 
in the Mqsco..., situation, e.-g. 'r the cables_ were cut right away. The DCI thought 
that the· prop~r · procedure was ·followed with regard to State and CIA consultation 
to determirie"-exf'lo·itation possibilities 1when the first micropnone was found -­
leading to a decision that the Soviets had by then been alerted to the discovery, 
making exploitation infeasible. However, Mr. McCone though~ that the cutting 
of the coaxial cable was f·~roper. ~r. McCone agreeci with Mr. Clifford's 
statement that there is a rieed to place responsi};>ility on come appropriate agency 
to ensure that security precautions are foilowed. 
. . . 
Hr. Pa.ce sa,id that ther~ is ·also a ·need to ensure effective management 
of research and development in the audio field. Mr. McCone replied th.at there 
are jurisdi<:tional problems; the Departmen:t c;,£ State hes reaponsibility \.mder 
NSC directives; and Mr. McCone wants. the.U~'n·to consider the matter, and • 
meanwhile hE! would defer making .sny recommendations for nm,,. 
. \ • • . • ... 
Cbairtnan Clifford asked if Mr.- McCone would comment on the status of the 
DCI's efforts to coordinate the total U. S. intelligence activity. Mr. McCone 
said that with regard to the Board's recent report on the National Reconoaissanc:e 
Program, he would have some alternative proposals to make ~long the lines of a 
different approach to the prol>lem,. but he· pre.ferred to reserve this for a later 
time. ( • • 
In another area of the coordination effort, Mr. McCone said that the 
inte'llfgence community is face·d with the question of the continued availability 
of certain overseas bases w~ich are used for intelligence purposes -- such as 
intercept stations on Cyprus; bases in-Pakistan; ·andAFTAC sites at iocations 
around the world. In th~ UStB:, an inventory of. all overseas intelligence- , 
IDEALIST /C QR~NA/OXCART_ 
14 -
Page ( 
·, . ••. 
