9. We want all black people when brought to trial to be tried in court by 
a jury of their peer group or people from their black communities, as 
defined by the Constitution of the United States. 
We believe that the courts should follow the United States Constitution 
.:;o that black people will receive fair trials. The 14th Amend~ent of the 
U.S. Constitution gives a man a right to be tried by his peer group. A peer 
is a person from a similar economic, social, religious, geographical, en­
vironmental, historical and racial background. To do this the court will be 
forced to select a jury from the black community from which the black 
defendant came. We have been, and are being tried by all-white juries 
that have no understanding of the "average reasoning man" of the black 
community. 
10. We want land, bread, housing, education, clothing, justice and peace. 
And as our major political objective, a United Nations-supervised plebis­
cite to be held throughout the black colony in which only black colonial 
subjects will be allowed to participate, for the purpose of determining the 
will of black people as to their.national destiny. 
When, in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one 
people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with 
another, and to assume, among the powers of the earth, the separate and 
equal station to which the laws of nature and nature's God entitle them, a 
decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare 
the <'auses which impel them to the separation. 
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that.all men are created equal; 
that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; 
that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That, to 
secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their 
just powers from the consent of the governed; that, whenever any form of 
government. becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people 
to alter or to abolish it, and to institute a new government, laying its 
foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as 
to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness. Pru­
dence. indeed. will dictate that governments long established should not 
be changed for light and transient causes; and, accordingly, all experience 
hath shown. that mankind-are more disposed to suffer, while evils are 
sufferable. than to right them~elves by abolishing the forms to which they 
are accustomed. But. when a long train of abuses and usurpations. pur­
suing im·ariably the same object. evinces a design to reduce them under ab­
solutl' dl'spotism. it is their right. it is their duty, to throw off such govern­
ml'nt. and to pro,·ide new guards for their future security. 
5 
W 38614 Docld:32989ii06 Page 128 
