(8) The V/hite House and the Attorney General's Office are closely 
following this matter and all other leak cases, and in this respect the Attorney­
General's Office has sent numerous communications requesting certain leads 
be covered by the FBI. These requests must be analyzed by DID and the 
appropriate communications answered, which is a time-consuming administrative 
procedure. 
In regard to the last situation noted above, you are aware that 
the Department is reviewing for lead purposes the daily teletypes we furnish 
them. Thereafter, they send us a communication requesting us to conduct 
these leads. This must be stopped. Such a procedure is unproductive and 
time consuming, resulting in additional unnecessary communications to the 
Department. You are instructed to immediately advif:3e the Department that 
the purpose of the daily teletypes is to malce them cognizant of the devebpments 
in this case and that the FBI fully intends to pursue all other logical investi­
gation based on these communications. 
With the importance of this case, the urgency of the problems 
- to be rE:solved, tha imi.aecliacy of the work to be padoi~n.ied, ai.1d tha--volu-me 
of communications received daily, there appears sufficient work at the 
.present for nine Supervisors. However, you must constantly evaluate the 
work load to assure that the assigned manpower is fully justified. Also, much 
of the present work is exploratory, which involves researching and analyzing 
and thereafter assuring that the many facets are immediately and fully 
probed. Once ~hese exploratory aspects are sufficiently investigated., this 
case will be directed toward more specific objectives which will narrow the 
investigative field. As this transition period is entered, immediate con­
sideration should be given to reducing the manpower assigned to this matter. 
Also, it is incumbent upon you to make certain that all logical investigation 
is expeditiously and fully conducted in order that the Bureau will not be 
subjected to criticism by any person or agency. • 
A review of this matter indicates that you should continue affording 
it top priority supervision and direction. • 
Comments of Assistant Director anc~ Secffon Chief Wannall requested. 
NW 313'600 
