j 
l. I 
- 5 -
~: i '\ !: J 
• I ; \\1: 
I I ' i I. ' 
1 • -· ·t i '\ 
\ I I \ I i 
\ -\! l i\ \ ,; ' l I I 
• 1 I \ 4_:I-M-5 
\ ~ t, I 
. ! . • ~ 
You are, therefore,· instructed 
to suggest to the Bureau that the contents of the letterhead 
memorandum setting forth this overall problem be brought to 
the attention of the Attorney General with the further sug­
gestion that the Attorney General bring this matter to the 
attention of the Administrator of the Courts of the Federal 
Judicial System and/or Chief Justice BURGER for his analysis 
and information, and the further suggestion he may desire to 
conununicate with the Chief Federal Judge in San Francisco 
relative to these matters. ,,. 
I . 
. SAC, ASAC, Supervisory and 
Agent personnel should take advantage of every opportunity 
to personally discuss this aggravated situation with the 
United States Attorney, Selective Service Board officials, 
SAC contacts and other prominent individuals to get them 
riled up about this ridiculous situat:inn.- Insur~ -tt..n.1~ 
. continuous ~lvse liuison is maintained by supervisory and 
Agent personnel with United States Attorney's Office and 
various local draft board officials to insure that these 
cases are promptly processed and prosecuted. 
Your office in April, 196·9 
suggested to the former United States Attorney that arresting 
several inductees on the spot might have a favorable effect 
,, upon lowering the rate of refusals at the Oakland Induction 
Center. The only objection given by the former United States 
Attorney was that the case of the registrant must be presented 
•to the Federal Grand Jury within two weeks after arrest. Due 
·to your effective liaison, most of the "bottlenecks" have been 
worked out between the Selective Service Board and United 
States Attorney's Office in which these arrests can now be 
effected. You should be alert to members of extremist arouos 
who will fail to step forward at the time of their induction 
and appropriately arrange with the United States ~ttorney for 
authority to arrest these individuals on the spot. You should 
insure that such arrests are given adequate press coverage .. 
Such plans should be brought to the attention of the Bureau 
for their consideration in making a national press release, 
if warranted. 
You must closely coordinate 
Selective Service Act cases with Agents handling extremist 
groups such as the Black Panther Party, Weatherman, SDS~ etc. 
These files should be cross·-referenced ?Y appropriate· 
memoranda. 
N _ 38tiiOB. Docld:32989633 Pit_ge 151 
