• 
• 
Annex to Noven r 29, 1963, "Diary: 
' . 
.About 5:30 on Friday, November 29, while I was 
sitting arourid the fire after a game of golf at Lloyd 
Neck, the telephone rang and I_ was advised that the 
President~wanted to speak with me. I went to the phone 
and the W:~ite House operator said that the.President· 
wanted to speak with me, that he was.on another line; 
and·would I hold on for a minute. After a short wait 
the operator told me that someone had gone into the 
room and that she would call me back. 
She called me back in ·five minutes. This gave 
me a brief chance to puzzle out what it was the President 
~Qllted to say to me. As it turned out, aided by some 
news items that the President was considering appointing 
a high-level commission to look into all the circumstances 
of the assassination of the President, I was led to.put this 
as the first possibility~ Soon the call came through. The 
President was on the line. I told him how much my thoughts 
had been with him in recent days. He thanked me. Then 
in_a very kind expression of appreciation for what he 
thought I had _done for the country over the years, he said 
he wished. me to do a job £or him. • I asked him what it was. 
He said he was appointing a·commission to look into all 
the circumstances surrounding the assassination and the later 
killing ·of the man believed responsible for the assassination . . 
This commission would include the Chief Justice, members of 
the House and Senate fr.om both parties, and two men outside 
of ~overnrn¥nt,_ including myself, if I would serve. 
I told the President 
.prepared ~o serve if he felt 
and the nation. I said that 
without hesitation that I was 
I could be of service to him .. 
I assumed that he had considered 
my recent job and that he did not consider that this service 
was· in any way an impediment. He said he had carefully 
considered it and he felt that, on the contrary, it would 
be helpful. I said I assumed that what he had told me was 
entirely confidential. He said it was until it was announced 
and he did not know the exact hour of that. I said I wouia, 
of cou~se, maintain the confidence. 
) 
Page8 
• 
