pistol ~sed in the.killing, which enabled the Detroit police 
to arrest the BPP·member, recover the pistol and determine that 
this weapon was used in the killing referred to above. 
A Tampa informant furnished information concerning 
identity of two Negro males who placed a fire bomb in a garage 
in Tampa, Florida. 
I 
A Miami ghetto informant was instrumental in obtaining 
advance information concerning problems in a local high school. 
It is noted there was a walkout by students at this high school 
and as a result several Negro students were arrested. A 
Washington Field informant obtained information concerning 
S~okelz.,,qarmi~_ae1,:s trip to the United States from Africa and 
this information was verified by the New York Division. 
Detroit informant ·provided information which saved 
two lives. This informant, who was a member of the BPP, was 
instrumental in saving the lives of two BPP members who were 
being disciplined by the BPP and his information when furnished 
to local police was responsible for arrest of seven BPP members 
who we.Ce charged. w"i th kid....~u.ping 8-r..d. ~ssa1.1l t t0 do borl.i ly harm 
less than murder. 
A Memphis informant furnished information which 
prevented a. shootout between members of the BPP chapter and 
the Memphis Police Department. 
Extremist intelligence information gathered through 
our informants and investigations makes up a major portion of 
the Bureau's sophisticated document which is disseminated to the 
White House and other high-level Government agencies. This 
document captioned "FBI Summary of Extremist Activities" furnishes 
the White House and other agencies with a dige·st of the extremist 
problem in the United States. 
The quality.of our informants can also be judged by 
the fact that since the last inspection 16 Special Agents have 
been recommended for either incentive awards or letters of 
commendation for their work in developing and handling these 
informahts. In addition, 11 extremist informants were given bonus 
awards for valuable information furnished and services rendered. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989£.JB Page 84 
