. , 
• Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: SENSTUDY 75 
FORMER SUPERVISOR LISH WHITSON 
ASSIGNED INTELLIGENCE DIVISION 
• 
Whitson must have originated with YT. C. Sullivan. Whitson noted 
that Mr. Hoover and Mr. Tolson are both deceased and that he has heard 
nothing indicating Mr. Belmont has been contacted by members of the 
staff of the Senate Select Committee. One other factor that causes 
him to feel that Sullivan was the source of the information was a 
question Epstein raised as to whether Whitson had put a return address 
on the package when he addressed it to Martin Luther King. Whitson 
said he recalls that-when he was in Miami and received the telephonic 
instructions from Sullivan, Sullivan told him that he should put a 
return address on the package and Whitson pointed out that if he did 
so and the name of the addressee became smeared the package would end 
up at someone's return address rather than in the dead letter office. 
Sullivan concurred that no return address should be used. Thus, 
Sullivan would probably have reason to have commented regarding the 
use or nonuse of a return address. 
Whitson stated that in the event he is called again to be 
interviewed by anyone connected with·the Senate Select Committee, he 
intended to notify the Bureau beforehand and would appreciate it if 
the Bureau would consider having someone present during the interview, 
if this could be arranged, since he recognizes an obligation not to 
reveal FBI information contrary to regulations issued by the Attorney 
General. Appreciation was expr~ssed to Mr. Whitson for his volun­
teering the foregoing information. 
This is the first instance which has come to our attention 
indicating staff members of the Senate Select Committee are proceeding 
with interviews of former Agents. I have discussed this matter with 
Mr. Mintz and he and I feel it would be appropriate to furnish an 
al:stract of the interview of Wh;i.tson by Epstein to the Ad Hoc 
Coordinating Group of the Intelligence Community in order that 
interested agencies will be aware of the procedures presently being 
followed by the Select Committee and of the Committee's interest in 
matters other than jurisdictional bases. All Committee requests to 
us have thus far been confined to the latter. 
ACTION: 
will be provided for the records 
NW 38608 Docld:32989532 Page 29 
