' . 
U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
ALDEN F~ MILLER BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
·SA Miller was asked whether he had ever discussed 
Martin Luther King with Eugene Patterson, Editor of the 
Atlant~ Constitution, to which he replied that to the best 
of his· knowledge he had never di_scussed this matter with Mr. 
Patterson. SA Miller did point out that he was acquainted 
with Mr. Patterson professionally and socially as previous 
investigations had brought him in contact with Mr. Patterson 
and that they were both members of the same church and served 
jointly on various committees and boards for several years. 
SA Miller replied further that during this era Mr. Patterson 
may have directed questions to him regarding Martin Luther 
King, as it was a timely subject and one receiving considerable 
newspaper publicity; however, all such inquiries were parried 
or handled in a non-committal and non-revealing manner. SA 
Miller·further·replied that numerous•civil rights cases were 
being conducted by the Atlanta Office of the FBI, which was 
p~mlic knowledge and subject of news coverage by the newspaper 
of which Mr. Patterson served as Editor, however, to the best 
of SA Miller's knowledge no revelation was made indicating 
the FBI had an unusual interest in the activities of Martin 
Luther King. SA Miller further advised that even though 
socially acquainted with Mr. Patterson, he did not agree 
with Mr. Patterson's publicly espouseq. political position 
on many and varied interests of the time~. 
SA Miller was specifically asked that while the 
Staff Member did not d·esire to place SA Miller in a bind, 
did a SURerior of his at any time ever instruct him to 
contact tu.gene Patterson regarding Martin Luther King, to 
which SA Mi1ler replied that at no time had any superior 
of his, or for that matter, any other FBI employee, ever 
ask that Eugene Patterson be contacted in regard to Martin 
Luther King. 
The interview was terminated at 5:29 P. M. with 
Mr. Epstein stating that he would like to think overnight 
regarding the qu~stions and answers as set forth above and 
would on the.following morning advise as to whether he 
desired to ask additional questions. 
NW 386iOI! Docld:32939626 55 
