i 
.i ;j 
,l 
I 
.-I ., 
'l 
~•.,: a •'" 
i.: .. . 
abroad~ On August 23, 1946, the Director sent a letter to 
Genoro.l Vandenberg stating in part, "I must advise that tho 
proposed Directive does not incorpornte the changes suggested 
in my letter of August 6, 1946, and I, therefore, cannot 
approve it. This new directive also includes provisions 
and statements in which I cannot concur and, in fact, must 
oppose.", 
The strong stand of the Director obvio~sly led to 
a conference between General Vandenberg and the Director 
which was. reported in a memorandum of September 13, 1946, 
which the Director prepared. As stated in the Director 9 s 
memorandum the conference concerned CIG's desire to gather 
contacts among "nongovernmental groups and individuals with 
connections abroad." The entire conference was on this subject 
matter and did not enter into collection of foreign intelli­
gence from foreign embassies or from foreign officials or, • 
in fact, from any other source. The Director wrote, "I told 
the General that I could well appreciate that there would be 
cases in which his orga11.i~i:li:ic11 would se desir0n~ of making 
~ontacts in the United States for the purpose of obtaining 
information from abroad _:nd that the Bureau was not interested 
in such contacts except in those situations wherein the individual 
or the group might be engaged in activities within the United 
States that were either under investigation by the Bureau or 
might possibly be the medium of obtaining information con-
,. cerning the activities of a subversive character being carried 
·on within the United States. I told the General that I would 
be perfectly agreeable to his suggestion, with the added 
provision that if CIG was desirous of contacting any 
individuals of the character that he had indicated, before 
doing so it would check with the FBI." 
The foregoing has been set forth rather extensively 
since it shows the strong stand the Bureau took against CIG's 
operating in the United States. Actually, as will be reported 
: ·: •• :·he·:re·inaf:'oer; -.Direct;i.ves .V/er_e_ ~dQpteq. per.m:i,tting CIG to collect 
• positive intelligence in this ·cou·n'try by ···contacting· United - - \ ~-• 
·st~tes ~itizens, ·American businessmen, aliens (wtth prior 
FBI approval) through· the foreign language press .. and in iater 
year·s through cont~cts with United St~tes governmental personnel. 
\• 
- 19 .... 
