. . 
.... 
Memorandum to Mr. Belmont 
RE : . EUGENE TH01AA~ , ET AL 
OBSEUVATIONS OF GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION 
The Bureau is currently paying Gary Thomas Rowe 
$16.00 per day subsistenca in liE.'J. of expenses. This figure 
was initially decided upon after discussion with the Depart1£~t, 
and with the Department's approval, as it was recognized that 
the informant harl to be removed from the Birmingham area for 
h:l.s protection and safety. The Department pointed out that 
it would not be desirable to make any lump sum or large 
payment.to the informant so long as he might be called upon 
to testify, a.s any such large payments might be construed 
in court a::; a payment for his testi,mor:.y, whereas payment 
of his living expenses can readily be· justified as a necessity. 
cP In tne trial of subject Collie Leroy Wilkins which --- ......... --~-----.... •"\••--• .... -- ... began. 5,w3-65 and resulted in a hung jury;- the Bureau was called 
upon to produce a record of payments to ~he ififormnnt. In a 
future trial, it is reasonable to expect that we will again be 
called upon to produce such a record. The payment of Rowe's 
I/debts at this time amounting to over two thousand dollars 
H would appear in this record of payme?-ts to Rowe,. and we . 
(f certainly could not agree to pay suc.n a large amount at tJns 
{time without the Department 1 s approval. 
~~-~ 
With regard to the debts themselves, it would not 
appear from information furnished by Birmingham that they are 
all due and payable immediately, as the larger debts to the 
two banks would prob~bly be payable in monthly installments. 
We could, with Department's approval, agree to payment of 
his smaller debts and monthly installments on these larger 
debts as they come dueo 
RECOMMENDATION 
In view of the above, it is recommended that 
Birmingham be instructed to submit a detailed accounting of 
RoweYs debts showing their basis, when they were contracted, 
due dates and a full breakdown of any installment contracts 
• showing detailed schedule of payments. Upon receipt of this 
ll 
information, ~he matter will be discussed with the Department 
and their views as to whether or not payn~nt of these debts ! 
at ·this time would be judicious, will be obtained. AirtelJ' 
attached. ;.) • 
\ 
NW 38601! Docld:32989,550 Page 1 ;·u:------------.;.,._.:__-'-----~-~· 
•I 
i' i 
