NW 38ti-Oa 
,·, ft'e •• ~,..,,.,,_•,1·,o "fi◄ 'f:' ,t ,t:·· iw 1'•,.. ,o,,'•h•J:l'I.._r:.,•,.. ◄ ·1=ru' i. -n•u:K>w 'r-4~ rleih1:1:" iN 
• -
:'t :tit¥ 
e ~ 
By lett:r dated 11/5/68, to SAC,\A~ban;, and all 
offices, under the caption of "New Left Movement, Publications, 
Internal Security - Miscellaneous," the field was instructed 
to cover the principal propaganda mills of·the New Left which 
are described as the nunderground" newspapers. The field was 
instructed to conduct a detailed survey of these publications 
and to submit information concerning these obscene, seditious 
and inflammatory newspapers. At the present time, there are 
over 200 such publications being circulated. Cases on various 
of these newspapers which are deemed important to the New Left 
movement have been opened. 
. ·By airtel dated 3/16/70 to all offices, a survey 
was instituted to determine-the amount of financial support 
given to New Left ·groups by tax-exempt charitable foundations, 
prominent or wealthy individuals, and politically oriented groups. 
The field was instructed to furnish results of this survey in 
form suitable for disseminationt 
By letter to all Special Agents in Cnarge, u~ta<l 
2/13/70, the field was advised that the militant and violence­
prone Weatherman faction of the SDS planned to go underground 
and to direct "strategic sabotage 11 at mi'litary and pol.ice 
installations. The field w~s instructed to advise appropriate 
local police agencies of the aims of the Weatherman faction and 
of the necessity to vigorously investigate the Weatherman group. 
By airtel to all field offices dated 3/19/70 the 
field was advised of the plans of the Weatherman faction of 
the SDS to form commando-type units to engage in bombing, arson 
and assassination. The field was instructed to makeevery effort 
to locate and identify Weatherman communes and their activists. 
A list of major Weatherman activists was furnished to the field 
which instructed intensive investigation to determine their 
whereabouts and to advise the Bureau and office of origin on a 
weekly basis. The field was instructed to utilize a. caution 
statement that Weatherman activists should be considered dangerous 
for their ~own pr~pensity for violence. 
Bureau airtel to select offices handling bulk of 
Weatherman investigations dated 3/24/70 reiterated instructions 
in airtel to all offices 3/19/70 and specifically noted that 
New Left communes were to be located and participants identified 
to determine if they were violence prone. The offices were 
instructed to have Special Agents assigned to these investigations 
to be reminded of their prosecutive potential and to consider 
establishing a special squad to fully comply with Bureau 
instructions to intensify these investigations. 
- 3 -
