r 
• 
U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL A9ENT (SA) 
W. JOHN BENTON BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
SA Benton was asked the period of time he was 
assigned to the Atlanta Field Division. SA Benton advised 
from 1959 until August 22, 1966. 
SA Benton was asked during what period of time­
he was assigned to the King investigation. SA Benton 
advised from his best recollection during the year 1964. 
SA Benton was asked if he conducted any investigation 
regarding the King case prior to his assignment during 
1964 and SA Benton answered in the negative. 
SA Benton was asked what his job responsibilities 
were concerning the monitoring of the Southern Christian 
Leadership Conference (SCLC) headquarters and King telephones. 
SA Benton advised his job responsibilities dealt with the 
monitoring of incoming and outgoing telephone calls. 
. 
SA Benton was asked what did he do when receiving 
or intercepting incoming or outgoing calls. SA Benton advised 
a written log was maintained of incoming and outgoing calls 
and only the pertinent facts of the calls were written on 
the log. SA Benton further advised the incoming and out-
going calls were tape recorded. SA Benton was asked how 
many telephones were monitored at the SCLC headquarters 
and at the King residence. SA Benton advised he did not 
recall the exact number of telephone lines monitored; 
however, there were several lines. 
SA Benton was asked the names of Agents assigned 
with him to m@nitor telephone calls. SA Benton advised 
his best recollection was that SA Hamilton, SA Burgess and 
SA Thomsom.1 were assigned at the location during the.: period 
SA Benton monitored the telephones. 
SA Benton was asked the location of the plant, 
the f·loor and room number where the plant was located. SA 
Benton advised the plant was located in an apartment building 
directly across the street from the FBI Atlanta Field Division, 
and he does not recall the floor or room number of the plant. 
- 2 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989626 27 
