. • 
NW 8-8tiiOB 
•• 
RE: U. S. SENATE_ SELECT COMMITTEL; TO STUDY 
GCJV'ERHMI!.;NTAL OPEFATIONS wrrn RESPECT 
TO INTELLIG~lCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
Letter from Sf-i.C, Charlotte. to Director, FBI, 
captioned •:_counterintelligence Program, In~ernal Security, 
Uisruption of Hate Groups (Confederate Knights of the Ku 
-Klux Klan), Charlotte Division," dated January 30, 1969. 
(157-9-8-151) Airtel from Director, FBI, to SAC, Charlotte, 
- captioned "Counterintelligence Program, Disruption of Hate 
Groups. Internal Seouri ty; I~acir;l Matters (Klan), 0 dated 
September 25, 1967. (157_9_8_129) 
A careful reading and comparison of these documents 
would lead to the identi. ty of Uorsett as an FBI inf orme.nt in 
the manner described in the above article. The factual material 
set forth in the article is contained in the above documents. 
It is noted that the documents as delivered to the Connnittee 
do not identify Mr. Dorsett as an FBI informent; however,. hi~ 
identity can be deduced from the combined documents. Our 
records do not indicate. that Mr. Dorsett~s identity as an 
informant has been disclosed in any other ma.Drier. Mr. Dorsett 
was interviewed by FBI Agent? of the Charlotte, North Caroline., 
FBI Office on December 12, 1975~ Mr. ·Dorsett stated that 
he felt "betrayed" by his government concerning the public 
disclosure in the news media of his identity as an FBI source. 
He recalled that he had always been assured that his identity 
'\. would always remein confidenti~l <'nd kno,fn only to the FBI. 
\fie further stated.thetas a result cf the public disclosure of 
his identity as an E'BI source in the 11 Greensboro Daily News" 
on Uecember 10, 1975, he has experienced great consternation 
among his close friends and members of his family. -He he.~ 
received harassing telephone calls. During one of these cells 
the caller stated, '~Tell that pimp to get his casket ready." 
Mr. Dorsett expressed his concern for the personal safety 
of himself and members of hw··family, es well as concern for 
the safety of his residence and personal property. 
·- 4 -
