; I l ,,, 
/,j 
( 
l 
I 
.\ 
DCID' s 4/2 and ~1:/3 relate to the Defector Program 
abroad and domestically, respectively. The latter one dwells on 
division of responsibilities between FBI and CIA in the handling 
of defectors within the continental limits of tho Unitod Statos. 
It provides that exploitation of·such dofoctors shall bo conducted: 
l. To obtain internal security information or other 
data required by FBI in view of its statutory responsibilities 
in the internal security field, 
2. To· obtain foreign intelligence information required 
in the interests of national security by the member agencies of 
the USIB, 
3. For such other purposes as are deemed to be in the 
interests of nation.al security. 
~The very next sentence then gives the implication that 
exploitation of the defector for foreign intelligence purposes is 
--;. the principal responsibility of CIA, for it reads, nnecision as 
to the relative importance of internal security exploitation by 
. I 
l 
FBI and foreign intelligence exploitation by the Central 
Xn-celligence Agency (CIA) ch~ll be m~d.e jai:ntl.y 'by rep:r:esentatives 
CIA and FBI. tr 
of. 
There then follows a listing of nine specific FBI 
responsibilities, one of which is to make available to CIA foreign 
intelligence information resulting from the initial exploitation 
of defectors. There is no subsequent specific delineation of CIA 
~esponsibility over foreign intelligence exploitation until there 
is a transfer of respons:....bili ty for handl.ing a defector from FBI 
to CIA after FBI interests have been fully satisfied. There is a 
g.eneral assignment of such responsibility to CIA in the terms, 
"CIA shall be responsible for: a. Coordinating the.activities of. 
other departments and agencies concerne.d with defector matters, 
except those responsibilities assigned exclusively to FBI .... n 
As a matter of practice, if it is determined there is 
little or no importance from an internal security standpoint in 
qonnection with a p~rticular defection, we. do not take over but in 
effect give clearance to CIA to proceed from a foreign intelli­
gence standpoint . 
. DCID1 s in the 5/ series (numbers one through five) were 
issued principally to "implement NSCID Number 5 which deals with 
U. s. espionage and clandestine counterintelligence activities 
abroad. There appears to be no conflict with FBI jurisdiction in 
t~is series. 
. . -~ . . All other DCID's relate to 'Elint Critical ·Intelligence 
and other matters.which appear to have no·bearing on possible 
-conflicts between CIA and -FBI responsibilities, .. 
- 28 .- . • • • 
l ., .. 
