Memorandum for Mr. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
CIA Requirements Received from the SSC: 
• 
Attached herewith is a letter from Senator Church 
to Mr. Colby enclosing the initial request for CIA documents 
for transmittal to the SSC. According to Mr. Clarke, it is 
his understanding that similar requests if not already received 
are being prepared by the SSC for other members of the Group. 
Executive Session: 
At the conclusion of the formal meeting, Mr. Clarke 
asked for an executive meeting to include the following persons: 
Deputy AG Laurence Silberman, Associate Deputy AG James Wilderotter; 
Mr. Philip Buchen, Counsel to the President; Mr. Chamberlain, 
Inspector General, CIA; Mr. Thomas Latimer, Department of Defense 
and myself. 
According to Mr. Clarke the purpose of this meeting 
was to develop strategy as to how the Group would respond to 
the anticipated requests from the SSC. Both Mr. Buchen of 
the White House and Mr. Silberman,acting in his capacity as the 
President's Counsel for Congressional Inquiries, insisted that 
all requests as well as the responses to all such requests be 
coordinated through the above Group. Much discussion was had as 
to how this could be accomplished. No definitive decision was 
arrived at. However, it was agreed that the CIA would prepare 
a paper outlining how they would respond to the questions that 
they had already received, defining the level of response, the 
area of coordination and identification of sensitive problems. 
It was not quite clear to the Group as to exactly what form CIA's 
paper would take. It was proposed by Mr. Buchen and agreed that 
the same Executive Group would meet at CIA Headquarters on 3/19/75 
to review the paper developed by CIA. 
In view of the various legal questions involved and 
·because of the direct involvement of Congressional committees, 
the question of the Bureau's representation was discussed with 
Mr. Adams. It was agreed that in addition to Mr. Cregar, the 
Bureau would be represented by Assistant Director· Mintz. This 
proposal was discussed with Mr. Clarke and he readily agreed that 
certainly Mr. Mintz' presence would be a valuable asset to the Group. 
CONTINUED - OVER 
- 4 -
NW 38601! Docld:32900530 48 
