11 
i 
:: 
•• 
- 2 
Please r-efer to the attachments to the July 9, letter: 
Pag.J 3, Paragraph '2, Subsection A. All of the FBI files on 
the so called 11Kissinger 1711 surveillance will be made available to 
you and specific appropriately cleared staff in Room 4171 of the 
Hoover Build:ing. These cocuir.ents may be revi:::wed 2.nd studied there) 
and you and such staff may take such notes as you dee.rn appropriate; 
we have %creed that the notes .are to be lef·t in ·the secure rcom of 
the Hoover Building durii-.ig your study. When your study is completed, 
you may prepare a summary of the i11fonr.ai:ion whic.1-i you consider to be 
appropriate for Co:rrwittee use. The Sl.lIP.Jrzry must be c,.1-iecked with 
senior Bur-2au executives ·to ensure the protection of national security 
matters, protection of confidential sources of information, and 
observation of privacy considerations . Thereafter, the approved 
SUJilJilar.f may be rerroved to the Committee !s office and all the staff 
notes will be destroyed. You :may check the summary back to the 
01...,iginal documents as extensively as necessary, :L.---i Room !.~171. 
Page 3, Parag-.t>aph 2, Subsection B. Materials have already 
been transrm.'tted regard.mg the Krat·t matter and the agreeme..rrt between 
his atton1.ey &7.d the Atton1ey General. When you have reviewed those 
ma.terials, arid have contacted l-"JJ'.". Kraft 1 s· attorney, should you deem • 
that appropriate, I understand you will contact me if furthel'.' infor­
w.ation is requested. 
Page 5, P2,1rag-.caph 3, A & B. As you may know, representatives 
of Jche King fa:"IU.ly, J.t7.clucling Mr. Ha:rr.cy H. Wachtel, attorney, have 
formally expressed to the Depa:r·tnent a special concern regarding any 
public cliselosur-e cf any derogatory infonnation regaJ:tling Dr. King 
which may·be contained :in Bureau files. Subject to your reaching 
an agreemr.>...nt with such representatives of ·the King family:. and the 
~cceptance by the Department of suc.1i. a ~,"Ti tten agreernent, all of the 
materials l"=;lated to the electronic surveillance of Dr. K:i.ri.g, in the 
custody of the FBI, will be IP.ade available to you and specific appro­
priately cleared staff under the same conclit:tons and with the sa'lle 
agreements as specified above with regard to the 11Kissinger 1711 
surveillance. 
~ge 6, Paragraph 4. Those rnaterials in the custody of ~e 
FBI which reflect and relate to eleci..--ronic surveillance of the 
Denocratic Nation2.l Convei-:-rtion in Atlantic City in August 1964, 
will be provided under the sa:-ue conditions as articulated above 
with regard to the 11Yd.ssinger 1711 surveillance. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989640 Page 306 
.j 
