and the steps being taken by each office to develop full 
financial data. This summary enables the Bureau to keep 
abreast of all financial developments regarding the BPP 
on a national and international basis. 
By airtel to all continental offices 11/6/70 all 
field offices conducting ancetive BPP investigation were 
instructed to submit a biweekly airtel containing specific 
comments regarding underground BPP operations within the 
area of each field office. This includes progress in the 
identity and interviewing of expelled BPP members who, it 
has been determined, are i:l"i..elogical candidates fer member­
ship in the BPP underground. The underground operation of 
the BPP has an ultimate goal of terroristic guerrilla 
warfare. It. is a recent development in the operation of 
the BPP which is the subject of an intensive investigation. 
The biweekly summary enables the Bureau to keep abreast of 
all developments in· the w1dergi:'0ur1d &nd to i_ntelligc:;:itly 
coordinate the investigation thereof. 
ln recent.months the Black Panther Party has formed 
a corporation known as Stronghold Consolidated Productions, 
Inc. (SCPI) to control all BPP funds and assets and to act as 
purchaser and/or lessee of any property utilized by the BPP. 
The corporation and its activities are under intensive investi­
gation which has revealed that its activities are centered in 
San Francisco and New York. By airtel 1/7/71 .to San Francisco 
and New York, these offices were instructed to submit a 
weekly surrnnary in form suitable for dissemination of all 
pertinent developments concerning the corporation during the 
previous week. This summary keeps the Bureau aware of SCPI 
operations and also enables us to regularly fulfill our 
di$semination requirements. 
It is noted that there are currently 32 field offices 
conducting active inyestigations of the ·BPP. Our intensive 
investigation has enabled us to identify its leaders, members 
and new branches. In addition, we have developed detailed 
information concerning its operations and activities including 
NW 38601! Docld:32989-6-38 Page 490 
