' 
I· l 
l 
I 
l i 
i 
i 
I i 
l 
i 
I 
L 
·1 . l 
ii , ...... . 
•I 
'I 
i·\ 
1, 
H :i 
i I 
·l 
: I 
'1 . I 
' < : ,, 
/ 
as the executive agent of National Intelligence Authority 
in coordinating and supervising all foreign intelligence 
activities there should be addod "performed outside the 
United States and its possessions relating to the national 
security in accordance with the overall policies and objectives 
established by this Authority." With respect to the proposal 
that the Director of Central Intelligence direct all espionage 
and counterespionage operations for the collection of foreign 
intelligence, it was proposed that the phrase noutside the 
United States and its possessions" also be insert-ed in this 
provision . 
. r 
On July 29, 1946, General Vandenberg sent over 
a memorandum on the subject "Exploitation of American 
Business Concerns With Connections Abroad as Sources of 
Foreign Intelligence Information." He added a proposed 
Directive. The Director replied by letter August 6, 1946? 
~- 11 I should like to comment that there appears to have been 
an addition to the field encompassed by CIG Directive #11 
callin~ for a survev of the exploitation of American business 
concerns. I note that in your report and in the proposed 
~IA Directive, you refer not only to American business con­
cerns but to other private groups with connections abroad. 
This latter phrase, in my opinion, is extremely broad and 
could be taken to include all types of organizations, 
including Foreign Nationality Groups. In fact, I ·feel that 
the report and proposed Directive should confine themselves to 
·the discussion of A.~erican business concerns and that no 
references at all should be made to 'private groups' ... 
-I feel that at a later date the question of exploitation of 
these private groups by CIG representatives might be worked 
out by discussing them individually with the FBI when their 
identities are determined." This matter remained unresolved. 
On August 22, 1946, General Vandenberg submitted 
another proposed Directive concerning exploitation of American 
business concerns, nongovernmental groups, and individuals (in 
:·the·· United ·.states)· with···connecti-ons· a:br·oact:as ·sources. of. fo·reign 
• intelligence information. A memorandum analyzing this on 
August 22g 1946, .pointed out the new Directive was even ~ore 
: ·' .... . ·' ,.,: .. 
- 17 -
... - .:'.L-.s_.,__: ____ ~ _, .... ___ • -- --
