possible to determine specifically what material should be excised 
from these documents, the following illustrations are offered in 
certain likely categories. The criteria in all cases should meet 
the test mentioned above. 
•. 
5. Collection of Intelligence 
(a) The Committees will probably_ address the matter of how 
intelligence is collected. Documents supporting responses may be 
paraphrased by removal of identities of sensitive agents and informants, 
covert personnel, and c·ontractual cover arrangements. A descriptive 
,phrase may be substituted, i.e., a foreign journalist, a political 
official in the opposition party. No paraphrasing should be used in 
connection with names of individuals whose e1nployment or former 
en1ployment by, or association with a department or agency, does not 
remain secret or for individuals whose present or 'future activities on 
behalf of the department or agency do not require that previous cover 
::trr::i ne~ment$ remain SP.~:ret. 
(b} S01ne information may be required with respect to 
- technical intelligen~e systems including cryptologic and communi-. 
cations activities and reconnaissance capabilities. Alme.st all ~f 
such material is currently handled in compartmentation control 
channels under various codewords or nicknames. No security threat 
'·it perceived by use of these codenames or nicknames in classified 
documents. Details of the technical systems which would reveal 
critical operational capabilities and contractual and funding arrange­
ments which would identify individuals whose participation was 
obtained under agreement of continued secrecy may lJe excised from· 
documents. Any question on. release of codeword material should be 
referred to the Program Manager who in turn rnay consult with the 
Director of Central Intelligence to ensure a consistent approach in 
the Community's paraphrasing procedures. While documentary 
samples of intelligence obtained by technical means may be used 
·in support of testimony, special consideration should be given with 
regard to· raw products which reveal critical operational capabilities . 
• ' 
. j 
t 
i . 
i 
\ 
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989532 167 
- 2 . . 
.... 
