,j '1' 
BACKGROUND 
• • 
SCOPE OF FBI AUTHORITY, 
JURISDICTION AND RESPONSIBILITY IN 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATIONS 
Over the past several months there have been an increasing 
number of public statements made from various quarters questioning 
or contesting authority and jurisdiction of the FBI to conduct 
domestic intelligence-type.investigations, particularly where 
there is no clear-cut legislative authority apparent. One of the 
most searching inquiries was contained in a paper presented by 
Professor John T. Elliff at a two-day confere"nce at Princeton 
University in October, 1971, sponsored by the Committee for Public 
Justice. 
Professor Elliff addressed himself to the matter of 
FBI authority derived from legislative enactments as opposed to 
that derived from Presidential directives. He went into some 
detail in connection with the Presidential directive issued by 
President Roosevelt in September, 1939, which was subsequently 
reiterated on three occasions. Elliff questioned whether Roosevelt 
was even aware that he was shifting FtI authority from congressional 
enactment to Presidential directive when he issued the September, 
1939, directive since he probably assumed he had granted such 
authority in 1936 when he requested intelligence investigations 
of fifth columnists. Elliff accused the FBI of magnifying the 
September, 1939, directive into a definitive order. 
Over a long period of time Senator Sam J. Ervin has been 
probing into the nature and extent of FBI gathering and retention 
of domestic intelligence information. In April, 1971, 
Senator Ervin made a request of the Department of Justice to 
furnish detailed informatio~ concerning the Department's (the FBI's) 
policy and practice one investigating and reporting the political 
beliefs and activities of persons not under investigation for 
violating the laws. Of particular interest was specific infor­
mation on the constitu.tional authority and power exercised by the 
Exe cu ti ve Branch to conduct such i nves ti g"at ions . 
Subsequently, Senator Ervin announced that he intended to 
propose legislation to prohibit the FBI from investigating any 
person with~ut his consent, unless the Government has reason to 
believe that person has committed a crime or is about to commit 
a crime. Other Congressmen have either introduced or announced 
plans to introduce legislation or resolutions calling for special 
activities, particularly in the area of domestic intelligence 
operations. 
NW 38tiiOB Docld:32989fii09 Page 13ti 
