• • 
LA 66-6243 
because, according to ADAMS, he compl~tely refuted these 
statements in that we did disseminate the contemplated 
plans of violence to the Birmingham Police Department and 
to the Department of Justice in the form of a letterhead 
memorandum. 
I continued that I waited until I received the 
actual transcript of testimony and told the gentlemen that 
upon my review of the testimony of Mr. ADAMS and Mr. WANNALL, 
I could not reconcile the headline and lead paragraph with 
such testimony. I then proceeded to read several excerpt_s 
from the testimony. 
I advised Mr. THOMAS and Mr. GUTHMAN that my 
immediate reaction was to prepare a "Letter to the Editor" 
but felt after a re-analysis of the situation that this is 
not a judgment question on the part of the newspaper, but 
one of a slanted, inaccurate story either by design or 
through misunderstanding. I therefore felt that the Los 
Angeles Times, if it so desired, should be in a position to 
correct the situation itself based on the facts. 
Mr. THOMAS expressed appreciation for my approach 
and stated that at the time he read the article, already 
printed, a question came to his mind as to why the FBI did 
not advise someone or take some action relative to contemplated 
violence. He, however, took no further action. He said 
in view of what I had read from excerpts of Mr. ADAMS' testimony 
and the now available complete transcript of the testimony, 
he intends to pursue this matter further and would prefer 
not to have a "letter to the Editor", but rather correct 
any inaccuracies on the part of the Los Angeles Times through 
their own pursuit of further inquiring concerning this story. 
Mr. GUTHMAN concurred with Mr. THOMAS and they 
indicated that it appears the obvious question is based on 
Mr. ADAMS' testimony of who in the Department of Justice 
received this information relative to contemplated violence 
and what did such a responsible Department of Justice official 
do with the information. He agreed that based on the 
information furnished to them, the FBI has been done an 
injustice but that they, the Los Angeles Times, desired to 
pursue this matter further. 
- 2 -
NW 38614 Docld:32989fi02 Page 106 
