• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
62-116395 
• 
to summarize these details which will be forthcoming with 
Sentinella's statement to be mailed to the Bureau. However, 
one significant question asked of Sentinella should be noted. 
During a discussion of ~lectronic surveililiances in the King 
investigation~ Seidel asked how other Agents felt about "illegal 
use of taps." Sentinella's response was that the taps were not 
illegal and were put on only after approval by the Attorney 
General. 
OBSERVATIONS: 
It is Phillip~• view that Sentmfuella represents a 
high caliber former Agent who is completely loyal to the Bureau· 
and will apparently go to any extreme to maintain ,the'·confidentiality 
of the wor~·he did. He certainly could be described as a reluctant 
witness if he is ever called to testify. He expressed personal' 
concern that he might be called but hoped that his unc0operativeness 
in some areas to Seidel's questions might discourage his ~eing called. 
l 
Two incidents related above are very suggestive of a lack 
l
of objectivity on the part of Seidel. The first concerns his. 
comment to Phillips about the FBI mot letting ·sentinella give him 
"good infqrmation." To begin with, this was an unjustified q.l:l;ega­
'--"Bi-&-rr:·;, and Seidel was set straight immediately after his remark. 
l'
Secondly, the mere fact that Seidel is referring to "good" infor­
mation suggests itself that certain information fits their desires 
and others doe~ np,t. • There appears to be a lack 0f ~egard for 
merely securing the facts, regardless of what those faets might 
\
indicatE:· The_second indicator of lack of objectivity was Seidel's 
inquiry about "illegal use of taps." This question fits the 
classic question of, "When did you stop beating your wife?" 
If the Committee is going to be asking questi0ns like this one, 
its objectivity is certainly subject to·challenge. 
As _ex- or current employees volunteer to us results 
of interviews conducted of them by_th~ SSC, we will carefully 
study them for, among other'things, additional evidence of the 
nature discussed above. If there is a continuati0n 0f this 
line of questioning or other unjustified comments to Bureau 
representatives, we will consider taking up with the Attorney 
General the matter of possible protest to the SSC. 
_. 4 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989532 Page 25 
