.. 
.. 
• 
THE ROLE OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 
Counterintelligence is an integral part of our 
national defense. By definition and by its very nature 
counterintelligence is a defensive posture to the extent 
that it reacts primarily to intelligence initiatives of 
hostile intelligence services. As any good defense, 
however, it cannot be static or passive. It is based 
upon knowledge of this country's adversaries; it seeks 
out and engages hostile agents and the intelligence 
services that employ them. The national counterintelli­
gence defense, in other words, requires both sound preven­
tive measures and an energetic and sustained counterattack. 
. The purpose of defensive and aggressive counter­
intelligence is to ensure that adversaries who do not want 
to risk open confrontation cannot attain the same objectives 
through stealth. In more concrete terms, the purpose ·of 
counterintelligence is to identify and neutralize spies 
iiuu thi::.i..i: iuit& te.n:) who s~.1-:ve our. opponBn:tti •.. ,-... 
Spycatching, by itself, is not enough, because 
spies are replaceable. American counterintelligence must· 
also know who sent the spies and who supported and directed 
their work in this country and in friendly nations. Arrcl 
beyond identifying these agent handlers--the officers of 
the KGB and other such clandestine communist organizations--
, our counterintelligence must know how these people are moti­
vated, recruited, trained, structured, rewarded, and 
punished. We need to know how they communicate with each 
other--from New York or Washington, for ~xample, to Moscow 
or Prague. In sport, we need to know everything we can 
find out about them, as individuals an9 as organizations. 
And finally, what we know must be shared appropriately with 
other services equally concerned. 
This need is even more acute today than in the 
1950s and 1960s. We know from hard experience that the 
c~andestine communist services always increase the range 
and the intensity of their operations during periods of 
Western relaxation, when the openness and m~ltiplicity of 
exchanges provide favorable conditions and opportunities 
for launching intelligence operations against our country. ,,. 
NW 38601! Docld:32989530 Page 152 
