I 
I 
--l 
I 
I 
Our role in preparation of National Intelligence Estimates 
would be .more active as a result of our increased contribution 
under this- program. It might be necessary to utilize the 
assistance bi highly tr~ined personnel of other aeoncios to 
assiot ~s periodically on inte~views dealing with complicated 
military or .scientific matters. 
" 
(c) Manpower: / 
. ,. 
While no manpov,er requirements can be presently 
estimated should we assume full responsibility for overt 
foreign intelligence collection, CIA is currently using \\ 
approximately - employees throughout the United States to 
interview individuals in connection with its overt intelligence 
gathering activities, and is reaching what it estimates to be 
only 15 per.cent of available foreign intelligence inforhlation. 
These· CIA employees do not include personnel required at 
CIA Headquarters to correlate, evaluate and disseminate the 
data gathered in the field. We would want to more eff~ctively 
~xploit this intelligence potential. 
To merely handle the necessary review of the vast 
number of foreign language publications would require many 
(~, additional employees proficient in foreign languages and 
~-- with backgrounds in scientific or technical fields. 
(d) Selection and Training of Personnel: 
To assume full responsibility for the overt 
collection of foreign intelligence in this country, would 
require that we ~astly broaden our selection and training 
procedures. ·we would require applicants with degrees in 
the sciences, languages, history, government and economics. 
Our basic training and In-Service agenda would have to be 
geared to meet our new responsibilities. We would undoubtedly 
desire to utilize the services of outstanding lecturers from 
the agencies constituting our intelligence community, and in 
turn, we would wish to afford our personnel training at the 
War .Colleges operated by the Department of Defense, and from 
time to time furnish them the opportunity of specialized 
training and briefings provided by the members of the U. s. 
Intelligence Board. 
f - 78 -
. : 
oa -- ..- •- ------; 
