A ~}} 
NW185 
,; 
• • •••-:••:·••-{•·•••~A-••, 
. -..... · .... ·-' ... . . - :~-~-::.~.L-~.:.l~ 
( 
:. Meeting ·of October 16-17, 1961 
. During· the Boa.rd meeting of October 16-17, 1961 
l. 
_the Director of Central Intelligence, Mr. Allen Dulles., 
commented that the"principle of compartmentation" was being 
violated by CIA in 1 ts dealings with the PFIAB because. of 
the CIA's effort to meet the convenience of the Board. 
Mr._Dulles said that one example of this was the action taken 
by ·CIA in furnishing the detailed co~pi·lati.on_ concerning ·the· 
proprietary and other cover. organizations with_ which CIA 
has dealings in its covert action programs. Mr. Coyne 
observed that material received by the Board from the CIA, 
and more-sensitive information received from other U.S. 
• :intelligence agencies, is given a greater degree of security 
in the Board than in the CIA itself. (For use at this Board 
• meeting a 17-page summary had been prepa...red in the -. Board 's 
offices based on an undated document from CIA marked 
. "Top Secret--Eye·s Only--Extremely Sensitive"· containing a 
listing and brief description of all CIA cover organizations 
and proprietary activities, including references to the Asia 
Foundation, Radio Free Europe, Institute of National Labor . ·\ 
Research~ World Confederation of Organ~zations of the Teaching· 
Profession, U.S. National Student Association, and many others.) 
Mr. J:?ulles told the Board that the CIA can play a help..; 
ful but relatively modest, role with regard to the Laos and 
South Vietnam problems, and he thought it would be well if 
the Board would suggest ways fn which the CIA could more 
effectively utilize its resources in meeting such problems. 
The DCI observed that the CIA must do more in all covert· 
action fields because the U. s. faces the most formidable 
covert action apparatus ever seen. He said that this apparatus 
. is the most effective one ever established, and the U.S. 
·has nothing like it. 
During an executive session on October 17, .1961, Board 
Chairman Killian suggested that Board members give serious 
thought to the CIA's use of Foundations as covers for operatics 
and he cited the Asia Foundation aqd the International Com- r 
mission of Jurists as examples. Dr. Killian felt that there 
is danger that the entire Foundation systerrsin the U. s. 
would be discredited if there were a disclosure of CIA's 
connection with them. _It was Dr. Killian I s view that the 
CIA-should not place clandestine cover on any student, 
- 5 -
Docl:d:2507 . I • ,, ··-·.., ··-~-· ~ ··--·--· . 
!N~e21( 
! Docld~fi71892 Page 11 
