II ,1 
SENSITIVE 
5 
14. Subsequent cables and dispat.ches indicate other 
efforts on the part of QJWIN to recruit safecrackers in 
France and Italy. 
15. Dispatch dated June 7, 1961, from headquarters, 
Chi~f, KUTUBE/D to the Chief of Station in Luxembourg. It 
contains a long discussion of the Agency's relationship with 
QJWIN and his main purpose as an agent. This dispatch makes 
it clear that the primary purpose of QJWIN's employment by 
the Agency is to recruit burglars ~nd safe~rackers for use 
by the CIA. This dispatch contains the first reference I 
have found to the code word ZRRIFLE. The one thing that seems 
rather unclear is why QJWIN was initially sent to Leopoldville, 
and apparently was contemplated to return to Leopoldville, when 
all of his recruiting of safecrackers and burglars takes place 
in Europe. The fact that his return to Leopoldville was con­
templated may be easily seen from paragraph one of this cable. 
The releasing officer on this cable was Mr. William K. Harvey. 
16. Correspondence and cables indicate that one James 
Rabney from CIA headquarters visited Europe in April and, 
March of 1961 for the purpose of meeting with Mankel to discuss 
possible recruits for safecracking operations. 
17. Dispatch dated December 15, 1961, from Chief of 
Station in Luxembourg to Headquarters, Chief, KUTUBE/D. • It 
discusses the efforts of ·QJWIN to recruit two safecrackers in 
,.,Switzer-land. oC It indicates that two French citizens, named 
0~antell.i) and @.._ari.on~ were asked to come to Switzerland under 
false pretenses by QJWIN for the purpose of being interviewed, 
The following passage in _the dispatch indicates clearly these 
men were to be recruit,ed for the purpose of the safect:acking oC 
and surreptitious entry. "During the interview with~antell~, 
0&(Garioni) observed that for a night job he would need an 
assistant to help him with carrying the equipment and to act 
as lookout. He said he would prefer to do the job during 
working hours; for this he would get three or-four others to 
h~lp him and force someone in the office to open the safe." 
'-f /JN 
18. Dispatch dated February 2, 1962, from Chief of 
Station Luxembourg to Headquarters, Chief, KUTUBE/D. It 
discusses the efforts of the Luxembourg station to provide 
acceptable cover for Mankel in.Germany, where the Agency has 
• i-
t 
':POP SECRE':P SENSI'flIVE 
Page 21 
