i 
l 
• 
•• 
the arrest of four other of his associates enabled us to 
obtain possession of documents apparently relating to the 
underground and should give us knowledge concerning it and 
possible identities of others involved in this underground 
operation. I 
. ' 
BPP 
the 
In early June, 1970, efforts were made to establish 
a National Committee to Combat Fascism (NCCF) chapter, which is 
another name for a BPP chapter in Tampa, Florida. Through 
aggressive investigation, including thorough interrogation of 
all known members, the development of a ton.-J-.,e .. -x~Linformant 
and effective use of information provided by this informant, 
Tampa Office was successful in decimating this group to the 
pbint where it is now floundering, nameless and without 
leadership and there is no indication of support for the BPP 
in that area. 
The Black Afro Militant Movement (BAMM) was organized 
in the Miami Division in the early part of 1970. The leader of 
this group was Alfr:=d,~h.t.~s Featl}_grstgp.,,. an articulate 
black extremist and an admitted communist who has in the past, 
visited Fidel Castro in Cuba. Through the outstanding informant 
coverage developed by the Miami Office and the aggressive 
investigative techniques used, this organization for all intent 
and purposes, rendered inactive by the latter part of 1970. 
During 1970, BAMM engaged in an intensive recruiting program 
in the Miami area directed toward young blacks, formed an action 
group which participated in a number of fire bombings in the 
Miami area including one such bombing at the University of Miami. 
Through informant coverage and other investigative activities, 
the Miami Division developed an excellent case involving the 
~eaching and demonstrating of explosive devices and in December 
t:he Departmental Attorneys presented this matter to a Federal 
Grand Jury in Miami resulting in Feat;he,x.s.t.o..,n,Jl}.9,-,f.l~ ..... R~:&J~-..an~ 
Jerpm~t~~~P:::being indicted :under the new antiriot laws dealing 
with the teaching and making of incendiary devices. This is the 
first such case brought under the new statute charging black 
extremists with this ·particular violation. 
NW 31l600 Docld:32989fill! Page 411 lit. 
