i i 
: . 
; 
.. 
l 
\ 
-of intelligence. The importance of the individual 
.is further emphasized when we realize that as each 
SOJ:?histicated collection technique is introducod, 
science also introduces newly desi~nod countertochniquos 
of covering, pro~octing, and camouflaging important 
assets. In essenceF technology eventually hits an 
inpenetrable or leveling-off depth. • 
Foreign intelligence is not geographically 
restricted.. In-formation regarding Chinese Communists 
can be obtained anywhere in the world, and even if it 
is of a fragmentary nature, the data can be of 
significant value. The demand for information is 
heavy and is sought by every agency in the Government.: 
Because of this, it has been necessary for the 
U.S. Government to map a program of collection on 
a priority basis. This has been. done through the 
creation of a committee· which is attached to the • • 
U. s. Intelligence Board. The committee maintains 
·a list of priorities on a current basiso A recent 
list of guidelines ·xor the collection of foreign 
intelligence pertaining to scientific affairs in 
Comm}!.Bist China included approximately 170 l~~~, 
i.e.,t...J.ong-range planning of Communist China in the 
nuclear field; nature of research in oceanography; 
computer capabilities -of Shantung University; climate 
modification and cloud physics research; development 
of· meteorological rockets; development of nuclear 
weapons; location of uranium refineries; strength 
of Naval forces; intentions along the Sino-Indian 
. ,~ • • • border; types of ~uipment being supplied to Laos 
and North Vietna.E:!J • . • 
In the U. s. proper, the sources of foreign 
intelligence are voluminous. Most of these sources 
overtly provide information through newspapers, 
scientific publications, libraries, tourists, visiting 
professors and students, journa.lists, and immigrants. 
The compilation~ collation, analysis, and reporting 
of such information involves an extensive program 
and, needless to say, the U. s. today does not have 
- the capability of tapping all available sources on 
a. current basis. • . .. . 
- 56 -
· .... . . ·. • . ·.= . 
J • 
: .. 
