• I 
•• 
.. I 
-
CIA also becomes involved in political and 
psychological warfare type of programs directed against 
targets in foreign countries. The Agency broadly refers 
to this activity as· "covert action." Tho'progra.ms aro 
essentially dosignod to influence individuals, organizations· 
or governments throu.gh various news media, and this will 
include the utilization of "agents of :,influence." Thia 
activity falls under tho Intern~tional Organizations'\ 
Division (IOD)· of CIA, which has no responsibility to 
collect informationq IOD does use people in the 
United States to help implement the overseas programs. 
Quite often the Agency uses cutouts or covers for such 
• .an operation. Althc.1.gh IOD does not engage in intelligence 
• collection, it is a CIA division which should be ·kept in 
mind~ since its activities quite often-will be tangent to 
matters of interest to the Bureau. For example, IOD 
becomes involved in the World Youth Festival, where its 
objective is to neutralize communist influence. We, of 
course, have had an interest in the Festival because of the 
participation of Americans, including members of the CPUSA. 
Theoretically, IOD is required to coordinate closely with 
other appropriate components of CIA. We do not believe 
that this coordination has been effective enougn~ 
There is no doubt that there are individuals 
in CIA who aspire to broaden the Agency 9 s operational 
activities in the United States. Such individuals would 
like to see an arrangement similar to one currently in 
:force in England where :MI-6 has a free hand to assess and 
recruit all foreigners~ including diplomatsP where there 
is no evidence that they are engaged in intelligence 
-activity. If such evidence is obtained, MI-6 is required 
to coordinate with MI-5. There are people in CIA who 
would like to see similar machinery and in addition would 
want the freedom to conduct certain investigations and 
maybe even institute technical surveillances. 
In summaryv CIA so far has a very limited 
capability to recruit foreign diplomatic sources in the 
United ·states, but the Agency appears to have done fairly 
well with a relatively small staff; however, it can be 
anticipated that this capability will increase. CIA's 
effectiveness will probably be adversely affected for 
some time to come because of the Agency's well-known 
def:i:ciencies 1 such as lack of discipline, loose admin-. 
istr~tion, and lack of skilled and talented personnel.· 
I • 
- 63 -
