..., 
Memo Hauer to LaPrade 
Re: Destruction of Files and Records 
Files and Communications Division 
I 
Identification Division has purge-type projects in both the criminal and 
civil fingerprint files involving the destruction of certain fingerprint cards and 
related name index cards, primarily duplicate-type cards on persons considered / 1 
inactive because of age. r 
Insofar as destruction of material by Files and Communications Division 
is concerned, files, index cards, and related material over 25 years old maintained 
at FBI Headquarters pertaining to unfounded allegations of subversive activitie~, , 
membership in subversive organizations, subversive sympathies and tendencies on 
the part of individuals and organizations are approved for destruction by NA.RS when 
investigations revealed allegations predicated upon rumor, nebulous complaints· and 
nonspecific allegations from which no prosecutive action occurred. Archival 
authority has been obtained to destroy FBI Headquarters files in connection with 
Interstate Transportation of Stolen Motor Vehicles cases, Selective Service Act 
cases, Destruction of Aircraft or Motor Vehicles cases (provided no prosecution 
results from the inquiries conducted and the case had been closed ten years); 
- - . -- - -- ... 
~ and Ar-chival authority has been obtained for destruction of 
files at FBI Headquarters in unknown subject cases in which there was no criminal 
prosecution (no time limit set regarding the destruction of unknown subject cases). 
·rn addition to the above authority for the outright destruction of FBI 
Headquarters records, Archival authority has also been obtained to microfilm any 
closed criminal file1 - _ - - - - _ after the case has been 
closed for ten or more years. Thereafter, the paper records may be destroyed. 
We currently have on hand 38,601 index cards to be destroyed which pertain to 
paper record material which has been destroyed previously under NARS regulations 
and authority. 
In addition, personnel files concerning employees who have been separated 
more than one year are reviewed and temporary records contained therein which no 
longer serve a useful purpose are purged and only those permanent records as 
described in the Federal Personnel Manual are retained in the official personnel 
folder. 
Also files, index cards and related material, over 15 years old,. maintained 
at FBI Headquarters relating to laboratory examinations requested by various local, 
- 2 -
l NW 38tii!Nl_Docld:3~530 133 
