• 
I 
l Jssistant 
/!)EM: lmb 
rf 1/23/71 
Director C. D. 
I have carefully noted the inspector's comments 
and also the comments of Mr. Branigan and Mr. Moore. I 
am most alert to the development of new ideas and the need 
for "cross-fertilization" of ideas and stress this in my 
conferences with all Section Chiefs at the Division. I 
not only seek ideas about the operations of a Section Chief 
within the Section, but for ideas of operations anywhere 
within the Division and throughout the Bureau. I am 
constantly alert in my many contacts with representatives 
of other Government agencies, foreign liaison contacts 
and representatives of business for ideas which can be 
successfully utilized in our work and will continue this. 
In discussions with SACs, I constantly stress the challenging 
conditions the Bureau faces and the need for new ideas and 
new applications. I most certainly will continue to stress 
~ this. 
/WI • 
z"'7\fV\,ADDENDUM INSPECTOR E. s. MILLER 
0 
(ESM:sjr - 1/25/71) 
It is my understanding that the COKMA concept is 
not "new" in t_!ls,.Ji.e~_,X.f?,~,_. Office but, as indicated has had 
recent successes. It is realized COKMA deals with subwaY, 
• ,tl;a&...,_~C!.f .,o.u:i:;_.s.µ.b.;j.~9.ts.;. however, the concept was that to 
which I alluded in the above write-up. It was my feeling 
perhaps due to internal conditions in the Soviet Union and 
the Polish situation etc., that Soviet Intelligence may now 
be more active and consequently "pressing" for some reason 
thus making it possible for us to have significant success 
in New York in a relatively short period of time . .1111!' ELS € litf'di:. 
For this reason, it was my feeling that the matter 
should have been highlighted by SOG which has the responsibility 
ior coordination and direction of field activities. 
I do not agree with the concept that one field 
division is different from another when we are dealing with 
as important a topic as Soviet espionage. 
Assistant Director Brennan and Inspector Moore note. 
NW 313'600 Dbcld:32989fill! 532 
