• 
Memorandum to Mr. w·. R. Wannall 
Re: Seristudy 75 
• 
Memorandum Cregar to Wannall dated 4/14/75 reported 
that Mr. J. Dennis Miller· of the ·Leg·a1 Counse·l Division was 
preparing the 'key issue paper entitled "Intelligence Files 
and Privacy." A copy of the outline for this paper was 
presented to the EXCOM with 'the commitment that a draft of 
the paper would be ready for review in the next two to three 
weeks. 
Another key issue paper is ·one being prepared by 
Mr. Warren D. Magnusson of CIA entitled "G. A.O. and the Audit 
Authorities ·of tJ. s. Intelligence Agencies." Mr. Wilderotter 
suggested Mr. Magnusson consult with ·the FBI inasmuch ·as 
the Bureau was currently being audited by GAO. Mr. Robert 
Finzel of the "Intelligence Division maintains liaison with 
GAO representatives· auditing the Inte·lligende Division. 
Mr. Finzel's ·name will be furnished Mr. Magnusson for 
consultation purposes in line with the suggestion from 
Mr. Wilderotter. • 
•• WHITE' HOUSE ·RESPONSES TO' SSC: REQUESTS 
Enclosed is a copy of a m~morandum from James A. 
Wilderotter to Mr. Johri Clarke dated 4/16/75. The memorandum 
advise·s that the White House ·provided copies ·of the Colby 
report : (including annexes')·, as well as a list of documents 
to· the se·nate Sel·ect 'Committee on 4/14/75. The Colby report 
is the document prepared for the ·President following the 
Seymour Hersch :article·s which appeared in "The New· York Times 
11 
all~ging CIA was e~gaged in mass·ive domestic surveillances. 
GUIDELINES FOR .PARAPHRASING CERTAIN DOCUMENTS PROVIDED TO 
THE SELECT COMMITTEES -
Memorandum Cregar to Wannall dated 4/7/75 attached a 
copy' of sanitization guidelines· for documents provided to 
Congressional Select.Committees. Attached to this memorandum 
are new guidelines entitled "Guidelines for Paraphrasing 
Certain Documents ·Provided to the Select 'Committees." In 
essence the ·attachment is almost identical to the sanitization 
guidelines. The reason for the change is the White House 
prefers the word "paraphrase" rather than 
11
sanitization." Thus, 
.. guidelines under the paraphrasi!lg description were promulgated. 
- 2 ._ CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38608 Docld:32989532 Page 160 
