• • 
Bureau airtel to all offices 5/13/70 instructed 
the field to begin implementation of investigations of 
New Left terrorism promptly with available manpower and 
scale of implementation should be as rapid as possible. All 
adherents to Weatherman ideology of advocating a Marxist­
Leninist revolution now and use terroristic tactios in 
furtherance of revolution are to be subjects of these 
investigations. All of these subjects are to be considered 
for Priority I of the Security Index, interviewed and the 
Bureau advised every 45 days by letter of those placed in 
Priority I of their current residence and any other pertinent 
information developed. To facilitate handling at the Bureau, 
all reports and other communications within defined categories 
are to include word (Weatherman) in character. This airtel 
also instructed each office to submit monthly airtel beginning 
6/1/70 setting forth (1) identities an~ locations of c9}Il.~unes 
or organizations under investigation; (2) number of cases opened 
during month on individuals in these categories; (3) total 
number of individual cases under investigation; (4) informant 
coverage used against communes or organizations; and, (5) brief 
summary of New L-e:t't-oriented violence in .:t1.·t:c:i. uuJ.·.i.ug precedi·ng 
month and action taken. 
Bureau airtel to all offices dated 5/15/70 concerning 
the VB instructed all offices to immediately intensify 
investigations of all returnees from Cuba with this Brigade, 
ascertain their whereabouts, conduct p:J;'Ompt interviews and 
,submit current reports with Security Index recommendation. 
In view of rebuttable presumption of at least sympathy to a 
violent Marxist-Leninist revolution and willingness to 
participate in that revolution by these VB members, the field 
was also instructed for one year to advise the Bureau every 
90 days of whereabouts and actj_vi ties of Priority II and III 
and non-Security Index returnees. In case of Priority I 
Security Index subjects, this information is to be furnished 
the Bureau every 45 days. 
Bureau airtel to all offices dated 5/15/70 forwarded 
the field a copy of a Departmedal letter concerning the specific 
areas of interest to the Department in campus disorders looking 
toward possible prosecutive action. The field was specifically 
instructed to develop information concerning New Left involvement 
in campus violence and all agitational activities prior to and 
during violent campus disorders by subversive groups and such 
information must be fully determined and reported. 
- 5 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989fi.J8 Page 440 
