.-
• • 
SENATE SELIC'I COMMITI'EE Oli INTELLIGE:..~E ACTIVITIES ( SSC) 
U: Ilfl'DVUW OF RITIRED FBt SA BY SSC 
conduct a feasibility survey, reaults of which would be 
furnished Headquarters. '.thereafter, if the installation was 
feasible and justified, Headquarters would authorize 'by 
eorreapondence the inatallat.ion. Epatein asked whether the 
authorizing ev1: CUL'llcatiOt'I from Headquartera would Mntion 
that the Attorney General (.AG) bad authorized the surveillance. 
Balter told Epateln that in recent years he believed that the 
Bureau eomnmication author:l.alng a surveillanee would indicate 
that t.he M. authorization had been obtained; but Belter could 
not recall whether or not tb.ia indication was ah.own during 
1964. Belter also t.old Epstein that at one time~ thought 
that former FBI Director Hoover did not need to have NJ approval 
in adv.a.nee for a specific microphone surveillance. Epstein 
indieated he was already aware· of this. • 
Epstein then inquired concerning a microphone 
8\l?'Velllance which the FBI bad installed at the Willard Hotel 
in Washington. D. C., ccncerning King. Belter was unable 
to pinpoint when this occurred and told Epstein that he, 
Belt.er, was bypasaed in practically alL-mattft'a relating to 
thia aurveillance. The entire matter was handled by Security 
Coordinator Ol>erndorf and Belter never saw any of the correspond~ 
enee relating thereto. Belter was only asked to furnish some 
support personnel from hla Squad for the purpose of monitoring 
the surveillanee. ln response to further specific questions, 
Belter advised Epstein that he did not see any correspondence, 
logs, tapes. or any other material relating to this surveillance. 
Epstein inquired about the proced\.a'e of an Inapect.or 
checking on au.ch a surveillance at the time of a periodic 
inspection of WFO. He asked if the Inspector would examine 
the required correspondence relating to all microphone 
surveillances the office had conducted. Belter replied that 
an Inspector would look over matters of this nature but that 
- 3 -
NW 38tiiOB. Docld:3298%-09 71 
