• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
Re: SENSTUDY 75 
• 
The study on page 13 reports "Unlike its fairly frequent 
contacts with Black Panthers and other radicals in the U. S., 
the Castro Regime seems to have refrained from more than 
occasional communications and expressions of moral support 
for the Caribbean groups." No specific data is set forth 
regarding contacts between Black Panthers and other radicals 
in the U. S. and the Castro Regime. Paragraph number 33 on 
page 13 of this study notes that the extent of relations 
between black power groups in the Caribbean and similar 
organizations in the U. S. is vague. Activities of "the 
more activist Negro leaders in the U. S. such as Stokely 
Carmichael and Elijah Muhammad have been followeq closely 
in Jamaica and other places. There have been visits by 
Carmichael and other U. S. black power exponents to some 
of the Caribbean Islands." The study notes these visits have 
been limited in the past two or three years because of a ban 
on the travel o-f certain U. S. Negro spokesmen by the 
Governments of Jamaica, Antigua and Trinidad-~obago. The 
study notes the latter government had refused to permit 
Carmichael to enter the country despite the fact that he is 
a native of "'f'rinidad. 
The 6/12/70 study on page seven noted that available 
evidence suggested that contact between C~ribbean groups and 
the black power .. movement in the U. S. i:s. infrequent. It 
reported there was a two-way fiow of visitors including 
occasional speaking tours by Cari:nichael and one· or two other 
radicals. It was presumed that exchanges of views and . 
sharing of information occurred but the study noted there 
was no firm evidence of funding or direction by U. S. groups. 
There is no data oh page 188 o.r published in the 
two CIA studies which would compromise or damage FBI operations 
or sources. 
Re page 189 
This page indicates that for several months in the 
first half of 1968 the Caribbean branch (apparently of the 
Director of Current Intelligence, CIA) wrote periodic typescript 
memoranda on Carmichael's travel abroad during a period when he· 
had dropped out of public view. This pgge indicates that it was 
felt these-memoranda were for internal CIA use only although 
a copy of one such memorandum was inadvertently sent to the FBI .. 
- 2 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fi26 203 
