,J ..... 
. , 
l 
• 
. dated July 2, 1971, the Attorney General still has the responsi­
bility of furnishing names of organizations to the heads of 
depa~tments and agencies. ·However, instead of the organizations 
being designated by the Attorney General, the new Executive 
Order provides that the Subversive Activities Control Board 
shali, upon petition of the· Attorney General, conduct hearings 
to make the same determination formerly made by the 
Attorney General. The new Executive Order also sets up a much 
broader criteria for establishing the subvers-ive nature of 
organizations . 
Unfortunately, the Subversive Activities Control 
Board, which was initially established under the Internal Security 
Act of 1950, is under attack from Congress. Congress refused 
to provide any funds for the Subversive Activities Control Board 
after July 1, 1972. There has been indication that Congress may 
also take steps to repeal the remnants of the Internal Security 
Act of 1950. Should this happen, we would' lose a broad base of 
current authority for conducting many of our security-type 
investigations. Executive Order 11605 has not actually been 
implemented; therefore, we are bound to the provisions of 
Executive Order 10450. Basically, however, the responsibility 
under 10450 (or even 11605 if it is ever implemented) falls on 
the Attorney General, and for this reason the Department of Justice 
should now provide guidance as to what investigations are required 
by the FBI to fulfill the Attorney General's obligations under 
the existing Exeuctive order. 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PRESIDENT'S CONSTITUTIONAL POWER 
What other investigative authority or jurisdiction do 
we have? Attached to this study is a collection of statutes and 
documents which grant investigative authority for conducting the 
various types of investigations falling ~i_t_~ the primary super­
vision ol the Domestic Intelligence Division. Included in this 
collection of laws are statutes such as civil rights statutes, 
which are the basic responsibility of the General Investigative 
Division, but which nevertheless convey statutory authority in 
investigating totalitarian organizations such as the Ku Klux Klan 
an~ other hate-type groups. Civil rights statutes might also 
likely be involved in other situations where organized-groups 
act in such a manner as to deny other persons their constitutional 
rights. The fraud statutes are included since many groups • 
engage in activities which are co¥ered in one way or another 
by such statutes. There are, of course, the basic statutes such 
as espionage, sabotage, treason and foreign agents registration 
act. But there are statutes, such as i .. 11..£..:i.JJ~_!!J,;_ __ to anti riot, 
and others \'1hich cover an extremely broad spectrum of subversive 
activity. But isn't there some additional authority under the 
constitutional power of the President to protect the national 
security? 
- 20 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 155 
i.......... 
