r 
I 
et l 
! 
, There·is tacit acknowledgement in Section 403 (e) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 that the FBI gathers 
. information affecting the national security. This section 
provides: _ 
b. 
(e) To ·the extent recomm0nded by the NSC and approved 
by the President, such intelligence of the departments and 
agencies of the Government, except as hereinafter provided, 
relating to the national security shall be open to the 
inspection of the Director of Central Intelligence, and 
such intelligence as relates to the national security and 
is possessed by such departments and other agencies of 
the Government, exceµt as hereinafter provided, shall 
be made available t0 the Director of Central Intelligence 
for correlation, evaluation, and dissemination: Provided, 
however, That upon the written request of the Director 
'of Central Intelligence, 'the Director of the FBI shall 
make.available to the Director of Central Intelligence 
such information for correlation, evaluation 1 and 
dissemination as may be essential to the national security. 
National Security Council Intelligence Directives 
To implement the authority gran-ced to it unu1::L' t..u.1:1 
National Security Act of 1947, the National Security Council 
has issued a series of "National Security Council Intelligence 
pirectives, 11 usually referred to as NSCID vs and commonly called· 
"Nonscids." The first of these was issued December 12, 1947 1 a.nd 
provided for the establishing of the Intelligence Advisory 
Committee to maintain the relationship necessary for a fully 
effective integration of the national intelligence effort. By 
Directive dated September 15, 1958, the U.S. Intelligence Board 
(USIB) was formally created as successor to the Intelligence Advisory 
Committee and a counterpart known as the U.S. Communications 
Intelligence Board. 
NSCID No. 1 provided that the Director of Central 
Intelligence should coordinate the foreign-intelligence activities 
of the United S.tates, such coordination to include both special 
and other forms of intelligence. The USIB under this Directive 
shall "advise and assist the Director of Central Intelligence as 
he may require in the discharge of his statutory responsi­
bilities." It is the Board which is empowered to establish 
policies, define intelligence objectives, make recommendations 
to appropriate u. s. officials, develop standards for protection 
of intelligence,-and formulate policies with respect to arrange­
ments with foreign governments. The Director of Central 
- 22 - • 
•' I• 
••• I ,'I ' 
: ':. ~ .. ', .. 
l~.:·::~;:::··;!:~H:i:E~:!i:~:•:•(~~-~~?~~-11~•;~·::~~-!!:!~;·:~,~ .. :..~ ·.'.i ',:~~ ,. ---~--~ .. --,. 
