'i2,.,--,.. ft ttt' •*-m '_ -,. t- t»-+et! 
JUNTA OF MILITANT ORGANIZATIONS 
BUFILE 157-9903 4-H 
The Junta of Militant Organizations (JOMO) is a black 
extremist organization with headquarters in St. Petersburg, Florida. 
It is the leading organization for all black militant groups in 
Florida. JOMO was founded in St. Petersburg during May, 1968, with 
85 ghetto youths, who believed liberation of black people will not 
come about through "normal channels." The organization has 
affiliated groups in Louisville, Kentucky and Gainesville, Florida. 
During December, 1970, leaders of JOMO decided to expand their 
operation throughout the nation. Attempts are currently being 
made to create chapters in Boston, Massachusetts and Miami, Florida. 
Joseph Waller, Jr., the articulate founder of JOMO, and present 
chairman""o1:t'.tie 'organization intenci.s 1:0 have all ulack militailt 
groups in Florida designated as organization chapters. 
The organization's voice and propaganda are carried 
out through the publication "The Burning Spear. 11 This publication 
has urged blacks to buy arms and to be prepared to fight white 
America. In this connection, JOMO members have participated in 
racial demonstrations, used fire bombs and have been involved in 
attacks on police through use of violence. Members reportedly 
blew up a radio station in Tampa, Florid~ and recently participated 
in a plot to break out two black political prisoners from a 
Florida prison. Eight members of the organization were arrested 
in 1970 for committing three murders and 15 armed robberies. One 
of the murders was committed to obtain money to pay,a water bill 
for JOMO headquarters. 
The organization is in the process of accumulating weapons 
and making plans for members to be taught guerrilla warfare and 
firearms training. In this connection leaders are interested in 
establishing contact with revolutionary African groups. J:!all~ffi~-­
desires to create within the organization "Simba Warriors" who 
would act whenever violence might be necessary in order to "bring 
down the white man. 11 During December, 1970, ~ller reportedly 
had in his possession two Thompson sub-machine guns. 
Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection 
1/11/71 . 
NW •• ~'38 Page 498 
