1 •• 
' l 
EXTREMIST INFORMANTS 
The prime purpose of development and utilization 
of extremist informants a..~d sources is to provide intelligence 
and evidenciary information concerning black and white 
extremist organizations and individuals. These sources are 
also called upon to furnish information concerning situations 
affecting civil unrest in all parts of the country. 
Supervision of extremist informants at the Seat of 
Government includes revie~ and approval of new informants 
and confidential sources, review of progress of informants, 
review of payments being made to informants, analysis of 
informant coverage in each field office, analysis of natio~~ 
wide informant coverage of the various extremist organizations, 
coordination of informant coverage of specific functions such 
as Black Panther Party (BPP) and other extremist groups; 
conventions, supervision of operations for the development of 
top-echelon BPP informants, a~d other special projects such as 
development of information concerning black extremist under" 
ground escape routes and coordinating utilization of informants 
abroad with other agencies . .All procedures are constantly 
·evaluated,in an effort to increase the efficiency of our 
operation and to provide the field with the necessary supervision 
with a minimum of paper work. 
,As of 7/31/71 we are operating a total of 7,477 
extremist informant 9 compared with a total of ..,Z.J..,§,,Lt,. at~ 
time of the last Inspection. This is an increase of 293 
informants. Concerning the above informants, ~ informants 
report on black extremist organizations and 353 informants ... report on white extremist organizations such as the Klan. We 
are operating .§sa 541 ~ ghetto informants who provide general 
information within the black ghetto areas of our cities as 
compared to ..§.z_,l.24=ghetto.informants at the time of the last 
'Inspection which represents an increase of 317 ghetto informants. 
OOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/19/71 
JGD:maz 
a W ! n1,ir 
4•H _\'J 
I\ 
l E' • /'' 
• ·' r 
NW 38608 Docld:32989£.JB Page 164 
