.•. 
LEGAL ATTACHE OFFICES 4-H-l 
A I} FOREIGN LIAISON 
,}:,{ :! / bECTOR E. S. MILLE.R: In order that the overall foreign liaison 
V : f can be fully and currently evaluated, you 
are requested to furnish your comments concerning each Legal Attache Office 
presently operating (17); former Legal Attache Offices which you have proposed 
to be reopened (3); and proposed new Legal Attache Offices (3). 
In providing this information,. you are requested to be specific as to: (1) 
productivity (including intelligence) of each existing office (provide examples); 
(2) comment as to adequacy of personnel assigned (fully document if additions, de­
_ letions or changes recommended); (3) make specific recommendations regarding 
continuing or discontinuing each of existing offices. 
You are also requested to state your current recommendations regarding 
each former and new Legal Attache Office proposed above. 
Comments of Assistant Director Brennan and Section Chief Wannall 
requested. • cir 
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR:C. D. BRENNA: I concur with the attached 
(CDB:mls 8/25/71) comprehensive analysis of 
Section Chief Wannall in 
regard to our Legal Attache operations abroad. The Inspector should 
particularly note Wannall's concluding observation that any future 
expansion abroad will be resisted by the Department of State and 
Central Intelligence Agency and unless specifically ordered by 
the White House, will require approval from State and Bureau of 
the Budget. As Mr. Wannall'points out, we are not in a position 
to balance the value of the information expected against the costs, 
and I would suggest the Inspector insure that a copy of Mr. Wannall's 
overall analysis is furnished to the Administrative Division 
inasmuch as the Director on 8/23/71 approveq the recommendation that 
the Administrative Division should coordinate and handle all requests 
for increased staffing, as well as the creation of new Legal Attache 
posts. , 
,__.____,,,, ;*MESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTJON 
a: fl9/71 
-~. ESM:wmj 
4-H-l 
177 
