• 
.. 
Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall. 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
62-116395 
• 
By memorandum dated 5/6/75, we,advised the AG that 
the requested pos·ition pape:i. of 7 /31/72 is an internal deliberative 
document which we feel is inappropriate to furnish th~ Select 
Committee. This position is cons.istent with the position previously 
expressed by the AG. During the meeting with Elliff he w~s orally 
advised of the Bureau's position regarding making the 7/31/72 
position paper available to.the Select Committee. 
The Appendices which have not yet been made available 
to the Select Committee are be~ng -cleared with other agencies 
under the Third Agency rule requir~ment and will be made available 
to the Select Committee once all clearances have been obtained. 
Elliff was orally apprised of this. 
During·the course of the meeting, Mr. Elliff stated 
that he felt the FBI's concerted investigative effort in the 
early 196Os against the Klan and l~ter our investigative effort 
arising out of the ghetto riots were justified given the situation 
at that time. However, he felt the Committee would probably 
like to do an in-depth case study of both investigations. He 
asked if the FBI could provide the Committee with copies of atl 
memoranda and documents refle.ctiri.g the decision making process 
leading up to the initiation of the major 'investigative effort 
against the Klan as well as investigations during and following 
J
the ghetto riots. Eiliff was advised that we certainly would 
consider responding following receiptoof a formal written request 
from Senator Chur9h through the AG. Elliff advised he would 
prepare such a written request. 
The Intelligence Division has already instituted the 
necessary research in anticipation of this request and will submit 
recommendations following a completion of this research. 
In anticipation of '.Selec.t C0mmittee hearings which are 
expected to begin in about one month, Mr. Elliff and Gitenstein 
expect to start interviews of current Bureau employees in Bureau 
1space during the week of 5/19/75. Mr. Gitenstein will concentrate 
Ion the work of the Internal Security Branch of the Intelligence 
Division and Mr. Elliff on the Counterintelligence Branch. We 
expect that Mr. Elliff will begin his interviews by meeting with 
Assistant Director Wannall, Inspector Leavitt and the Section 
Chiefs of the Counterintelligence Branch. 
- 2 -
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989588 231 
