• J .. 
• 
VIEWS CONTINUED 
Internal Security Section recognizes that our investi­
gations are conducted under both the authority conferred under 
Executive orders (10450) and statutes and notes that as a 
practical matter the statutory provisions cited as a basis for 
intelligence-type investigative authority must bear a reasonable 
relationship to the activity investigated and must be brought to 
a logical conclusion within a reasonable per1od of time. They. 
also point out that it would be extremely difficult to justify 
continued investigative interest in a mere member of the Communist 
Party on the basis of the Smith Act or the Internal Security Act 
of 1950. It is further pointed out that this points up again 
the necessity for reliance not only on statutory authority but 
for the broader. intelligence-type authority conferred by 
Presidentail directives and Executive orders. 
REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES SECTION VIEWS 
The Revolutionary Activities Section furnished several 
specific examples of work of that Section which does not fall 
within the purview of existing Federal statutes. Included in 
those examples are the following: 
(1) Students for a Democratic Society/Worker 
Student Alliance (SDS/WSA) is the largest faction of SDS 
in existence at the present time. It has an estimated 
membership of 750 members. This group is described as a revolu­
tionary, predominantly campus-based organization dominated and 
controlled by the communist Progressive Labor Party. The group 
has engaged in recent widespread anti-Government demonstrations 
throughout the country which have led to numerous arrests, 
property dam age, and i nj uri es to 1 aw enforcement officers . Maj or 
purpose of our investigation of SDS/WSA is to obtain intelligence 
data in order to have a day-to-day appraisal of the strength, 
dangerousness, and activities of the organization and to keep 
the Department. of Justice and other interested agencies advised. 
Revolutionary Activities Section states that authority 
for investigation of SDS/WSA is based on Executive Order 10450, 
but that additional authority is derived from Presidential 
directives dating from September 6, 1939, 28 Code of Federal 
Regulations 0.85 (d) cites ~BI authority to carry out Presidential 
directives. They also note that "inherent" responsibility of the 
President derived from the Constitution to "insure domestic 
t:ranquility," (Preamble) to "take care that the laws be faithfully 
executed, 11 (Article II, Section 3) and to protect the states 
againit invasion and domestic violence (Article IV, Section 4) 
provide power to the President. 
- 34 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 169 
