NW 38614 Docld:32989606 Page 145 
....-----------
BOBBY SEALE: 
"I AM THE CHAIRMAN OF 
ONLY ONE PARTY." 
March, 1971 
This is Brother Bobby Seale, from 
the New Haven Courthouse, back in jail, 
back here. And I just wanted to say tu 
the people, the masses of people, to all 
the brothers and sisters, Women's Lib­
eration Movement, Black hrothern and 
sisters, Chicano brothers, the Puerto 
Rican brothers, the young revolu­
tionary White youth in America, and 
especially, all the Black brothers and 
sisters in the Black community, that 
I've seen a lot of things happening; 
and I've took time to analyse what's 
happening. And I see presently that 
there'resome divisionary, counter­
revolutionary actions going on. Now the 
Party accepts constructive criticism. 
Constructive criticism! But thedivi­
sionary, counter-revolutionary actions 
and jive tactics of Eldridge Cleaver is 
doing nothing but aiding the pig power 
structure. Aiding the pig power struc­
ture in their attempt to put in gas cham­
bers and jails over 130 political prison­
ers, who are presently, like myself and 
Ericka, caught up in these jails, and are 
being railroaded to the gas cliamber, 
where we' re fighting for our lives in 
these trials. And this is the only thing 
that Eldridge's actions are doing. This 
is the only thing that l can see that is 
going on. And my analysis shows this. 
There is no split in the Black Panther 
party, at ail. But the main thing t_tlat we 
want to get across, I want to get across, 
to the peopli: is that the Party is based 
on Survival Programstoservei:hepeo­
ple, and these survival programs -
from Breakfast for Children to the 
recent programs that I'm designing 
right here in jail, in my time that I'm 
not in court, which is a decent housing 
fit for shelter of human beings program 
- these are survival programs - and 
this program and all other programs 
that all other revolutionary organiza­
tions have are survival programs, that 
must sustain the people so the people 
can wage a revolutionary struggle, 
And Eldridge Cleaver, who's de­
nouncing these types of programs and 
carrying on with all those other divi-
22 
sionary jive tactics, is negating the real 
meaning of a People's revolutionary 
struggle. That's why the Black Panther 
Party belongs to the people, because the 
survival programs come forth, and we 
set up the survival programs to sustain 
the people's revolutionary struggle, 
Even the Vietnamese people, if one 
would check it out, have their survival 
programs; they have their cooperative, 
functional survival programs throughout 
their land, amongst their people. The 
people just don't have guns alone fight­
mg their battle, The people over there 
have actual everyday, functional, con­
structive survival programs. In their 
countries, in their lands, and in their 
everyday operations in fighting rhe 
capitalist pigs who occupy their coun­
try, they have survival programs. And 
those survival programs sustain the 
revolutionary struggle there. Of 
course, our survival programs will he 
directly related to here in America. But 
I, myself, send solidarity and support to 
all the socialistic, revolutionary peo­
ples of the world, and the socialistic 
countries and lands - and the different 
w:.ir zones, where the people, the mass­
es in those lands, are fighting against 
the capitalistic, imperialistic ruling 
class circles. 
And Eldridge Cleaver - who negates 
the very survival programs that the 
Party is trying to set forth, that the 
Central Committee is trying to set 
forth, and all the real dedicated, hard­
working brothers in the Party are try­
ing to set forth to educate the people 
and serve the people, these survival 
oroa:rams { that) sustain the oeoole's 
