• -
2 -
4. Subject has taken-advantage of this o££er to take 
several trips for sightseeing into forbidden areas around 
Moscow in a private car with the Soviet Official, and has 
also taken up a few offers for entertainment. Subject visited 
one of these villas, but refused the girls on the ground that 
he wants a woman to like him for himself, and not because she 
has been told to do so. The Soviet ans.wered that "some of 
them will really learn to like you for yourself,.as well as 
work for us," but Subject still declined to get involved. 
However, Subject has recently been taken up by a Soviet girl 
who had previously tried to seduce another American student 
and subsequently blurted out that she was put onto the latter 
American by the MVD, which she has also told .Subject. Subject 
is reported to be responding warmly to her approaches although 
he has flatly told her he doesn't trust her nor any Russian 
completely. He claims he enjoys her company but will not 
have a serious affair with her; and suspects she may be tied 
up with the other women offered him by the Soviet Official. 
' I - .. - ~ • ~ · • 1 • 1 - • " ""-rr• • ., r, 1 • ...., 
·::, • . n h].S 1·e la 'L.L U1i::i 11.1. !J VH t.11 1:ne 0uV .ii:: t: v .i. .1. i c 1a :t , ...,u.::, j" CCL 
is reportedly aware that he is playing a risky game, and is 
only utilizing the situation for the comfort and convenience 
it brings him. He has told the Soviet frankly that he cannot 
be worn over ideologically. Subject says he feels that the 
Soviets' interest in him is to cultivate him as a scholar of 
possible future importance to insure that he will always be 
sympathetic to the Soviet Union. Subject has reportedly told 
·several other American students of his relationship with the 
Soviet Official in orde:r to cover himself ''in case- anything 
happened". 
6. This Soviet Official has evinced an interest to 
Subject in many of the American Exchange students, with the 
explanation that some would undoubtedly be back in Moscow 
within two years as Diplomats and that since this is his 
area of responsibility, he wants to know as much as possible 
about them. The Soviet indicated that he was quite aware of 
the pattern of the American Exchange students' trips to the 
US Embassy and what they do in the university buildings, but 
is not so s~re of their activities around the city. To 
demonstrate to Subject his knowledge about the American 
students, the Soviet Official mentioned an affair going on 
within the American group of which Subject had been unaware. 
The Soviet's information turned out to be true. 
[ _J~W 38614 Docld:329896'°6 69 
