• 
m The Director of the Federal Bu­
reau of Investigation, 1f the demand is 
one made on an employee or former em­
ployee of that Bureau for information 
or if the demand calls for the production 
of material from the files of that Bu­
reau, and 
(ii} The Director of the Bureau of 
Prisons, 1f the demand 1s one made on 
an employee or former employee of that 
Bureau for information or if the de­
mand calls for the production of ma­
terial from the files of that Bureau. 
(3) In instances of demands that are 
not covered by paragraph (b) (1) or (2) 
of this section, the Deputy Attorney 
General. 
<c> If oral testimony is sought by the 
demand, an .affidavit, or, if that is not 
feasible, a statement by the party seek­
ing the testimony or his attorney, setting 
forth a summary of the testimony de­
sired, must be furnished for submission 
by the U.S. attorney to the appropriate 
Department official. 
§ 16.24 Final action by the appropriate 
Dcparlmcnt official or the Attorney 
General. 
(a) If the appropriate Department of­
ficial, as designated in § 16.23 (b), ap­
proves a demand for the production of 
material or disclosure of information, 
he shall so notify the U.S. attorney and 
such other persons as circumstances may 
warrant. 
<b> If the appropriate Department 
official, as designated in § 16.23 (b), 
decides not to approve a demand for the 
production of material or disclosure of 
information, he shall immediately refer 
the demand to the Attorney General for 
decision. Upon such referral, the Attor­
ney General shall make the final decision 
and give notice thereof to the U.S. attor­
ney and such other persons as circum­
stances may warrant. 
§ 16.25 Procedure where a Department 
decision concerning a demand is not 
made prior to the time a response to 
the demand is required. 
If resPonse to the demand is required 
before the instructions from the appro­
priate Department official or the Attor­
ney General are received, the U.S. attor­
ney or other Department attorney des­
ignated for the purpose shall appear with 
the employee or former employee of the 
Department upon whom the demand has 
been made, and shall furnish the court 
or other authority with a copy of the 
regulations contained in this subpart and 
inform the court or other authority that 
the demand has been, or is being, as 
the case may be, referred for the 
prompt consideration of the appropriate 
Department official and shall respect­
fully request the court or authority to 
stay the demand pending receipt of the 
requested instructions. 
NW 313'600 Docld:329896;()9 Page 217 
• 
§ 16.26 Procedure in the event of an :111-
verse nding. 
If the court or other authority declines 
to stay the effect of the demand in re­
sponse to a. request made in accordance 
with § 16.25 pending receipt of instruc­
tions, or if the court or other authority 
rules that the demand must be com­
plied with irrespective of instructions 
not to produce the ~aterial or disclose 
the information sought, in accordance 
with § 16.24, the employee or former em­
ployee UPon whom the demand has been 
made shall respectfully decline to comply 
with the demand. "United States ex rel 
Touhy v. Ra.gen," 340 U.S. 462. 
Dated: January 11, 1973. 
RICHARD G. KLEINDmNST, 
Attorney General. 
{FR Doc.73-1071 Filed 1-17-73;8:45 run] 
