- ,, 
•. l 
' .. ,. ·-
.,_ :," ,.• 
•• •. ··.: '. • •. : •• designation of the FBI as an independent agency would simply mean 
. . . that the Director would no longer report to the Attorney General, but 
would instead be responsible directly to the 'White Houset as is the 
ease with existing independent agencies. There appears to be some 
serious doubt whether an FBI Director would be more or tess subject 
to political pressure when. placed in this posture. • The FBI must be • 
responsive to the desires and needs of the American public and in 
this sense only should it be considered politically responsive. The 
d~ger of becoming enmeshed in partisan political dealings might easily 
be increased by removing this additional layer of Executive Branch 
responsibility which now exists in the person of the Attorney General. 
Opponents of these proposed Senate bills note that, while some 
danger does exist in the FBI'.s reporting to a political appointee, a far 
greater danger would exist if the FBI, performing as an independent 
agency, became the arm of a politically motivated ~ector who was 
responsible to no one but the 'White House. 
When one considers the possibility of an independent FBI, it is 
difficult to ignore the specter of a national police force at the disposal 
of the i.11cumbent administration, a conditton generally repugnant to our 
citizens. 
The relationship between the investigator and the prosecutor is 
a veey delicate, yet vital one. Neither can properly fulfill his role 
:without the wholehearted assistance of the other. So it is with the FBI 
. and the Department of Justice. A close working relationship has 
developed and must be maintained if the responsibilities of each are 
to be met. 
THt FBI does need a certain amount of independence and this 
fact has been recognized by even its most ·severe critics. In addition. 
Congress, in creating a new subcommittee on FBI oversight, has in 
effect insured a certain degree of FBI independence. 
: . - 3 .. 
' .. 
NW#:88608 'DdcI,d: 329895'41 
·• 
•. 
•. : :·=· 
., ;·' 
.. 
•f 
. . 
• ,4 .. . . . ·.{. 
