• 
Memorandum to Mr. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
• 
During the Colby/Church meeting, Church advised 
that he anticipates asking all agencies and departments of 
the intelligence community for the following three items 
as their initial request: 1) Organizational charts, broken 
down to a branch level, going back as far as 1947; 2) Copies 
of all budgets since 1947; and 3) Documents reflecting all 
cash flows since 1947. 
With regard to items 2 and 3, Mr. Clarke indicated 
that he will seek clarification with regard to budget and cash 
flow submission and will hopefully have additional information 
for members of the Group in the near future as to exactly what 
the SSC desires. 
During the course of the meeting of the Group, 
Mr. Clarke advised that. the Bureau should consider advising 
Mr. Colby of any "bad apples" that are uncovered during the 
Bureau's investigation of staff personnel. This was not 
intended to try to eliminate a candidate as a staff employee 
!
where there is some derogatory information but if the Bureau 
develops very substantial information indicating the subject 
is a definite security risk, it is conceivable that Mr. Colby 
could at least discuss that individual's possible employment 
with Senator Church to prevent the Committee from hiring 
anyone that could later prove embarrassing to the SSC. 
Prior to the adjournment of the meeting of the 
Group, Mr. Clarke queried all members as to what provisions 
they have ma.de for handling the onslaught of paper and 
requests he anticipates all agencies will receive from the 
SSC. As an example, CIA has had to Xerox over 15,000 pages 
of CIA documents in the last ten days in response to requests 
from the Rockefeller Commission. Clarke feels strongly that 
each agency should develop a task force within their ranks 
supplemented by stenographic personnel to prepare themselves 
for what he believes will be very extensive requests from the 
SSC with relatively short deadlines. 
- 3 -
\ NW 313'600 Docld:32989530 99 
\ 
