. . . 
: 
. For. a number of years we have followed the practice of furnishing 
signific:mt intelligence information, both in the domestic and foreign areas, 
on a tin1ely basis directly to the '\Vhite House concurrent with the dissemination 
of the sa1ne data to the Attorney General and other interested agencies. The 
Bureau disseminates by teletype to the 'White House and other interested a·gencies 
summary data concerning civil unrest and acts of violence as they occur in the· . • · 
U.S. \Ve also provide the \Vhite House by' letter or teletype, as circumstances • 
indicate, top-level intelligence data developed through our sources when it 
appears the President or senior members of his staff would have an interest. 
l\!Iuch of this 01iginates ·with our Legats and through our co:vera.ge of foreign 
establishments in the U .S: Simultaneous dissemination is made to the Attorney 
General who is advised of our dissemination to the 'Whit~ House. 
It is noted that frequently the value of information being disseminated 
. depends entirely on the timeliness of our dissemination. Therefore, direct 
and irnmediate dissemination to the \Vhite House is the only effective way to 
handle these matters. 
FBI Legal Counsel on 7/20/72, set forth the opinion that the FBI had no 
legal basis to disseminate information to the ·white House concerning a current 
criminal case o It is the obligation of the FBI to keep the Attorney Gen~ral 
fully informed and leave further dissemination to him. Acting FBI Director 
Gray instructed this policy be followed and we have been co1nplying with this 
directiono 
c. Exceptions 
1. Congressional Committees 
The Attorney General on 6/14/54, ruled that the FBI shall make name 
checks and investigations of individuals being considered for staff positions of 
the following Congressional Committees when such requests are made by the 
chairmen: 
NW#:88608 
a. Senate and House Appropriations Committee -
b. Senate and House Judiciary Committee 
c. Joint Committee on Atomic Energy 
. (Coopei·ation c::-..icndecl to this Con1nritte~ pursuant to 
•.• ·the Atomic Energy Act of 1946) 
do Senate Armed Services Con1mi·~tee 
Docid:3298954~~)-
