• • 
- 3 -
in the Business Executives Movement for Vietnam (BEM). This conversation 
involved the plan on the part of an unidentified individual to leak secret informa­
tion to the press in the Spring of 1971, with the unidentified individual being 
mentioned as being an employee of Rand Corporation and having formerly served 
as an advisor to Dr. Kissll:-~e:r: at the \¥bite House. Also mentioned by the 
. conversants was the plan on the part of two White House aides to resign their 
• positions sometime during the Summer of 1971 and to make anti-Administration 
revelations at that time regarding U. S. - Vietnam policy. Ellsberg was known to 
have appeared on at least two occasions as a speaker for BEM functions in 
Los Angeles and Washington, D. C. A close associate of his in Los Angeles was 
a former leader of the BEM chapter in that city. We have intensified our investiga­
tion of BEM and conducted extensive investigation to pin down identities of persons 
seated near Raine during the game in question. We are continuing our investigation 
along these lines to pinpoint a possible conspiracy existing as early as October, 
1970, with ramifications of anti-Administration activity and revelation of classified 
information. 
We have recently received from Attorney General clarification of the 
areas in which we can conduct investigation in this matter and, as a result, are 
extending our interviews into news media circles where we feel we can uncover 
individuals who will cooperate with us in revealing details of the Ellsberg 
revelations and any conspiracy that may have existed involving him and others to 
. expose to public scrutiny the classified information involved in this case. 
2. At the outset of this investigation Assistant Director Brennan spoke 
at a Division Chiefst Conference and also directly to the Section Chief, Nationalities 
Intelligence Section, regarding the possibility of a wide-scale conspiracy in which 
. Ellsberg could be involved. His observations along these lines were recorded in 
• a memorandum to all Division Chiefs dated 7/23/71 and captioned "Re: Organizati.or:a::' 
Survey (Priorities and Manpower). tt In this memorandum he commented upon tne 
fact that the Ellsberg case might be a landmark in historical significance in view 
• of the long-range potential regarding Governmental operations and the FBPs role 
• in rel ation thereto. He stated that the leak in this case represented a deliberate 
and determined effort on the part of certain individuals to seriously disrupt and 
clestroy the Governmentts capacity to carry out effectively its foreign policy in 
various areas. 
Mr. Brennan noted that the past 15 to 20 years had witnessed the evolutior: 
of a new breed of fanatics who were determined to disrupt and destroy Governmental 
operations and to alter this countryts foreign policy. He further noted that th£;; 
movement supported by these fanatics bordered on treason .which must be dealt 
with if our current form of Government is to survive. 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989638 16 
