I 
,/ ., 
:I 
) 
e 
\· 
DCID's 4/2 and 4/3 relate to the Defector Program 
abroad and domestically, respectively. The latte
1
r one dwells on 
division of responsibilities between FBI and CIA in the handling 
of do:f e·ctors within the continental limits of the United States. 
It provides that exploitation of·such defectors shall be conducted: 
1. To obtain internal security information or other 
data required by FBI in view of its statutory responsibilities 
in the internal security field. 
2. To· obtain foreign intelligence information required 
in the interests of national security by the member agencies of 
the USIB. 
3c For such other purposes as are deemed to be in the 
interests of nation.al security. 
·The very next sentence then gives the implication that 
exploitation of the defector for foreign intelligence purposes is 
~ the principal responsibility of CIA, for it reads, "Decision as 
to the relative importance of internal security exploitation by 
FBI and foreign intelligence exploitation by the Central 
lnte.Lt1gence A~t:J.l(.;y' (CIA) sh~ll be ma.de jo~nt1.y_ by representatives of 
CIA and FBI. n 
There then follo~s a listing of nine specific FBI 
responsibilities, one of which is to make available to CIA foreign 
intelligence information resulting from the initial exploitation 
of defectors. There is no subsequent specific delineation of CIA 
~esponsibility over foreign intelligence exploitation until there 
is a transfer of respons:...oility for handling a defector from FBI 
to CIA after FBI interests have been fully satisfied. There is a 
g.eneral assignment of such responsibility to CIA in the terms, 
"CIA shall be responsible for: a. Coordinating the.activities of. 
other departments and agencies concerned with defector matters, 
except those responsibilities assigned exclusively to FBI ... ,." 
As a matter of practice 1 if it is determined there is 
little or no importance from an internal security standpoint in 
connection with a p~rticular defection, we do not take over but in 
effect give clearance to CIA to proceed from a foreign intelli­
g~nce standpoint. 
DCID's in the 5/ series (numbers one through five) were 
issued principally to impl_ement NSCID Number 5 which deals with 
U. s. espionage and clandestine counterintelligence activities 
abroad. There appears to be no conflict with FBI jurisdiction in 
th;is series. 
and other 
-conflicts 
All other DCID's relate to 'Elint Critical 'Intelligence 
matters.which appear to have no·bearing on possible 
between CIA and-FBI responsibilities. 
- 28 .- . 
