c:, 0 
" 0 
SECRET §;£NSITIVIC 
the United States. (Recall that Oswald had had connections \Vith Russia). 
This \Vas an operation which the CIA did not particularly \Vant to under­
take. Nonetheless the Agency did trace the names \Vhich the Bureau and 
Secret Service provided in this regard. The number of these names \Vas 
perhaps 2 1 000 including crackpots who may have as an off hand comment 1 
suggested that they intended to defect to, for example, Russia. The CIA 
a tten1pted to turn the program over to the Secret Service for the Bureau, but they 
\\·ould not take it. The CIA ultimately stopped the project and cleared all the 
files out. This would have been approximately three years ago. ,Stein noted 
that although the files had been eliminated, it was possible that some of 
the names provided to the Agency had made it into the Central .Lt\gency ft}es, 
and \Vould not have been eliminated therefrom. 
I briefly discussed the NOSENKO Case with Stein. Nosenko had defected 
to the United States and was ad1nitted to this country as a ''parolee". That 
is, the Immigration and Naturalization Bureau have a quota of persons 
\Vhich the Agency can bring into _the country without regular immigration 
papers. These persons are the res.ponsibility of the Agency. There was 
some initial doubt, as to ·whether, in fact, Nosenko had been sent to the 
United States by the KGB. Information obtained from another defector 
tended to confirm this sus pie ion. The question then was \Vhat to do with 
Nosenko. It vvas decided for a variety of reasons, tha·t it \Vould be unwise to 
attempt to deport him; as a result, he was kept in the United States in isolation. 
After several years- it \vas determined that Nosenko \Vas, in fact, not an 
attempted double agent. He \vas thereafter· rehabilitated and no\.v lives 
happily in the United States. Although the CI had an interest in this case, 
it \vas actually run by the Office of Security. 
As one aspect ·of the Agency's duty to help ins ervices of common concern 
to all Governmental agencies, the CIA recorded in computer form at the 
request of the FAA 1 all information relating to hijackers,. Stein thinks that 
this ,vas probably because the CIA had the only equipment which could 
handle the needed material in the proper fashion. Th-e information so 
provided would, for example, include names of all those who were on board 
hijacked plane·s. Approximately two years ago the CIA tried to give this 
program to the FAA. That Agency, hovvever, would not accep_t the program, 
and, therefore it was te1·minated by CIA., .. ~J 
372 Page 8 
L " .. 
£EGRET - SENSITIVE 
7 
