,I 
',, 
• • 
PROPOSED PROCEDURES 
' • j 
or the Senior Staff j~ 
(1) The D:irrestic Task Force Leader/will submit per'.iodically a list 
of ffi3.terials to which the Comrr.ittee staff wishes access or of which. 
the Committee desires delivery. The first such list will be_ delivered 
to the Depa.rtrr,ent of Justice withi.I1 48 hours of the ad8ption of this 
pr0cecJure, and will Sl\.lm1arizc and supe:.l"Sficle alJ. the presently outs-ca.nding 
YBquests; this list will be in priori t:v 01""der) as fixed by the Committee) 
with fixed delivery/access dates specified. Those materials for·-which 
the Comnit'i:ee requests delivery or access shall be. delivered to the 
Corrmittee or made accessible in Rcom 4171 of the HooveI' Building not 
later than within 48 hours of the date specified. The Committee 
Chairman and Vice Chairman shall be inf omr2d by the Attorney General, 
wi·thin 211 hours of, receipt of the request, of eny delay beyond 48 
hours, the expected length of the delay, arid the specific reasons for 
the delay. Partial access or delivery shall be proffered, by the 
B1.u.--eau of/to any IT',a:ter•ials requested, while the baJ.aDce of such 
materials ar'3 being pr.epared. A partial proffer shall not extend 
the time of full response set forth her~in. 
(2) T'ne follcr,.;ring procedures shall apply (a) where delivery of 
r.r.:rh,,rii A 1 i::: Y"l?<J.llt?.StP.cl mi ,e:ht j eoparoize FBI sensitive sc.•: i:rx::es or 
ongoing oper•a.tions , or (b) where the D:imestic 'l'ask Force leader 
requests access to materials,. rathE:r than delivery of 
materic::tls to the Committee4 
or the 
(3) The Department will furnish access at the H~r Bµilding in 
Room 4171 to those materials requested·: 
(a) only to the members of the Conmi ttee ~ 'l;l'lere it is deter­
rrdned by the Attorn(•!Y General that the materials im:vol ve peculiarly 
sensitive for,~ign intell:i.ge.nce source;; and ongo:i.nz. operations. 
(b) In all other cases, to the appropriately clearBd staff • 
who will have access to all of the mater•ials . 
_ (c) An exception to (a.) and (b) ,ab8ve is maile fo:r.
1 
the nain2s 
of so_-called 11li ve 11 informants or coten-tial info:nr~nts as def i.ried 
in the FBI Manual of Instn.1ctions a.s i:o which no ;,recess v1ill be 
Senior 
s 
furnished unless th(~ identity of -che :ind:i.vidual 2.s a.'1 informant or potential 
has already been made known to the Corrm:i.ttee., or tnrihess the Attorney infor:::::-.:-,. 
· .. General, the Chai1T.1an arid Vice Chaim.an, jointly .,:agree on the J.imited 
disclosure of such names to the Chaim.an and Vice Chairrran. 
