... , 
le ..,,,.1 ◄ rt (; - - -,l·f-~' rt#i:t·-- clil"b}':\a•o ,6'·t"' Ynd-'t'••~J 
\ •• 
I 
analysis of where programs needed shoring u .• Those offices 
found to be deficient in their coverage were directed to 
submit periodic communications detailing their coverage 
and setting out what steps are being taken to increase the 
coverage in terms of quantity and quality. 
The Counterintelligence Program - New Left was 
discontinued by Bureau airtel to all offices dated 4/28/71 
in view of the fact that sensitive intelligence techniques 
and disruptive activities were involved and absolute security 
was difficult to achieve. 
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS UNIT - EAST 
The Venceremos Brigade 
The field was authorized by airtel to all offices, 
dated 5/11/70, to interview all Venceremos Brigade· (VB) members 
on SAC authority except in those instances where the subject is 
under 21, currently a student, professor, has some connection 
with an institution of learning or 1s a journalisi. Bure~u 
• approval is still needed concerning th_e latter individuals. 
Bureau airtel to all offices, dated 5/15/70, instructed 
the field to immediately intensify investigations of all VB 
returnees from Cuba, ascertain their whereabouts, conduct prompt 
interviews and submit current reports with Security Index recom­
mendation., In view of rebuttable presumption ~fat least sympathy 
·to a violent Marxist-Leninist revolution and willingness to 
participate in that revolution by these VB members, the field 
was also instructed for one year to advise the Bureau every 90 
days of whereabouts and activities of Priority II and III and 
non-Security Index returnees. In case of Priority I Security 
.Index subjects, this information is to be furnished the Bureau 
every 45 days. 
NW 313'600 ' -
Prosab 
Current Bur,eau instructions require development of 
adequate· informant coverage of Strategic Air Command and 
Intercontinental Baliistic Missile Bases of the United States 
Air Force (PROSAB) to insure that our investigative responsi­
bilities in the sabotage, .espionage and internal security fields 
can -be properly discharged. Semiannual reports are submitted by 
each office having a Strategic Air Co~and Base or an Inter­
continental Ballistic Missile Base within its territory. A 
review of semiannual reports submitted by the field as of 7/1/71 
disclosed that a total of .!_~225 informants have been developed. 
DOMESTIC 
8/18/71 
✓ 
, . :cae 
I~~ 
- 11 -
INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
t:Cd 
