• 
PREVENTIVE INVESTIGATIONS 
- . 
While there has been some disagreement by one or two 
supervisory personnel in Domestic Intelligence Division as to 
_how long an investigation may be carried· on under statutriry 
authority or whether a "preventive" investigation can be ·c arri"ed 
on under that authority, it is my own contention that intelligence­
type investigations can be carried out under statutory authority; 
that there is no constraint imposed by law governing the length 
of time in which an investi-gation can be conducted. There are 
many reasons why continuing investigative activity would be 
necessary, even when a statutory violation is involved. In most 
cases involving the national secutity a conspiracy of some sort 
is involved. Conspiracies frequently go on for years. When 
. the preservation of the Government is involved, who is to say that 
we either prove a conspiracy within a specific period of time or 
stop investigating. 
Whether a conspiracy is evident or not, the FBI would not 
open an investigation of any type unless information was first 
received that a violation of Federal law was involved or that the 
national security was threatened. This is how our so-called 
intelligence-type investigations are usually started. A citizen, 
an informant, or a law enforcement officer furnishes information that 
there is a group in existence which includes in its philosophy rut 
advocacy of overthrow or destruction of the Government of the 
United States by force or violence. It would appear to ~e entirely 
logical that under at least three separate_ Federal statutes a 
violation would occur if this group did attempt to overthrow the 
Government. And the Supreme Court has said that the Government 
does not have to wait until the putsch is about to be executed 
and that proof that success or probability of success must be shown. 
While the examples cited hereafter might not be good legal 
analogy, there does not seem to be any reason why the preservation 
of our Government warrants any less consideration under the law. 
The courts have upheld cases, such as have been developed in the 
Washington, D. C., metropolitan area, where a nearby jurisdiction, 
which prohibits importation of liquor from Washington, sets up a 
surveillance near the larger purveyors of liquor. When a car 
bearing Virginia or Maryland license plates is observed to be 
loading up what is obvioulsy more liquor than can be imported into 
these states, a surveillance is instituted and when the person 
drives across the state line he is arrested and charged with 
violation of state liquor iaws. it can be argued that such is 
possible only because of the broad police powers delegated to 
the states by the Constitution. Perhaps. But under the same 
Constitution it would appear that somewhere there is a rationale 
that if a statute exists prohibiting the overthrow or destruction 
of our Government, the Government should have the same degree 
of power to see that persons do not overthrow it. 
- 26 -
NW 38tiiOB. Docld:32989fii09 Page 1ti1 
