' . 
., 
... 
• l •' <. 
··" ... . . . . . ' : . 
The Justice Department, ·in the words of Deputy 
Assistant Attorney General Kevin J. Maroney b.efore the Senate 
Suocornmittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure on June 29, 
1972, stated that it understands "signi,ficant connection". to 
; . -mean that the domestic organiza~ion must be substantially· 
·financed by, or in active collaboration with a foreign power 
for the purpose of committing unlawful activities against the 
United States Government. 
• .. <-.. : 
.. 
.:.' .. 
. • . , .. ·.· : 
Guidelines and Procedures Currently Used by the FBI and 
the Department of Justice in Determining Nhether c3: 
Proposed National Security Electronic Surveillance Falls 
Within/Without the Keith Decision 
. The Keith decision applies solely to a domestic 
.. . organization (and its members ) "with no significant 
• • • . connection with a foreign power. 11 The issues are what 
•. constitute a "domestic organization" and ."significant 
. • ·:·connection. 11 
The Department of Justice has issued the FBI no formal 
.oral· or any written guidelines on these issues. 
The reason is that the standard to be applied 
• .. • ·i~ a "facts and circumstances II test in each case in the light 
of the supreme Court's language in the Keith case and the 
.•.. ·Department of Justice's position as stated by Mr. Maroney 
• before the Subcommittee. 
. The Supreme Court in Keith said that while it was 
"attempt(ing) no precise definition 11 the scope of its decision 
was limited to a "domestic organization ... composed .of citizens 
of the United States ... which has no-significant connection 
with a foreign power, it agents or agencies. 11 The Court 
-al~o recognized the difficulty in distinguishing "between 
'domestic' and 'foreign' unlawful activities directed against 
the Government of the United States where there is collabora­
~ion in varying degrees between domestic groups or organizations 
and agents or agencies of a foreign power." 
The Subcommittee asked the Department of Justice 
what level of foreign dominance and control of a domestic 
group would be considered sufficient to bring the group into the 
area of foreign activities on which the Court.has not yet ruled. 
Maroney replied: l. 
t' 
