. ' U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
ALDEN F. MILLER BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
in 1948, and returned to the Atlanta Office in 1951. SA 
Miller was further asked when he was assigned to the Security 
Squad in the Atlanta FBI Office, to which he replied June of 
1951. Inquiry was further made as to whether still assigned 
to the Security Squad and SA Miller replied that as of March, 
1975, he was no longer assigned security matters and that he 
was presently assigned to work in conjunction with the General 
Accounting Office review of matters in the Atlanta Office. 
SA Miller was asked when a technical installation 
or telephone tap was ?laced on the Southern Christian Leader­
ship Conference (SCLC) and Martin Luther King. SA Miller 
replied that it was impossible for him at this date to recall 
specifically when such an installation was made, but by citing 
civil rights activities with particular emphas~is in Albany, 
Georgia, in 1962, was reas0nably sure that the technical 
installation was made sometime subsequent to that date. When 
asked how long the technical installation remained in effect, 
SA Miller replied that he could not recall the exact duration 
of the telephone tap, however, was of the opinion it was in 
effect for several years, poss·ibly three. When asked what 
telephone facilities were covered, SA Miller replied that 
telephone service to the offices of SCLC and to the residence 
of Martin Luther King were covered in this telephone tap. 
SA Miller was asked what was the justification or 
purpose of this technical installation, to which he replied 
that it was to determine the degree of subversive influence, 
if any, over the activities of the SCLC sponsored civil 
rights demonstrations and programs. 
Inquiry was made as to who instructed the installation 
of such technical coverage and SA Miller replied that he un­
doubtedly received these instructions from his immediate 
supervisor and/or the Special Agent in Charge of the Atlanta 
Office at that time. When asked whether·these instructions 
were written or verbal, SA Miller replied that he could not 
specifically recall, but was reas0hably sure that if written 
they would have also been discussed verbally, both with his 
supervisor and the Special Agent in Charge. 
- 2 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989626 51 
