Bureau airtel to all offices dated 9/9/70 advised that 
a special single fingerprint file on Weatherman fugitives and 
other New Left terrorists has been initiated. The field was 
instructed to submit to the Bureau the identity of New Left terror­
ists whose fingerprints should be included in this special file. 
By airtel to all offices~ted 6/15/71 the field was 
advised that a new "stop index" program had been instituted in 
the National Crime Information Center (NCIC). This program is 
for Bureau use only and concerns extremists who are in Priority I 
·of the Security Index and who are not already carried in the 
NCIC Wanted Persons-file. Through this program, the field 
obtains prompt notice from NCIC by teletype whenever a police 
agency makes inquiry concerning one of these extremists, which 
enables the field to better follow the activities and movements 
of extremists. 
By SAC Letter 71-37 (E) dated 8/10/71, captioned 
"Security Flash Notices Regarding Security Index Subjects" the 
field was advised of new procedures which will enable the 
Identification Division to better disseminate arrest information 
on Security Index subjects for whom no fingerprints are on file 
in the Identification Division. This is accomplished by 
periodic submission by the field of Security Flash Notices 
(FD-165) which determine if fingerprints of a Security Index 
subject have been received since the last check and if so, a 
stop is placed in the fingerprint record to assure that the 
field is advised of all subsequent fingerprint submissions. 
The Security Flash Notice is periodically submitted at different 
intervals depending on the priority of the subject's Security 
·Index status. 
Intensified ~nvestigation of New Left extremists 
has led to numerous prosecutions and indictments of extremist 
leaders. To provide.further guidance for the field in these 
matters, SAC Letter 71-10 (E) dated 3/9/71 and captioned 
"Security Informants - Judicial Matters" advised the field of 
procedures to be followed in handling informants who are 
developing information o~ 'New Left groups and individuals who 
are in contact with these New Left a~tivists or with their 
attorneys. 
- 5 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989638 Page 116 
