I 
i 
I 
I 
( 
:, , .. 
i: I' 
j~ 
I· 
\ 
There appears to be much confusion in professional 
.. , circles regarding the use of the term "positive intelligence." 
Some profess:kmnls use the term "positive intcll,igence" synonymously 
with tho term "foreign intoll:i.gcnco." :rn still ::i.notho:i. .. 
usage, "positive intelligence" and "intelligence" are used 
interchangeably. In another useage, which is closely related 
• to the definition utilized in this study, "positive intcll:i.­
gence" is described n.s· what is left of the entire field after 
"security intelligence" has been subtracted. This source 
continues that both "positive intelligence" and "security 
intelligence" can be against domestic targets, a~ well as 
against foreign targets. For example, the Department of State, 
in connection with its formulation of foreign policy, encounters 
- a large number of organizations of Americans who9e parents came 
•. from foreign countries. Many of these organizations--the Poles 
. •.•.•. • for example--have strong views on what United States policy 
.• : • should be. toward Poland. The views of these organizations 
• regarding our foreign policy is likely to be a matter of some 
·.~ importance to the Department of State in its policy formula­
tion., The knowledge of what these organizations think and 
do can be a very significant phase of what might be called 
"dc-m'.?stic posi t;_ve j ntelligence,," In addition, the connections 
which these organizations may have with the foreign country 
such as Poland sometimes provide a source of "foreign positive . 
intelligence." , 
." SCIENTIFIC INTELLIGENCE pertains to the progress of scientific 
research and development and usually this intelligence is 
·within the framework of how it affects military or economic 
~ :.~-~otential of a nation. 
:· .i: •• • SECURITY INTELLIGENCE is basically the intelligence behind the 
·,.·police function to protect the nation and its members from 
.those working to our national and individual detriment. For 
example, this would include intelligence regarding clandestine 
agents sent to th~ United States by a foreig~ power. 
·sbCIOLOGICAL INTELLIGENCE pertains to the social, cultural, 
psychological, or ethnic structure and characteristics of a 
peopleo 
STRATEGIC INTELLIGENCE is the intelligence required for broad 
and usually long-r.ange planning; especially with regard to 
military operations. • _, .. - ••• 
,:• 
• ·· ... 
• • J • :-·.~ •• 
. · ..... 
