I 
l NW 38601! 
• 
A cursory spot check of some criminal violations in 
the Manual of Instructions notes that there is no specific 
mention made for some violations and it is quite likely that 
the specific requirement for use of an FD-302 is not spelled 
out for each of the many, many criminal violations covered in 
the various sections of the Manual of Instructions. The 
requirement is covered in the Manual of Rules and Regulations 
and the Handbook as are many other requirements which pertain 
to the Bureau's work generally. A primary function of the 
Manual of Rules and Regulations is to have in one place general 
requirements that are applicable across the board in our work. 
The Section relating to Communications referred to above is a 
good example. • 
It was observed by the Inspector that "quite possibly 
the seeming reluctance on the part of investigative agents 
handling security matters to prepare FD-302's may be due to 
the lack of mention of this in the Manual and Handbook 
provisions dealing with security investigations." It is 
respectfully observed that -we have not noted a_ny 11seeming 
reluctance" on the part of investigative Agents handling work 
in the security field. We have found that the requirements 
for the use of an FD-302 are being generally complied with and 
when any shortcomings might be noted they are dealt with on 
an individual case basis. In short, we have had no problems 
in this area of our operations. It may be that the Inspector's 
observations are based on noting rather few FD-302s in security 
r~ports as compared with reports in the criminal field. If 
this be the case, it is observed that by and large our 
obtaining of information in the security field is of an 
intelligence nature with prosecutable situations being generally 
the exception. In other words, situations where information 
might become testimony are rather limited. 
A further aspect of the Inspector's Suggestion 
Memorandum relates to the preparation of FD-302s when obtaining 
information from security informants. In this respect it is 
observed that a great many of our security informants prepare 
written reports which are firsthand accounts and thus .preferable 
to FD-302s which are secondhand accounts. Thus, the informants' 
reports are even more valuable than FD-302s and are available 
.. for the same purpose as are the FD-302s. When an informant 
furnishes information orally which is not backed up by a written 
report from the informant and the information may become a 
matter of testimony, the Agent is under the same requirement to 
execute an FD-302. We have not observed any failings to speak 
of in this regard. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/24/71 
SFP:rrd 
Docld:32989fi.J8 Page 352 336 ~ 
