APPENDIX 
Revised 5/22/75 
NATION OF ISLAM (NOI) 
CHARACTERIZATION OF SUBVERSIVE ORGANIZATION 
EXTREMIST MATTER 
The Nation of Islam (NOI) is a black nationwife 
organization headquartered at Muhammad's Temple #2, 7351 
South Stony Island Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. Elijah 
Muhammad, self-styled "Messenger of- Allah 11 and divinely 
appointed leader of the black race in America, was leader 
of the NOI until his death on February 25, 1975, at which 
time his son, Wallace D. Muhammad, became Supreme Minister 
of the NOI. The NOI seeks a separate black nation, espouses 
its own version of the Islamic Religion, and has considered 
all "whites" to be devils; however, Wallace D. Muhammad 
in an interview published in "Muhammad Speaks", March 21, 1975, 
same being a weekly and the official NOI newspaper, stated 
there would no longer be stress put on the white people's 
status as "devils"; that whites have nbegun to reform" and 
uThe past is the past until it is dug up. We will not 
dig it up." NOI official policy instructs members to obey 
laws of the United States that do not conflict with NOI 
laws; to defend NOI officials, property, women, and them­
selves at all costs, if attacked; and to disarm any 
attacker and use the attacker's weapon against him. 
The NOI body is broken down into: l) the Fruit of 
Islam (FOI); an all male military-type group, to which 
instruction in judo and karate is given, and which has as 
its mmission security of officials, membership, and property 
of the NOI, and enforcing discipline in the NOI; and 2) 
the Muslim Girls Training (MGT), an all female quasi 
military-type group which has as its mission homemaking and 
child guidance in accordance with NOI teachings. 
NCI.activity is widespread among black inmates in 
many prisons in the United States. In recent years internal 
dissidence and difficulties with rival.Muslim groups and 
other adversaries have produced considerable violence, some 
involving physical confrontations and-acts of violence with 
law enforcement agencies. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989640 Page 205 
