. . . . TOP \SECRET 
r 
program aimed at precluding acquisition of spare parts for 
-industrial machinery, and other products needed by: Cuba, 
(.5)._a·sabotage program of a general n?-ture, and (o) support 
of anti-Castro autonomous groups, by giving them money -and 
the means to act, but under an arrangement which insures ~gainst 
attribution to the United States, and which precludes operations 
from u. s. or British soil. (The CIA philosophy is to back only 
the potentially powerful and effective anti-Castro groups, and 
the military is felt ·to be the best bet.) - . ' • 
The CIA effort represents a shift from external raids to 
internal sabotage actions. CIA mounts about 10 11black't 
oper~tions a ~onth; and Cast~o security forces have taken their 
toll among·the CIA teams. Three operations were conducted on 
A~us 1t 17 and 18, and among other things the objective is to 
give encouragement to dissident Cuban elements such·as military 
officers who see no professional future under Cp.stro who is 
unloading.military elements which aided himin his initial 
seizure of the government. (The Special Group, Mr. Bundy and 
other White House staff note the successful mounting of CIA's 
sabotage operations and have asked for more to be conducted. 
CIA has found it~necessary to resist any such pressures for 
these operations to be increased beyond the present effective 
capacity which CIA has at this time.) . · 
Again, referring to the Cuban economy, it is hurting badly. 
The United States has a monopoly on the spare parts for industrial 
machinery needed by Cuba, and the USSR cannot supply them. 
The Cuban electrical industry 1is particularly hard hit in this 
respect. Castro's re-emphasis on an agricultural step-up means 
increased ef:forts to produce sugar, a crop which presents a good 
sabota~e target. Finally, the Soviet aid at a rate of $1 million 
a day lmilitary and economic) is not enough to keep the Cuban· 
economy goin~. Cubans are not starving but they do not·eat 
ncomfortably even in the larger cities. CIA finds that a major 
problem for their "blackn teams is rood re~supply in areas where 
• the Cubans are hard put to feed. themselves. 
CIA assets being used against Cuba: 
Staff: 384 (Washington and Miami) 
u. s. contract6r personnel: 83 • 
Foreign nationals: 525 (mostly Cubans) 
Personnel at overseas posts: 45 
DD/I staff: 12 ~. 
NPIC: a big effort on. U-2 photography of Cuba~ 
- 5 - 10P SCCRET 
NW185 
Docld:2506 
N~i25 
Docld:34fi71 Page 7 
