NW 38608 
• 
Technical Surveillance of Targets 
Coverage in this field will be divided into the 
follo~ing·categories: 
l) Technical Surveillances 
2) Microphone Surveillances 
3) More sophisticated electronic monitoriilg, 
i.e. code machinos. 
At the present time we are handling a very limited 
number of installations. With existing capabiliti'c\s, we 
could virtually double our present technical coverag~. 
Once we have established ren.sonab1e pri'bri ty 1istingJ ·it 
is believed we should systematically expand our operations. 
In this connection, the following should be borne in mind: 
1) Heavy emphasis should be placed on microphone 
surveillances. 
2) Today we are placing greater stress on 
coverage of official establishments. The new program asks 
for an expansion of coverage on individuals and/or residences 
of individ~als. Here again selectivity will be a dominating 
characteristico • 
3) The program should be so flexible that we • 
would be able to deactivate any installation for security 
reasons or for non-productivity and whenever possible emplpy 
techniques which would permit easy reactivation. 
4) Except for current intelligence requiring 
immediate disse;:iination, the product should be· ·handled as 
col111ilunications intetligence and dissemination would be 
subjected to well-established Comint controls of the 
National Security Agency (NSA) plus any additional restric-
tions the Bureau felt should be ·imposed. 
5) The product would be transmitted to NSA by us 
for dissemination within the intelligence com.~unity. NSA 
would be responsible for handling any needed translation. 
We must recognize that the program will produce voluminous 
information and the responsibility for processing the data 
should be fixed uith ~n agency which is orgnnized and 
equipped to handle the job. It is believed that if the 
Bureau assumed this res pons:: ')ili ty we Y1ould be burdened· \7i th 
a gigantic task of inform~tion processing to the point ·that 
this element would adversely affect other phases of the 
program. 
- 90 . .... 
• ,: • •" I ~ I • 
' . ' 
,i 
• l 
. ' .. . ' 
---- -- . ..,,--.. ·-··- .--- . .1.------.,,~,-----------­., ,,._,, 
Page:262 ' ' 
r ..,.. 
--~-
