. ...._ ... 
• 3 
2. ·whether FBI intelligence reports are valuable in· 
that respect, especially in.light·of a recent GAO­
report sugge·sting that such reports. are rarely use-. 
ful in predicting vioJent activity. 
3.· Whether such. information, assuming i~ is valuable, 
could not be obtain.ed through more traditional criminal 
inv_estigations. 
4. Whether the value of the information,· margil1al or 
otherwise, justifies the risk _to civil liberties 
inherent in such intelligence collection. 
5. Whether, given the way in which limited and ambiguous 
grants of authority have been expanded into major 
authorizations, .. any statute short of a total prohibi­
tion of all non-law enforcement intelligen8e activi-· 
ties i~ the domestic sector will be adequate to pre­
vent the recurrences of the kinds of abuses uncovered 
-by this Committee. (Or, conversely, whether it is 
possible to draft a law authqrizing a limited civil 
, disturbance• and counter-terrorist .intellig~nce mi~sion· 
that will not eventually evolve, like the Naiional 
Security Act of 1947, into a charter for unanticipated 
and unwanted covert activities.) 
6. Whether it would be sufficient to restrict the FBI 
to criminal investigations without also (a) placing 
limits upon the length of investigations, (b) the 
kinds of information which can· be collected and dis­
seminated on the subject irrelevant to the alleged 
·crimin~l act, (c). the utilization of warrantless 
electronic surveillance and other particularly inva­
sive collection techniques, and (d) the utilization 
of a huge informant/confidential sou~ce network with­
out judicial or Justice Department s"upervision. 
B. Authorizing Statute. Recognition of the value of 
internal security intelligence, but placing limits upon 
the progr~m designed to mini~ize the infringement upon 
civil liberties, an option being actively considered by 
the present Attorney General. 
fl 
. ' 
In weighing this option, the Committee should consider 
many of the issues set out under the first option and, 
in addition: 
