.J 
{ 
! 
j 
' . 
'· 
extensive police work needed for such coverage would certainly not have 
been put forth by the Spanish poli<;_; had they not had a close personal friend-
ship with a:q.d confidence in our Legal Attache in Madrid. Sf=1J.S1nv& Fo1u·1c.N 
/NTe.t.lt~FNC.~ Souitc.e: 
The Legal Attaches in Manila and Mexico City combined in a 
joint effort which resulted in the capture and return to the U.S. of a fugitive 
in connection with- the theft of over 1 million dollars in California. This 
individual had fled to Australia in 1970 and extradition was impossible. The 
Legal Attache, Manila, who handles Australia, determined that subject 
regularly traveled to Mexico. The Legal Attache, Mexico City, arranged for 
• 11:is apprehension by Mexican ~uthorities on a visit to that count-ry. . 
· Anothe1~ example of the importance of foreign offices conce1•ns 
the kidnaping of a Mexican child in Pueblo, Mexico, by an American citizen, 
. Ransom 111 the amount of $105,000 was paid in New Orleans and the child was 
·safely recov·ered in a motel in Louisiana. Mexican police authorities developed 
, very little information concerning this matter. The Legal Attache, Mexico City, 
• • how~ver, th.rough investigative guidance established the identity of the kid­
naper and the fact that he ho.d an estranged wife residing in Australia. The 
• Legal Attache, Manila, working through Australian police had this woman inter­
viewed with negative results. Australian police authorities were then 
g-uided into checking her finances and determined she had received large 
sums of money from Tel Aviv, Israel. 
'rhe Legal Attache, Tel Aviv, through Israeli police located the 
subject,· recovered pa.rt of the ransom money and arranged for his extradition 
to the U.S. where he is awaiting trial in New Orleans. There is no doubt 
_that this case would not have been solved had we not had Leg-al Attaches in 
the above-mentioned locations. The foreign police agencies involved had 
come up with negative information and only through personal contact and .. 
on-the-scene counsel by our ~xperienced Legal Attaches , were local author-
ities able to produce the information required for the successful conclusion 
of this case. • 
'£he Legal Attache, Tel Aviv, has effected a close working 
. • relationship with Israeli police and inteil"igence agencies and regularly 
furnishes information which is vital to our coverage of the militant Jewish 
Defense Leag_tte's activities in the U.S. and of .Arab terrorist activities. It -----~-·- .. is extremely doubtful that we would regularly receive such informat\on were 
it not for the presence of our representative in Israel. 
-4-
LNW#-: 886 
