New Left Movement - Publications 
By letter dated 11/5/68 to all offices under the 
c~ion of "New Left Movement, Publications, Int~rnal Security -
Miscellaneous," the field was instructed to cover the 
principal propaganda mills of the New Left which are 
described as "underground" newspapers. This survey has 
been particularly beneficial in view of the fact that the 
New Left, to a great extent, depends on the written word 
to spread its propaganda. The survey has disclosed that 
in excess of 200 papers are published on a regular basi.s 
with a central theme being criticism of the "establishment" 
in general and law enforcement, the draft and the Vietnam 
War in particular. Youth, .particularly students, are the 
main target of these publications, ·which are effective 
vehicles for agitation and recruitment in that they reach 
a large portion of the student population. Additionally, 
the survey has revealed the papers are in poor financial 
condition and often miss publication dates die to lack of 
funds. Funds are generally received from advertising, 
subscriptions, donations and benefits. Volunteer labor is 
used in most instances and many times the staff of the 
publication resides collectively in a commune. 
A survey of underground publications is currently 
being conducted by the New Left Groups Unit, the purpose of 
which is to determine if trend information can be developed. 
Trend information is being developed during the course of 
this survey and information obtained will be incorporated 
into an educational-type documen~ Based on this survey, it 
appears the New Left movement is at a crossroads and is 
groping for a sense of unity and direction. This unity, 
if developed, will no doubt include-future activity in 
political channels. These .newspapers, which are often written 
in the foulest language, are a major influence on the youth 
in this country and are the strident propagancta·voice of the 
New Left movement. 
Informant Development New Left Groups 
Bureau airtel to all offices dated 11/5/70 concerning 
informant development in New Left groups directed each SAC 
to submit to the Bureau by 11/i3/70 a complete analysis of 
his informant coverage in New Left groups, clearly setting 
forth the weaknesses and productive steps being taken to 
rectify these weaknesses. As a result~clear-cut view of 
each division's informant coverage was obtained as well as an 
- 10 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989£.JB Page 121 
