I 
The growth in communist-bloc intelligence 
representation over the past several years, not only in 
the United States but also throughout the rest of the 
world, is statistically and operationally demonstrable. 
For convenient reference there is attached to this paper 
a fact sheet documenting this growth based on information 
recorded by the CIA and FBI. In considering the number 
of communist-bloc nationals posted to official establish­
ments outside their countries, it is important to recognize 
that a substantial proportion of these are intelligence 
officers. These officers have a primary mission to conduct 
_intelligence operations and offici,1 duties involved in 
their cover positions, if required at all, are secondary 
and ~erv~ mainly to legitimize their cover. In the Soviet 
case, it is an estimate accepted by the United States. 
intelligence community that at least 40 per cent of the 
officials are intelligence officers. Indeed, some defector 
sources have estimated that 70 per cent to 80 per cent of 
Soviet officials have some intelligence connection, 
although this figure includes officials who act only in a 
··., minima 1 suppo'r·t capacity and only occasfoii.~·11y; • • : 
The most effective way to achieve the counte.r­
intelligence purpose is to recruit personnel from hostile 
secret services. It is also the hardest of dounter~htelli­
gence tasks, a goal usually requiring years of close study 
and me:ticulous planning. Even if the effort succeeds, ·we 
, cannot accept at face value what the penetration source 
tells us. His reports must be most carefully crosschecked 
against everything known-from all other sources. Otherwise 
we may be duped by an adversary who uses "our" agent to ··' 
tell us what he wants us to hear. . .. -· 
If there is ·no penetration of the adversary, or 
none.at the leve~ of seniority, all the other sources 
(hostile agents whom we have detected and "doubled," inter­
cepted communications, defectors, etc.) become all the more 
important. 
If counterintelligence is to identify and then 
contain or control secret action directed against the 
.. United States, it must be closely coordinated. The adver­
sary services do not run uncoordinated~ haphazard operations 
.. 
'. ~ ,:~, ........ ~i ..... · .. ~·· ',. ...... 
- 2 -
L NW 38ti-Oa Qodd:32989530 
