,.• • I 
I 
ADDENDUM 
INSPECTOR 
10/27/70 
~~fjb 
All criminal informant (CI} files and a representative 
number of potential criminal informant (PCI) files were reviewed 
during this inspection. Following review, a memorandum 
disclosing the rating afforded in each file has been forwarded 
to you for inclusi9n in the respective file. 
Your office is currently operating 145 Cis as 
compared to 141 Cis being operated at the time of the last 
inspection. There is also an increase in the number of PCis 
under development at this time to 271 as opposed to 250 under 
development d.t!:r.ing thr. lust inspection. '1:liesP. figures do not 
include Top Echelon informants or targets for dev·e.Lopme.nt 
which are coITl.t-nented on separately u_nder the Criminal Intelligence 
Program. This represents a slight increase in the number of 
·c1s and a more substantial increase in the number of PCis 
tinder development. However, there is a slight decrease in 
two large metropolitan areas, namely, San Francisco and Oakland, 
,, ·which though slight represents a static situation as to 
. increasing coverage in these areas. The Oakland Resident 
Agency has also recorded a decrease in the number of PCis 
.under development. In analyzing the coverage in the resident 
agencies, it was noted that Monterey, Richmond and San Jose 
have the same coverage from Cis as during the last inspection 
although Monterey and San Jose have shown a substantial 
increase in the number of PCis being handled. PCis under . 
. development in Salinas and San Rafael are down somewhat, 
although this too in part is off-set by the increase in the 
·number of Cis being operated. In view of the Bureau's 
increased responsibilities, it is absolutely essential that 
a strong criminal -informant program be maintained.and in 
fact expanded if the Bu~eau is to meet these increased 
responsibilities. 
QUALITY 
All of the CI files were reviewed during this 
inspection -and the following ratings were given to the Cis 
presently being operated by this office: 
/1 7 NW 38601! Dodd:3198%33 Viigtl :19---------""'~~'--------------- ....... == 
