., 
.... , 
• 
therefore, relied upon the experience, expertise, and judgment 
of the various supervisors assigned to the office for the 
day to day direction of the various matters under investigation, 
including the investigation of the Black Panther Party. 
It was further explained that if a problem was 
encountered or a particul~rly unusual situation developed, 
Gebhardt was, of course, consulted and was available for 
such consultation to resolve _any particular problem areas. 
G.ebhardt was next asked if he recalled being SAC 
when the electronic coverage 'of the Black Panther Party and 
the various offieials at BBP 'was instituted and eventually 
terminated. Seidel was advised that the electronic coverage 
was already in effect upon Gebhardt's arrival, however, he 
does recall receiving a phone call after the "Keith Decision" 
was handed down instructing that all electr~nic coverage of 
the BPP and the various members of the BPP be discontinued. 
The call was received from Bureau Headquarters and the 
discontinuance was effected immediately. 
Seidel inquired as to whether Gebhardt felt the 
intelligence type investigations should be completely removed 
from the criminal investigations which investigations would be 
looking.toward eventual prosecution. 
Seidel was informed by Gebhardt that even in criminal 
investigations looking toward prosecutions, much intelligence 
information is obtained from time to time which really has no 
value from a prosecutive standpoint, but does have possible 
value with respect to the direction of the investigation. In 
some criminal investigations a great deal of intelligence 
information may be obtained and in other types, very little. 
Insofar as the FBI is concern(?d, however, every effort is 
made to make certain there is some Federal law which would be 
a basis for an investigation which procedures would include 
matters commonly referred to as security investigations. 
In some instances, in such security investigations 
a great deal of intelligence information would be obtained· 
therefore, it was Gebhardt's opinion that so-called intelli­
gence type investigations should not be removed from or 
differentiated from criminal type investigations looking 
toward prosecutions since intelligence information ~s an 
outgrowth of the·basic investigation. 
- 2 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989ti40 243 _J 
