• 
Some might say, 11this is all very well and good where 
prosecutive action is used or intended, but what of the cases 
where the only purpose of the investigation is to produce 
intelligence information, with no hope or intent of prosecutive 
action?" There are unquestionably situations where prosecution 
would be impossible, but it is doubtful if any situation could be 
conjured up involving the national security where the elements of 
one or more statutes would be present to lend statutory authority 7 
to an investigation or reason for investigation. 
INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATIONS 
Recently, in connection with a lawsuit filed by the 
Fifth Avenue Peace Parade Committee because of investigation 
by the FBI relative to a huge demonstration in Washington, D. C., 
the Department of Justice cited Title 28, USC 533, as the lawful 
authority of the FBI to conduct the investigations in question. 
The investigation at issue had to do with contacting various 
transportation facilities in an effort to -determine the nature 
and size of groups traveling to Washington for the demonstration. 
In a sense, this was purely intelligence-type investigation. The 
statute cited was nothing more than the statut~ enabling the 
Attorney General to direct the FBI to conduct investigations. 
This same statute has been cited for other types of 
investigations where the Department of Justice has requested the 
FBI to conduct investigations where we might not have clearly 
seen or understood the underlying authority or reason. It can be 
seen, however, that under the statutory authority granted to the 
President in Title 10, USC 331-333, to call up troops to assist 
local governments to put down an insurrection or restore order, 
the Attorney Generil.would be within his statutory authority as 
the President's Chief Legal Advisor to ask the FBI to provide all 
possible information which might assist the President in making a 
determination under Title 10. Thus, the FBI would conduct an 
intelligence-type investigation under the statutory and constitu­
tional authority flowing from the President, through the 
Attorney General to the FBI. In this case we might not immedi­
ately see the potential for prosecutive action, although with the 
statutes co¥ering antiriot and civil disorder we would no doubt 
be alert for indications that riots or disorders would occur 
and that evidence could be collected which would support prosecu­
tion. Here, we would be conducting investigation before a 
violation takes place, not only for the intelligence data needed 
by the President, but to determine if a Federal violation of law 
might also occur. 
EXECUTIVE ORDER 10450 
What other authority is also available to the FBI? We 
sometimes lump Presidential directives and Executive orde~s into 
one category as if they were the same. This is a common practice, 
- 18 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 153 L 
