' ' 
r\ 
TP 92-1 
su':lject was from FRANK CHAPPELL of the Miami, Florida Intelligence 
tJnit, who 'indicated to him that subject was observed in Miami 
with other individuals who were interested in opening some 
new restaurant. He advised that as of. November 15, 1962, it 
had been agreed.upon by tpe various Intelligence Unit repre­
sentatiyes from Miami,, Orlando, St. Petersburg, and Tampa, .that. 
they W~it!e goi.ng to advise one another as to subject's appearance 
and location should he leave one city and go to another. 
It has previously been reported that Houston, Texas 
authorities had made some inq~i:ry of Tampa Police Department 
concerning subject and therefo~e the Houston Office advised•that 
on N<;>vember 8, 1962, SA JAMES W. RUSSELL contacted Chief ~puty 
Sheriff. LOYD FRAZIER of the Harris County Sheriff's Office •• 
regarding SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. FRAZIER advised that he 
had requested background regarding subject and such had been 
done because he had been told by a source, not now recalled 
by him, that TRAFFICANTB may come to Houston; Texas, to contact 
an Italian, by the name of VICTOR s. GUFFRIA. FRAZIER said that 
he bad no background information on GUFFRIA and has received 
no information to date that TRAFFICANTE has made trips to 
Houston. • 
Relative to the information as indicated at Miami, 
Florida, that subject may have been in. Brazil,. SAM JOHNSON, 
United States Customs Agency, Tamp!l, Florida, has advised that 
United States Customs. and United States Immigration and 
Naturalization Service stops have been maintained on subject 
for several years for any entry into the country and that the 
last stop was renewed for another year as of October 31, 1962. 
He advised United State1;1 Customs agents are on duty 24 hours 
per day and that he considered it most difficult to get into 
the United States and pass Immigration and Naturalization and 
United States Customs officials. He said going out of the 
country the person could.get on any airlines, but it was the 
airline!; responsibility for having the person have his correct 
documents and that the airlines are subject to heavy penalties 
should a pers,on be found not having proper documents. ' ' 
IV.. . ASSOCIATES • . 
---- \ I .l 
.A. SID~ROWITZ, Aka Sid.1 ward 
TP T-6 ::,;s:;d on October 2f?,' 1962, that HOWARD 
was contacted in Miami, Florida, that HOWARD claimed he was 
hanging out at Miami Beach, and that he intended to remain 
there because things were too quiet in Tampa. Source reported 
that HOWARD's girlfriend in Miami; Florida, has telephone. 
- 21 -
NW 88614 Dodd:32290904 Page 30 
