I • 
,, 
'• 
It is quite understandable that various staff members 
at the White House have assignments or projects to prepare 
reports on a wide variety of matters relating to the welfare 
of the country. It is also quite understandable that such 
individuals would turn to the FBI to develop information through 
investigative activity or from its files. However, the fact that 
the FBI has specific responsibilities and jurisdiction under 
the law may not be known to these staff members and in their 
ignorance of the situation they could ask us to engage in activity 
beyond the scope of our investigative authority. 
Over a long period of time the FBI has disseminated 
information directly to the White House as it was developed 
when the information had a bearing on national defense or possible 
foreign policy planning. The White House has come to expect this 
kind of rapid. dissemination. Much of the information disseminated 
has been of specific interest to the National Security Council 
of which the President, Vice President and high level members of 
his staff are members. Even though CIA has the basic responsibility 
under the National Security Act of 1947 to coordinate all 
intelligence data relating to national defense, the nature of 
rapid changing situations makes it impractical to disseminate all 
important intelligence information to the National Security 
Council via CIA channels. It is not believed that the White House 
would sit still for the FBI cutting off dissemination on national 
iecurity information. 
NEED FOR CURRENT EXECUTIVE ORDER 
Dissemination, however, is but the product of investi­
gative activity. The question, then, is not to whom we should 
or should not disseminate, but rather when and when not should 
we investigate. All of which leads to the issue of what .consti­
tutes Executive or Presidential authority under the constituion, 
and how can such a determination be made? Granting that the 
President does have broad constitutional powers which he can 
exercise in the interest of national security, how can such 
power be conveyed to the FBI to cover possible gaps in our 
statutory authority? It is not believed that ipdividual requests, 
particularly from lower level White House staff members, actually 
convey any power of inherent Executive authority, unless such 
requests may have originated from the President himself. 
What ap~ears to be sorely need~d, then, is a clear-cut memorandum 
of understanding - possibly in the form of a comprehensive 
Executive order or Presidential directive - ~utlining areas of 
investigative activity required and the investigative product 
needed by the Executive to fulfill his national ~ecurity 
responsibilities. 
- 23 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 158 
