i 
I 
• '1 l ' 
.. 
• 
•• 
OFFICIAL RECOGNITION OF INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION 
• •· 
I f, () l 
Although the cold facts indicate that the Presidential 
directives dating back to 1939 do not convey any authority to 
the FBI which it did not have already by legislative enactment, 
it is obvious that intelligence-type investigations are necessary 
in the protection of the national security. Various documents 
emphasize the necessity for developing intelligence data. For 
example, the report of the National Advisory-Commission on Civil 
Disorders (Kerner Commission, 1968) emphasized that law enforcement 
organizations must develop the means to obtain adequate intelligence 
for planning purposes and that law enforcement. should "gather, 
evaluate, analyze and disseminate in£ormation on potential as well 
as actual civil disorders." 
Similarly, the President's Commission on Campus Unrest 
(1970) took special note of the need for intelligence in effective 
law enforcement. The Commission stated in its report, "It is 
an undoubted fact that on some campuses there are men and women 
who plot, all too often successfully, to burn and bomb, and 
sometimes to maim and ki 11." The report concluded that the 
best, and sometimes the only, means law enforcement has to thwart 
or prevent such plots is thro~gh "clandestine intelligence work." 
A memorandum for the Director of the FBI from Attorney 
General Ramsey Clark, dated September 14, 1967, stated that "In 
view of the seriousness of the riot activity across the country, 
it is most important that you use the maximum available resources, 
investigative and intelligence, to collect and report all facts 
bearing on the question as to whether there has been or is a 
scheme or conspiracy by any group of whatever size, effectiveness, 
or affiliation, to plan, promote or aggravate riot activity." 
The memorandum went on to state that "In this connection 
the following federal statutes could be applicable depending, of 
course, upon the factual situation that develops." Ten Federal 
statutes were then listed and it is particularly significant to 
note that the Attorney General was instructing that the FBI 
collect intelligence information - not on some specific allegation 
that a crime had been committed, but to determine whether there 
has been or is a scheme or conspiracy. In other words, the FBI 
was tnstructed by the Attorney General to conduct intelligence 
investigations to determine if any of the ten Federal laws might have 
been violated in connection with riot activity. 
FORMER STUDY OF FBI'S INVESTIGATIVE RESPONSIBILITIES 
In an exhaustive study of the "role of the FBI in 
Clandestine Foreign Intelligence Collection in the United States,'' 
conducted and reported in a document dated April 29, 1966, by· 
a committee more commonly referred to as the "Papich Committee" 
- 37 -
' NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989ti-09 172 
