DCID No. 2/8 is captioned "Domestic Exploitation of 
U. S~ Government Organizations and Officials." It begins in 
very general terms, ttpursuant to· the provisions of NSCID No. l 
o.nd NSCXD No. 2 .. o ~" Xt providos, "The Contrn.l lntolligonco 
Agency shall coordinate and have the primary responsibility for 
·exploitation of the foreign intelligence potential of non-USIB 
organizations and officials to moot community noeds as a 
service of common concern." 
As set forth above, there seems to be no basis for 
such CIA jurisdiction in NSCID No. 1 and No. 2. Paragraph 7 
of NSCID No. 2 specifically restricts CIA in this area of 
op~rations to nongovernmental organizations and individuals. 
A'review -0f our U. S. Intelligence Board (USIB) file, 
62-90718, shows following apropos· this matter: 
The Draft Minutes of the 3/21/61 USIB 
meeting report that the Board approved the 
draft of a DCID on "Domestic Exploitation of 
U. s. Government Organizations and Officials," 
which would be issueci as DCiu 'iio. Z/S, ~1:;~;..;·l,1·ve 
3/21/61. Mr. Belmont was present at this USIB 
meeting as the FBI representative. (unnumbered 
serial between serials 1131·& 1132, USIB file) 
Tracing this subject matter back through 
the USIB file it was learned that it apparently 
was first considered at the meeting held 2/23/60· 
at which the Bureau was represented by Fred A. 
Frohbose. The minutes for that meeting reported 
··-. 
the Board agreed in principle that a directive on l 
Intelligence Exploitation of U.S. Governmental 
officials would be desirable. However, the 
matter was referred to the Committee on Domestic 
Exploitation for further study .and the submission 
of a revised draft for Board consideration. 
(unnumbe~ed serial between serials 1040·& 1041, 
USIB file) 
From the foregoing it would appear that the Bureau 
concurred in the issuance of this-particular Directive and thus 
to a~ extension of CIA's overt collection activities in the 
u~ S~ if·this should, in fact, be i~terpreted as an extension. 
DCID 4/1 provides for the establishment of the 
-Interagency Defector· Committee. 
- 27 -
. ·----------1 
