·• 
1- I I:: «'~., ntt'bl' "" ,;,-,.,:· •◊if' • .., -~ 
be required; however, we have tightened our belt and 
taken streamlining measures wherever possible and are 
requesting only two Special Agent Supervisors at the 
present time. We will attempt to accomplish our 
objectives with two additional Supervisors. 
There are several factors that would indicate 
our work in the black extremist field will continue to 
·increase. The increasing militancy of black extremists 
on college campus~s caused us to require the field (by 
airtel 11/4/70) to open cases on all black student groups 
on coll~ge campuses as well as cases on the leaders 
thereof. The~e are numerous such groups throughout the 
United St~tes. _The Black Panther Party is growing and in 
Septemb~r, 1970, open?ci up an •international b1:::Ci..l0n ln 
Algiers. In addition a grand jury is sitting in California 
with witnesses being heard in efforts to develop a prosecutive 
theory against the Black Panther Party. The work in connection 
therewith and other aspects of the Black Panther Party tnvest­
igation consumes almost the full time of one Supervisor. 
Black extremist activity in this country is . 
rapidly developing more and .more in international aspects. 
Residents of other countries, including: United States 
_citizens and non-citizens, are involved in clandestine and 
overt oper~tional and propaganda activity among racial 
extremists. We have targeted CIA as well as our Legal 
Attaches abroad for the development of data regarding 
foreign influences in the black extremist movement. The 
National Security Agency has vast capabilities in developing 
·the type of. information needed and we have alerted that 
Agency to our basic ~eeds and have made arrangements for 
future assis_tance. 
A prime factor in the rapid increase in our 
caseload has ~een our technical coverag~ of the Biack 
Panther Party. At the time of the lastr Inspection we 
had~such technical surveillances in operation. We. 
presently have.,ll_installed, one awaiting installation, 
NW 38601! Docld:32989ti-38 Pa e 553 
