• 
(e) Legislation: 
CIA currently has the duty to correlate and evaluate 
intelligence relating to the national security and to provide 
for appropriate dissemination of such intelligence within the 
Government. This is set out in Title 50, USC, Section 403.~ 
The overt collection of foreign intelligence is not the subject 
of legislation but rather of National Security Council Intelligence 
Directives which would have to be revised in order to give the 
Bureau this(fa)uthori ty now lodged wi Jch CIA. _\ 
Organizational Changes: 
To carry out a program committing the Bureau to 
the full responsibility for the overt collecting of foreign 
intelligence in this country would necessitate a substantial 
increase to the headquarters staffs of the Domestic Intelli­
gence Division and the Laboratory Divison, as well to the. 
personnel assigned to the New York and Washington Field Offices 
where diplomatic establishments and international organizations 
are n2.inly J.o~atAcl Xn a.11 probability the creation of a new 
division at the Seat of Government devoted entirely to overt 
collection responsibilities, would be required. 
-(g) Observations: 
~ 
The many respo~sibilities that would be ours under 
a program making the Bureau accountable for the overt collection 
of all foreign intelligence in this country would (1) require 
an enormous increase in our own personnel, trained in many 
specialized fields, or (2) the delegation of varied intelligence 
functions to other governmental agencies and close supervision 
. of such agencies to insure efficient execution of the tasks 
levied upon them. These overt collection responsibilities 
would undoubtedly be subject to the scrutiny of many sources, 
some of them hostile, and we would have to face the charges, 
unjust though they might be, that the Bureau had ceased to 
perform th? duties for which it was originally created and­
had developed into a gigantic bureaucratic octopus. 
2. Clandestine Gathering Act~~ities 
There are no statutory provisions for the clandestine 
gathering of foreign intelligence ~n the United States. We 
have in the past produced substantial foreign intelligence 
while carry~ng out our present responsibilities. 
CIA established its Domestic Operations Division (DOD) 
in 1963 and began to clandestinely gather foreign intelligence 
in this country. It now hasw,ij:}fi?ld:_. of.fices with app_ro:ximately 
• - 79 -
