Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall 
Re: Senstudy 75 
62-116395 
and the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) had been involved in 
planning or organizing numerous large demonstrations in the 
country and he desired to continue this discussion. A list of 
major demonstrations with resulting damages and arrests which 
occurred in the U.S. during the past ten years involving 
subversive groups was furnished by Mr. Shackelford. A 
discussion followed regarding the role of the FBI in gathering 
intelligence information concerning the demonstrations:'._~ well 
as the dissemination of the information which had been obtained. 
Mr. Schwartz questioned the authority of the FBI in investigating 
infiltrated groups such as the National Peace Action Coalition 
(NPAC) and the Peoples Coalition for Peace and Justice (PCPJ) 
even though both groups were either dominated or:Jm:ffuenced~ 
by the CPUSA or the SWP. 
A discussion then followed as to what effect the 
enactment of the Privacy Act has on the investigation by the 
FBI of domestic subversive groups. A request was made 
concerning instructions which have been sent to the field by 
FBIHQ concern~ng this matter. 
The Session then turned to investigation of extremist 
groups and the use of informants in these groups to obtain 
advance information to prevent acts of violence. Specific 
cases of this type were read into the record by Mr. Deegan. 
Mr. Gitenstein questioned the authority of the Bureau to 
place informants into these extremist groups without the 
ingredient of violence present. 
This Executive Session was adjourned at approximately 
12:45 p.m. and no request was made at that time for another 
Executive Session. 
OBSERVATIONS: 
From statements made by Mr. Schwartz and other SSC 
staff members present, with the possible exception of Mr. Mark 
Gitenstein, it appeared that these individuals continue to be 
opposed to legislation authorizing Bureau investigations in the 
domestic intelligence area unless the threat of violeme is 
imminent. Mr. Gitenstein in his discussion concerning the use 
- 2 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989571! 14 
