• 
b. Before making the file available to the comm.:l:ttee 
representative all reports and memoranda from the FBI 
as well as investigative reports from any other agency, 
will be removed from the file and not be made available 
for examination; pr-ovided however that if the ·committee 
rqpresentative states that it is essential that information 
from the F.BI reports and memoranda be made available, 
he will be advised that the request will be considered 
by the Departmento Thereafter a summary of the contents 
of the FBI reports and memoranda involved will be 
prepared. which w:l.11 not disclose investiga.tive tech-
niques, -the ident:l.ty of' confid.entia.l informants, or 
ether matters which might jeopardize the investigative 
operations of the FBI. This summa~y will be forwara.ed 
by the division to the FBI with a 1·equest for advice as 
to whether the FBI has.any objection to examination of 
such summary by the committee representative. The file 
will not be physically relinquished from the custody of 
the Department. If.the committee r~presentative desires 
to·exarrdne investigative reports from other government 
agencies, contained in the files of the·De:partrnent, he 
Yill be advised to direct his request to the agency whose 
reports are conce~ned. K 
3~ Ii' :the request concerns an open case, i.e., one which liti­
gation or administrative action is pending or contemplated, the file may 
riot be made available for examination by the comraittee's representative. 
The fo1lowin~ procedure $hall be followed: 
\ 
n~ The repiy letter should advise the committee that 
its request concerns a case in which litigation or 
administrative action is pending or contemplated, and 
state that the file cannot be made available until the 
·case is completed; and 
b. Shou:}.d briefly s~t forth the status of the cas~ in 
as much detail a.sis practicable and prudent without 
jeopardizing the pending contemplated litiga:cion or 
administrative actiono 
B. REQUESTS FOR INTERVIJ~WS WI'I'H DEPARTMENTAL PERSONNEL 
1. Requests for interviews with departmental personnel regard.ing 
any ·offici~l matters ,,ri thin tlle Department should be reduced to writing, 
sig11ed by the chairman of t}le cofnmitteeJ and addressed to the Deputy Att9rney 
Genera.lo· Hhen the avproval of the Deputy Attorney General is given, th~ 
employee is expected to discuss such matters freely and cooperatively with 
the rer,re:-:;entative, subject t0 the J..imitati.ons prescribed in A respecting 
open cases and data in investigative reports; 
L NW 38608 Docld:32989£26 Page 123 
