bringing its own axe to grit such organizations 
as the anarchist New Left group named Students 
for a Democratic Society; the Trotskyist Socialist 
Workers Party and its youth group, the Young 
Socialist Alliance; the Communist Chinese­
oriented Progres~ive Labor Party; the Communist 
Party, USA, and its youth affiliate, the W. E. B. 
DuBois Clubs of America; and militant campus 
groups, black and white, began to gather in sup­
port of the Panthers, who were wiiling not only 
to defy the establishment, but to destroy it. 
Enter Leroy Eldridge Cleaver 
LEROY ELDRIDGE CLEAVER Early in 1967, the Panthers vvere joined by a 
recent parolee from the California prison system, 
author of a best-selling autobiography, Soul On Ice, staff writer for the magazine 
Ramparts, and admitted Marxist - Leroy Eldridge Cleaver. 
In Sou/ On Ice, Cleaver wrote: "I sought out his (Marx's) books ... lt was like 
taking medicine for me to find that, indeed, American Capitalism deserved all the 
hatred and contempt that I felt for it in my heart .... " 
After Newton was jailed, although he remained the undisputed leader, it soon 
became apparent that Cleaver, designated Minister of Information, was projecting 
a major leadership image. The Party began to further widen its publicity, nation­
ally and internationally, and enlarge its radical support and revolutionary intent. 
As an example of this spreading influence of the Panther Party, the 1968 
National Election ticket of the Peace and Freedom Party, a coalition of radical 
groups, included Cleaver as candidate for the Presidential nomination; Newton as 
candidate for the 7th Congressional District of Alameda County, California; Kath­
leen Cleaver, 18th Assembly District, California State L~gislature; Bobby Seale, 
17th Assembly District, California State Legislature. Cleaver received a national 
total of almost 200,000 votes. Only a small percentage of the California elector­
ate cast their votes for Newton, Seale, and Kathleen Cleaver. 
On the evening of April 6, 1968, Cleaver and several Panthers became involved 
in a shoot-out with Oakland police officers. The incident resulted in the death of 
a Panther, the wounding of two police officers, and the wounding and arrest of 
Cleaver. Cleaver's parole was revoked immediately and he was returned to prison. 
After much publicity, he was later released on bail by a Superior Court Judge who 
ruled that the jeopardy of his parole status stemmed "from his undue eloquence in 
pursuing political goals ... offensive to many of his contemporaries." This decision 
was overruled by the District Court of Appeals and upheld by the California Court 
of. Appeals. Cleaver was ordered to return to prison by November 27, 1968. Elect­
ing to become a Federal fugitive, he disappeared in late November, 1968, going 
first to Havana, Cuba, and later to Algiers, where he has established residence. 
International Committee to Defend Eldridge Cleaver 
Soon after Cleaver's arrest in the spring of 1968, approximately 150 prominent 
individuals sponsored the establishment of an International Committee to Defend 
Eldridge Cleaver. The committee intended to dispatch a team to Europe to gain 
7 
NW 38614 Docld:329896-06 130 
