. 
J ., 
,I 
•• J ' 
• 
of the Weather~an organization that PresidentiaL directives have 
instructed the FBI to take charge of investigative work 
relating to espionage, sabotage and subversive activities and that 
Executive Order 10450 provides additional ,authority. 
(6) Unaffiliated individuals who are a part of the New 
Left Movement. Revolutionary Activities Section notes that 
although the New Left Movement has no definable ideology of its 
own, it does have strong Marxist, existentialist, nihilist and 
anarchist overtones. In some instances there are individuals 
without any organizational affiliation who by their revolutionary 
activities and statements, establishing a rejection of law and 
order, reveal the individual to be a potential threat to the 
security of the U.S. Such individuals do, in fact, engage in 
violence or unlawful _activities and their potential dangerousness 
to the internal security is clearly demonstrated by their state­
ments, conduct and actions. According to Revolutionary Activities 
Section, specific authority to conduct our investigations of 
unaffiliated individuals is derived from Presidential directives 
of September 6, 1939, through December 15, 1953. 
This Section states that in all these examples there is 
a likelihood that evidence may be developed at some future date 
that activities of these organizations and individuals constitute 
violations of specific statutes. It is further stated that our 
authority to conduct investigations in these cases cannot be 
based on the speculation that evidence of some violation might be 
developed; however, until such time as we obtain a substantial 
allegation that a violation has occurred, we must base our 
11intelligence" investigations on the Presidential directives and 
Executive orders issued by the President delineating our 
responsibility in regard to national security. 
COMMENT - REBUTTAL 
At the risk of being monotonous, there appears to be 
ample indication here that a great deal of statutory authority 
is present, but not being cited. The Smith Act of 1940 and other 
statutes dealing with the national security provide the basis for 
investigating all of these groups. The espionage statutes 
serve as basis for investigating the Venceremos Brigade. Certainly 
the authority conveyed by Executive Order 10450 is not questioned. 
And in the case of the Weatherman group, the Fugitive Felon Act 
gives us a tremendoui latitude for conducting all the intelligence 
• investigation we may need in an effort to 16cate the Weathermln 
f~gitives. 
- 36 -
\. NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 171 
