I• 
• ·\ 
I DCID No. 2/8 is captioned "Domestic Exploitation of 
U. s. Government Organizations and Officials." It begins in 
very general terms, "Pursuant to the provisions of NSCID No. l 
and NSCXD No. 2 ..•. " It provides, "Tho Contrn.l lntolligonce 
Agency shall coordinate and have the primary responsibility for 
·exploitation of the foreign intelligence potential of non-USIB 
organizations and officials to meet community needs as a 
service o:f common concern." 
As set forth above, there seems to be no basis for 
such CIA jurisdiction in NSCID No. 1 and No. 2. Paragraph 7 
of NSCXD No. 2 specifically restricts CIA in this area of 
operations to nongovernmental organizations and individuals. 
A·review of our U. s. Intelligence Board (USIB) file, 
62-90718, shows following apropos this matter: 
·, ,.• 
The Draft Minutes of the 3/21/61 USIB 
me~ting report that the Board approved the 
draft of a DCID on "Domestic Exploitation of 
U.S. Government Organizations and Officials," 
which wouict oe issued as DCiv·No.·2/8, bifective 
3/21/61. Mr. Belmont was present at this USIB 
meeting as the FBI representative. (unnumbered 
serial between serials 1131·& 1132, USIB file) 
Tracing this subject matter back through 
the USIB file it was learned that it apparently 
was first considered at the meeting held 2/23/60· 
at which the Bureau was represented by Fred A. 
Frohbose. The minutes for that meeting reported 
the Board agreed in principle that a directive on 
Intelligence Exploitation of U. s. Governmental 
officials would be desirable. However, the 
matter was referred to the Committee on Domestic 
Exploitation for further study and the submission 
of a revised draft for Board consideration. 
(unnumbered serial between serials 1040·& 1041, 
• • USIB fil_e) 
/ 
From the foregoing it would appe~r that the Bureau 
concurred in the issuance of this-particular Directive and thus 
to a~ extension of CIA's overt collection activities in the 
u. s. if: this should, in ·fact, be interpreted as an e:i,tension. 
DCID 4/1 provides for the establishment of the 
-Interagency Defector· Committee. 
. . . 
- 27 -
