I: I' 
I 
I 
\ 
. . • 
'fOP SECRE'f SENSI':PIVE 
- 8 -
Another file examined was entitled "ZRRIFLE 
Administrative/Financial"; it is a long manila-type file. 
The following items of possible interest were·noted in this 
file: 
1. Memorandum dated January 11, 1961, to the Finance 
Division from William K. Harvey, Chief FI/D deals with the 
payments for Mankel's trip to Leopoldville. Paragraph 2 of 
this memo states, "In order to avoid any misunderstanding, 
it should be noted that QJWI.N was sent on this trip for a 
specific, highly sensitive operational purpose which has been 
completed. Although future use of QJWIN is not precluded, it 
was not deemed fitting during this one use of him to enter 
into a continuing contractual relationship or to have him sign 
any memorandum of understanding." 
2. Memorandum, dated•January 31, 1961, for Chief, 
Accounts Branch, Finance Division, from Justin E. O'Donnell, 
Subject: Payments to QJWIN. Paragraph 1 of this memorandum reads 
as follows: •11 QJWIN was recruited in Frankfurt 1 November 1960 
to undertake a one-shot mission to the Belgian Congo. Because 
the mission potentially involved great personal risk to him 
and he was obliged to separate himself from his business affairs, 
it was agreed orally by this writer with QJWIN that his com­
pensation would be at the rate of $1,000 per month, plus his 
expenses, for a period of not less than one month and not more 
than two months." These two financial memoranda, .numbers 1 and 
2 here, seem to indicate a one-shot purpose for QJWIN in con­
nection with a Congo operation, which seems inconsistent with 
many of the papers in the operational file reviewed above, 
which indicated an ongoing relationship with QJWIN for the 
purposes of recruiting safecrackers and burglars. These 
financial memoranda ar,e certainly quite consistent with a plan 
to use QJWIN for a one-shot assassination attempt in the 
Belgian Congo. It is unclear that merely recruiting safe­
crackers and bu~glars or even performing safecracking and 
burglary missions, would have involved "potential great 
personal risk" to QJWIN. 
3. Memorandum,. dated March 24, 1961, for Cable 
Secretariat from William K. Harvey, Chief, FI/Division D, 
Subject: "Distribution of ZRRIFLE Traffic." Paragraph 1 
of this memorandum reads, "Two copies of all cables bearing 
the ZRRIFLE indicator are to be delivered in a sealed envelope 
'l'OP SECRET 
Page24 
I· r 
·sENeITIVE 
