Bureau airtel to all offices da:t,, d 11/4/70 
instructed the field to initiate investigation of all members 
of SDS and members of p~o-communist, miiitant·New Left-type 
campus organizations who follow SDS advocacy of revolution 
and violence. Each individual under investigation should be 
considered for. the Security Index. 
• Bureau airtel to all offices dat·ed 11/5/70 concerning 
informant development in New Left groups noted that each SAC 
was to make this matter his personal concern in order that 
penetration of these groups by top quality informants will 
be accomplished in the immediate future.. Each SAC was 
directed to submit to the Bureau by 11/13/70 a complete 
analysis of his informant coverage in New Left groups clearly 
setting forth the _weaknesses and productive steps being taken 
to rectify these weaknesses. 
Current Bureau instructions require development of 
adequate informant coverage of Strategic Air Com.~and and 
Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Bases of the United Stat~s 
Air Force (PROSAB) to insure that our imrestigative 
responsibilities tn the sabotage, espionage and internal 
security fields can be properly discharged~ Semiannual reports 
are submitted by each office bavmga Strategic Air Command Base 
or an Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Base within its 
territory. A review of semiannual reports submitted by the 
field as of 7/1/70 disclosed that a total of 1 1281 informants 
' have been developed. 
Bureau airtel to all offices dated 9/9/70 advised field 
that special single fingerprint file on Weatherman fugitives and 
other New Left terrorists has been start·ed. Field is instructed 
to immediately review files for identity of individuals who fit 
category of a New Left terrorist and whosefingerprints ~hould be 
included in this special single fingerpr.±nt file. Names of these 
individuals were to be submitted to Bureau with.sufficient 
identifying data and as new names come t:o attention of office 
~romptly furnish the ~ureau. 
- 8 -
, NW 313'600 Docld:32989fill! Pa_ge 443 
