I l I· 1 
l 
'' 
. ,,1 • • .. 
, I 
I. 
i 
I 
I 
i 
I ; 
' 
j \,. 
I 
' i 
l 
,· \ 
I' 
• • 
I 
In evaluating the operations and location of CIA 
counterespionage the Task Force commented as follows: 
ttThe counterespionage activities of CIA abroad appear 
properly integrated with CIA's other clandestine operations. 
Although arguments have been made in favor of extending CIA's 
authority to include responsibility for counterespionage in this 
Country, such an extension of jurisdiction does not a present 
appear justified.· For one thing,.concentration of power over 
counterespionage activities at home in the hands of a Director 
of Central Intelligence responsible for espionage abroad might 
justifiably arouse public suspicion and opposition. Conceivably 
it could form the basis for a charge that a gestapo is in 
process of creating even though the power to arrest were 
specifically withheld. To transfer responsibility for domestic 
counterespionage from the FBI, which has an established 
organization and long tradition, to CIA 1 which is not equipped 
for the assignment, would probably create more problems than it 
woul;.d solve. It is doubtful whether the logical benefit of 
having one agency responsible for counterespionage throughout 
the world would justify the dislocation and confusion that such 
s. 't:-::z.nsfcr- wot!.ld inevitably occasion. tt 
"CIA representatives have indicated that their present 
worlcing liaison with FBI is satisfactory, but the Committee 
doubts that FBI-CIA relationships are completely adequate. The 
Director of FBI declined the Committee's invitation to appear 
before it to discuss the CIA with the committee or its 
representatives on the ground that he knew too little of its 
activities." 
The groundworlc for CIA acceptance was laid by the 
Committee recommendation and finding: "CIA is not now properly 
. organized. Co-equal improvement in G-2, FBI, ONI, State 
Department, and other Government intelligence services is also 
essential. Spirit of teamwork must govern interagency 
intelligence relationships. CIA deserves and must have greater 
degree of acceptance a'i.!d support from old-line intelligence 
•services than it has l;la~ in the past. u 
A pitch was made for a single agency controlling 
.~ . -: : .. int.erni:I.- .s~c~ri ty .. in tl!~ _Committee '.9 finding: ."The committee 
believes that responsibility for·interp,al· security--policies-· •·. -·1-:.-. 
.. should be immediately focused in one agency. A more thorough 
• ·.,· study': ,if the· subj ~ct tha_n any-_ yet made must 'qe. prosecuted, ·.an~. .. , 
• interagency frictions must- be ended." It is noted that the • • • •. 
committee commented elsewhere in its report: • 
.. 35·-
------------~------------.,-_,.---,----, -----------~NW-38ti{)8-Bocld~Pag9!-2:f)1 • · ___ _',\\ ',\:,{ __ ' 
