': ¥ - ♦► 0 
I 
r 
' - 's 'f g"\.S; tff¥ :t1H tit' ,.. 
DESECO PROGRAM 
Bufile 105-71688 
4-H 
The Deseco Program (program for development of 
selected contacts to be directed against Soviet-bloc 
officials) was conceived in an espionage conference in 
December, 19570 Its objective was to intensify the 
development of informants and double agents to penetrate 
Soviet-bloc intelligence and for use in sensitive defection 
approaches. 
Between the last inspection and December 1, 1970, 
approximately an 8-month period, 37 Deseco subjects were 
placed in contact with Soviet-blocofficials and 8 of these 
have developed to the status of security informants or 
double agents. 
' The majority of work is concentrated in the 
New York, Washington, n. c., and Chicago areas wher_e Soviet­
bloc establishments are located. A Soviet Consulate General 
iE> scl1edu1ed~ to" becorai& vpexg..t:!.va in San F:-auci:;~o ~n:-i~b 
1971, and a skeleton staff of four Soviet officials with 
five dependents is seeking appropriate buildings for this 
establishment. 
San Francisco and other West Coast offices are 
currently developing a "pool" of Deseco sources for eventual 
use against Soviet intelligence officers who will operate out 
-of the Soviet Consulate General. Due to the increased number 
of Soviet-bloc personnel in the United States and their 
relative freedom of travel, particularly to technical and 
scientific conventions, a total of 19 offices have been 
authorized to conduct "sounding-out" interviews of prospective 
sources without prior Bureau authority. Follow-up interviews 
with potential Deseco sources are conducted on a UACB basis. 
Unusual and highly sensitive cases are roµted to the division 
front office fo~ approval. 
The New York, Washington Field and Chicago Offices 
submit monthly progress letters summarizing the results of the 
program. The other 16 offices submit summaries on a semi­
annual basis. This program substantially assists us to 
penetrate and neutralize Soviet-bloc intelligence. The resuJts 
achieved thus far warrant the programts continuance. It is 
the best means of penetration available considering the 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
1/12/71 
_LW:as 
4-~ -
NW 38608 Dbcld:32989638 Page 451 
