- 15 4-H-1 
! ' 
- ' l-,. ' 
I 
MANAGUA ! 
l 
This is an office opened in the right area but 
in the wrong place. There is Bureau business in·central 
America and we had long considered recommending an office 
. there prior to the President's request in 1970. We did 
not want to open in Managua, however, but in San Jose, 
, .. _ Costa Rica, where the living conditions are far superior. -
We were forced to settle for Managua when the Ambassador 
·-· •• to Costa Rica objected .to our opening there. - As a result, 
-we have two men living under difficult circumstances 
resulting in varied domestic problems including education 
of their children, and morals in our Managua Office is 
probably lower than in any other foreign post. It. was 
expected that Central America would prove a fertile source 
of HILEV items because of the constantly changing political 
alignments in the various governments. This has not been 
the case and Bulet 6/4/71 informed the Legal Attache of 
our disappointment in his production. At the start of 
June he had only submitted 2 items, 1 of which 4ad· been 
. used. He is showing improvement as indicated by the submission 
of three items in June, iour iu July, ~ud five !u A~guct, 
•• •• as of 8/23/71. The Legal Attache has been placed on probation 
• a$ a result of administrative deficiencies discovered by 
·• .. the Inspector and it is expected that this will have a salutary 
.. . 
effect not only in his administration but also in the • 
contribution of his office to the work of the Bureau . 
. · .,,Productivity . -. . ~ ,., ' '• : 
'• . 
During the first six months of 1971~ 14 persons 
wanted in the United States were located in Central America, 
5 "informal deportations" were arranged, and 10 stolen 
automobiles were recovered. The Managua case· load as of 
6/30/71 was 65 which is far below average. A total of 14 
HILEV items have been received of which 9 have peen accepted. 
This total is below average but his current submission rate 
is well above average. . • · 
Personnel 
. The 7 Central American countries have enough 
.. substantive Bureau work to justify the present complement 
·of this office, if the. potential is fully exploited. We are 
• watching this situation closely and expect marked improvement . 
. ., .. · 
