' ,, 
' 
• 
ADMlNISTRATIVE MEMORANDUM 
POTENTIAL DOUBLE AGENT PROGRAM 
ESPIONAGE SECTION 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION 
JNSPECTOR-- - LLER: This program is designed to develop 
' '- double agents who can give us vital 
information from :their lmowledge of plans and illegal operations of our enemies 
within the United States. A potential double agent by your definition is one in 
contact with representatives of a foreign government under Bureau control but 
has not been requested to give information or given assignments. 
During the course of this inspection, the Inspector asked for and received 
a list of~ active polt::111.ial <luuolt: age11:ts. A review of,;.,:J..,1,filcs (80%) il:i.dic£tcd. 
the following: 
a. These files deal primarily with PSis and some Sis who have limited 
social, situational and business contacts with Soviet and Satellite nationals. 
Most of these nationals are allegedly intelligence agents, suspected intelligence 
agents or persons who are contacts of these nationals. 
b. Generally the people selected for development as potential double agents 
are correspondents and journalists who come in contact with Tass news agency 
officials and employees; American businessmen who purchase Russian products 
or sell American products through Amtorg or other Russian companies operating 
in the United States; neighbors and building managers where nationals reside; 
natur~lized American citizens of Slavic derivation who are contacted by suspected 
intelligence agents; naturalized American citizens who travel to Russia and 
satellite countries; leaders. of Slavic -American societies, organizations and 
publications~ American citizens taking educational and business tours in Russia 
and other Iron Curtain countries; and prominent members of technical and 
scientific societies who hav~ an interest in similar scientific work and publications 
by Russian and satellite country professionals. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
21/71 
\ SM:wmj 
: 'J 
N 516 
0 
