• • 
\ San Francisco was instructed 8-19-70 to submit monthly lists of 
nationwide bank accounts and expenses for BPf• This survey was 
devised by San Francisco; and since it is ve~y helpful in 
establis.hing the "big picture" it is being required monthly. 
• • l 
The Black Panther Party has formed a corporation known 
as Stronghold Consolidated Productions, Inc. (SCPI) to control 
all BPP funds and assets and to act as purchaser and/or lessee of 
any property utilized by the BPP. The corporation and its 
activities are under intensive investigation which has revealed 
that its activities are centered in San Francisco and New York. 
By airtels 1-7 and 1-19-71 to San Francisco and New York, these 
offices were instructed to submit a weekly summary of all pertinent 
developments concerning the.corporation during the previous week 
plus a monthly review of SCPI bank accounts. These summaries keep 
the Bureau aware of SCPI operations and also enables us to 
regularly fulfill our dissemination requirements. 
It is noted that there are currently 25 field offices 
conducting active investigations.of the BPP. Our in~ensive 
investigation has enabled us to identify its leaders, members 
and new branches. In addition, we have developed detailed 
information concerning its operations and activities including 
organization plans, funding programs, extent of control by 
headquarters and foreign support and internal factionalism. 
All field offices having a BPP investigation were 
_required by Bureau airtel 10-3-68 to submit a monthly report 
containing evidentiary data required by the Department, and they 
were also required by Bureau airtel 6w25-69 to maintain records of 
and to use permanent T symbol numbers to identify all concealed 
sources in BPP organization reports. Both of these requirements 
were·based on Department requests. The Department advised that the 
need on which these requests were based no longer existed, and the 
field offices were instructed by Bureau airtel 5-17-71 to 
discontinue both programs. 
I 31-( 
Docld:32989fill! Pa e 146 
