In Reply, Plc<J$e Refer to 
• UNITED ST.ATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
FED.ERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
Memphis, Tennessee 
,- - ""' ~~- .. ..,. ..-.,....., r,:;;:~ 'l /1\ "i 
' . j. 
. FileNo. • December 5, 1977 
: ■• 
I 
I 
JAMES-EARL RAY; 
Dr. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. 
CIVIL RIGHTS - CONSPIRACY 
VICTIM; 
On November 21, 1977, retired Special Agent Joe c ... 
Hester appeared at Washington, D. C., at the request of the 
House Committee on Assassinations. 
Mr. Hester met with the Committee staff in their 
offices ?,t Washington, D. C., and was interviewed for a 
total of four hours by two different groups of five persons 
each. Both groups were affable and were not in any way 
critical of the investigation conducted in this case! 
' • The first ,group of five interviewers asked a 
variety of questions but seemed to be particularly preogcupied 
with the investigation conducted by Legats in.Mexico. 
Mr. Hester was able to answer many of the general questions 
regarding the· activities of Legats but referred them to 
Assistant Director Richard Long when they began to ask more 
specific questions regarding the. investigations by Legats 
and the manner of transmittal of this information to FBI" 
Headquarters.@) 
The second group of five interviewers asked more 
general questions regarding the Bureau's investigation of 
the King murder. They seemed to be greatly concer:µed with 
the allegation of conspiracy. Ml~. Hester advised them that 
he believed the conspiracy theory was an 'invention by the 
.Department of Justice to be used to justify the FBI's 
investigation of Dr. King's murder. Mr. Hester adv.ised them 
that he had never personally believed there was a conspiracy 
and he did not believe that any of his FBI superiors had 
ever believed in the conspiracy .theory; Mr. He_ster further 
advised that it.was his personal opinion that James Earl Ray,· 
acting alone, had murdered Dr. King and that his subsequent 
travels were probably financed by armed.robbery. 
This document contains neither recommendations nor 
conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is 
loaned to your agency; ·it and its con tents are not to be 
distributed outside your-agency. 
?'l l )2,~ ..J. J.; H c,; l .l.,, ~'7~ 7 / 
NW tsi&u!-8o~dfu2'989l49 Page 12.8 
