j 
'-. , I 
': 
,I 1., 
- I I '• 
-
' ... e1 I ; : 
I 
! 
2. During World War II (1941 - 1945) 
a. The FBI's Role 
i 
During World War II, as prior to the war, foreign 
intelligence collection in this country was geared to and 
principally a product of our intensive efforts in the counter­
intelligence field. It is also significant to note that a 
steady stream of foreign intelligence continued to be developed 
from our technical coverage of diplomatic· establishments of 
enemy-bloc countries, as well as other sensitive countries 
such as Russia, Argentina, Portugal and Spain. 
In line with the Presidential Directive of 
September 6, 1939 1 the FBI continued to be·in charge of all 
investigative work in matters pertaining to espionage, sabotage, 
counterespionage, subversive activities and violations of the 
~ neutrality laws~ 
On January 8, 1943, the President issued another 
Directive in which he rei~erated ~ne previous DireuLivb vf 
September 6, 1939. 
In ordering the FBI to take charge in the foregoing 
a~eas, President Roosevelt did not define the various types of 
intelligence involved but placed the entire intelligence and 
internal security responsibilities involved under the 
··jurisdiction of the FBI. As a matter of fact, in carrying out 
these responsibilities we did produce foreign intelligence in 
substantial quantity especially through our technical coverage 
of foreign diplomatic establishments. 
b. Office of Strategic Services 
The position of Colonel William J. Donovan as 
Coordinator of Information (COI) was created by Presidential 
Directive dated July 11, 1941, On July 14, 1941, President 
Rooseve,l t sent a letter to th~ Attorney General stai;ing the 
position was created, "in order to provide a central point in 
the Government for the analysis of information and data which 
bears upon national s~curity .... " The President described 
Donovan's duties as "assist me and the various Departments and 
agencies of the Government in assembling and correlating 
information which may be useful in the formulation of basic 
plans for the defense of the nation." 
.. 11 -
