\ 
NW 38tiiOB 
• • 
whose names appeared on the watch list were automatical\y sorted 
out a~d monitored by NSA computers. The messag~s were also ~is-
' seminated to the CIA, the FBI,. and the Secret Service. 
the 196~ 1 s and early 197D's, over 16,000 American names:were 
placed on the NSA watch list. • ·\ 
Moreover, since 191.\5, three international ·t·elegraph comp­
anies provided the United .States Government with copie~ of 
telegrams sent abroad by American citizens. This program was 
t-urned over to the National Security Agency, when that :.af;erycy 
was established in 1952 and it became known as "Operatic.• 
SHAMROCK." American names on the NSA watch list served as 
computer indexes or signals for the private companies to sort . •• 
from their large volume of messages those which were of interest 
to the government. Thes.e messages were then c_irculated to the 
Bureau and the CIA. 
This is, by no means, a comprehensive list of unlawful 
conduct by the intelligence agencies. The possibility of perjury 
by intelligence officers befor:e the Congress is not the least of 
several questions which have yet to be resolved by a thorough 
investigation of the evidence. This is• an issue of utmost im­
portance, since the Congress cannot hope to arrive at useful 
remedial legislation on the intelligence service -- or any other 
public policy concern -- if it is not told the truth. 
The issue, then, is not whether laws. hav.e been violated, 
but rather when and how justice will be served. The "when" ought 
to be as soon as possible; the "how" is a more tangled problem. 
An argument ca-n be mad·e in favor of all·owing the usual 
processes and institutions to take their course. The Justice 
Department has begun to conduct criminal investigations of several 
cases uncovered ,'by the Rockefeller Commis~io.; and the committees 
of Congress. It can be argued that these investigations should 
not be interrupted since they have alreadi begun . 
... 5 .... 
Page 61 
I 
I I 
i 
\ 
I 
