• 
• 
I " 
· ... :,.: 
"The Executive Protective Service, under the control of the Director, 
DSSS, ii cbarge~ by Title 3, u. S. Code, Section 202, with protection of 
the Executive Mansion and grounds in the District of Columbia; any building 
in which Presidential offices are located; foreign diplomatic missions 
located in the metropolitan area of the District of Columbia; and foreign 
diplomatic missions located in such other areas in the United States, its 
territories and possessions, as the President, on a case-by-case basis, 
may direct. 
"The FBI is charged under Title 18, u. s. Code, Section 1751, with investiga­
tive jurisdiction over the assault, killing or kidnaping, ~nd attempts or 
conspiracies to assault, kill or kidnap the President of the United States 
and other designated individuals. 
"The FBI has responsibility for Federal investigations of all violations 
of Title 18, u. s. Code, Sections 112, 970, 1116-1117 and 1201, relating 
to the 'Act for the Protection of Foreign Officials and Official Guests 
in the United Stateso' 
"The FBI has investigative jurisdiction over violations of a wide range of 
the criminal statutes of the United States including primary jurisdiction 
over matters affecting the internal security of the United States. 
"III. Exchange of Information and Coordination of Responsibilities 
11The USSS undertakes to identify individuals or groups who because of their 
propensities or characteristics, may be dangerous to the President of the 
United States and certain other persons. To assist the USSS in identifying 
such individuals and groups the FBI agrees to furnish to the USSS~ information 
-(ui.i11::.1. Li1ciu- vuiii.i.-<... ::;uun.:e infyrmation or informai:ion- originating wi1:i1 01:ner 
U.S. agencies) from its files or which may come to its attention which by 
its nature reveals a danger or possible danger to the President or certain 
other persons, or which can be construed as falling within the categories of 
information desired by the TJSSS as set foT.th in Section IV of this agreement. 
11The FBI will inform the USSS of the identity of individuals or organizations 
who come to the attention of the FBI as knowingly and willfully advocating, 
abetting, advising, or teaching the duty, necessity, or propriety of over-
' throwing·or destroying the Government of the United States, or the Govern­
ment of any state, territory, or possession, or political subdivision 
therein, by force or violence, or by the assassination of any officer of 
' any such government. The FBI will furnish the USSS with reports on such 
individuals or organizations as requested. During investigation by the FBI 
of such individuals or organizations, the FBI will be alert and promptly 
notify the USSS of any information indicating a possible plot against the 
person of the President and certain other persons. 
"The USSS agrees that it will conduct no investigation of individuals or 
groups identified or suspected of being threats to the internal security of 
the United States without notify~ng the FBI. However, when time for 
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989fi28 228 
l 
I 
\ 
I· 
I 
t. 
