' 
i 
i 
\ 
I" i 
I 
I 
l i 
l 
1-, 
I 
I 
j 
·1 /1 
H. ,, ,, 
' d 
:1 
mechanism has been functioning effectively. lwe have 
frequent conferences. Bureau personnel lecturesbeforo 
CI4 offi~ers. Dissemination of information is excellent, 
The atmosphere for negotiating und discussing unusually 
complic~tcd problems is ·very good. Personnel can work in 
the same area with a minimum of problems, as evidenced in 
the Dominican Republic. '\'le attend USIB meetings and nx·o 
actively engaged in ·tho work of several com..'Ui ttees n.ttn.chod 
to USXB. All of this is commendable progress and certninly 
beneficial to national security. 
All of the foregoing was set forth in the way of 
background in order to· better understand the current f;ource 
of differences with CIA, namely the Agency's desire to assess 
and recruit foreign intelligence sources in the U.S. in th~ 
foreign diplomatic establishments, including United Nations,· 
and to some extent among foreign visitors. CIA fully 
acknowledges our int~rnal security and counterintelliaonce 
responsibilities. Tnis is clear-cut and free of any 
debatable question; howevei:,. CIA.feels that we have no, • 
legally-established responsibility in foreign intellir~cnce 
co11e~~jon P....nd that somebody (in this case, CIA) should 
be fully exploi t:i.ng the foreign intelligenc·e potent:i.al in 
the United States, bearing in mind that there are approxi­
mately 10,000 foreign officials and employees in this country~· 
CIA argues that a foreign diplomat can be recruited anywhere 
ilf the world but maintains that there is no better pla.ce 
than the United States for assessment, -recruitment, t:i:a.ining ' 
and orientation of an informant. CIA :further maintains that 
if the Agency moves on a target, such as an Argentina 
diplomat who may be a career officer not connected with a 
foreign intelligence service 1 there should not be any con­
flict because the activity is in no way related to tho 
internal security functions of the Bureau. CIA has also 
expressed the attitude that in the communist-bloc fiold 
CIA should be permitted to assess and recruit those 
individuals not connected with an intelligence or intornal 
security service. 
• ••••• • • ·••. There· are some pe.ople "iri CIA who are· of tho ·· ·· :-· · 
opinion that in.the field of foreign intelligence tho Bureau. 
shou·ld be exerting more effort to actually assist CIA in 
·spotting sources and, when needed, give CIA support in 
developing an individual through such means as surveillances, 
neighborhood investigations, etc .. When CIA is permit·tod to 
... 71 -
./ 
, • ·'N~:-"Doclil:J19"B'!JG:N" Page 349 
