,· 
. i 
The Attorney General 
As to the need for an Executive order, we think that hvo issues 
are involved. We have statutory authority, but what we need is a definitive 
requirement from the President as to the nature and type of intelligence data 
he requires in the pursuit of his :responsibilities based on our statutory 
authority. In other words, there is a need, from our standpoint, for both 
authoritative and definitive guidelines. The statutes give us the authority. 
The Executive order would define our national security objectives. 
Members of Congress, including such men as Senator Robert C. 
Byrd of West Virginia~ have proposed legislation to spell out jurisdiction and 
authority of the FBI in this field. It would o.ppca:r that the President would 
rather spell out his own x·equiremcnts in an Executive order instead of having 
Congress tell him what the FBI might do to. help him. fulfill.. his obligations· and 
responsibilities as President. 
The political climate of suspicion and distrust resulting from 
:~ disclosures coming out of the Watergate hearings could present an obstacle 
to getting any such Executive order signed in the immediate f utu1~e. However. 
the rationale is neverL½.eless valid and when scrutinized closely. the language 
in the Executive order we he1•einafter propose establishes definitive ffuidelines 
which have heretofore been unclear. It is my belief that we should go forw&:t'd 
with this. 
We therefore propose and recommend thot an Executive order 
along the following lines be submitted to the White House with a strong 
recommendation for approval. The language which follows is merely to 
illustrate the type of Executive order which we think would be appropriate 
and does not necessarily represent an ideal :format or style which should 
be submitted to the \'-11rlte House. 
EXECUTIVE ORDER ... 
''Whereas the Constitution of the United States was established to 
insure, among ether things, domBstic trunquility; to p1•ovide for the common 
defense; and to promote the general welfare for the peo~lo of the United Stutes; 
and 
-5-
NW#:88608 Docia:32-9-8-'9541 
J. ' 
; . 
