7 
about this matter carefully before refusing to ·step 
forward. The Agent during· this interview obtains the:: S:Ubject's 
current address which is generally different from the one he 
furnished the Selective Service Board. The Agent places 
the Subject on notice as to what probably will occur as to an 
indictment, summons, etc. The Subject is cautioned to remain 
in touch with his Local Draft Board in order to avoid being 
a Bureau fugitive. 
. A case is immediately opened and assigned to the 
Oakland Agent who prepares a report. Information coDies of 
the report are furnished to the local USA, San Francisco_: and 
~he field office and the USA covering the Subject's draft 
board when located in another division. It is the USA's 
opinion (San Francisco) that the refusal to step forward takes 
precedence over any prior delinquencies and will be handled 
by the USA, San Francisco. Instructions are given in leads i, 
to Headquarters city Agents and/or auxiliary offices to I 
closely follow th8 Lucal Boaro i:o i.nsul"e 't' hA't A 11, p~rt :i.nent 
information regarding the Subject is promptly furnished 
to the USA, San Franciscoc 
In order to streamline the administrative handling 
of these matters as well as keeping the Bureau fully 
informed of the activity you are taking in these matters to 
insure prompt prosecutive handling, the following instructions 
should be followed: 
All refusal cases and all other cases in which 
tne investigation is completed should be reassigned to three or 
four Headquarters city Agents. These Agents will have 
the responsibility of getting these cases to the Federal 
Grand Jury and on the trial calendar. Those cases in which 
the subject becomes ~ fugitive s_hould be reassigned _to another 
case Agent. 1 
·r At the presJnt time there are li63 cases p~nding 
prosecutive action. In order· to eliminate status letters 
reports to the Bureau in these type cases, the following 
p~ocedures should be followed. 
Memos to the SAC should be placed in individual 
and 
files to keep them from becoming delinquent. When the 
Subject is indicted the Bureau should be immediately advised 
in each individual case. Beginning 10/30/70 and continuing 
on the 15th and 30th of each-si~~quent month, you are t~ 
advise the Bureau, by letter, ~ntitled "SELECTIVE SERVICE ACT 
MA'l''l'ERS, SAN FRANCISCO DIVISION" of the activity cond·ucted, 
~W 38ti-Oa Docld:32989fi33 Pag-e 153 
