.,. 
., . ~­.. . . . , . . ., ~ ~ 
'•· 
.... . 
... -, 
Issue :#6: Assuming the FBI remains a part of the Justice 
Department, what should be the relationship of the Director to the Attorney 
General? All the organizational anq substantive relationships should be 
examined. • 
1. The problem: By Congressional enactment, the Attorney 
General has been designated the head of the Department of Justice and has 
been charged with the responsiblliiy of supervising and directing the 
administration and operation of that Department. Further, the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation has been placed in the Department of Justice with 
the Director of. the FBI as its head. The FBI, through Congressional • 
enactment, Executive Order, and Directive of the Attorney General, has 
been charged with the responsibility of performing certain duties subject 
to the general sur..ervision and direction of the Attorney General. The Director 
of the FBI, a Bureau chief withl.n the Department, having been granted 
enormous responsibility, must attain a proper balance behveen independence 
and responsiveness in order to properly discharge this res~onsibility. 
2. The present policy: Disclosures of political and business 
corruption and unethlcal practices during the investigation of land-fraud and 
antitrust cases in the early 19001s, coupled with the recognition of the need 
for an investigative arm within the Department of Justice subject to its 
control, led to the creation of the Bureau oi Investigation (forerunner of the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation) within the Department in 1908. In an effort 
to reverse a trend of political influence within the Bureau and the Dep&rtment, 
Attorney General Harlan Fiske Stone in 1924 appointed J. Edgar Hoover as 
Acting Dire_ctor oj the Bureal,1. Shortly thereafter Attorney General Sione 
dictated that the Director of the FBI be directly responsible to hin1 with respect 
to the operations of the Bureau as a· whole. In addition, it was understood that 
the Bureau was to operate free oi political influence a..Ttd limit its investigative 
activity to certain violations over which the Bureau had jurisdiction. 
This pact waa formed to give the Director, charged primarily 
with delegated investigative responsibility, a degree of independence 
recognized as so necessary for him to properly discharge his duties and 
JFH:CSH (6) 
Attachment to memo to Deputy Attorney General, 
10/16/73, captioned "Substantive Issues re .:F.utrire 
of the FBI" / .. ".. -. ~-. u;. ,~/ ;J _ 3 L .. /2
1
,,,. "E~NCLOSURm (p ~ /' r ) 
.NW#:88608 ·oocid:32989541 
, . . . ~· ~· 
'· 
•j .. , 
', ·..;. 
~ 
.• ·-~-: .. . ; . 
·' 
. .-
.. . , ... '\ 
• •l. ;:· 
i ·.: 
