2. Numb.or .of iricrophone and Telephone Surveillances with 
:Evalua·t:;i.on o:i Proa.uc-c 
At present, Dureau has only one microphone surveillance in 
forcign_int~lligence field and this is in connection with a special 
National Security Agency project directed against - • • coded • 
communications. Concernin~ technical survoillnncos, wo nro now 
operating about 70 foreign intelligence installations on various 
diplomatic establish,ilents in ~his country. The majority of these 
are in Washington Field and New York with scattered installations 
in Chicago, 1riatli ,. Pi..ttsburgh, San l"rn.nc isco and San Juan. Under 
current B~reau p6licy, we are limited to 80 f0r0ign intelligence· 
technical surveillances and no microphone surveillances with the· 
exception of one on the • 
In addition, during recent yen.rs, we have maintained 
approximately 50 so-called "telex" surveillances on the teletype 
facilities of various foreign establishments. This has been done 
at the specific request of the National Security Agency, in 
connection with its efforts to break foreign codes and to re~d 
foreign government communications. 
We have had excellent results from these technical 
installations. Any compilation of items of value to the U~S. 
Iui.t!ll.i.g~u(.;~ CuiU1i1u1d.ty an<l 9olicy-1i1aking officials developed 
through this coverage would run many hundreds.of pages. The results 
have ranged from information regarding plans and activities of 
key foreign countries in the diplomatic field to information 
regarding intelligence, political, eco~omic and military develop­
ments in the countries concerned. In many instances, we have been 
able to forewarn the White House, the State Department and other 
interested aeencies of impending developments and to furnish data 
giving an insight into the thinking and strategy of key foreign 
officials and governments. This coverage has proved specially 
valuable during c~isis periods such as the Cuban missile crisis of 
·1962 and during the tense negotiations involving the Panama Canal 
in 1964. On many occasions, top-ranking United States officials 
have commented on the effectiveness of this data. The particular 
importance of this information has been its timeliness to current 
events as well as the fact that it represents a penet:JZtion of 
foreign diplomatic circles which is oniy infrequently available 
:--, : ,..... t-brough .live sources .. .-:·· ····.,•.,. ~-· ·.-. ··.··:•.:, . .. :;,•. ,~:-.,· .. •·-···· · .. , .... .-···.•.,, .:..· , .. !• . ,,~: . •,., .. , ._. 
I : 
I 
In some· instances; of course, this type coverage on a 
particular foreign establishment or official has not paid off. 
We have had cases where this technique has been unproductive for 
sustained periods of time on a particular country. -This- is to be 
expected and we have sought to overcome this by rotating our.· 
installations, correlating ou·r technical operations with shifting 
international devclouments and putting coverage on those countries 
which appear to offe; the most promise for worthwhile intelligence. 
l NW 38600 Docld;J~-29 P.age 237 
