r 
1..:· 
I [',1 I 
• 
' . ' , ( 
individuals unsympathetic to the FBI, we cannot glibly state 
l' 
that whatever the intention or unintention may have been, Truman 
signed the order and therefore it made everything fine. 
VIEWS CONTINUED 
The Int~rnal Security Section believes that reliance on 
statutory auth~rity alone for the collection of intelligence 
would severely limit the scope of FBI activities to the detriment 
of our national security. They feel that a statutory basis must 
impose reasonable and definable limits an~ for the most part 
inv.estigations conducted with regard to statute are "closed end" 
type. Internal Security points out that we investigate violations 
or allegations of violations; that we do not investigate indefinitely 
on the supposition or· speculation that by "fishing" we may 
find somebody who violates a Federal law. Internal Security notes 
that such a concept is repugnant to the democratic process and 
clearly indicates a police state mentality. They go on to point 
out that on the other hand it is also clear that there are some 
areas -- particularly where the int~grity of the Government 
is at stake -- where we must conduct intelligenc~-type investigations 
to detect conspiracies and actual attempts which go to the very 
heart of the Government's existence. 
COMMENT - REBUTTAL 
Here, again, I must interject with a point of rebuttal. 
As pointed out before, I feel that investigation under statutory 
or other legal authority does not require the so-called "closed 
end" type of investigation in every case. But the most important 
point I want to bring out is that I cannot see the logic of saying 
that investigations based on the possibility of violations to 
destroy the Government (intelligence investigations actually) 
are repugnant to the democratic process when performe~ under 
statutes forbidding such activity and are indicative of a police 
state mentality, whereas there is nothing repugnant, nothirig 
wrong with conduct the same type of investigations under some 
nonspecific PresTa;ntial power to protect the integrity of 
the Government. I personally, as a citizen, would rather 
have a system wherein I could not be investigated unless there 
was so·me indication that I was planning to violate the law, 
or had already done so. As a law-abiding citizen-I have no 
fear of intelligence-type investigations aimed at discovering 
plots to violate the law. I would have fear of a government 
system which permitted intelligence investigations based otl 
someone's - anyone's, Presidential or otherwise - interpretation 
of what an individual may say, do or think. The law is a 
guideline and states clearly what I may do or not do. 
Vague interpretations subject to the caprices of undisciplined 
politicians could result in a virtual police state if the law is 
not the basis of our investigative activity. 
- 33 -
l. NW 38tiiOB Docld:32989fii09 Page 1ti8 
