• ;~ 
can prove to be extremely useful. We should ·con:f~ with 
these agencies regarding ways and means of xecrui.l,ing 
sources either to be handled by us jointly or by one of 
the. intelligence agencies. Here again, the Bureau can 
bo tho dominant and pushing source. 
It is believed that if we moved along the linos 
describ0d above, the Bureau, over a. ;r)oJ..~iod of •time, would 
have collected valu~ble infoxmation regarding numerous 
personalities and the inner workings of the m~ny diplomatic 
establishille~ts. The acquirement of data of this type 
creates operational strength. It places us in a position 
to exploit the cevelopment of new sources, bearing in mind 
that in planning our approaches we will be equipped with. 
ammunition not gained through casual surveillances and 
observations. With the knowledge that vie gain, we can 
plan high quality operations. It is interesting to.note 
that during ·the past ·two years the information received 
from CIA's sources in the United States has been fairly 
voluminous and very definitely valuable. It is a good 
illustration of the Bureau~s gaining useful data from 
another agency with a minimum of Bureau expense and effort·, 
but st-i J 1 m:;).i ntaining very etf§gi:;iye ~ontrol of our juris- • 
dictional rights. 
Undoubtedly relc.ted ·to the utilization of other 
agencies' resou~ces is·the considerably vast potential 
offered by friendly foreign security services. If the 
services of Great Britain, Germany, France, Holland, Italy, 
Australia and Canada provided us intormation collected in 
Washington, D. C. and New York resulting from contacts with 
communist-bloc officials, Vie would have another valuable 
source of inforr.12.tion. We should bear in mind that ·we do 
spend hundreds and thousands of nan-hours seeking such 
information through other difficult ch~nn.els. •• 
We should utilize the friendly liaison services 
along the lines described above. / 
·Administrative Reorganization .. ' . , . -.,: .. .. . . . - - : ; .~ ... 
. . The present adminis·~rati ve frro::ieuork at the Seat 
•• •• -· 1• • • .·.•· .. • •• Q':f Government :-and·. in· the field. ·would. :no·t be· adeouate to .. •. 
. •'- .... ~- ...... • J •• -•• ~ • " . . ." : • • ''• •, • • • • . ~ ' • • • . • ' -
implement tlie reco;n.r..~nded progra.u. -Placing the additional 
. load on our existing su:9ervisory. structure is,. of course, 
