NW 313'600 
SECURITY INDEX PROGRAM 4-H 
BASIC REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIQNS 
February, 1969. Many of these persons had changed residence 
and/or emp;toyment and their whereabouts were unknown. It can 
thus be seen that the lifting of the moratorium was an aggressive, 
~imely and precise step toward fulfilling our current 
responsibilities, especially in knowing the whereabouts of these 
individuals. Implementation was directed by airtel November 3, 
1970, to all offices, and in doing so we took a realistic step 
in permitting the field to stagger the reopening of these cases 
so that they would be spread out ove·r the period November 3, 1970, 
to June 30, 1971~ This was considered essential in view of our 
approximation that it would be necessary to reopen about 7,000 
of the Priority II and III. types. Our experience in the nine 
months since moratorium was lifted has demonstrated the wisdom 
of the lifting of the moratorium as it was found that many of 
these subjects had changed residence and/or employment, thus 
necessitating substantial investigation to determine new 
whereabouts. There are presently pending a number of these cases 
for thP. preci$e purpose of determining whereabouts. 
EXTENT AND NATURE OF CURUE11T SUPERVISION 
Responsibility for administrative handling of the SI 
rests with the Special Records Unit of the Research Section. 
Responsibility for individual cases rests with appropriate 
supervisory personnel. I personally follow this matter closely 
to insure'it is current and that necessary changes are made 
where desirable. This program receives constant supervision. 
JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUANCE 
This is a major internal security program based upon 
Title II of t~e Internal Security Act of 1950 and is to be 
implemented in the event of a national emergency to minimize 
acts of espionage, sabotage and subversion. 
FREQUENCY OF EVALUATION 
The SI Program is constantly being re-evaluated. The 
most recent justification is contained in memorandum from 
R. D. Cotter to Mr. C. D. Brennan dated January 12, 1971. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/18/71 
rSFP:rrd 
4-H=C-FSL-
- 5 -
102 
