I 
l 
I 
I 1· 
j 
(1) The Director of the Federal Bu-. 
reau of Investigation, ti: the demand is 
one made on an employee or former em­
ployee of that Bureau for information 
or if the demand calls for the production 
of material from the files of that Bu­
reau, and 
(ii) The Director of the Bureau of 
Prisons, 1f the demand is one made on 
an employee or former employee of that 
Bureau for information or if the de­
mand calls for the production of ma­
terial from the :files of that Bureau. 
(3) :rn instances of demands that are 
uot covered by paragraph (b) Cl) or (2) 
of this section, the Deputy Attorney 
General. 
Cc) If oral testimony is sought by the 
demand, an affidavit, or, if tha,t is not 
feasible, a statement by the party seek­
ing the testimony or his attorney, setting 
forth a summary of the testimony de­
sired, must be furnished for submission 
by the U.S. attorney to the appropriate 
peparLment official. 
§ 16.2'1, Final act;on hy the npprorn·iatc 
Dcparlmcnt official or the Attornt'y 
Gt'ncrnl. 
(a) If the appropriate Department of- .., 
ficial, as designated in § 16.23 Cb), ap­
proves a demand for the production of 
material or disclosm-e of informat.ion, 
he shall so notify the U.S. attorney and 
such other persons as circumstances may 
warrant. 
(b) If the app1:opriate Department 
official, 8,s designated in § 16.23 Cb), 
decides not to approve .a demand for the 
productlon of material or disclosqre of 
information, he shall immediately refer 
the demand to the Attorney General for 
,decision. Upon such referral, the Attor­
ney General shall make the final decision 
and gi,ve notice thereof to the U.S. attor­
ney and such other persons as circmn­
stances may warrant. 
§ 16.25 Procedure wl1c:-e a D~parlmcnt 
d<icision concerning a dem1mu is nut 
made prior to tl1e time a response 10 
the dt'mnnd is required. 
If response to the demand is required 
before the instructions from the appro­
priate Department official or the Attor­
ney General are received, the U.S. attor­
ney or other Department attorney des­
ignated for the purpose shall appear with 
the employee or former employee of the 
Department upon whom the demand has 
been made, and shall furnish the court 
or other authority with a, copy of the 
regulations contained in this subpart and 
inform the court or other authority that 
the demand has been, -or is being, as 
the case may be, :referred for the 
promp_t consideration or the appr.oprfate 
Department official and shall respect­
fully request the court or authority tq 
stay the dcmanci pending receipt of the 
1·equested instructions. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989626 Page 121 
§ 16.26 Procedure in die event of nit ncl­
,·crsc 11.tling. 
If the court cir other a,uthority declines 
to stay the effect of the demand in re­
sponse to a request made in accorda,nce 
with § 16.25 pending receipt of instruc­
tions, or if the court r,r other authority 
rules that the demand must be com­
plied with irrespective of instructions 
not to produce the material or disclose 
the information sought, in accordance 
with § 16.24, the employee or former em­
ployee upon whom the demand has b€en, 
made shall respectfully decline to comply 
·with the demand. "United States ex rel 
Touhy v. Ra.gen," 340 U.S. 462. 
Dated: January 11, 1973. 
RrcHAltD a. KLEINDIENS~, 
Attorney General. 
[F.R Doc.73-1071 Filed 1-17-73;8:'16 smJ 
