,j 
_-r'"• •j,.~· 
If' 
y 
• • 
,· .. 
Based on these developments it became apparent that 
an in-depth study was in order to clarify any misconceptions 
i 
which might have grown up concerning the scope of FBI intelligence 
and investigative authority, particularly where it concerns 
domestic organizations and/or individuals. A detailed and 
exhaustive study has now been -completed, and the following is 
the result of that study. 
AUTHORITY DERIVED PRESIDENTIAL DIRECTIVES 
In the testimony of the late Director J. Edgar Hoover 
before the House Subcommittee on Appropriations on March 2, 1972, 
under the subject of justifications on page 2 the statement is 
made that ''The FBI's responsibilities· in the domestic intelligence 
field are authorized under legislative enactments, Presidential 
directives and instructions of the Attorney General. They include 
investigative jurisdiction over matters relating to espionage, 
counterespionage, sabotate~ treason, sedition, subversion, and 
related internal security functions. Subjects of investigation 
include the activities of the Communist Party, USA, communist 
front groups and other totalitarian organizations, including 
individuals or groups who are alleged either to seek overthrow 
of the Government of the United States by force or violence or to 
conspire against the rights of citizens." Similar language has 
appeared in Mr. Hoover 1 s testimony in prior years. 
It is assumed that the Presidential directives referred 
to in Mr. Hoover's testimony ar~ (1) Directive dated September 6, 
1939, and reiterated January 8, 1943, July 24, 1950, and 
December 15, 1953; (2) Executive Order 10450 dated April 27, 1953 
(and amended but not yet implemented by Executive Order 11605 
dated July 2, 1971). 
It is believed that there is a misconception concerning 
the extent of jurisdiction or authority which was conveyed to 
the FBI by the I'residentia.l directive dated September 6, 1939. 
All of the succeeding directives appear to be hinged -0n the one 
issued in September, 1939. Therefore, the language of that first 
directive becomes a very important issue. Perhaps even more 
important are the circumstances leading up to the issuance of 
that directive and the intent of the President at the time 
it was issued . 
Prior to the issuance of the September, 1939, directive 
President Roosevelt issued a statement or confidential directive 
to the heads of ~he various Government Department~ on June 26, 
1939, which stated, "It is my desire that the investigation of 
all espionage, counterespionage, and sabotage matters be controlled 
and handled by the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the 
Department of Justice, the Military Intelligence Division of the 
War Department, and the Office of Naval Intelligence of tbe 
Navy Department. The Directors of these three agencies are to 
function as a committee to coordinate their activities." 
l NW 38tiiOB. Docld:32989fii09 Page 137 
- 2 -
I( 
