t •••• 
. ' 
• \ I 
y.. ,;. 
·sUGGESTION MEMORANDUM \ 
I 
•., h 
• UTILIZATION OF INSERTS IN REPORTING 
INVESTIGATIVE RESULTS IN CRIMINAL 
CASES-BY LEGAL ATTACHES 
• . =. " 
# Ylirt ----~:. P CTOR EDWARD S. MILLER:' The Foreign Operations Policy 
-- Manual, Section 10, page 1, 
provides that Legal Attaches should ·submit investigative 
results by cover letter or cover page,on FD-263, letterhead 
memorandum, or informant evaluation memorandum. The Manual 
of Rules and Regulations, Part II, Section 4, page :21, 
• • provides that when reporting information in criminal and 
. civil type cases received from the Bureau's Legal Attache, 
• the information should be attributed to.a confi~ential 
source abroad. In reports the source would be identified 
on. the administrative page. . .... 
.. . . 
During the course of· the"recent inspection of our 
Legal Attache Offices, it was noted that generally Legal 
.,Attaches would furnish investigative results in criminal 
···cases by airtel or letter where more expeditious means of 
communications was not necessary. In some instances, these 
·communications would be rather lengthy. Upon receipt of 
•. these communications by the respective field office and 
;- ·: • "if preparation of a report was desired, the information from 
• :the Legal Attache would have to be retyped, attributed to a 
··confidEmtial source abroad, and the identity of the source 
:·'·set out on the administrative page of the report. This 
•• rather burdensome task could be dispensed with if the Legal 
Attache would prepare an insert setting forth information 
and attributing it to a confidential source abroad. The 
insert would be transmitted by airtel or letter with the 
··:. • identity ot the.source set out. .· ... ·:-\ _ 
The above is being brought to your attention· for 
~ppropriate comment and if felt beneficial, the Foreign 
Operations Policy Ma'nual should be amended to include inserts 
as the fourth means of reporting investigative results_ by the 
Legal At~ache~. . . 
Comments of Section Chief Wannall and Assistant 
Director Brennan are requested. 
. . 
i . 
'OMESTIC 
a/1s171 
JFH:bsf 
INTELLIGENCE DIV~SION INSPECTION 
