NW 38608 
U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO 
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH 
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGEN~ (SA) 
O. RICHARD HAMILTON BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
Ralph Abernathy, President of SCLC. They were advised by 
Hamilton that that question was not related to the FBI's 
investigation of Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr., and he 
would decline to discuss that matter without further con­
sultation with FBI Headquarters representative in the 
Atlanta Office. The Staff Members did not ask that 
Hamilton then discuss that point with the Headquarters 
representative. 
The Staff Members inquired as to the identities of 
other FBI personnel assigned to the monitoring of the tech­
nical installation and SA Hamilton advised he recalled that 
at that time SA Robert Thomson and SA John Benton were assigned 
to monitoring, however, SA Hamilton could not recall the 
identities of other agents assigned during the period of 
time he was assigned to the monitoring of the installation. 
Staff Members inquired as to the reason for SA Hamilton being 
removed from the assignment of monitoring the installation 
and Hamilton replied that he requested he be removed for the 
purpose of being reassigned to security investigative matters. 
Hamilton stated that shortly after discussing this desire with 
Supervisor Harding, he was taken off the assignment and was 
given other investigative assignments. They inquired as to 
whether Hamilton questioned the propriety of the technical 
installation regarding King and SCLC and Hamilton replied 
that he did not question such propriety. The Staff Members 
inquired as to the names Hamilton was instructed to listen 
for on the installation and Hamilton replied he recalls being 
instructed to listen for conversations of individuals by 
the names of Stanley Levison and Harry Wachtel. They asked 
if he was instructed to listen for conversations of indivi­
duals by the names of Helstein and O'Dell. Hamilton advised 
the name Helstein was familiar although he could not recall 
specific instructions regarding him but recalled that he was 
instructed and did listen for conversations of Hunter Pitts 
O'Dell. 
Staff Members asked whether the Atlanta FBI Office 
maintained subfiles regarding Doctor Martin Luther 
- 6 -
