i' 
! 
"I. 
'. 
.. 
(' 
I 
t . ·e. I . I 
l 
I• 
I i 
! 
Lyman Bo Kirtkpatrick, Inspector General, Central Intelligence 
Agency (CIA), acting as a representative of the Director of 
Central Intelligence (DCI). The.other four members of the 
Study Group represented the Department of State, Secretary of 
Defonse, Bureo.u o:f -the Budget, n.nd the National Security• 
Council (NSC). \ · 
. Tho state~ targets of examination by the Group were 
·organizational and management aspects within the intelligence 
effort relating to all aspects of foreign intelligence. In 
the confines of these objectives the Bureau was not considered 
for examination by the Group in view of the Bureau's lack of • 
operational jurisdiction in matters outside of this country. 
Mr. Belmont, acting for the Bureau, gave a briefing before the 
Group on·7/29/60 regarding the Bureau's relations with other 
United States intelligence agencies. •There was no mention 
·made of the Bureau in the report except in one of its 
recommendations relative to reorganization of the membership 
, .. ,. of the United States Intelligence Board (USIB) which will be 
·dealt with in more detail later. 
The 141 p:.ge :-epcrt s1.1bmi ++.e>i!. hy the G:r.oup appeared 
to be apologetic in tone for any shortcomings of CIA. The 
reader obtains the definite impression the report was used as 
a sounding board for differences of opinion as to methods and 
administrati9n for collection of foreign intelligence (overt 
and covert) abroad. 
The main basis for conclusions and recommendations 
-made by the Group rested in delineation of duties of DCI as 
coordinator of intelligence as opposed to DCI secondary 
responsibility as head of CIA. The Group recognized service 
jealousies apparently resulting from refusal to accept the 
fact that DCI could control and coordinate intelligence effort 
without affording preferential treatment to CIA which was his 
. operational and administrative arm. 
There is no reference in the report· to a clear 
. definition of CIA operational ,respon~tbi~i~ies __ or jurisd~cti~n 
within continental United States. . .. • •. 
The Group ·found that DCI through heads of missions 
abroad and designated DCI representatives in foreign countries 
had principal responsibility for control and coordination of 
foreign collection efforts. The CIA's operations abroad were 
recognized in almost all 43-of the Group's recommendations. 
- 42 -
