U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
]20NALD P. BURGESS BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
irrnnediately assigned to the Security Squad. In reply to a 
question as to what type of investigations he handled, 
SA Burgess replied that he was mainly involved in civil rights 
type investigations. 
Mr. Epstein asked SA Burgess when he was assigned 
to monitoring the telephone tap of Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr. 
SA Burgess replied to the best of his recollection he was 
assigned to these duties from the end of November, 1965, until 
sometime in June, 1966. SA Burgess was asked if he could pin 
down exactly the date of his assignment to this monitoring 
duty and SA Burgess replied that he recalled the general time 
_period quite well as he had recently undergone surgery before 
this assignment and after extensive sick leave, went almost 
irrnnediately on the monitoring duty. 
Mr. Epstein asked SA Burgess what his understanding 
was as to why this telephone tap on Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr. 
was beimg used. SA ~u~gess replied that it was his understanding 
and recollection that three or four individuals who had heavy 
and extensive Communist Party or Marxist affiliations and 
connections had an inordinaJb.e influence and control over 
Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr .. insofar as policies, objectives 
and activities of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference 
(SCLC~ SA Burgess replied it was his understanding that 
these three or four aforementioned individuals' influence over 
King extended so far as pr~paring his speeches and public 
statements and that it was also his understanding that the 
Attorney General at the time the telephone tap was instituted, 
Robert Kennedy, had approved of and insisted upon this 
investigative technique. 
SA Burgess was then asked if he thought the telephone 
tap on Doctor King was justified and SA Burgess replied that 
he thought it was fully justified in light of the time and 
circumstances and the position of Doctor King. 
- 2 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989626 
