' ... 
. . 
l 
• 
\ 
',.i..f'l."- : ) 
f' 
I 
. 
t 
I 
' ,, f· 
:• 
\ 
\ ' i 
: 
I 
Criminal Informants - 3 - \ 
i \ 
' b. Same for each Resident Agency. 
I 
4. In order to maintain stability of your program and to insure Cis 
and PCis are not ''turned over'' for turnovers sake, do orou require Agents 
to submit a newly developed CI or PCI at time closing qr discontinuing 
memoranda are submitted on old ones? 
✓ 5. What administrative procedures do you have to insure your sub-
V 
stantive supervisors are aware of and participate in informant program? 
Do they approve both opening and closing memoranda? Are they aware of 
productivity of Cis and PCis handled by Agents assigned to their squads? 
How? Do· you maintain a record of productivity by desk? 
6. How often is Criminal Informant Program discussed by supervisors 
~i S'"'uarl r-:-.r1.fc.'"'c.n,.,.:::.:::? _... "i - -"'· _,__ ............ - - ...... 
7. Do you keep statistics by Resident Agency (or road trip territory) 
on productivity of informants ? Do you feel your informant coverage in each 
Resident Agency (road trip) is adequate? Where are the weaknesses? Handle 
each individually. 
,. •• 8. Do you feel your informant coverage in headquarters city is 
adequate? Break down by squad giving consideration to types of classifi­
cations handled by each. 
9. What administrative devices do you employ to follow Agents working 
criminal cases in headquarters city and in Resident Agencies to be certain 
each is Ip.aking maximum contributions to the Criminal Informant Program? 
10. What steps are tq.ken to eliminate the carrying of PCis in a pending 
status for over one year, when during that time they have been unable to 
produce sufficient' information to qualify as criminal informants? 
11. Racial and ghetto informants have proven to be of valuable assistance 
in solution of numerous criminal cases. What provisions have you made to 
make these sources available to Agents working criminal work? How and to 
whom do they submit their requests for contact with these informants? 
NW 38601! Docld:32939-633 79 
