e. • 
origin to the common-law concept of a sovereign's rights to 
protect itself to the 1939 et seq, directives and Executive 
Orders 9835 and 10450. Included in this group were (1) National 
Association of Black Students (NABS) which originally had as its 
stated purpose to. serve as an· information center and communications 
network for blacks on college campuses. This was in 1969. 
There was an enormous amount of violence and upheaval on college 
campuses at that time. Damage and injuries from arson, sabotage 
and malicious vandalism grew into the millions. In a number of 
instances black students were in the center of the activity. 
NABS was considered a potential source of danger during any major 
strife, particularly since the national coordinator of the 
group, Gwendolyn Marie Patton, had been a member of an extramist 
group cited as an extremist group by the House Committee on 
Un-American Activities. The Black Panther Party and other 
revolutionary-type organizations attempted to organize and 
penetrate black student groups such as this. 
(2) The Center for Black Education (CBE) came under 
investigation when its founder was determined to be a former member 
of the Black Panther Party and described as one of the leading black 
militants in San Francisco prior to his move to Washington, D. C. 
CBE has been publicly described as an educational institution 
designed to train technicians who will work to liberate the 
African people and develop the African world. The CBE has as its 
goal "the independence of the A can People." Members have 
engaged in rearms training. 
(3) The Drum and Spear Bookstore (DSB) in 
Washi~gton, D. C., opened in 1968 and was publicly described as 
a retail bookstore having the largest collection of books about 
Africa, Asia, and the Negro in America. It also had protest 
literature and books concerning the socio-economic conditions in 
the U. S. It was determined through investigation that the 
bookstore was apparently not being used as a front for underground 
pr_ subversive activity and inv~stigation was closed. 
(4) The Congress of African P~oples (CAP) was formed in 
1970. It initially advocated the unification of all blacks, the 
complete rejection of the "white imperialist, capitalist system," 
the establishment of a black nation, the formation of a National 
African Party and ultimately a World African Party under the 
re¥olutionary ideology of Pan-Africanism. 
. Durin_g a CAP co.nference in July, 1971, CAP leaders 
vociferously advocated the need to engage in disruptions as a 
means of ending "acts detrimental to blacks," the formation 
of a paramilitary ''defense unit," and the establishment of 
communication lines with other black revolutionary movements 
abroad. The CAP has established communication links with the 
Chinese communist diplomatic establishment in Canada. 
- 29 -
W 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 163 
