V J u. s. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
T0 STUDY G0VERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
ALDEN F. MILLER BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
it was some sort of engineering company, but at any rate, 
it would have been the same name utilized in requesting 
telephone service. SA Miller was asked further whether 
the owners of this building and top management were 
cognizant of the real identity of the renters of this 
apartment, to which he replied he had no way of knowing 
but was of the opinion for security reasons no one knew 
or was aware that this apartment was being utilized by the 
FBI. 
SA Miller was asked further whether he had anything 
to do with the installation of utilities and furnishing of 
this apartment used in the monitoring operation, to which 
he replied he had nothing to do with this other than the 
installation of certain wooden shelves utilized for 
equif>me1:1.t 1:1.eeessary to such monitoring and neither did 
he have anything to do as it related to the utilities. 
SA Miller was asked whether he ever actually 
monitored this installation, to which he replied that on 
several occasions when regular monitors were ill and there 
were other technical needs at the facility, he would serve 
as a monit0r. SA Miller was asked whether he had ever 
furnished supplies to this facility, to which he replied 
the only kind of supplies he would have taken to the 
facility were those necessary to insure a trouble free 
technical monitoring. SA Miller was specifically asked 
whether he ever replenished the supplies or tapes for 
recording purposes, to which he replied he did not recall 
such, other than at the initial inception when a sufficient 
supply of tapes were made available and these tapes were 
used over and over. 
SA Miller was asked specifically whether he ever 
made any technical installation on phone service at the 
Ebenezer Baptist Church, the church where Martin Luther King 
was. on the staff, to which he replied that no such installation 
to his knowledge was ever made. SA Miller further informed 
that he did not know whether city police authorities or 
state authorities had made such an installation and further, 
he was not in ·a position to be aware of any such activities 
on the part of these law enforcement agencies. 
- 5 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989£26 Page 54 
