' ◄ 
Mr .. Hoover testified that in line with the President's 
order of the previous September (September 6, 1939) there had 
been close coordination of all the intelligence services. He 
pointed out that the President, on September 6, directed the FBI 
to coordinate the functions on national defense matters in 
intelligence work. Mr. Hoover also related that he wanted to 
refer to a general intelligence index which he had mentioned in 
previous hearings. He said that that index included the names 
of persons who might become potential enemies to our national 
security, such as known espionage agents, known sabotuers, 
leading members of the Communist Party, and the bund. He 
explained that this index had been compiled very carefully, and 
it was confined solely to persons engaged in activities detrimental 
to the United States. 
Later, on February 19, 1941, when Mr. Hoover appeared 
before Congress in connection with a deficiency appropriations 
bill for 1941, he went into some detail concerning the activities 
of the FBI prior to the then national emergency. In response to 
a question concerning this, Mr. Hoover replied that prior to the 
emergency our activities covered generally the investigation of 
all Federal statutes except counterfeiting, narcotics, .income 
tax, and postal violations. FBI jurisdiction, he said, included 
kidnaping, extortion, bank robbery, white slavery, motor vehicle 
theft, impersonation of Government officers, frauds against the 
Government, antitrust investigations, etc. 
Mr. Hoover then incorporated into the record a list of 
major crime laws passed between 1934 and 1941, $hawing the 
legislative jurisdiction of the FBI during the period. With 
the exception of nine of these laws, all dealt with criminal-type 
violations of iaw-.-· The exceptions included a prohibition on· 
ih~ exportation of arms and ammunition to Spain during the civil 
war; the prohibition of making photographs 1 sketches or maps of 
vital military and naval defense installations; the Hatch Act, 
which among other things related to employment of individuals by 
the Government who were -members of political parties advocating 
the overthrow of the Government~ amendment of the act requiring 
r~gistration of agents of foreign principals; the Neutrality Act 
of 1939; amendment of the Espionage Act; the Smith Act of 1940; 
act requiring registration of certain organizations (Voorhis Act); 
and an amendment to the Sabotage Act .. There was a special note 
listed under the amendment of the act requiring registration of 
agents of foreign principals. This ca)led attention to the Presidential 
directive dated September 6, 1939. From this structure inference 
can be drawn that the directive was related to this amendment. 
- 9 -
< 
NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 1M 
