I O l 
' (' 1 • 
•• 
• 
(2) The Socialist Workers Party (SWP) is the inter­
national Trotskyist movement founded in the 1920's when Leon Trotsky 
lost -0ut in a power struggle to Joseph Stalin for control of the 
international communist movement. The basic philosophy of the SWP 
is that only violent revolution can destroy capitalism; that 
all political groups other than their own are counterrevolutionary 
and must be destroyed. We rely on Executive Order 10450 for 
investigative authority. 
(3) The Venceremos Bri~ade consists of a loosely knit 
group of over 1500 individuals who have travelled to Cuba in 
separate contingents since November, 1969. Positive information 
has been developed that the organization is being used by 
various hostile intelligence services for spotting purposes 
and recruitment of intelligence agents and support personnel. 
The group is under investigation because it appears to be under 
the· control and domination of a hostile power. 
Revolutionary Activities Section states that Presidential 
directives (supposedly the 1939, et seq directives) have given 
the FBI responsibility to investigate matters relating to the 
internal security of the country. They point out that after the 
first contingent returned to the U.S. in February, 1970, the 
White House (nonspeci c) instructed the Director to conduct an 
intensive investigation of the group to determine the extent of 
indoct nation afforded these individuals while in Cuba and to 
assess th r potential dangerousness to the country. In addition, 
the Department of Justice has requested information to support 
indicia that members of various contingents have been trained as 
espionage and intelligence agents for the Cubans and North -Koreans 
and may be oper~ting as such in the U.S. 
(4) Vietnam Veterans Against the War (VVAW) is a revo­
luationary antiwar group currently of major concern in view of 
its potential for violence. The organization is made up of many 
Vietnam war veterans who have advanced training in explosives and 
weapons and many have records of narcotics use. One VVAW 
national coordinator stockpiled arms and ammunition and advocated 
"political elimination squads." Revolutionary Activities Section 
relies on the Presidential directives (1939 et seq) and Executive 
Order 10450 as a basis for investigation in the absence of 
specific statutory authority. 
(5) Weatherman is the name adopted by a group which is 
a revolutionary Marxist-Leninist organization dedicated to the 
overthrow of the Government through force and violence. A number 
of Weatherman leaders are current Bureau fugitives in connection 
. with violations of Federal antiriot laws·, Bombing and Gun Law 
statutes, as well as the fugitive Felon Act. Revolutionary 
Activities Section cites as specific authority for investigation 
- 35 -
l NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 170 
