tr- >n',-
, 
'' b 'ii:';. ~,._ •. ' Hnd ?':o: 'ti» >r+ \e::n 
• ~ 
An extensive brief, "Special Report, Nationwide 
Civil DisturbanceS:' at .the request of Vice President Agnew 
(revised periodically). 
A study, ·n•stop the Bombing' Campaign: A Communist 
Cause," at request of President's Fo1•eign Intelligence Advisory 
Boardsconcerning foreign influence in the 1964-68 campaign 
seeking a halt to u.s. bombing of North Vietnam. 
"Top Secret" blind memoranda (3) for a special 
intelligence ~valuation committee on extremist and terrorist 
groups in the UoS• 
A "Secret". paper for the u.s. Intelligence Board 
analyzing "Racism, Radicali_sni, and Nationalism in the Caribbean." 
This Unit has also collected and prepared material 
for various articles, speeches, and surveys, and has prepared 
spe~ial mem~r~~~~ for the inform~t.19U 9f Bureau officials. 
Personnel of this Unit have handled·lectures on the subjects 
of communism, the New Left movement, and racial extremism. 
These have consisted of classified lectures to Bureau's New 
Agents and In-Service classes, appearances before other 
intelligence agencies and National Academy classes, and a 
number of nonclassified lectures before civic, church, and 
law enforcement groups. Since last inspection, a total of 42 
speeches have been handled ·involving outside g1•oups. 
J3Eecial Records Uni,i 
Primarily responsible for records keeping, this Unit 
is also engaged in emergency planning. In addition, beginning 
in S_eptember, 1970, the Unit has prepared the Di vision's 
portion of the "Brief For Director's Use In Connection With 
Atto;rney General's Staff Conference," Thursdays, at 5 p.m. 
• Also beginning in September, 1970, this Unit has 
prepared the "FBI Stunmary of Extremist Activities," a weekly 
summary of racial extremist activities, which is disseminated 
to the Vlhite House, top Government officials, the intelligence 
community,. and each field office. The White House has been 
highly commendatory of this paper, praising the content,format, 
and style. The Director approved an incentive award for the 
Agent who prepares the summary. 
-4 -
I l 
I 
' 
