• Ai:i."tcl to Birminr:hnm 
mi: El1GENE '1'HOi11A.St ET AL; 
intentiona to cohtinue to maintain this residence inasnuch 
as both he and 11:ts ex-wife are i~esiciing elsewhere., 
Informant's 01~•Hwife has obtained employment ut a 
salary of ::ippro,dnrntely r;22s por montil. Sllo hns f i:::wd 
obligntions that will nmcunt to approxi1~rntoly ~-;,;:;34 a month 
uncl feclo she could better meet her obli~utionD if che wore 
3.•ecc;l•J'ing h.,3:r alimony paymen-tso LU"So J-20;;;,3 hus stnted f;;he 
is to 1~cccivo alimony oi $115 n 1:10:nth 11nd tlurt h8:t1 e;.,:-husbund 
is in ar:.t'E.Hu~s for ~ tot::.1 o::? ~~0900 'fi10 Burenu dssi:t"es to 
know what informant's thoughts ureas to meeting this 
obligation to his 0.::r-w2.xe. AlrJo advise if in:Co;171:1ant considers 
these pa_y;nentn as necessary monthly obligations ·chat he woul.d 
mep·t unde:t> normal circumstances. 
The Di1 .. m:tnglu:u11 Office :ts to give this you1 .. it1111ed:i.ut0 
attention and promptly advise the Bui·eauo 
NOTE: 
'£he Bj,r,mingham Office has pointed out that Rowe has 
performed an invaluable service to the"Bureau.and has saved an 
. untold amount of inan power and various expenses in connection 
with the shooting of :Mrs. Viola Liuzzoo L1formant has been 
in protective custody of the Bureau since 4/1/65 and not had 
opportunity to be gainfully employed to meet various· obligations. 
The Birmingham Office has recommended that the Bureau pay 
informant's outstanding bills in order to continue the excellcht 
relationship developedo We are presently paying him $16 per day 
subsistence in lieu of expenses which figure was decided upon 
after discussion wifuthe Department. It is not desired to make 
a large payment at this time which could be construed as a payment 
to ~owe for his testimony in the up-coming trials. Birmingham 
previously requested to submit a detailed accounting of Rowe's 
debts show:ing their basis, when contracted and schedule of 
payments. The information received from the field needs to be 
further clarified after which time this matter will be discussed 
with the Department and its views obtained as to whether or not 
payment of these debts would be judicious at this time. 
- 2 ... 
: T 
