' 
I 
'j 
l 
l 
I ' I 
,j 
I 
I' 
I 
• @ff\n' rrf,tl~l' .At!Urm.'!1 ®rlni! 
~hti!fftrtgtnn, n. a:. ~ns:Jn 
January 18, 1973 
OHPEH im. 501-73 
RULES ANO REGULATIONS 
Title 28-JUDICIAt 
ADMU~ISTRATWti 
Chapfer !--Depcrfment of Justice 
{Order G0l-'13] 
PART 16-?RODUCTION OR DISCLO­
SURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMA­
TION 
Subpart B-Produdion or Disdcsun~ 
in Response io Subpenas or· De­
mands of Courts or Other J\uthori­
fies: 
This order delegates to ce~·tain De­
partment of Justice officials the author­
ity to approve the production or dis­
-closure of material or information con­
tained in Department files, or informa­
tion or material acquired by a person 
while employed by the Department .... It 
applies whe1·e a subpena. order or other 
demand of a court or other authority, 
such as an administrative agency, is fa­
sued for the production or disclosure of 
such information. 
By virLue of the authority v.ested in me 
by 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, and 5 U.S.C. 301, 
Subpart B of Pa:rt 16 of Chapter I of 
Title 28, Code of F,ederal Regulations, is 
revised, and its provisions renum6ered, 
to read as follows: 
Subpart 8-Producticn or Disclosure in Response 
to Subpenas or Demands of Courts or Olher 
Authorities 
Sec. 
16.21 
16.22 
16.23 
.6.25 
G.28 
Purpose and scope. 
Production or disclosure prohibited 
unless approved by appropriate De­
partment official. 
Procedure in the event of a demand 
tor production or disclosure. 
Final action by the appropriate De­
par~ment ofliclal or the Attorney 
General. 
Procedure where a Department deci­
sion concerning a demand Is not 
mndo pdor to tho t!me a response 
to the demrmd is required. 
other authority is issued for the produc­
tion or disclosure of (1) any material 
contained in the files of the.Department, 
(2) any information relating to mater1ai 
contained in the files of the Department, 
or (3} any information or tnaterial 
acquired by any person while such per­
son was an employee of the Department 
as a. part of the performance of nis of­
ficial duties or because of his official 
status. 
(b) For purposes of this subpart, the 
term "employee of the Departmept" in­
cludes all officers and employees of the 
United States appointed by, or subject 
to the snpervjsion, jurisdiction, or control 
of, the Attorney General of the United 
States, including U.S. att.orneys, U.S. 
marshals, and members of the staffs of 
those officials. 
§ 16.22 Produr.tion Ol" 1li;;<"lo,,urc-prohib­
ited unless npprov.cd hy ap11ropriat,c 
U<>pa::£mcnt o!Iicinl. 
No employee or former employee of the 
Department of Justice shall, in response 
to a demand of a court or other au­
thority, produce any material contained 
in the files cf the Department or disclose 
any information relating to material con­
tained in the files of the Department, or 
disclose any information or produce any 
material acquired as part of the per­
formance of his official duties or because 
of his official status without prior ap­
proval of the appl'opriate Department of­
ficial or the Attorney General in accord­
ance with § 16.24. 
§ 16.23 Prol'ctlurl' in the ev<"nt or a ,lc­
rmmd for production or: di;;dosnr(.'. 
(a) Whenever a demand is made upon 
{tn employee or former employee of the 
Department for the production of ma­
terial or the disclosure oi !nformation 
described in ll 16.21Ca), he shall im­
mediately notify the U.S. att-0rney for 
the district where the issuing· authority 
is located. The U.S. attorney shall im­
mediately request instructions from the 
appropriate Department oflicial, as desig­
nated in paragraph (b) of this section. Prncedure in the event of an ndverse 
rullng. (b) The Department officials author­
AuTHORITY: 26 u.s.c. 609, 510 and s-u.s.c. ized to approve production or disclosure 
:01. under this subpart are: 
;ubpert B-Production or Disclosure U) In the event that the case or other matter whir:ll gave rise to the demanded in Response to 5ubpenas or De~ material or information is or, if closed, 
n.ands of Courts or Other Authori~ was within the cognizance cf n division 
ties of the Dep~rtmcnt, the Assistant At-
16 tomey General ln charge or that divi-s . .;n Purpose ~nd scope. siort. This authority may be rede1eP,ated 
(a) TMs subpart sets forth the pro- to Deput.y Ass!stant At.t-0rneys C-eneral . 
.::cdurcs to be followed when a subpena, <2) In instances .of c.ema11ds that are 
?rder, or other demand (herein:iftl'r re~ not covered by p!l.ragrnph 'fhl (l) of this 
?erred to as a "demand") of a~ourt er section: 
;:_ ;-T~-~:,ORMA.TION COIIT .. IDraD 
l:I£:r;.i<~!M ~ ~OLABSlFIED 
. DATElO µ1 ~ 0~:9i<bf::~ Ji+.nf 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fi26 Page 120 
