I 
1 
NW 313'600 
L__ 
. • 
• • 
®ffirr nf 11!.e Attnrnrl! <irn.eral 
~u,gqingtnn, 'ID. <!1. 2nszn 
,Tanuary 18, 1973 
onnEH No.501-73 
RULES AND REGULATIONS 
Title 28-JUDICIAL 
ADMINISTRATION 
Chapter I-Department of Justice 
[Order 501-73] 
PART 16-PRODUCTION OR DISCLO­
SURE OF' MATERIAL OR INFO'RMA­
TION 
Subpart B-Production or Disclosure 
in Res·ponse to Subpenas or De­
mands of Courts or Other Authori­
ties 
This order delegates to certain De­
partment of Justice officials the author­
ity to approve the production or dis­
-closure of material or information con­
tained in Department files, or informa­
tion or material acquired by a person 
while employed by the Department. It 
applies where a subpena, order or other 
demand of a court or other authority, 
such as an administrative agency, is is­
sued for the production or disclosure of 
such information. 
By virtue of the authority v.ested in me 
by 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, and 5 U.S.C. 301, 
Subpart B of Part 16 of Chapter I of 
Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, is 
revised, and its provisions renumbered, 
to read as follows: 
Subpart B-Produclion or Disclosure in Response 
to Subpenas or Demands of Courts or Other 
Authorities 
other authority is issued for the produc­
tion or disclosure of (1) any material 
contained in the files of the Department, 
(2) any information relating to material 
contained in the files of the Department', 
or (3) any information or material 
acquired by any person while such per­
son was an employee of the Department 
as a. part of the performance of his of­
ficial duties or because of his official 
status. 
(b) For purposes of this subpart, the 
term "employee of the Department" in­
cludes all officers and employees of the 
United States appointed by, or subject 
to the supervision, jurisdiction, or control 
of, the Attorney General of the United 
States, including U.S. attorneys, U.S. 
marshals, and members of the staffs of 
those officials. 
§ 16.22 Production or tlisclosurl' prohib­
ited unless np1>roved by appropriate 
Depnrtment oflicinl. 
No employee or former employee of the 
Department of Justice shall, in response 
to a demand of a court or other au­
thority, produce any material contained 
in the files of the Department or disclose 
any information relating to material con­
tained in the files of the Department, or 
disclose any information or produce any 
material acquired as part of the per­
formance of his official duties or because 
of his official status without prior ap­
proval of the appropriate Department of­
ficial or the Attorney General in accord­
ance with § 16.24. 
Sec. § 16.23 Procedure in the event of a de-16.21 Purpose and scope. . d f d • t1· J 16.22 Production or disclosure prohibited mnn or pro ucl! 011 or isc osurc. 
unless approved by appropriate De- (a) Whenever a demand is made upon 
pa.rtment official. an employee or former employee of the 
16.23 Procedure In the event ot a demand Department for the production of ma-
for production or disclosure. terial or the disclosure of information 
16.24 Final action by the appropriate De- described in § 16.2l(a), he shall im­
~!1;!!~t official or th e Attorney mediately notify the U.S. attorney for 
.6.25 Procedure where a Department dee!- the district where the issuing authority 
slon concerning a demand 1s not is located. The U.S. attorney shall im­
made prior to the time a response mediately request instructions from the 
to the demand 1s required. appropriate Department official, as desig-
6.26 Procedure in the event of an adverse nated in paragraph (b) of this section. 
ruung. (b) The Department officials author-
AUTHoRrrY: 2a u.s.c. 509, 510 and 5 u.s.c. ized to approve production or disclosure 
:01. under this subpart are: 
:ubpart B-Production or Disclosure <1) In the event that the case or other matter which gave rise to the demanded in Res•ponse to Subpenas or De- material or information is or, if closed, 
mands of Courts or Other Authori- was within the cognizance of a division 
ties of the Department, the Assistant At-
16 2 torney General in charge of that divi-
§ • 1 Purpose nnd scope. sion. This authority may be redelegated 
(a) This subpart sets forth the pro- to Deputy Assistant Attorneys General. 
::edures to be followed when a subpena, (2) In instances of demands that are 
'lrder, or other demand (hereinafter re- not covered by paragraph Cb) (1) of this 
.:erred to as a "demand") of a coi,a;t;,m o~n l . ::, 0 -
Docld:329896W 216 
~,~ • ~ v :)_ -If u ..,) 7 ~ -
