( 
K. 
: , 
\ 
RECO~IMENDED PLAN OF ACTION I 
A penetrative and objective study of the 
Bureau's position has led us ~o conclude that the Bureau 
should pl::i.y n much more active nnd i11flu0ntinl role in 
the clandestine collection of p~sitiv~intelligence in the 
United States. '\'le are recorri.J.11ending the implementu tion of 
a plan which will lc::i.d to a v~lu;;Lblo eontribution ... ,o our 
nn.tionn.1 security effort and concurrently will improve our 
internal security capabilities. This plan presents~ 
concept of an PBI as an Agency primarily responsible~or 
inte1·nal security, but supplementing its coverage with a 
substantially expanded c~pability in the clandestine collec­
tion of positive intelligence. We believe that we have the 
• capability of developing this new look ltnowing that at the 
same time we can institute a badly needed leadership to 
eliminate a gap in the acquirement of high-quality intelli­
,gence in the United States. The main features of this plan 
are: 
1) Est~blishment of a list of foreign diplomatic 
targets consistent with the needs of the Government. 
2) Expansion of our technical surveillance 
capabilities with emp,,.asis on misurs o 
3) Expansion of live sources characterized wlth 
selectivity and high-quality value . 
. 4) The FBI assuming a role of leadership in the 
clandestine e}:ploi ta:· ion of positive intelligence in the 
U.S., and in so doing ~alting maximum use of the talent and 
capabilities of other appropriate U.S. Agencies. 
Authorization 
The plan would be implemented under proper executive 
authorization (Presidential) and furthermore would be coordi­
nated with the United St~tes Intelligence·Board (USIB). A· 
let:ter from the Pr,esident authorizing the Bureau to expand. .. 
its capabilities in clanQestine positive intelligence collec­
tion, ·consistent with the needs of the government, would 
suffice. In order to avoid any misunderstanding or confusion 
within the intelligence community; USIB would be apprised of 
the Presidential authorization. The letter from th0 Pr~sident 
cl 
P'I 
4 
. . -would. no-t .. requi:z;-e .any. details regal·ding .the na~cure and the . : 
•Jf>. ,. ·scop·e· 'oi 't'h'a a'c'tihn" :to,. be ·.,t'akeii"'by°''t'he Biir1'3au · but· c·ou!'d' be'·.,,:.·,' •• ;·-·.,.·! 
- 86 -
