·• ' ··• .\ 
' DCS disseminated 26,000 such reports. DCS dqes not 
have any responsibilities in the clandestine collection 
of intelligence, and in that sense it is very. 
specifically not operationalo DCS definitely cannot 
engage in any activity of an intornul security nature, 
and wi·thin CIA it is clearly understood that DCS. is • • 
no~ to be operational under any circums_tanceso '\ 
DCS has boon tho subject of some controversy within 
CIA. There is-one school of thought which maintains 
that DCS should be an appendage of the Deputy Director 
of Plans~ who is responsible for all clandestine 
operations., The other school which has prevailed 
holds ·to the line that DCS should be separate and•, 
continue under the supervision of the Deputy Director 
of Intelligence (DDI). This situation not only has 
caused headaches for CIA but also for the Bureau because 
of situations v1hich arise where the "left hand does not 
know what the right hand is doing." 
• "l' DCS is essentially carrying out CIA' s ,, • 
responsibilities emanating from National Security Council 
Intelligence Directive (NSCID) Noo 2 which has its roots 
in a simi:i.ar aireci..ivt;; lssued under tho !:;;.-tio~~:?. 
Intelligence Authority in 19460 It has been in business 
for approximately twenty yearso Per agreement, DCS 
cannot inte~view an alien without first clearing with 
the Bureau. . This is done on a daily basis. With regard 
to· American citizens, Bureau approval is not required 
unless the Bureau has indicated a prior interest in the 
., individual; however, DCS nevertheless submits ~ame 
checks on Americans, and if it so happens tha.t the 
subject of such an inquiry is a Bureau source or 
involved in a Bureau investigation, we are in a position 
to move to protect our interestso It should be noted 
that although.DCS is engaged primarily in positive 
int0llig0nc0 collection, it is required to be.on the 
alert :for sources who possibly might be useful to CIA0 a 
clandestine operationso For example, if-DCS encounters 
.· an alien ·who can be utilized in an overseas operation, 
' .• 
• :.·. •• • ···-the··1ead ·is ·passed on ·to the appropriate. division •... - .... ·,.., ·.·•.,· .... 
. A.t ·t}:le present time, _DC? alerts the newly created 
.Domestic Operations Division (explained below) regarding 
potential sources. • ...... 
• Our current controls with regard to DCS are 
functioning efficien~ly. We regularly e~mina the .. 
. . 
... 60 -
