• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
Re:· Senstudy 7 5 
Select .Committee staff on how the Director of Centa·l Intelligence 
manages the intelligence community. Later in the month; Colby 
is ·hopeful that those ·senators making up the Committee will also 
visit .CIA Headquarters ·for a similar briefi!lg . 
• KEY 'ISSUES 
My memorandum of 4/7/75 reporting the results. of the 
last EXCOM meeting identified eleven: key :issues which the 
White House was particularly interes·ted in (copy of the key 
issues attached). As reported in the 4/7/75 memorandum the FBI 
has been designated to prepare the paper entitled "Intelligence 
Files and Privacy." Mr. J. Dennis Miller, Legal Counsel Division, 
will prepare this paper. He will work with ·Mr·. John Brock, 
Office of the. se·dretary of Defense·, as well as Mr. Bob McBrien 
of Treasury. The White 'House· is very inter·ested in the preparation 
of these key issue papers and has asked that the person responsible 
for preparing each paper have ·ready a comprehensive outline as 
to. how the ·paper will be constructed on the· occasion of the next 
EXCOM meeting scheduled for Friday 4/18/75 . 
• THIRD AGENCY RULE 
Attached herewith ·is a paper entitled "Third Agency 
Rule 
11
• prepared by CIA' s General CounB·e1. It is ·designed to. 
acquaint the intelligence community with a background of the' 
third agency rule and to insure that all members ·of the. community 
adhere· to the third agency rule· when responding to requests· from 
the Select Committees ·of the Congress. It is· to be noted 
Mr. Wilderotter expressed the' hope that all agencies ·in the 
intelligence community will respond to a third agency request 
within· a 48 hour deadline. Both the military and CIA felt such 
a short .deadline was ·imposs·ible but all indicated· they would try 
to provide res'ponse·s within 48 hours when clearance t0 pass 
information to the Select Committees of Congress· under the' 
third agency rule is ·requested. • 
.... 4 - CONTINUED - OVER 
. NW 38601! Docld:32989532 Page 111 
