( 
NW·38601! 
• 
" I • 
/ 
This would p0rmi t CIA to levy requirements on 
us. For exa..-nple, if we recruited the Third Secrelary 
of the French Embassy, CIA might wish to ask any number 
of questions dealing with the French political situation. 
If ·we felt that the :request was :reasonable, we could 
handle this through our sourceo 
It \"!ill be noted that th0 pr.o~ra.m dooo not 
preclude CIA from development of foreign intelligence .. 
sources in the U.S. for fulfillment of CIA responsibilitieso 
CIA will continue to opei.'ate under exis-'cing ground rules 
which are desi·gned to protect Bureau interests. 
We believe th?-t if the program is implemented 
and jells we will be in a position to "spot" sources 
required by CIA and other agencies to discharge their 
responsibilities. This would apply to cases where the 
target was in the·U. s. for a visit or if he had some 
specialized knowledge not related to our internal security 
responsibilities. These would be targets which other 
agencies could handle ·without interfering with our operations 
and with out mal(ing us carry a load for another agency.· 
This particular concept should include a Bureau attitude 
that any and every source handled by ano~her·agency in ihe 
U. S. potentially ca. .. be useful to us o We should have an 
outlook that all sources should be exploited to the fullest 
extent and under secu:re conditions. If another ~gency has 
a capability to open a door we should take advantage of the 
situation.· 
In those instances where CIA has a source in the 
United States, we should prod that agency to seek information 
of interest to the Bureau, and where obviousiy necessary we 
should arrange access to the CIA source. The important 
feature of this new concept is.that we assume the role of 
projecting initiative, leadership and aggressiveness. Our 
position should be such that we push the other agencies to 
use their resources even to the point of.healthy irritation. 
We have looked at CIA as the "other agel;lcy" in 
this picture, but we should. not neglect.the potential of 
agencies such as ACSI, Air Force, ONI and State.· All of 
them have entree ·to diplomatic circles. The day-to-day 
contacts which officials of these agencies have with 
personnel of foreign goverD.!11ents produce many "pieces" of 
·personality data which, when added up over a period of .time 1 
- 96 -
Page 268 
