(' 
• • 
U. S. Senate Select Committee 
to Study Governmental Operations 
With Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC) 
The FBI conducts investigations under the Federal 
Employ~e Security Program pursuant to Executive Orders 10450 
and 10422. Executive Order 10450 became effective May 28, 1953, 
and sets forth security requirements for ~mployment in the 
Ex:~cuti.ve Branc~.h. 'I'he puTpQSe; of the Federal Employee Sec1.1-rity 
Program is to insure that the employment and retention in employment of any .civilian in the Executive Branch is clearly 
consistent with the interests -of the national security. 
At the request of the White House, investigations are 
conducted concerning Presidential appoin~ees and t.fuite House 
personnel. At t.he re~est of Cabin$t officers, investigations are conducted concerning certain personnel. • 
Upon 1:equest, investigations ar~ c;.onducted concerning 
staff personnel of seven Congressional Committees. These. are 
handled by agr~ement with the Department of Justice and include: 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee 
Senate Committee on Judiciary House Committee on Judiciary 
Joint Committee on Atomic Energy 
Senate Appropriations Committee 
House Appropriations Committee 
Senate Armed S~rvices Committee 
At the reqt1est of the Department of J~stice, investiga­tions are cQnducted·concerrting Departmental Applicant$ for 
Presidential appointments and p~ofessional positions such as 
Federal .J'udges, United Statee Attorney$, and other legal positions. 
In addition, investigations a~e conducted for the Administrative Office of the United States Courts concexning applicant$. for the 
positions of United States Magistrate, Federal Public Defender, 
• Referee in Bankruptcy, Federal Cou:t;"t E,t~Cutive, and Probation 
Officer. Also investiSations are conducted concerning persons who 
have applied fo.r pardons after eompletion of sentences upon being 
convicted of felonies in the United State$ District Courts. 
- 5 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989570 Page 109 
