•• 
Memorandum to Mr. W. R. W annall 
Re: General Accounting Office (GAO) Review of FBI Operations 
62-56866 
Congressmen Dodd, Drinan and Badello expressed specific 
(
interest in the "soft" area. In response to their .queries, GAO Auditor Fogel 
listed several· instances where, based on summaries, GAO believed the· . 
opening of preliminary inquiries by the FBI field offices was subject to 
question. Among these were: 
1. An instance where cases were opened on two individuals 
on information provided the FBI by local police that two high school youths 
were present in the courtroom at a trial of an extremist. {'rhere was no 
indication by GAO in their testimony as to whether the police had identified 
these individuals as high school youths , or whether the preliminary inquiries 
conducted by the FBI so identified them.) 
2. An instance where the FBI opened a case on a husband and 
wife on the basis of having seen their license plate outside the home of a 
- --New Left functionary where a social party was in progress. (Again, there 
was no indication by GAO in the testimony as to whether the FBI knew it was 
a social party at the time the preliminaries were opened or determined this 
. •ti&Ubs.eq.uenfil:y . ) 
3. A case was opened on an individual who expressed an interest 
in applying for membership in a group considered extremist or subversive by 
the·FBI .. 
4. A case was opened on an individual who telephoned a member 
of an extremist group. 
5. A case was opened on a person who parked his car outside a 
convention of a subversive/ extremist organization-. 
6. A case was opened as a result ol a mail cover on an individual 
who corresponded with a national officer of a black extremist organization. 
7. A case was opened on an individual who attended a meeting of 
the press committee of a subversive organization. 
CONTINUED - OVER 
- 4 :-
' . ~ . ,. 
. •_..,.,, 
, ~~-~ ~ .• , ... ~.;.~,-."( ....,, . , .. ~. " .. -
NW 38600 • D~ld':)~510 Page 100 ' 
l ' i ! 
l 
) 
I 
, 
1 
l 
I l l 
( 
! 
