• • 
Oll'li'ICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
WASHINGTON., D. C. 
May 15, 1956 
ORDER NO. ll6-56 
It is the :policy of the Department of Justice to extend the fullest 
possible cooperation to congressional committees requesting information from 
departmental files, i"nterviews with department employees, te 9timony of depart­
ment personnel, or testimony of Federal prisoners. The following procedures 
are prescribed in order to effectuate this policy on a basis which will be 
mutually satisfactory to the congressional committees and to 'the Department. 
·[This order supersedes the Deputy Attorney General's Memorandum No. 5, dated 
March 23, 1953; and his Memorandum No. 97, dated August 5, 1954. It formal­
izes the Attorney General's press release of November 5, 1953, establishing 
procedures to permit committees of the Congress and their authorized repre­
sentatives to interview and to take sworn testimony from Federal prisoners. 
It SU!)plements Order No. 3229 (Revised) dated January 13, 1953, and Order 
No. 3464, Supplement No. 4 (Revised) dated January 13, 1953 (with Memorandum 
of "Authorization Under Order No. 3464 Supplement No. 4 (Revised)" dated 
January 13, 1953), insofar as said orders have reference to procedures to be 
followed in the Department's relations with congressional committees. In 
support of this order, reference should be had to the President's letter 
dated May 17, 1954, addressed to the Secretary of Defense, and to the Attorney 
General's Memorandum which accompanied it.] 
A. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FROM DEPARTMENT FILES 
1. Concµ-essional committee requests for the examination of files 
or other confidential information should be reduced to writing, signed by 
the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney General, 
who is responsible ;for the coordination of our liaison with Congress and 
congressional committees. The request shall state the specific information 
sought as well as the specific objective for which it is sought. The Deputy 
§ ?;l ~ Attorney General wilJ. fo~d the request to the appropriate di vision where a 
~ ~ reply will be pre-pared and returned for the Deputy Attorney General' s signa-
~ /§'b ,Qture and dispatch to the chairman of the committee. 
~g,~~ 
;;~ 
1-:'.1 ;):;, r--
!'.;1 ~ ~; "( IT.Ji,~ 
2. If the request concerns a closed case, i.e., one in which 
there is no litigation or administrative action pending or contemplated, 
the file may be ma.de available for review in the Department, in the presence 
of the official or employee having custody thereof. The following procedure 
shall be followed in such cases: 
a. The reply letter will advise the committee that the 
file is available for examination and set forth the 
name, telephone extension number, and room number of 
the person who will have custody of the file to be 
reviewed; 
J.mM._QOO_s~ 
NW 313'600 Docld:329896;()9 218 0.:J--//&' 
