' • 
• 
' .. 
The question to be resolved, then, is divided into 
several interrelated parts. First, if the Presidential 
directives described heretofore are actually valid. Secondly, 
assuming that the directives are completely valid, why have 
they been cited as one of the bases of FBI investigative 
authority? Thirdly, if, as it appears from the foregoing, the 
directives are valid, but do not convey the investigative 
authority we have heretofore contended, what effect will this 
have on our past and future domestic intelligence investigative 
activity? 
Insofar as the validity of the Presidential directives 
is concerned, there can be no question but that each directive 
·was issued completely in accord with the President's executive 
power. The evidence shows that the first directive in September, 
1939, was not only implemented with the knowledge of Congress, 
but by appropriating money to the FBI for its implementation 
Congress in effect gave the directive the full force of law. 
None of the directives from September, 1939, to the one issued 
by President Eisenhower in 1953 have been secret. As a matter 
of fa~t, all were directed to the public at large, asking 
support of local law enforcement officials and patriotic 
organizations. Numerous times the directives have been cited 
in FBI appropriations testimony. 
The second part of the question becomes more difficult 
to answer. Over the years, whenever it has been necessary and 
proper to describe our investigative authority, and this has 
been a requirement in justifying our annual budget, we have used 
what·we have considered all of the different bases fo~ such 
authority. Although it now seems obvious that the September, 
1939, and July, 1943, directives did not actually order the FBI 
to take charge of any investigations not actually covered by 
statute, i.e., espionage, sabotage, and neutrality laws, it did 
request law enforcement officers to turn over to the nearest 
representative of the FBI all information relating to subversive 
activities and counterespionage as well as the three statutory 
crimes listed. It is apparent that the language here was intended 
as a catch-all so that law enforcement officers would turn over 
information of any sort whatsoever if it might affect the 
national security. 
In analyzing the langu~ge used.in that first directive 
of September, 1939, everything must be put into its proper 
perspective. In 1939 the Nation had been conditioned to a state 
of near-war. From. January 30, 193.3, when Adolf Hitler became 
Chancellor of Germany, through the nonagression pact between 
Germany and the Soviet Union in August, 1939, the specter of war 
- 13 -
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989ti-09 148 
