! • 
... 
. .,, 
• •·· .... 
SIGINT provides a broad range of f9reign intelligence ranging from early 
warning indicators to the most mundane information. The importance of any 
single intercept or series of interceptions cannot be anticipated in advance; 
.therefore, the probable cause standard and the proposed requirements of 
11particularity 11 are inappropriate in connection with tl:iis method of foreign intelli­
genc~ collection. (Furthermore, the House bills would impair existing responsibility 
for using other intelligence gathering techniques against foreign subjec.ts within the 
United States, e.g. , medicepts, photo surveillance, etc.) 
6. Effect on Intelligence Community Interests: The bills reviewed above 
would severely restrict domestic communications interception for foreign intelligenc<f 
.gathering purposes; raise serious questions respecting authority to intercept 
transnational C;Ommunications; and would even raise questions concerning the 
. fo1:eign .intelligence community 1s authority to conduct electronic surveillance abroad 
free from judicial intrusion or other conditions. (Moreover, the House bills 
would restrict the use of other intelligence gathering techniques against foreign 
targets within the United States.) 
(a)· Domestic Electronic Surveillance: An operation 
mounted against a foreign target within the United States to 
gather foreign positive intelligence would apparently not meet the 
CQ.urt test unless the specific message targetted involved an anti­
cipated; demonstrable and direct threat to the national qefense. 
S. 743 explicitly confers interception authority to the FBI alone. 
It also explicitly raises the issue of the consistency of surveillance 
.. with internationa:1 obligations, e.g., the Vienna Convention, and 
thus challenges the position taken by the .State Department that no 
current international obligation precludes targetting foreign 
facilities within the United States. 
{b) Transnational Electronic Surveillance: ·Proposed 
legislation would apparently subject the interception of trans­
national communications from a situs within the United States to 
. the probable cause standard. It could also p;rovide grounds for 
arguihg that interceptions of transnational communications froin 
facilities outside the United States would be subject to the same 
standard. 
(c) Foreign Electronic Surveillance: The bills 
reviewed above are broadly written and the prohibitions are not 
·expressly limited ·to the territory of the United States. While the 
reach of this legislation should be subject to the built-in limitation 
.that the authority of ·a federal court to issue warrants is confined 
to its territorial limits, repeal of 18 U .S .C; 2511(3) and the 
~rticulation of probable cause standards for foreign intelligence 
gathering activities ~ould have a grave impact on overseas . 
intelligence collection by bringing into play a body of exclusionary 
rule case law (developed in ruling on the admissability in a 
Federal criminal trial of evidence obtained overseas by electronic 
surveillance). Suffice it, here, to say that this could result in 
.. 4 
NW 38608 Docld:32989fi09 Page 127 SECRET 
