'!' 
r 
. , 
I 
The Commission concerned itself principally with 
the efficiency with which CIA was fulfilling its statutor~ 
missions of coordination, correlation, evaluation, nnd 
diss0mination of the intol.ligcncc product of other Government 
agencies and departments. The Commission examined agency 
activity in light of the CIA primary mission of advising 
NSC and performing services and duties related to 
intelligence and national security as the NSC directed. 
(la) Eberstadt Task Force Report 
The results 01 the first examination of CIA by the 
Hoover Commission were more or less apologetic in tone, 
emphasizing the soundness of directives setting up NSC and its 
direction of the Agency. The report pointed ou~ however, 
that CIA and its parent, NSC, had had little time to actually 
implement the coordination necessary for leadership in the 
field.· .The Task Force clearly defined its understanding of 
-the CIA mission as: ''•••··•coordinate intelligence activities 
of Federal agencies concerned with national security." 
The duties of CIA were listed as: 
1. Advise National Security Council on national 
security intelligence activities of Federal departments and 
agencies~ 
2. Recommend necessary coordination of such 
'activities to·National Security Council. 
3. Correlate, evaluate and disseminate ·national 
sepurity intelligence. 
4. Render intelligence services for other Federal 
• • • • departments and agencies." (62-88575-3 enclosure behind file.) 
·.·.•· .. " ............ _ 
i l 
. . . 
In discussing the duties of the CIA the Task Force 
noted, "Under the statute CIA is entrusted with the performance 
of such.services of'common concern as the National Security 
Council shall determine. At present these include, apart from 
Scientific Intelligence, which is discussed separately~ (a) 
maintenance of central indexes of report, records, and documents 
having intelligence value; (b) examination of foreign documents 
from which intelligence materi~l is extracted and disseminated; 
(c) maintenance of central map facilities; (d) monitoring of 
foreign broadcasts; and (e) collection of the.information by 
clandestine means and count~respionage abroad." 
.... 34 -
