\ 
I (3) The performance centrally, subject to NSC 
direction, of certain intelligence and related functions 
common concern to various departments of the Government. 
.;I 
of 
The report noted that Section 102 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 established a frameworlt for a sound 
intelligence system and no amendment to that Section of tho 
Act was deemed-necessary. 
Although the coordination of intelligence activities 
of the several departments and agencies concerned with national 
security was a primary rea~on for establishing CIA, the report 
noted the National Security Act does not give CIA independent 
authority to coordinate intelligence activities, as final 
-responsibility to ~stablish policies was vested in th0 NSC. 
•• The statutory limitations upon the authority of CIA 
to coordinate intelligen~e activities without the approval of 
~ the NSC were, according to the report, obviously designed to 
protect the autonomy and internal arrangements of the various 
departments and agencies performing intelligence functions. 
In spite of these calcuLa~ea limitations o~ ths-aathc=!ty of 
.CIA, the report noted, it was clear the Agency was expected to 
J provide the initiative and leadership in developing a coordinated 
intelligence system. In practice, the NSC has almost without 
• .. • exception approved the recommendations· submitted to it by CIA 
.• • • for the coordination of intelligence activities. 
. The National Security Act does not define the 
.•• -"intelligence activities" which were to be coordinated by CIA 
. under the direction of the NSC or specify the departments 
• whose activities were covered. Presumably,· according to the 
report, all intelligence activities relating to the national 
security were included, from collecting information in the first 
instance to.the preparation and dissemination of finished 
intelligence reports and estimates. "The criterion," which the 
report noted :was a very broad one, was "such.intelligence 
activities ... as relate to the national security and not· 
the identity of the.departments concerned or the nature or 
locale of the intelligence activity." Thus, the report noted, 
practicaily no limitations are set upon the scope of the intelli­
gence activities with which the Central Inte+ligence Agency is 
to concern i tsel:f. •. ·. .,, 
) 
:. -.30 -
... ' 
.. . ' 
·,•• 
•,, ... 
. · .. 
. . 
' . 
