ISSUE: Should the Intclliger1ce Gathe;~ring-Fu:·1ction of the FBI 
Be Separated From the Law Enforcement Function of the 
FBI? 
Note that the issue, as oiiginally raised, ieferred 
to law enforcement and intelligence functions~ What was meant 
by intelligence was the missions of inte~nal security and 
counterintelligence. Criminat intelligence, e.g., against 
organized crime, was intended to fall within the law enfor~~­
ment mission. However, the functions of the FBI do not neatly 
fall within 11intelligence 11 and 11law enforc~ment" categories. 
Internal security cases are both intelligeDce and law enforce­
ment operations, and counterintelligence sometimes involves 
arrests and prosecutions, i.e., law enforcement. To most 
accurat~ly reflect the diverse missions of the FBI the terms 
law enforc.em~nt, internal security, and counte+intelligence 
will be used throughout this paper. 
Preface ,.. 
1. The Problem: revolves around the question whether the 
three missions can be accommodated by one agency. That is, 
E'.!:'~ "'.:~~:• S-':' 1,;s-t:-;l"l_r<-t- i."1 n~·h.1p:. +-h:;,_+- ;:;,p 0·r'J;:ini'7..::i+:iot1;:i1 c:i--rn~-· 
ture set up to perform one of the missions absolutely cannot 
perform the others; or ca.n all three r.issions be accomrnoda-ted 
but·on1y to ·the detriment of the others; or can all the missio:1s 
be adeq~ately performed by one agency? 
2. The Present Policy: is that all three missions are per­
formed by the FBI. The FBI organizational structure is pri­
marily a unitary 0ne, i.e., there is one organization with a 
multiplicity of.responsibilities, .which can be broken down 
into three general missions, law enforc0ment, internal secu­
rity (domestic) and c:unterintelligence (toreign). The 
organization's personnel are hired and catalogued into one 
of three general functional categories, agent, steno, and to· 
a lesser degree, clerks, without further differentiation based 
OJl mission, i.e., no employees, with rare exceptions, are 
criminal or counterintelligence specialists, all are gener­
alists and are regularly interchanged among the three general 
missions. The administration of cases at headquarters and, 
to a lesser extent, the conduct qf investigations in the fielc 
follow the same format in all three general areas of responsi­
bility.· 
- l -
Docid:32989541 
