NW 88tiiOS 
' -I 11: Int~.. ,. ·~· ... :, _, 
--- --·· -
¢' e j". 
0 
i 
I I I . ' 
The request for a clerk by the Internal Security Section for 
a newly approved clerical position mentioned in its write-up 
has been filled. The Espionage Section may find it necessary 
to request an additional clerk to handle extra duties assigned 
to a clerk who is already 1;eavily assigned, if the present 
system (now on a trial basis) proves unworkable. The New Left 
Section may find it necessary to request an additional Agent 
and clerk if the present trend of heavy increase in case 
load continues. we are watching this closely. As you will 
note in the write-up by the Nationalities I~telligence Section 
we are making a request for two additional Agent Supervisors 
at this time. This is necessary due to the recent increase 
in foreign· legats from 11 to 17, increasing our legat personnel 
from 60 to 88. 
·To recapitulate, our reques1B for additional personnel 
are: 
Front office 
Racial Ir1Lelliget1ce 
Espionage Section 
Nationalities Intelligence 
Section 
Two GS-2 clerks 
• vne GS-4 cl6:i."k 
One Agent Supervisor 
to replace Supervisor 
Enright. 
Two additional Agent 
Supervisors. 
One Agent Supervisor 
to replace Agent Quinn. 
Two additional Agent 
Supervisors: 
I firmly believe that our limited requests for 
additional personnel at this time are fully justified. As you 
will note in the attached write-ups, we are no~ asking for 
additional pers·onnel _µntil, after on a trial .. basis, we have 
fobnd it absolutely necessary and fully justified. The increase 
of terroristic tactics by the Weatherman faction of the 
Students for a Democratic Society and militant organizations 
such as the Black Panther Party and the "Jewish Defense League 
has made it absolutely imperative that intensive investigation 
be conducted to identify, locate all members of these militant 
organizations and secure evidence for prosecution, if we are 
to meet our grave responsibilities in the extremely vital field 
of internal security. This has increased the work load of the 
Racial Intelligence Section, the New Left Section, and the 
Nationalities Intelligence Section. Because of this increase 
Page 538 
