I .. 
l 
... 
" ' 
-
... 3 
• 
.r •' .. 
2 •. Upon the Cl'.ltllpletion of the interview with the committee repre­
S«:lntat:tve the employee •will prepare a.summary of it for the file 1 with a 
copy routed to his division head and a copy ro~ted 'to the Deputy Attorney 
General. 
C. EMPLOYF'..ES TESTIFYING BEFORE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES 
L Hhen an employee is requested to testify before a congrassional 
connni ttee regard.i.ng official matters 11i thin the Department the Deputy Attorney 
General shall be promptly informed. Hhen the Deputy Attorney General's approv­
o.l io given the employee is expected to testify freely subject to limitations 
prescribed in A respecting open cases and data in investigative ~eports; 
2. An employee subpoenaed. to testify before a·congressional committee 
on official matters within the Department shall promptly notify the Deputy 
Attorney General. In genera,l 1;1e sha,11 be guided in testifying by Order 3229 
(Revised) and the President's letter -of May 17, 1954, cited at the beginning· 
of this Order. 
3. Upon the complet:i.on·of his testimony the employee will prepare 
a memorandum outlining his testimony with a copy routed to his division head 
and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney General. 
D. REQUESTS OF CONGRESSIONAL COMMCTTEES FOR THE TESTIMONY OF FEDERAL PRISONERS 
, --------~--
Because of the custodial hazards involved arid the extent to which 
their publi¾! testimony may affect the discipline and well-be:i.ng of the institu­
tion,. it is the lfolicy _i;;rf the Department not to deliver Fea.eral prisoners out­
side the penal institution in·which they are incarcerated for the purpose of 
being interviewed or examined under oath by congressional committeeao However, 
when it appears•that no :pending investigation or legal proceed.i.ng will be 
adversely af.fec.ted thereby and that the :public interest will· not be otherwise 
e.dvers~ly affected, Federal prisoners may be interviewed or examinecl under oath 
by congressional committees in the institution in which they are incarcerated 
under the followina procedures, and with the specific advance approva.l of the 
·Deputy Attorney General. 
1. Arrangements for interviewing and taking of sworn testimony 
from a Federal pr·isoner by a committee of the Congress or the authorized 
representat:tves of such a committee shall b.e made in the form of a written 
request by the chairman of the co:mmittee.to tne Deputy Attorney General. 
2. Such written request shall be made at least ten (10) days 
prior to the requested date for the interview and the taking of testimony 
and shall be accompanied by written evidence that authorization for the 
interview or the taldng of .sworn testimony was approved by vote of the com­
mitteen Such request shall contain a statement of the purpose and the sub~ 
jects upon whi9h thtj! prisoner will be interrogated as ,,ell as the names of 
all )?ersons 9/ther tl'ian the representatives of the Department of Justice who 
will be present.o 
3. A member of the interested committee of the Congress shall be 
present during the entire time of' the interrogation. 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fi26 Page 124 
