NW 313'600 
Adequacy of Personnel 
~ew Left Section 6-E 
4. At time of last inspection, this Section had a complement 
of 24 clerical personnel as compared to present assigned 
complement of 28 clerical personnel. This increase was 
·occasioned by the transfer of the Protest and Trotskyist 
Groups Unit with accompanying personnel from Internal Security 
Section to the New Left Section. 
Congress recently appropriated funds for implementation of 
Executive Order 1.1605 whi_ch broadened power of Subversive 
Activities Control Board (SACB) to designate violence prone 
extremist organizations a~ subversive. The Department has 
indicated it intends to initiate these proceedings as soon as 
possible (See R. L. Shackelford memorandum to Mro C. D. 
Brennan, August 16, 1971, captioned "Executive Order 11605"). 
This Section handles a number of organizations which will 
undoubtedly be selected by the Department for presentation 
before the SACB. Based on past experience, the preparation 
of cases for presentation to the SACB creates a considerable 
increase in work of a clerical nature. If the Department's 
intention in this regard is implemented, it will be necessary 
to obt~in an additional clerk in the future, however, we are 
not reque~ting any additional clerical personnel at this time. 
5. The New Left Section, as of January, 1971, had an 
-authorized complement of 22 Agents and 23 clerks. Current 
assigned complement is 26 Agents and 28 clerks. This increase 
in complement, as noted above, was 9ccasioned by the transfer 
of the Protest and Trotskyist Groups Unit from the Internal 
Security Section to the New Left Section. 
6. The caseload being handled by the New Le·ft Section (aver.age 
371 cases per Agent as of August 1, 1971) is considered excessive. 
We are, at the present time, making a conscientious effort to 
reduce this caseload to desirable level by weeding out and 
closing cases which-do not require additional inve~tigation. 
If, in spite of our efforts, the upward trend continues, it may 
be necessary to request additional Agent personnel to handle 
the excessive caseload in this Section. 
As noted in number 4 above, it is anticipated that as a 
~esult of recent eongressional action, the Department intends to 
soon present violence prone extremist organizations before the 
SACB for designation as subversive. Such presentations will, 
21!4 
