' ' Relations with Other Agencies ( 
' I· 
If this program·-is-adopted, othe'r intelligence 
agencies would be officially apprised of tho Presidential 
authority granted to the FBI to collect foreign intelligence 
in the United States. Other agencies wou!d be inform0d 
regardinr.; tho nature und tho extent of tho :.-tutho:c:1.ty being 
delegated to the Bureau. It would be necessary to make 
clear that the Bureau was not assuming responsibility for 
the clandestine collection of all foreign intelligence in 
the United States, bu-t we were taking a constructive step 
in an effort to increase the production of foreign intel­
ligence through assets available to us. We would clearly 
point out that the FBI was not tak.ing this approach as a 
solution to all of the problems relating to foreign intel­
ligen9e collection·in this country. We would emphasize 
that we would move against targets in line with established 
priorities and that we would do so on a selective basis. 
We would have it understood that operational activities 
would be properly coordinated wherever it was obviously 
necep~ary. 
With regard to the handling of the product of 
technical surveillances, it v~uld be necessary to effect a 
working agreement with NSAo To do this we might be obliged 
to discuss this at the USIB level so that NSA could obtain 
the required authority to support the hiring of additional 
personnel and purchase of equipment for the processing of 
our product. Our arrangement with NSA .would include ground 
rules for processing, transl~tion, and classification·and 
dissemination. / 
Since any announcement that we were in the :foreign 
intelligence field would prompt unusual interest and very 
likely queries, we should brief CIA regarding the objectives 
of our program. Our plan will not abrogate the existing 
ground rules which permit CIA to assess and recruit positive 
intelligence sources in this country under certain conditions. 
Since both.Agencies will have.foreign intelligence sources 
in the U.S., we undoubtedly will find it useful to work out 
-an agreewent wh0~eby one Age~cy kno~s that the.other has 
coverage in a pa.rticulaz- area or establisr..ment. We already 
receive the identities-of CIA sources.· It would not be 
necessary for us to identify our sources, but we could . • • 
~ndicate to CIA that we had an asset in a particular area. 
- 95 -
NW...&8.uOJ!. Docld:32989629.-P.age..lB. .. . 
,. - _,_ --· ........ ~----·-- -- ----
