.. . . : 
effect. The few cases in which are present some of the 
fa9tors noted by Maroney are subjected to joint scrutiny by, 
and discussion between, FBI field and Headquarters supervisory 
personnel, and only after these feel the ~BI may have a case 
does the field initiate the request, which must be personally 
• approved by the field supervisor and the Special Agent in· 
Charge. Upon receipt, the Headquarters supervisor drafts a 
memorandum to the Attorney General, setting forth all pertinent 
facts, including those showing foreign involvement, on which 
the ~equest is believed justified. He must also be able to 
·justify the request in the language of one or more of the first 
three categories of 18 u.s.c. 2511(3). The·request is presented· 
through channels (i.e., Headquarters unit chief, section chief, 
brancp chief, Assistant Director of .the Intelligence Division, 
Associate Director, and Director) to the Attorney General who 
must make an independent judgment. • 
'There are argUTQ.ents pro and con that the lack of 
formal written guidelines pose an added threat to the Fourth 
.Amendment rights or right to privacy of a domestic organization 
! 
! 
or individual. The argument that it does pose an added threat wot::-id 
.seem to be based on the supposition th~t formal guidelines would 
·be exclusive, and binding in all instances. Any guidelines 
issued would probably be more illustrative of the ab,ove 
standard than definitive. Formal written guidelines made 
available to the public might curtail criticism that we are 
operating without a definitive standard, however, they might 
also trigger criticism that they are too vague, not inter-
pretive of the Court's intent, etc.; and, should a case 
arise that does not fit squarely within the guidelines but 
could possibly be justified on a broader standard, reasonably 
-within the Court's language, we could be criticized for not 
adhering to our own guidelines. Both career professionals in 
the FBI and Department of Justice attorneys review the electronic 
surveillance request for need, sufficiency, and legality. The 
Department of Justice. has committed itself, and the FBI·, to 
·abiding by the letter, spirit, and rationale of the Keith 
decision (and has expanded upon the decision to the extent of 
Maroney's testimony). If legal action ensues, whether criminal 
or civil, the courts in looking at the legality of a national 
security electronic surveillance are bound only by the Keith 
decision regardless of any Department of Justice guidelines. 
In summary then, the procedure is: the FBI does not 
submit a·request to the Attorney General for approva+ of an 
electronic surveillance upon a domes·tic organization composed of 
.. 
' 
9 - • 
. 
. . . . . 
