' 
the Student Government President and local police are 
prosecuting t:11.e"studeii'f'-who burned the flag. 
A New York informant furnished the identities of 
black extremists who were scheduled to depart the U.S. for 
Al Fat.ah camp in the Middle East for possible guerrilla 
training. 
In discussing the accomplishments of the Racial 
Intelligence Section, it is felt that comment should be made 
concerning the contributions regularly being made by the 
Inspection Division during their analysis of the racial 
investigations in the various field divisions. In addition 
to acting ~pon information furnished to them by this Section, 
the Inspection Staff through their on-the-spot review of racial 
intelligence matters in the field are often able to detect 
weaknesses not a·!?parent at the Seat of Government and offer 
constructive assistance to the·office involved in strengthening 
their operations. 
In reviewing the racial surveys prepared by the 
Inspection Division, we regularly note concrete guidance being 
afforded field offices. Examples can be found in recent 
instructions given during the inspection of the Mobile Office 
to direct .;twp_,. existing informants to seek membership in the 
Nation of Islam (NOI). These instructions were implemented and 
boJ;h..informants currently re·port on NOI activities and have 
membership applications pending. 
During a recent Cleveland inspection, the Inspectors 
gave instructions for the Cleveland Office to develop informants 
in a leadership position with the Cleveland National Committee 
t9 Combat Fascism (NCCF). As a result of these instructions, 
Cleveland has been successful in developing two informants within 
this organization both of whom are furnishing valuable information 
on the structural composition of the organization, staff members 
and proposed activities. One of these informants is a member of 
the ~~CJ!fltL*fil}g,,re,2f, the Cleveland NCCF and as such has 
furnished valuable information concerning firearms in possession 
of members of this group. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989638 Page 413 
