• 
Memorandum to Mr. Tolson 
Re: -The Long Committee 
--
---- ---
. .. 
. . 
affecting CIA. • (Apparently CIA got wind qf some inquiries by 
the committee relative to their secret operation and went to 
the committee and warned them off.) Katzenbach contemplates 
asking for a list of the witnesses who will appear before the 
committee together with a brief summary of the expected testimonyo 
On the basis of this, he will be able to advise Senator Long 
when he should steer clear of a sensitive area. 
I told Mr. Katzenbach that I certainly agree that this 
\
matter should be controlled at the committee level but that 
I felt pressure would h~ve to be applied so that the personal 
interest of Senator Long became involved rather than on any 
i4eological basis. Mr. Katzenbach said that he had already 
talked to Vice President Humphrey about Fensterwald, who he 
considered a wild man, and that Humphrey had promised to talk 
to Long concerning Fensterwald. Katzenbach said that in 
addition to the Vice President he might have to resort to 
pressure from the President himself, although.ne would prefer 
to work it out without resorting to the President. He indicated 
\
there was no one on the qo~mittee its~lf wbo Go~id be 1 helpful 
and that he did not e.xpect any help from Senator East1~an~ t 
.'' Mr. Katzenqach said that lie expected troublefrom the 
\
possible activities of IRS and the ffiilitary in the investigative 
field; that if some of these matters are uncovered before the 
committee they wi~l tend to undermine the restricted and 
tightly controlled operations of the Burea1:.. I told him that 
\
our operations are tightly controlled and particularly in the 
delicate areas of concern, we restrict ourselves to important 
security matters. 
J 
Mr. Katzenbach said he was going to see Senator Long-
on Monday and wa~ted to know if the Bureau would like someone 
to go along with him. I told him no. 
ACTION: 
Mr. Katzenbach said he would advise us of the results 
of his conversation with Long. He also asked that I advise 
the Director of our disc~ssion and I told him I woulj. 
2 -
NW 38614 Docld:32989fi.73 Page 232 
