,. 
• I 
• I 
Surveillance of Targets 
Coverage in this field will be divided into the 
following·categories: 
l) 
2) 
3) 
--Technical Surv~illances 
Microphone Surveillances 
~ore sophistic~ted electron~c 
1.0. code machines. • \ 
monitoring, 
At the present time we are handling a very limited 
number of installationso With existing capabiliti~s, we 
could virtually double our present technical covera~1• 
Once we have established reasonable pri"'ori ty· listing, ·it 
is believed we should systematically expand our operations. 
In this connection, the following should be borne in mind: 
1) Heavy emphasis should be placed on microphone 
surve;i.llances. 
2) Today we are placing greater stress on 
coverage of official establishillents. The new program asks 
tor an expansion of coverage on individuals and/or residences 
of individ~als. Here again selectivity will be a dominating· 
characteristico 
3) The program should be so flexible that we 
would be able to de~ctivate any installation for security 
reasons or for non-productivity and whenever possible employ 
techniques which would permit easy reactivation. 
4) Except for current intelligence requiring 
immedi~te dissemination 7 the product should be· •handled as 
communications intelligence and dissemination would be 
subjected to well-established Comint controls of the 
National Security Agency (NSA) plus any additional restric­
tions the Bureau felt should be imposed. 
5) The product would be transmitted to NSA by us 
for dissemination wi"chin the intelligence community. NSA 
would be r.esponsible for handling any needed translation. 
~- We must recognize that the program will produce voluminous 
information and the responsibility for processing the data 
should be fixed ~ith ~n agency which is orgnnized and 
equipped to handle the job. It is believed that if the 
Bureau assUiiled this respone:'..".:lili ty we would be burdened· with 
a gigantic task of information·processing to the point ·that 
this element would adversely ~ffect other phases of the 
program. 
- 90 -
.... ·. -
1
------------------~--'---· --.------,, . 
• NW 88~-~-ld:Ji989fi29 368 . ·.,. 
