\-;ho is :::. :.::er.ibGr of th0 klan o:;.~ganization. These calls ·,10·,: .. _ 
be li:".:.:Lted to those inst2.nces where the klan member is ,-::: ,:.~:v·')::I 
by some large company or leading business who would·possi.::i:i..y 
bG concerned about t~e pictu:-ce they present to the public con­
cerning racial matters. 
In view of the previously expressed dzsires of the 
oflicials of the Knoxville Police De:partment to main·tain· racial 
harmony in Knoxville, it is believed that arrangemants could 
be· r::ade with the Chief of Police to have one or more squa.d·cars 
visible in the vicinity oft.he meeting hall of the Knoxville 
I:18.ve:tn on the nights of their meetings. It is believed that 
if the members saw these squad c~rs parked.in the vicinity on 
~ continuing basis, it would cause them some apprehension 
and ,vould act as a de-'cerrent_ to their activities, as well as 
possible recruitment of new members. 
The UKA, KKKK. ofte.n holds public meetings on private 
pl'O.:)erty leased fo::c that ·purpose. At these meeting~, officials 
r:ml;.:e speeches and invi.te spectators to make application for 
mGmbership. Informants report that the actual purpose of such 
a meeting is to publicize the klan ai1.d secure new member·s. • 
In a f.e1•1 instances, informants have reported that some members~ 
arri vi~1g at the meetings have intentionally covered their 
license plate v!ith a cohfederate flag metal insignia or "\vith 
a f~csimile. On occasions, both the rear and front license 
plates have been obscured or usually only the £ront license 
obscured. It is believed through the-cooperation of the High­
way Patrol on a command level, that patrolmen m;ght be assigned 
to the area where the meeting is held so that if the klan . 
me:ni0ers leaving the meeting continue to have their license plate 
obscui~ed,.they may be arrested for violation of the state law 
prohibiting such. 
In connection with the informant program of the K..rioxville 
Office, certain.persons are interviewed to ascertain their 
cooperation and their potentiRls as a possible informant .. 
It is believed that in such cases where antagonism is shown 
to the Agentst contact, that a later anonymous call might be 
made to other membex·s accusing the person contacted by the 
3 
