1-~ Trust Company Bank 
i;:,lff. 
• • 
• p· . 
I' A:Aan:a. Georgia 30302 • 
Special Agent Seymour Phillips 
November 25, 1975 
Page Two 
the deposition was taken surprised, but didn 1 t bother me.· It 
could catch someone off guard if strong cross examination developed. 
~/Kelfy informed me of my constitutional rights, the right to have 
a senator present and the right to request a senator and/or attorney 
at any time thrc;>ughout the deposition. He had hinted while walking 
to the room of an interest in how Klan informants are developed and 
Bureau policy. He did not have a form on my rights or any form for 
me to sign. Afte.r his advisement, I advised him I had been briefed 
by the FBI only op procedure and the limitation of the waiver of oath 
as pertained to information only on Tom Rowe. He was informed I would 
not answer policy questions because I had been out eleven years, and 
of the availability of the Bureau executives to answer those questions. 
He explained a notary would be waiting to notarize my deposition when . 
we returned to Room G-308. I stated that I would only allow the oath 
she gave me to apply to the fact I was the person who gave the deposition. 
He agreed. The preliminary conversation and advisement of my rights was 
not recorded to my knowledge. Apparently he predicated the inquiry as 
the result of Rowets testimony and to ·corroborate same. He made it clear 
Rowe was most complimentary to the Bureau and all agents he knew. 
'l'Set forth below are briefs of his questions and my answers: 
• (He was using a statement or memo of about six pages which recorded 
testimony from Rc;rwe .. ) ,. .... r. C,.,,._,.,~f ,: I_...,.·":·- , • .._,.,. ~ '•) rt 
Q - Manner of reporting from Informant 
A - He reported in person, in writing, 
on the urgency of the information. 
from him was recorded in FBI files 
state and federal authorities on a 
Rowe? 
and by telephone depending 
All information received 
and disseminated to local, 
"need to know"'fi basis. 
Q Instructions by me to Rowe as to what information he should 
report? 
A - All information, with main interest in intelligence activities 
discussed by action groups. 
Q - My knowledge of any interest regarding an arrest record for Rowe? 
A - None recalled nor did I ever recall seeing a rap sheet on him. 
Q - Any actions of violence which were planned which he reported to me 
and what was done with the information? 
A - None recalled, only evidence recalled was a report of anothe~ Klansman 
carrying blasti-ng caps on his person while at a Klan convention. This 
information was disseminated to fellow agents on the scene with me 
surveilling the convention. 
Q -
A 
Rowe claimed that I had told him about the Bureau 1 s activities in 
fcointel: / 
His statement had to be false because I had never heard of the- code 
word until used recently in newspaper reports covering the Church 
Senate Subcommittee on intelligence activities. 
fl 
' J 
