.·. 
regarding the teaching and demonstrating of explosive devices 
by B.AMM leaders. In December, 1970, Federal Grand Jury in Miami, 
Florida, rendered indictment charging Featherstone and two other 
BAMM leaders with violation of the new antiriot laws. All 
three subjeqts have been found guilty in Federal court Miami. 
Featherstone and Charles Riley, Jr., another B.AMM leader, have 
..,.......---ma----•-twt-• WWW» X:7 70 771 Hila~ 
been sentenced to the custody of the Attorney General for 
p~riods of four and two and a half years respectively. The 
third subject, after testifying for the Federal Government, was 
placed on probation. 
Earlier this year, one of our informants being operated 
by the Richmond Office reported on a conspiracy by leaders of 
. the Washington, D. C., Chapter of the BPP and leaders of the 
Richmond Information Center. (RIC), an affiliate of the BPP, to 
steal and transport weapons from Richmond, Virginia, to 
Washington, D. C. This informant reported on the theft of such 
weapons in Richmond and their subsequent illegal transportation 
to Washington, D. C., by this group. 
As a result of this information developed and.otner· 
investigation, two of the BPP leaders in Washington and three 
RIC leaders in Richmond, Virginia, were subsequently indicted 
by a Federal Grand Jury. 
Our informant testified in Federal court as the 
principal Government witness resulting in the conviction of 
·the two Washington, D. C., leaders and two of the RIC leaders. 
The trial for the fifth individual involved is scheduled for 
8/20/71 in Richmond. The sentencing of the convicted leaders 
is· scheduled in the near futures 
As a result of the conviction obtained based on the 
_.excellent information furnished by our informant, the RIC has 
bee~ completely destroyed and conyiction of the two Washington 
BPP leaders has been highly significant in curtailing the 
activity of the Washington, D. C., BPP Chapter. 
The continued operation and development of extremist 
informants has resulted in a steady flow of valuable intelligence 
information, which information has brought about the apprehension 
