I 
I . 
I 
l 
11 
11 
Ii 
I' ,, 
,, 
' ,, 
I 
I: 
• • • 
.... ., . . 
~OP ·SECRE'i' SENSITIVE 
- 11 
On the following p~ge of these papers, the paragraphs 
are numbered again from one. On this page a large ink X has 
been pl~ced over the page; however, it is still legible. 
Paragraph 1 of this page reads, "Maximum security plus within 
KUBARK only (e.g., How much does Sivagusa[.?] now know?). 
Limitation on number code clerks for enciphering and deciphering. 
Guise of LAURICLE objective.
11 
Paragraph 5 reads, "No chain 
of connections permitting blackmailo" 
2. Memorandum, dated February 19, 1962, from Richard 
Helms, Deputy Director (Plans), to William K. Harvey, Subject: 
"Authorization of ZRRIFLE Agent Activities." This memorandum 
- authorizes Harvey to. retain ~he services of agent QJWIN "and 
such other principal agents and subagents as may be required." 
Memorandum does not state the purpose of the ZRRIFLE project. 
3. Filed immediately.after a memorandum dated March 6, 
1.969; from Richard Helms to William K. Harvey, is a normal 
business size white envelope containing the follo~ing notation 
on the front in penciled handwriting, "Lloyd very personal 
from Bill H." Within this envelope is a small yellow piece 
of paper containing the following notation in penciled hand­
writing, "John Rosselli, alias John Ralston--Wm. Walker." 
4. A memorandum dated June 27, 1963, for Chief, 
Foreign Intelligence, from William K. Harvey, Subject: QJWIN. 
This memo states that QJWIN is currently not being used for 
any operational purposes. It discusses whether or not he 
should be retained as an agent. Paragraph 2 seems to indicate 
that the executive action portion of QJWIN's project, if any, 
has been terminated. This paragraph reads: "As far as the 
ZRRIFLE aspects of this operation which has been covered under 
the QJWIN authorization for security reasons and with which ... 
Fletcher M. Knight is fully familiar as I orally advised you 
on June 26, 1963, except for one precautionary 'lifeline,' 
aspects o~ this case have been terminated and need no longer, 
except perhaps for minor accountings, be considered as a part 
of this project." 
A last file of the ZRRIFLE series examined is entitled 
"ZRRIFLE Name Traces/Personality Sketches." Items of interest 
in this file are as follows: 
':POP SEGRE'£ -SENSI':PIVE 
Page27 
