l 
Program is designed to maintain an up-to-date 
record of location and activities of individuals included 
therein, by means of established Security Index procedures 
and reporting, in order that we are in a position to move 
swiftly should the apprehension or special handling of 
these persons become necessary. 
Positive Results Achieved 
Determination as to the validity of an 
individual's inclusion in this program is constantly 
under review. Since the program was last justified on 
April 7, 1971, the number of persons on the Cuban Section 
of the Index has been reduced from 95 to 93. These 93 
persons are judged to be hard-core pro-Cubans, action 
against whom in a Cuban emergency would be mandatory. 
Of these 93, 28 are Cuban aliens. Each subject of pending 
security investigations with Cuban ramifications is 
considered for inclusion in the Index. 
Extent and Nature of Current Supervision 
The Agent Supervisor responsible for this 
program is required to review each investigative 
communication in current cases of pro-Cuban individuals 
to determine whether the individual meets the criteria 
for inclusion in the Index, as outlined in the Manualaf 
Instru,ctions. He must make a decision as to the degree 
of dangerousness of the individual under the Priority 
Apprehension Program and rule on the field's recommendations 
regarding these matters. He initiates procedures with 
the Security Index Desk of the Domestic Intelligence 
Division and Voucher Statistical Section of the 
Administrati.ve Division regarding the placing of an 
individual on the Index, his removal and the a~signment 
or change in apprehension priority. 
If the-individual involved is an alien, 
correspondence with the Internal Security Division of the 
Department is required to assure the preparation of a 
pre-positioned arrest warrant by I~igration and 
Naturalization Service. Action is also taken with the 
Department to cancel the arrest warrant if the alien is 
removed from the Index. 
NW 386iOI! Docld:329896'38 115 - 2 -
