t 
• 
, . ' 
\ 
\ 
l 
! 
' •,, 
I" 
It is suggested that in order fQr the Bureau to 
receive full credit for statistical accomP,lishments attributable 
to all FBI informants, the new form devised by the New Left 
and--rii"ternal Security Sections should include statistical 
accomplishment data as currently required on FD-405. 
Comments of Section Ch!efs Arbor W. Gray, Robert 
J. Shackelford and Assistant Director Charles D. Brennan are 
requested. 
• }lb. "l~,,,,. /Jl:J 
SECTION CHIEFS SHACKELFORD, WANNALL AND GRAY: The Inspector's 
suggestion appears to have merit. The New Left, Nationalities 
Intelligence and Internal Security Sections agree that FD-405 
could be adapted to fit security informant evaluation in the 
New Left movement and in basic revolutionary organizations and 
related groups. It is proposed that representatives of each 
of these three sections implement the Inspector's suggestion 
by revising the form for security use and preparing the 
necessary instructions to the field requiring quarterly sub­
~1e~ion of this informant status·+eport concerning organizations 
under investigation. Coordination; routing and statistical 
compilation of the incoming forms would be the responsibility 
of the Special Records Unit of the Research Section which 
maintains security informant records but the substantive 
sections involved would be responsible for evaluation and any 
necessary action on the basis of their content. It is believed 
further that should this procedure meet our needs for evaluation 
of member security informants, we should consider the elimination 
of the annual security informant report now submitted by each 
field office. It is proposed, therefore, that this suggestion 
be implemented for a six-month trial period (two submissions) 
to determine its feasibility and whether it does meet our needs 
for member informant evaluation. At the end of that trial 
period, the results will be analyzed and a commensurate 
recommendation submitted. 
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR C. D. BRENNA,!~ agree that,it would be 
(JAS:sjr - 1/21/71). \{/ ~esirable to carry out this 
suggestion at least on a 
trial basis to determine its feasibility. I will follow this 
.matter and at·the end of·the trial period the procedure will be 
carefully analyzed to determine whether or not it should be 
conti rued. 
- 3 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fill! Page 598 
