I 
,1 
- 14 -
_Recommend~ tion 
We recommend that the office be continued in 
its present status for an additional six months at the 
end of which time consideration should be given as to its 
personnel complement. • 
LA PAZ 
Coverage of Bolivia and Peru was initiated 
for the sole purpose of developing HILEV data and cannot 
be justified on any other grounds. The Legal Attache 
has done an outstanding job under very difficult 
, . circumstances. The government (until 8/22/71) was pro-
.. _:· commun:i,st and basically anti-United States. The Legal 
Attache is living inside a barbed wire fence with a full­
time guard at his door. We have had to armor plate his 
car and furnish him a two-way radio to insure full-time 
communications with his Embassy. The altitude is such that 
pe:..~sor..s with other th~~ cc~plete.ly str0ng hearts ?..nti 1,lV1l[!-=; 
should not be permitted to visit there. The office gives 
us coverage in an area we pave not visited since the days 
of SIS but normal Bureau work there is minimal. 
Productivity 
During the first six months of i971, the Legal 
Attache located 1 FBI fugitive and 3 Selective Service 
delinquents. His case load as of 6/30/71 was 45 which is 
well below average on a per agent basis. He has submitted 
24 HILEV items of which 14 have been used which is about 
average. He has twice furnished advance information 
concerning important political developments including the 
current coup and he has received commendation from the 
Director for the material he has furni~hed. 
Personnel 
The work load certainly cannot justify any increase 
in personnel but it cannot be decreased ~ithout closing the 
office. 
Recommendation 
It is recommended that operations continue in 
La Paz for another six months at the end of which time a close 
hard look should be given to closing the office. It is 
possible that a more friendly regime in Bolivia will result .in 
an increase in HILEV items but it will have no bearing on his 
over-all case load. • 
1 NW 38601! Docld:32989ti-38 Page 204 / I 
