NW 38614 Docld:3 
to the gas chambers. H,~•s aidini;t the 
power structure and causing us to be in 
the prisons, because the political pri­
soners are the ones who really initiate 
and work hard to maintain the survival 
programs for the revolution, the peo­
ple's revolutionary struggle. 
Only the masses of the 'J)eople can 
really tree political prisoners. And the 
people must see the value and the vali­
dity of the survival programs. And get­
ting on down to it, so the people can un­
derstand where it's at, so thatthepeo­
ple, even the supporters that we have all 
over Europe, all the solidarity com­
mittees that are in Europe, that're in 
Sweden,that arein Denmark, and other 
countries over there, who support the 
freedom of political prisoners in this 
country, who support the survival pro­
grams of the poor oppressed people in 
this country, and the revolutionary 
movement ( who are initiating these 
programs), I am trying myi:;elf to get 
people to understand, that we are beau­
tifully behind them and we are glad and 
semf greetings to them and praise the 
people who are in the solidarity com­
mittees in other countries, and in fact 
here in A1mirica, . here in Ameri­
KKK-a. I think that the people really 
have to understand who and what the 
Black Panther Party is, so that these 
reactionary, counter-rcvolu~ionary , 
divil:;ionary tactics will not be misun­
derstood. The Party is not falling apart. 
It's just that Eldridge Cleaver has per­
sonally defected his own self from the 
Party. I-le defected from the Party. 
And I, Bobby Seale, am the Chairman 
of only one !'arty. And that Party is the 
Party that 'Brother Huey P. Newton is 
the Minister ofDcfenseofandoneofthe 
supreme, top servants of the people; 
that Brother David llilliard is the Chief 
of Staff of; that Brother June Hilliard is 
the Assistant Chief of Staff of; that 
Bobby llutton was a member of, before 
the pigs murdered him. I am the Chair­
man of only one Party, that Brother 
Fred Hampton, who loved the survival 
programs for the people, w.1s Deputy 
Chairman of. I'm the Chairman ofonly 
one Party, who Brothers Jonathan 
Jackson and George Jackson are mem­
bers of. I'm the Chairman of only one 
Party, of the Central Committee of the 
Black Panther Party, with l·h1ey, David, 
and the rest of the brothers and sisters 
on the Central Committee, where the 
Central 1-!P.adquarters• happens to be lo­
cated on Peralta Street in Oakland, 
• 
(California). So All Power to the Peo­
pie. Right On. And we're going to stick 
together. We ain't coming up with no 
jive. We have to free Brothers Huchell 
Magee, George Jackson; we have to free 
Sister Angela Davis; we have to free 
these brothers and sisters. l am the 
Chairman of only one Party, the Party 
that Brother l·l•iey is the Ministerof 
Defense, with David Hi.lliard, June Hil­
liard, etc. And we're going to free po­
litical prisoners; and, we're going to 
keep these survival programs going; 
and, we're going to wage a People's 
revolutionary struggle, and not no 
jive, individualistic, defecting actions, 
by some individual who wants to play 
power games. I am theChairmanofthe 
Party of which the San Quentin Cadre 
is apart and parcel of the same Party. 
The San Quentin Cadre of the Black 
Panther Party. 
So all l have to say to the people is 
that you know where it's at. We're go­
ing to stick in solidarity. The_re're a 
bunch of jive renegades and jack-a­
napes around. But later for that. Just 
later for that. Let that ride, cause we 
got survival to get on with, and a Peo-­
ple's revolution to mQbilizc. And we got 
political prisoners to free all overthis 
land. 
ALL POWER TO THE PEOPLE! 
RIGHT ON! 
23 
