• 
, I 
' SAC R. E. GEBHARDT 
10/22/70 
- 2 -
/ \ 
f \\ 
\ 
l 
are kno'1m to exist between all Resident Agencies and the 
local law enforcement agencies in their territories. No 
evidence or infor~.ation has been made available to this 
office to indicate that there is any corruption in law 
enforcement in this division. i 
l ,, 
As the Bureau is well aware, Mayor JOSEPH LAWRENCE 
ALIOTO was the Subject of anti-racketeering investigation 
by this office several years ago, however, this matter has 
_peen closed-: ALIOTO prior to assuming the position of Mayor 
of the City of San Francisco was a prominent and well known 
attorney, particularly in the field of anti-trust matters . 
. He, is known to have been the attorney for TONY LIM ... J\, a former 
"Boss 11 of the LCN in San Franciscoo He also represented a 
number of other LCN figures a11d their associates. 
Prior investigation revealed that the cousin of 
ALIOTO's father, JOHN ALIOTO, was tha former "Boss" of the 
Milwaukee LCN Family. JOHN ALIOTO attended the inauguration 
of Mayor ALIOTO at San Francisco in January 1968 .. 
As a result of an article published in "Look" 
---magazine, September 23, 1969, linking ALIOTO with many LCN 
figures, ALIOTO filed a $12.5 million libel suit against 
uLook11 magazine and the authors of this article, RICHARD 
•CARLSON and LANCE BRISSON. 
On May 15, 1970, Federal Judge BRUCE THOMPSON 
declared a mistrial in San Fr·ancisco on this suit in that 
the jury was unable to agree on the key issue of whether 
the article linking ALIOTO with the "Mafiau wa~ published 
with "malice and reckless disregard for the facts." The 
jurors told newsrnep that the article was defamatory to 
ALIOTO and that at least 50 per cent of the 27 points were 
indeed untruee There was no agreement as to whether the 
falsehoods and the article's o.eneral claim that ALIOTO was 
"enmeshed in a web of alliances" with the !!Mafia" represented 
ilmalice and reckless disregard for the factso" .• u.s. - Supreme 
Court has ruled that such a finding is essential to a libel 
~udgment sought by a public official. 
NW 38601! Docld:32989fi,33 
