. . ··---.,.~-----"'-'--
I. 
. : . 
• 
.. . , .. ,:, . . ,~· ",, .. . 
~---,•t•:i: .. , ... t .... ~ 
•• 
_l: " 
(b) H. R. 141 by Representative Kastenmeier, Chairman of 
the House Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties, and the 
Administration of Justice, which has legislative jurisdiction for 
- surveillance, is similar to the above bill. It would repeal 
18 U .S.C. 2511(3) and amend Title 18 to permit communications 
in~erception in national security cases only under court order 
issued on probable cause that an individual has committed, one of 
several enumerated offenses or is erigage<;l in activities intended to 
·serve the interests of a foreign principal and to undermine the 
.national security. (From the lap.guage of the bill, it could be 
argued· that the foreign agent'·s· activities would have to constitute 
a criminal' offense before a warrant could be issued.) The bill 
--does not mention the communications of a foreign·power. 
Each application for an interception would have to be authorized 
by the Attorney General and made to .a Federal·judge of com­
petent jurisdiction. The targetted individual would be informed 
of the surveillance within ninety days .. The President, Attorney 
General, and all Government agencies would be required to 
supply Congress, through the Senate Judiciary and Foreign • 
• - Relations Committees and the House Judiciary and International 
)3-elations Committees,. any information regarding any interception 
• applied fo:r . . _ · .- • 
·' (c) H. R: 214 by Mr. Mosher and seven identical bills 
co-sponsored by over 70 Congressmen from both parties, would 
prohibit any interceptiop. of communications, surreptitiqus entry, 
mail-opening, or the procuring and inspection of :records of 
telephone, bank, credit, medical, or other business or private. 
transactions of any individual without court order issued on 
probable cause that a crime has been committed. Like S. 743 
and H. R. 141, reviewed above, ·H.R. 214 would repeal 18 U .S.C. 
2511(3). Unlike the above bills, H.R. 214 does not provide for non­
law enforcement surveillance. It would also strike out pro-
visions· for summary procedures for intercepting communications 
during emergencies and would require that detailed information 
on each application for a communication interception be reported 
to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees . 
... 
5. Intelligence Community Interests: These bills, through _ 
imposing judiciary administration over all surveillance, would impair existing 
responsibility to conduct electronic surveillance in gathering foreign positive . 
intelligence, which now reaches wholly domestic communications, those both 
transmitted and received within the United States; wholly foreign communications·, 
those both transmitted and received abroad; and transnational communications. 
international communications received in or transmitted from the United States. 
3 
NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 126 
