• 
- 3 - 6-E 
Thus, many of the functions formerly performed by Special Agent personnel 
are handled by currently assigned personnel within the Division, resulting in 
the savings of the time of the nine Agents released. 
As a result of the Division-wide reorganization effected 12/16/70 
this Section absorbed without offsetting Special Agent personnel work 
relating to Chinese matters formerly assigned to three Special Agent 
Supervisors in the Sino-Satellite Section (now abolished). This resulted in 
an increased case load of over 25 percent. 
(6) While there are 20 Agents assigned to the Section, two are 
assigned to the Section Front o-:fice and five to the Special Coordination 
Unit, which ha..ridles remaining domestic liaison functions and all foreign 
liaison functions; thus, there are 13 Agents assigned to desks on which cases 
are handled. The case load per Agent since the last inspection has increased 
from 193 to 278, a 44 p,ercent increase. This has been the result of cutting 
bad~ tv1c _A_gents a.s result 0f t½.e laf:t i.n~p?.dinn ::ind thP. as~ie:nment of .Chin.es.e 
work to the Section effective with the Division reorganization 12/16/70. There 
has been insufficient tim,~ since the latter date to establish whether the 
significant increase in case load per man will adversely affect the efficient 
operation of the Section. At this time, howaver, no additional Agent personnel 
is being requested for assignment to desks handling cases but the matter 
will be closely follow-ad and if recommendations in this connection are 
considered appropriate in the future they will be submitted wlth justifying data. 
At the present time there are five supervisory Special Agents 
assigned to the Special Coordination Unit and the heavy increase in work load 
on the Foreign Li.aison Desk (FLD) in _that Unit (to which two of the five Agents 
are assigned) has resulted in a situation warranting the assignment o.r two 
additional Special Agents to the desk. In connection with this, following is 
submitted: 
In December, 197'0, our foreign liaison offices were expanded from 
11 to 17. It has come at a time when the two FLD .Supervisors have been 
barely able to keep up with the flow of paper let alone actually examine and 
analyze it in order to afford active and constructive supervision to our 
foreign offices. This problem arises from two causes, (1) the heavy d-emands 
made on the tim3 of these two Supervisors in welcoming and personally 
supervising the visits to the Bureau of the many foreign dignitaries who 
are valuable and cooperative contacts of our Legal Attaches--such visitors 
557 
