' ,, 
.. 
• 
cognizance of the fact that President Roosevelt as far back as 
1939 had directed the FBI to coordinate and conduct domestic 
counterintelligence activities. (Underlined part taken from 
,, . 
Papich Committee report and is not necessarily the actual language 
used in the task force report. In-any event, we know this is a 
very broad interpretation of the 1939 directive.) 
RECENT EXECUTIVE INTENT 
Even more recently the White House exhibited its own under­
standing of the intelligence role and functions delegated to the 
Attorney General and the FBI. By confidential memorandum from 
the White House to the Secretaries of State, Defense, Treasury and 
Commerce; the Attorney General; Director of CIA; Military Represen­
tative of the President; Administrator, Federal Aviation Agency; 
and Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission, dated June 9, 1962 
(National Security Action Memdrandum 161), President Kennedy 
stated that he would look to the Attorney General to take the 
initiative in the Government in insuring the development of plans, 
programs, and action proposals to protect the internal security 
of the United States. This memorandum directed that the two 
interdepartmental committees concerned with internal security --
the Interdepartmental Intelligence Conference (Chaired by J. Edgar 
Hoover) and the Interdepartmental Committee on Internal Security 
(Chaired by a representative of the Department of Justice) which 
had been under the supervision of the National Security Council, 
be transferred to the supervision of the Attorney General. 
One of the greatest problems in conducting a study of this 
type is the location of pertinent documents and material which 
bear on the issues. We have located copies of the documents 
related primarily to the heart of thi~ issue, our basic authority 
in the national security field - namely, the Presidential directives 
and Executive orders which we have cited in addition to statutes 
as being our sources of authority - but there may be other very 
pertinent documents bearing on the Executive intent to have the 
FBI conduct intelligence-type investigations. A good example 
is evidence used by the Papich Committee, but not found during 
this study, which shows that President Roosevelt called a 
White House conference on May 9, 1934, attended by the Attorney 
General, Secretary of Treasury, SecrBtary of Labor, Director of 
FBI, and Chief of the U. S. Secret Service to deal with the problem 
of growth of fascist organizations in the United States. The con­
ference agreed that there should be an investigation of these 
groups and their activities for inte.lligence purposes. Since 
the only Federal law believed applicable at the time was the 
Immigration Law, the Presideht decided that the Commissioner of 
Immigration and Naturalization Service should confer with the 
Chi~f of Secret Service and the Director of FBI to work out 
details of the investigation. 
- 39 -
W 38tiiOB Docld:32989fii09 Page 174 
