• Memorandum to Mr. W. 
RE: SEN STUDY 7 5 
62-116395 
• 
Elliff was questioned about the reason for the 
third priority. He responded. by noting that qne President 
f
(Nixon) had stated that in 1970 there was a breakdown in the 
• relations between.j'the FBI and the rest of the intelligence 
community. Elliff was informed that this was not so, that the 
discontinuance of a formal liaison relationship with Central 
Intelligence Agency (CIA) and subsequently the rest of the 
intelligence community in 1970 did not mean that there was a 
breakdown in coordination. Elliff asked why the Bureau dis­
continued a formal liaison relationship with CIA in early 1970. 
We briefly reviewed for Elliff the Thomas Riha case pointing 
out that Mr. Kelley had personally caused a review of that 
case in an effort to determine whether it, in fact, was the 
reason for the discontinuance of our iiaison relationship with 
the CIA. Elliff was informed that this was the case. In 
addition, we discussed with Elliff the 1966 understanding 
\
between CIA and the FBI and made it quite clear to him that 
we felt the relationship with not only CIA but the entire 
intelligence community was excellent. 
Other Matters of Interest 
During the course of the briefing, Elliff was shown 
charts depicting the inordinate increase of Sino-Soviet bloc 
official presence in the U. s. from 1959 through January, 1975, 
the growth of the presence of foreign hostile intelligence 
officials in the U.S. during this same period compared with 
the static number of SAs we had working against this threat 
during this same period. Elliff was concerned over the fact 
that the presence of Sino-Soviet bloc officials as well as the 
intelligence offic:ers, increased substantially while the number 
of SAs dedicated to counterintelligence investigations remained 
static. He w:ondered why this was so. Elliff was advised that 
it was a question of manpower and priorities. He was told that 
during the 1959-1975 period there was a considerable demand for 
the useoof SA personnel in the fields of organized crime, civil 
fights,&ghetto riots. In addition, during that period of time 
additional investigative responsibilities were placed upon the 
FBI by virtue of new legislation. 
- 3 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 186 
