U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ~CTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
CHARLES T. HAYNES BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
preceded Haynes as supervisor. He asked why Harding was 
replaced and Haynes stated it was a decision made by the 
Bureau.which was an administrative matter and not pertinent 
to the inquiry regarding Martin Luther King, Jr. Epstein 
did not pursue this question any further. 
Epstein asked when the investigation regarding King 
started and if there was a file open prior to the time the 
investigation was authorized. Haynes replied he did not know 
when the file was opened or when the investigation was 
authorized. Haynes was. asked when the technical coverage 
regarding King was instituted and when it was discontinued, 
and he replied to the best of his knowledge it was instituted 
during about November, 1963, and Haynes monitored it until 
~bout January 4, 1964, when Haynes became ill from a kidney 
stone attack, thereafter entering the hospital in Atlanta on 
January 8, 1964. Epstein asked Haynes if he returned to 
monitoring the surveillance later and Haynes replied that he 
did not return to the assignment on a full-time basis, but 
probably relieved other individuals monitoring several times 
durihg a period which may have continued as long as a year. 
Epstein asked when the King case was closed and 
Haynes replied he did not know, but felt sure it was some­
time prior to April, 1968. Haynes was asked who made the 
decision to close the file, and he stated he did not know. 
Epstein asked when the SCLC case was closed and Haynes 
stated he did not recall, but did remember that SCLC activity 
"wound down" considerably prior to King's death, and even 
more so after King's death to the point that the information 
did not warrant maintaining the file in·,a pending status. 
When asked who gave instructions to close the file, Haynes 
stated that he did not recall but that it was possible that 
the Atlanta Office took the action closing the file, and it 
was even possible that Haynes may have approved such action 
administratively; however, he does not recall. 
- 2 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989626 58 
