..,. •' I .. 
• 
Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams Mem:> 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
• 
the Atlantic City matter, they would not interview the two Bureau 
secretaries, Mary Ann Massa and M. Ann .Mierzejewski. (The request 
concerning the interview of these Bureau employees, who are Newark 
Office employees, is the subject of a separate memorandum captioned 
and dated same. ) He requested SA Paul V. Daly to contact Ma,rk 
Gitenstein in an effort to determine what type of response the Committee 
expected concerning the Atlantic City incident. 
-On 6-4-75, SA Daly contacted Mr. Gitenstein and Mr. Gitenstein 
advised that the Committee knew of the existence of certain memoranda 
and in particular a memorandum from former Assistant to the Director 
C. D. DeLoach reporting a conversation with the President requesting Bureau 
coverage at the Convention. Gitenstein stated that with regard to the 
Atlantic City incident, if a summary was prepared concerning this incident 
which would in general show the types of people whose conversations were 
monitored, the type of information collected, and the type of information 
disseminated along with furnishing the Committee certain important documents 
that it would not be necessary to interview Bureau personnel. He indicated 
among the documents they would expect to be furnished would be the DeLoach 
memorandum along with other "beni~n" documents which would not involve a 
privacy consideration or other considerations which might preclude their 
being made available tothe Committee. Gitenstein indicated that it is the 
Committee's feeling that information of a political nat:ure such as the 
credentials argument at the Convention was collected and furnished to the 
White House and that the collection and dissemination of this information is 
not apparently in concert with the ostensive purpose of electronic surveillance. 
He felt that the summa,ry need not and should not identify individuals monitored 
but rather describe them such as a senator or some other descriptive phrase 
to describe the individual whose conversation might have been monitored. 
I 
He said as tb the verification of the information contained in the summary 
with the information in the files, that subject will be addressed by the 
Committee at a later time. 
Gitenstein again mentioned that if such information was 
furnished by the Bureau, their need to interview employees would be muted 
as what they are attempting to learn through interview of Agents involved 
1 would have already been furnished by the Bureau. He volunteered:that the 
l Committee is relatively well informed concerning this particular matter. 
It is obvious from the specific mention of the DeLoach memorandum along 
with other observations and statements he made that this could well be true. 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
I NW 38601! Docld:329895'88 77 
