-... , 
• 
SUGGESTION MEMORANDUM 
ARTICLES CONCERNING ACTIVITIES OF 
RACIAL EXTREMISTS 
RESEARCH SECTION 
INSPECTO MILLER: The Research Section prepares a 
number of timely monographs and 
other studies dealing with the 
activities of racial extremists. These papers, as well as 
the daily teletype summary and the weekly "Summary of Extremist. 
Activities,u serve to keep Bureau personnel, appropriate 
government officials, and the intelligence community advisa:ion 
the up-to-date situation involving these matters. 
• Much information received is from public sources or 
·otherwise of a non-confidential nature. The,Bureau is in a 
unique position to collate and place in perspective the in­
formation concerning activities of these violence-prone ex­
rtremis~~• _ This data could be used for preparation of articles 
) 
for publication in magazines, journals, and newspapers whicn 
would serve to expose these individuals and organizations for. 
what they are. Such articles would give the public an insight' 
into the true nature of these extremists who would destroy our 
system of government and our society. This would serve to 
diminish public sympathy and support for their activities and 
-~ould strengthen public support of law enforcement_ in general. 
Although the Bureau has prepared and/or been in­
strumental in the publication of a number of articles concerning 
the campus revolutionaries of the New Left _and of whim hate 
groups, the only recent material we have made available to the 
public concerning racial extremist activities is that set forth 
in the Appropriations testimony. There is a definite need for \ 
good, timely articles for public consumption placing in per- 1 
spective and showing the true nature of the activities of racial 
extremists. The Crime Records Division has sources available 
to facilitate publication of such material. 
SUGGESTION 
It is suggested that Research Section, with the 
assistance of and in coordination with the Crime Records Division, 
correlate the preparation and publication of articles de~ling 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
1/20/71 
'MSR:mcm/mkz 
:;if~:=-~ Page 577 
