: I 
•1 
3 I 1 
0 -l I 
Section Chief William A.~~&igan The comments of the Inspector 
~..J!iCGS.::.'-~YI,:pdr 8/30/71) "- regar~ing the I?a-:ked improve-
lf ~~ ment in supervision of our 
work is most. gratifying. As was noted during the last inspection, 
evidence of supervision appearing in the PDA informant file is not 
always a completely accurate gauge of the supervisory attention 
being given each case. The informant file is designed, by pro­
visions of the Manual of Instructions, to be a repository for 
information regarding the background and administrative handling 
of the source. Information reflecting operational activities and 
instructions more often appears in the active investigative file 
of the Soviet-bloc principal with whom the PDA is in contact. 
In view of this significant factor, it is felt that the 
marked increase in supervision (from 4% to 38%) detected through 
review of informant files alone, is a most favorable trend and one 
which every effort will be made to sustain. 
Twelve specific cases have been cited as quality PDAs 
which, by their very nature, suggested a need for greater super­
vision due to the substantial potential of each. The Inspector 
has instructed that these cases be kept in a pending status, 
carefully reviewed, with guidance and instructions furnished to the 
fi~ld to assume a more aggressive position in these cases. These 
in$tructions are appreciated and will be followed. As the 
Inspector has noted, the development of double agents is a highly 
specialized field requiring special faculties, not the least of 
which is careful aggressiveness. As these comments recognize, 
aggressiveness in the development of a double agent is inhibited 
by the practical necessity to restrict our manipulation of the 
sources to actions which appear naturally responsive to the 
initiatives displayed and opportunities offered by the Soviet-bloc 
representative with whom the source is in contact. Particularly 
is this true during the development phase before the source has 
been accepted as bona fide by his principal. Any unnatural or 
gratuitous action to hasten or strengthen the relationship is 
viewed with utmost skepticism and could result in compromise of 
our interest and rejection of the source. This is not to say we 
must eschew any initiatives; but that any such options must be 
pursued only after careful consideration of all the complex and 
variable factors peculiar to each individual case. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989£.JB Page 260 
