11 , • 
I j 
1· 
i 
I 
i 
1 • 
. . . 
• 
'fOP SECRE'f SE!~SI4'IVE 
- 10 
perhaps the subsequent·pages are missing. These first two 
pages portray the objective of ZRRIFLE to be ~hat of pro­
curement of code and cipher materials by burglary and safe­
cracking. However, subsequent pages, particularly the last 
four legal size pages in this file, contain what appears to 
be the outline of _something which could be the establishment 
of an "executive action capability," although these words are 
not mentioned nor is the word "assassination." A copy of these 
pages should definitely be obtained. Paragraph 1 of these 
pages reads as follows, "Legal, ethical, moral, operational 
problems; political nonattributability." Paragraph 2 reads 
in part: "Our own experience (Bangkok) {and affect on DDP) 
and experiences with KGB ... require most professional, proven 
operationally competent ruthless stable CE experience ops 
ff • " o · icers ... 
Paragraph 3 of this memo is entitled "Maximum Security"; 
subparagraph 3b reads: "Within KUBARK one focal point for 
control, search, tracing, case officering, etc. DDP authority 
in this focal point mandatory. DCI officially advised?" 
Paragraph 3c reads as follows: "Max. security cable COMMO 
for innocuous cables onlv; no restrictions on travel; pos­
sibility of one man overseas (Europe) control base with own 
(non~tation) COMMO. Word of mouth and no bashfulness re 
trips." Paragraph 3f reads as follows, "No use of any agent 
who ever worked for a U.S. government agency. Tracing by 
opposition would reveal.", Paragraph 3i reads, "Pretext: 
KUTUBE/D search; this established (e.g., Rome)." Paragraph 3j 
reads, "No discussion in stations." • Paragraph 3k reads, "No 
'team' until ready to go, if at all." Paragraph 4 reads: 
"Blackmail: A. No Ame.i:-ican citizens or residents or people 
whoever obtained U.S. visas. B. No chain of connections: 
Strictly person to peison; singleton ops. C. No meeting any 
candidate in home territory. D. Exclude organizations; e.g~, 
Sicilians, criminals, those with record of arrest, those with 
instability of purpose as criminals. E. Staffers -involved-­
selection." Paragraph 5 reads, "Cover: Planning should 
include provision for blaming Soviets or·Czeclis in case of 
blow." [This seems to indicate ZRRIFLE is not limited to 
burglary of embassies; how could you blame the Soviets or 
the Czechs for burglarizing their own embassies?] Paragraph 
9 reads, "Should have phoney 201 in records to backstop this 
,[referring to blaming the Soviets or the Czechs], all documents 
therein forged and backdated ... should look like a CE' file." 
I· 
Paragraph 11 reads, "Silverthorne." 
':POP SECRE4' 
Page26 
' 
