• - ' ~ 
Memorandum for Mr. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
• 
testimony of a secret employee and following such testimony 
the employee will be allowed to meet with staff members of 
the SSC in an Executive Session. It is anticipated more 
definitive information on the final decisions regarding this 
aspect will be forthcoming from the White House. 
The question was raised by the Bureau representative 
as to whether the Ad Hoc Group and/or the interagency registry 
should be notified as to requests members of the Intelligence 
Community receive from other Congresstonal committees. Mr. 
Wilderotter advised that this would be a judgment question; 
l
however, if a request from a Congressional committee other than 
the Select Committees impacted on the Intelligence Community, 
involve sensitive issues or would be of interest to the White 
House, s·uch re.quests should be provided to the' interagency 
registry along with an abstract of the response. 
Attached is a list of those members of the SSC staff 
who have been certified for access to compartmented information. 
Also attached is a paper identifying 10 issues likely to grow 
out of Select Committee deliberations. The pencil notation in 
the right-hand co~umn identifies those agencies of the Intelli­
gence Community responsible for preparing a paper which addresses 
these issues. It is noted that issue identified as number eight 
l
is entitled, "Intelligence Files and Privacy." Mr. Colby asked 
that the FBI prepare this paper. Assistant Director Mintz advised 
that the Bureau has a study underway on this very subject and 
agreed that the Bureau would prepare this study. The deadline 
for completion of the study is 4/25/75. 
Also attached is a copy of the survey of the SSC facility, 
Room G-308, Dirksen Building, covering all aspects of physical and 
technical security. None of the participants of the EXCOM had any 
objection to the facility and we presume the SSC will abide by 
the procedures outlined in the attached survey report. 
t/ 
Attached also for information is a draft of an employee 
,
notice and agreement concerning treatment of confidential material 
being considered by the SSC. It is to be noted that to date neither 
the Committeeror its staff has signed any such Secrecy Agreement. 
CONTINUED - OVER 
- 2 -
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989fi28 137 
