NW 313'600 
-ti \ 
\ 
CHINESE ALIENS ENTERING THE !TED STATES 4-H 
(Bufile 105-135923:} 
CHINESE ENTERING THE UNITED STATES 
CLAIMING UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP 
(Bufile 105-12752) 
These two programs have similar criteria for 
investigation and, therefore, are being handled under 
one write-up. 
1. Background, Date of Inception, Scope and Desired· Objectives 
The alien program was instituted on 1/26/65 
and the program concerning Chinese entering the United States 
claiming United States citizenship began on 9/14/65. , 
.Both programs were originated in an effort to identify 
Chinese Communist (Chicom) intelligence operatives who 
may be sent to the United States in deep cover. In 1955, 
Chicom intelligence emphasized the need to deploy deep 
cover illegal agents abroad and specifically in the 
United States. The number of cases currentlyinvestigated under 
the citizen program has been approximately 15 to 20 annually; 
only one, however, has been opened since last inspection. 
These individuals offer the Chicoms an ideal situation for 
placing an illegal into the United States who has assumed the 
identity of a Chinese whose father or grandfather was a 
United States citizen. These individuals, once they arrive in 
the United States, are never checked on by any agency. The 
Chinese aliens, a number of whom are students "temporarily," 
entering the United States to attend universities, have 
decreased in number during the past two years from approximately 
_2,000 per month to 600 per month. Recent relaxation of immigra­
tion regulations will now permit a great increase in the numbers 
allowed to enter the United States during 1971. Since the 
inception of both programs, we have simplified the criteria for 
investigating citizens and aliens keeping in mind the necessity 
for conserving manpower in our investigations, but also 
fulfilling our responsibilities. The scope and investigation 
of these two programs are identical. The prime objective of 
these two programs is the.identification of intelligence agents; 
however, the two programs have been responsible for the 
development of positive intelligence information as well as a 
continuing increase in source coverage of Chinese matters, not 
only in our heavily populated Chinese localities, but also 
covering the lesser Chinese communities throughout the 
United States. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE 
1/12/71 
..J,EM..;.$,.fil!L 
1Jqc_!'J;32989Ti'38 464 
DIVISION INSPECTION 
