• Legal Counsel to J. B. Adams 
Re: SENSTUDY 75 
. . 
in writing, which would coincide with the aforementioned topic of interview. 
He described these interviews as being 11abuse" interviews which according 
to the Committee's understanding precludes the presence of an agency 
representative during interview. However, an Agent may be available for 
consultation purposes. 
Mr. Seidell was advised by SA Daly that former Assistant 
to the Director Belmont was in poor health and that before attempting interview 
of Mr. Belmont, he should as.certain his current physical condition. Mr. Seidell 
requested SA Daly tietermine Mr. Belmont's physical condition. Assistant 
Director Cleveland advised SA Daly on 5-30-75 that Mr. Belmont was very 
seriously ill and was suffering from the Shy Drager Syndrome. This informa­
tion was brought to the attention of John Elliff, Task Force Director on 
Domestic Intelligence Activities of captioned Committee, and Elliff expressed 
dismay that Seidell had made an inquiry concerning the interview of Belmont. 
Elliff requested that we not take any action concerning Seidell' s request as 
o Belmont at this time. 
Former SA David E. Todd had previously contacted this 
Division and as set forth in memorandum dated 5-16-75 from Legal Counsel 
to J. B. Adams, he was advised of his rights, the existence of an employment 
secrecy agp.eement sighed by him, of the provisions of Attorney General 
Order 501-73, and to his right to a private attorney. He was also advised 
that an Agent would be made available for consultation during the interview 
if he so desired. Mr. Todd did not indicate at this point whether he was 
desirous of having a Bureau representative available for consultation during 
interview. Todd, according to Seidell, stated he would not consider to be 
interviewed in the absence of a release of a secrecy agreement by the Bureau. 
RECOMMENDATIONS: 
(1) That former SA David E. Todd, Assistant Director 
Robert E. Gebhardt, and SAC Charles W. Bates be released from their 
employment and secrecy agreemeniSfor purposes of a staff interview concerning 
our Cointelpro activities against the Black Panther Party. 
- 2 -
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989ti-09 109 
vv 
RECOMMENDATIONS 
CONTINUED - OVER 
