' •· ' 
~- -
. • \ 
INTERNATIONAL BLACK WORKERS CONGRr•SS, 
BLACK WORKERS CONGRESS 
Bufile 157-21532 \ 
I-·. 
\ 
aka 
,. 
The International Black Workers Congress (IBWC), 
which is in its formative stages, is dominated by Jame~ 
Forman,. an official in the black revolutionary Stuaffi-~· 
Nation'::r1 Coordinating Committee. The IBWC makes its 
headquarters in Detroit, Michigan, at the same locale as 
that of League of Revolutionary Blaclc Workers, a black 
extremist labor union in that city. 
IBWC is involved in the organizing of black 
workers and students to fu_rther the revolutionary struggle 
in the United States and other parts of the'world as well 
as for the purpose.of building unity among all third world 
peoples. IBWC's stated objective in organizing black 
workers is to bring about a national work stoppage, thus 
severely damaging the United States economy. Jaw.es Fq_~man 
has repeatedly stressed the ~e9essi ty for black5to~i;ea-"~"--~;'i 
organized to change the capitalistic system to that of a 
Marxist-Leninist society through seizure of state power. 
The IBWC held a regional meeting in Gary, Indiana, 
in June, 1971, at which discussions centered around organizing 
black workers into a Marxist-Leninist society and preparations 
for a drive to organize blacks employed in the steel industry 
·and in the "U. s. Post Office." It was indicated that IBWC 
would receive assistance from the pro-Chinese Communist Progressive 
Labor Party (PLP) in the form of advice concerning organizing 
activities. 
An IBWC conference tentatively scheduled to be held 
in Detroit on August 21 - 22, 1971, has apparently been 
canceled. Indications are that the conference site has been 
shifted to Chicago, Illinois,wbere the conference will be 
scheduled within two weeks. 
It _is par~icularly significant to note IBWC leader 
James Foi:man~ together with other United States black extremists, 
including'af'filiates of the League of Revolutionary Black 
·Workers, recently undertook travel abroad which was to include 
·visits to North Korea, North Vietn~, the Soviet Union, and 
Algeria. • • 
NW 38608 Docld:32989638 Page 151 
