ADDENDUM 
.-1 
• 
BRENNA: I have thoroughly studied ASSISTANT DIRECTOR C. D. 
(CDB:djr 9/8/71) 
-~ ·11 
the Inspector's comments 
regarding adequacy of 
personnel, 'both Agent and clerical, and have the following 
observations to make: 
I certainly r-ecognize full well the need for 
reorganizing and reallocating personnel to provide manpower 
assistance to the Nationalities Intelligence Section which is 
handling the McLek case. In fact, the proposed reorganization 
of the Division as set forth in my memorandum of August 3, 
1971, was based on the priority needs which arose from the McLek 
case and which continue to be critical. As set forth in that 
memorandum, manpower was to permanently be assigned to the 
Nationalities Intelligence· Section i~ order to avoid disruption 
caused by handling this important case with temporary assignments. 
In meeting the priority responsibilities in the 
McLek case as well as in other Cl'itical areas, I am also 
mindful that we do not have a surplus of manpower but are 
undou~bt·ed•l-y ·•facsd v,ri "th tho sup~~".risi~!:! cf m~~e c0!!!.piex ca~ss in 
the security field with fewer Agents than at any other time in 
the Bureau's history. Cris~s brought about by terroristic acts 
of black extremists, Weathermen, antiwar activists, and other 
extremists are increasing in intensity and from all indications 
will continue to place heavy demands upon the Bureau. Likewise, 
the potential of Chinese Communist espionage activity in this 
country is readily apparent and the increased activity of 
·soviet Agents is a fact. These facts, coupled with special case 
commitments, have stretched available manpower to the limit of 
elasticity. 
In making such manpower shifts, we must recognize that 
there will be a weakening of the supervision of the area from 
which the personnel are transferred and we must be prepared to 
accept this, at least on a temporary basis, because in the long 
run such weakening could be most harmful as well as embarrassing. 
r For exampre, the Inspector has indicated that two 
supervisors could be transferred out of the Extremist Intelligence 
Section and, in addition, that Section should absorb all Klan 
and white hate cases (now being handled by two men in another 
Section). Actually, this means absorption of the work of four 
men by the remaining men in the Section (18). Put another way, 
the work load has been increased by almost 25 per cent. 
L NW 31l600 Docld:32989fill! Page 318 
