I • 
·•· • 
.. 
·, . 
t 
\' ' ! • 4-E 
. \ Party (PSO), Armed Revolutionary Independedice Movement (MIRA), 
Armed Commandos for Liberation (CAL), and -tjhe Nationalist Party 
of Puerto Rico (NPPR), the oldest of the revolutionary groups. 
MIRA and CAL, in particular, are dominated by native Puerto 
Ricans who had many years of sabotage training in Cuba, returned 
surreptitiously to Puerto Rico and led the wave of major 
exDlosions which heavily damaged United States installations 
in~metropolitan Puerto Rican areas. Property loss resulting 
from such acts of violence since 1967 has been estimated at over 
$15 million with an economic loss of over $100 million. 
In addition to the previous appreh,ension of 
Fili~ert,2. 
11
Oj2da R_io~ Cuban espionage agent and le~der of ·several 
ma.,jor bombing expeditions, the FBI was instrumental in the 
arrest.by Police of Puerto Rico (POPR) of Narciso Rabell - • ;.s.:,a.; wwwa .. oa:;u et'"7A'i!i'. 
Martinez and.,,E:<?,P.?J:.:'G~.~£~~ ~qp~,P,!t~~ two other long-time espionage 
agents with extensive sabotage training in. Cuba. Following 
the deatlB of two police officials and an ROTC cadet during a 
riot in March, 1971t at the University of Puerto Rico, one of 
our i11formants was able to identify and bring about the arrest 
of a Federation of University Students for Independence (FUPI) 
leader involved in the l!.'.illings. FUl?I is a radical college 
student group which advocates violence i~ bringing about indepen-
dence for Puerto Rico.· ~-
Our sources in the Puerto Rican indepmdence field 
have given us information concerning subversives traveling 
between Puerto Rico and New York City to transport incendiary 
devices for use in acts of sabotage. Also. a close rapport has 
been established between POPR and our San Juan Office in recent 
months. The resulting arrests and seizure of explosives, as . 
well as intelligence material, have slowed down the acts of 
violence noticeably during the first seven months of 1971. 
·we are quite apprehensive that the National Conference 
of Governors has been scheduled for Septenber 12-15, 1971, at 
San Juan. Realizing the volatile nature of the Puerto Rican 
independence movement, we have directed an airtel to all offices 
pointing up the powder keg situation and asking that every effort 
be made to obtah1 ad\'.:ance information concerning planned acts 
of viol<:nice to be carried out against participating officials. 
~e nre watching this situation closely and. are prepared to give 
the POPR all logical assistance in helping to curtail any such 
plnns. - • . . . . . 
--a---
