:1 
tNW38608 
,) . 
•• 
• 
shall be open to the inspection of the Director of Central 
Int~lligence·, and such intelligence as relates to the . 
national security and is possessed by such departments and 
other agencies of the Governmentr except as hereinafter 
provided, shall be made available to the Director of 
Central Intelligence for correlation, evaluation and 
dissemination: Provided, however, that upon the written 
request of the Director of Central Intelligence, the Director 
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall make av.ailable 
to the Director of Central Intelligence such information .. 
for correlation., eyaluation and dissemination as may be • 
essential to the natiqnal security. i't r. 
5. If I am requested to provide certain materials and 
investigation indicates that the material asked for involves a document . 
which originated within an organization other than the Intelligen.:e • 
Community Staff or the Central Intelligence Agency, the requestor 
will be asked to redirect his inquiry to the office of ori_gin .. 
. 6. It already is apparent, however, that the documentation · 
being requested inevitably is going to include references to inte1·-
.. , .:i;e.\2:tio:q.s~ips among various of the elements of the intelligence 
. conimu~ity-:-- -ciea:-r.ing ~--~ach arici' every such .L-~re:i. ~l1Cc •wlt!-,: ::_ y~-=r • ' 
agency mentioned could manifestly be extremely consu~ing·of time 
and manpower.:. ' 
7. I propose the Ad Hoc Group agree on the following procedure~ 
Where it appears that truly sensitive matte:l!s a:te involved, the • 
material will be sanitized by the· agency concerned and a check will 
be made with the appropriate:' Thi;d Agency organizations before 
release. • Where the reference concerns a Third Agency .indirectly 
or is not c9nsidered sensitiv~ and does not pose policy concerns, the 
agency concerned may forward the material to the requesting Select 
Committee without an item-by-item., mention-by-mention clearance 
with Third Agencies. However, in ~ll cases notification that such 
material has been forwarded will be made to the central index and 
Page 172 
\ .\· 
