• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
62-116395 
• 
not intended to have any chilling effect on Seidel's interview 
an4 th;3.t Phillips was there only upon Sentinella's request and 
for the purposes indicated. Phillips then retired to an adjoining 
room. 
Sentinella consulted with Phillips on only one occasion. 
At about 1 :45 p.m .. • he came to Phillips' adjoining office-' and 
said that Sei4el's current .questioning was concerning the make-up 
of th~ squad Sentinella was assigned to around 1965. This squad 
1
1
handled security, racial, and civil rights matters and Seidel was 
appare~tly seeking info~mation as to the p~rametersof these types 
of investigations and what they entailed. At this point Phillips 
joined Seidel and Sentinella and offered the following in possible 
a~sistance to Seidel. Phillips explained that the various Sections 
of the Bureau Manuals dealing with these types of investigations 
had been made available to the SSC and insofar as the security 
Sections were concern~d, there was presently being processed at the 
!
Bureau superseded Sections dating back to 1960 to be made available 
to the SSC. At this point Seidel stated he was not so much interested 
in what the Manuals said but ._actually wanted Sentinella, to the best 
of his recollection, to furnish names ef individuals and organizations 
(!
under investigation in Atlanta during the pertinent period. 
/Sentipella refused to name any, stating that he had no idea as to. 
what might be under current investigation or how his furnishing of • 
information now might af~ect current Bureau's interes~s. Sentinella 
~~so told Seidel that he, Sentinella, was not so naive as to 
believe that his information migh~ not appear in the press. Seidel 
immediately said that he would furnish no information to the press. 
Sentinella then said that he was not intimating that Seidel would be 
responsible, but that the information might sEill be publicized and 
that once Sentinella gave the information it fell completely out of 
his control. Seidel indicated that Sentinella might be required 
through subpoena to testify before the SSC and be asked the same 
question. Sentinella reSJ1X11deill that his answer before the Committee 
would be the same. Phillips indicated to Sentinella that if he 
desired to consult with Phillips concerning the names of any 
investigations Sentinella recalled, Phillips would assist him by 
indicating, if he knew, whether they were of current FBI interest. 
Sentinella desired no such help and insisted to Seidel that he did 
not desire to name the subjects of prior investigations. This inter­
lude in the formal interview lasted about 10 minutes after which 
·Phillips returned to the adjoining room. 
- 2 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989532 Page 23 
