DESECO PROGTI.AM 
Bufile 105-71688 
I ~ 
~~, 
I 
I 
I , 
4-H 
1.- The Deseco Program (program for development 
of selected contacts to be directed against So~iet-bloc 
officials) originated as result of conference between field 
and Bureau representatives in December, 1957. Purpose is 
to select and develop individuals to be placed in contact 
with Soviet-bloc intelligence officers as a means of (1) 
penetrating Soviet-bloc intelligence; (2) exerting control 
by keeping intelligence officers occupied with running our 
sources; and (3) assisting in possible defection of bloc 
intelligence officers. 
2. Nineteen offices are engaged regularly in 
this program and other offices on occasion conduct investi­
gations to develop background on selected sources. Greatest 
activity has been in New Y0rk, Washington Field, Chicago and 
San Francisco which cover Soviet-bloc establishments. The 
19 off:i,ces are authorized to conduct 11 sounding-out" inter­
views of prospective sources without prior Bureau authority. 
Foilow-up interviews with ~otential Deseco sources are con-
. du(J!ted on a UACB basis. New York and Washington Field 
sul;>mit monthly progress l0tters sumr.iarizing the results of 
the program. The other 17 offices submit summaries on a 
semi-annual basis. 
3. Between the last inspection and July 15, 1971, 
approximately a 6-mon th period, ~ Deseco subjects were placed 
in contact with Soviet-bloc officials. Of these, four have 
developed to the status of security informants or aouble 
agents. 
4. This program is correlated in the Espionage 
Section, Coordination Unit ~,.csp~cJAU~ent Lish WhitS<?l}"! 
The program is handled in the field oy Specia Agents 
assigned to Soviet-bloc investigations who are familiar 
with the habits, weaknesses and intelligence targets of bloc 
personnel and are qualified to select and develop the type 
of.individuals needed in this program. Unusual or sensitive 
cases in this program are routed to the Division front office 
fo~ approval. All rules, policies and procedures regarding 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
,8/19/71 
:. f J tLW: hkr 
1 '4-H -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fill! Page 131 
