• • 
April 14, 19-75 
DISSERTATION ON PROCEDURES FOR 
OPENING,, CLOSING AND MAINTAINING 
DOMESTIC SECURITY CASES IN PENDING STATUS 
FBI authority to investigate domestic security 
cases. is derived from numerous criminal statutes and 
Presidential Directives and Executive Orders concerning 
internal security and employee loyalty matters. Procedurally, 
the Bureau opens,· continues, and closes such cases on 
the basis of these l~gal consider·ations. 
Upon receipt of a fact situation from any 
of a myriad of sources, an Agent must necessarily make 
a judgment as to: whether this 'Situation appears to fall 
within the scope of FBI jurisdiction. 
More specifically, domestic security investigations 
are initiated when allegations clearly .indicate a person, 
either as an individual or as a memher of a group, acts 
to unlawfully alter the Government in violation of the 
Smith Act, the Rebellion or Insurrection Statute, the 
Seditious Conspiracy Statute, -or other related enactments. 
Special emphasis 'is placed on those engaged in violent 
further.ance of such illegal acts. A full investigation 
continues so long as these indications of illegal activity 
exist.. • •• 
When allegations do not clearly indicate 
that activities. ·on the part of an individual fall within 
this jurisdictional area, se·lf-imposed regulations require 
that a "preliminary investigation" be conduc~ed. This 
inquiry consists ·of obtaining information from established 
sources (such :as 'records maintained by police departments, 
local governments, and private agencies); informants; 
public source information; and FBI records. These· investi­
gations are limited to 90 .days during which .an honest 
• effort is made to distinguish as soon as possible between 
legitimate political activity and illegal acts·. If 
more than 9 O .days are required to. resolve this question, . 
authority to exceed this period must be obtained from 
FBI Headquarters.· In seeking this extension, a full 
statement must be made of the allegation, the jurisdictional 
authority involved, and facts ·that appear to justify 
the continuance. 
NW 38tiiOB. Docld:32989532 7ti 
