I , , I . , "' 
'· 
I 
11 ,I 
Ii 
I, 
I 
I 
11 I: ,, 
4'QP SEC_R£cp 
- 6 
decided to locate him.· The plan seems to be for Mankel to 
develop a business as an art dealer in some German town selling 
French paintings. It is contemplated that the Agency will 
supply the initial capital for the formation of his business. 
The final sentence in this dispatch asked headquarters for • 
projected operational plans for QJWIN. 
19. Cable, dated March 17, 1962., from Director to 
Luxembourg indicates that the Agency still contemplates some 
activity for Mankel in Leopo~dville. Paragraph 2 of this cable 
reads as follows: "Tell him-will at same time discuss 
Leopoldville assignment and have him sign contract." The 
cable directs Luxembourg to tell Mankel to meet James Rabney 
at certain locations in Germany on the 28th and 29th of March, 
1961, telling him to be prepared to travel in Europe for about 
two weeks. 
20. Cable dated A ril 18, 1962, fromolHea uarters to 
Luxembourg states that another agent QJBANNER-5 had informed 
the Agency that QJWIN is going on trial after Easter on charges 
of cobalt smuggling from 1957 or 1958 and could receive up to a 
. six-year sentence. Paragraph·2 of the cable states, "Please 
contact QJWIN for all details i-{lcluding specific charges and 
name prosecutor. I~ 1(gJBANNER-5Jinfo true we may.wish attempt 
quash charges or arrange somehow salvage QJWIN for our purposes." 
Paragraph 3 states, "Still do not have basic decisions but 
fully anticipate we will need QJWIN." 
21. Cable, dated April 26, 1962, from Luxembourg to 
Headquarters indicates that QJWIN's trial will be completed on 
April 29. He expects to be fined but not subject to a jail 
sentence. Some indic~tion of the Agency's intents with 
respect to QJWIN may be discerned from paragraph 4 which 
reads as follows: "While we do not know present long-term 
plans for QJWIN, he has no lead to other candidates. His 
potential appears restricted activation to candidates OLLA~ 
1426·or personal spot action. Suggest either ~ould be done 
from Leopold base and question if not preferable move him to 
Leopold assignment now." ·There is a handwritten notation 
beside the first sentence of paragraph 4 which states, "Not 
the point." Beside the last sentence of this paragraph is 
the handwritten notation, "HovJ?" 
':FOP SECRE':P 
Page22 
.SE~~SI'flIVE 
i 
; 
