' \ 
• f .. • 
• • 
not being abrogated in any manner. Langnage in such an order 
w9uld ideally follow the basic language and purposes of Executive 
Order 11605, since this deals with virtually· every type of 
subversive activity confronting the country today.· 
It is finally concluded that this study has shown that 
the FBI has in the past conducted no intelligence-type investigations 
whi~h were not permissible under ~he law, particularly under the 
concept that intelligence-type or preventive-type investigations 
are lawful when the product and purpose of the investigation 
is to prevent a violation of a statute. It is believed, however, 
that every area of our national security investigations should 
be reviewed for the purpose of determining what additional 
constitutional safeguards should be considered. This is particularly 
true in light of the fact that much of our investigative activity 
in the past was geared to the Emergency Detention Act, which wis 
repealed in October, 1971. We should make absolutely certain, 
for example, that the procedures adopted in setting up our 
Administrative Index, following repeal of the Emergency Detention 
Act, are not being used to circumvent ihe repeal of the 
Emergency Detention Act. In this regard, it is to be noted that 
a detailed study of th-e Administrative Index has been underway 
and is almost complete as of this date. 
RECOMMENDATIONS 
1. That upon completion of a final draft of the study 
dealing with this matter, a letter to th~ Department be prepared 
containing the essence of this study, pointing out our findings 
and requesting (a) The Department's opinion concerning our findings, 
particularly directives discussed herein; (b) The Department's 
opinion concerning the legality of intelligence-type or preventive­
type investigations based on existing statutes; (c) Requesting the 
Department to issue comprehensive .investigative guidelines for 
future investigations of the intelligence or preventive type; 
(d) Requesting the Department to sponsor comprehensive legislation 
spelling out the FBI's investigative authority in the collection of 
intelligence information relating to the national security; and 
(e) Requesting the Depaitment to se~k a·6omprehensive Executive 
order which would cover any possible gaps between statutory authority 
and Executive necessity in protection of the national security. 
2. That a penetrative study be completed at the 
earliest possible date concerning all our current national 
security investigative guidelines to insure that every possible 
safeguard is in effect to protect the individual's rights 
- 42 -
LNlN ll8fiffl! Docld,32989609 l'ag1'_ 1TI-_ --
