QUESTION: 
ANSWER: 
adequate basis. As to the programs, now, indi­
vidually activities within those programs may be 
suspect. I have said and repeated that some of 
those activities I would not feel are proper today. I 
wasn't there during the time that all of these programs 
were developed, nor certainly the approval of the 
various activities within those programs. Were I to 
have been there, there is some that perhaps I might 
have said, "No I don't think this is proper." I have 
the benefit of hindsight. I have the benefit of exper­
ience in local law enforcement which, I think, prepares 
me to better understand perhaps the impact of some of 
these types of things. They are not at all unknown in 
the field of law enforce~ent. In some degree or another 
almost all the law enforcement has engaged in some 
similar types of activities. Not perhaps to the sophisti­
cation as the COINTEL Program, but the context of the 
time is felt necessary in the present day. We realize 
that different standards should be applied and they are 
and we do not engage in those activities now. Since 
April, 1971, we cut them off. 
(NOTE TO CORRESPONDENTS AND EDITORS: The preced­
ing comment by Mr. Kelley concerning local police 
use of efforts similar to COINTELPRO may be open 
to misinterpretation. At his direction the FBI 
later issued his clarifying statement: 11I had in 
mind that law enforcement agencies have used 
methods designed to create disunity among the 
criminal element, particularly in organized crime 
and hoodlum gangs. Probably most common was 
labeling a crime figure as a police informant 
to discredit and destroy his criminal influence. 
These activities to pit one crime figure against 
another have achieved success in neutralizing 
the criminal element.") 
You said that you disagreed with some of the activities, 
that they were not proper programs. Alright, does that 
mean that there are variations of COINTEL Programs 
still going on? 
In the first place, we deliniate certain programs. 
That's the overall structure of the full system. 
Within each of these programs there were some activ­
ities, individual activities. I feel that the setup 
~f th~ progra~s certainly was directed properly, that 
is, with the intent to preserve the Nation. Insofar 
as some individual activities, yes, I feel that some 
- 17 -
NW 386iOI! Docld.:3298!Mi2£ 160 
