3. '\'le coul' endeavor to work out' a .d,ision of 
responsibility and wo::ck in this area whereby the.Bureau 
and CIA would each have certain primary areas of operation. 
For example, the FBI could make known its willingness to 
contribute more heavily in support of U.S. foreign intelligence 
collection effo::cts and propose this field be broken into 
two categories; J1amely, technical coverage (this would include 
rr?i.agraril operati~~?J and live info:rmant development among 
·½o:i:oign d:Lplom~".... We could rn.·opos0 that ·ch0 )J'BX con"cinue 
to operate exclusively in the first category (tecl;mical 
coverage) with CIA continuing to stay entirely out of this 
•:field. 
In this regard, the Bureau is better e~pped than 
CIA to handle technical su::::-veillances and~nagr~ operations 
by ~eason of our long experience and expertise in this area. 
With regard to the second category (live sources) 
we could propose that CIA conduct no operations involving 
countries where the Bureau~s counterintelligence interests 
are paramount or significanto This would include the Sino­
Soviet-bloc countries and could also includ0 certain other 
countries 7 such as the Do~inican Republic? where we have 
'already developed strong capabilities or where there are 
unique factors. 
With i .. egard to otheI' countries (tluLJ.-Blv\;) ~ wo 
·could propose that CIA should assume primary responsibility 
for developing live dipJ0natic sou~ces. However, this 
would be with the clear p1---oviso th~~·t, in the event the FBI 
should develop significant internal security interests, we 
would have the prerogaJci ve c,f levying requirements on CIA 
sources, having direct access to CIA sources when needed,' or 
·as a final step, developing our own sources if CIA could 
not satisify our needs. 
This tlternative plan would not involve as much 
manpower or othBr expense to the Bureau as our recommended 
plan. Ho·wever, it would involve our approval of c:r.A opera­
tions in the live informant field and would risk CIA infring­
ing on FBI inter~sts. It is our consensus that this approach 
not be adopted. • 
4. We could recom.11end that the FBI could withdraw 
entirely from the field of cove:::-t fo:::eign intdligence collection 
• allowing CIA to handle all aspects, includingt:it:7.agrara opera­
tion~and both live and technic2l coverage. ~ a~e strongly 
opposed to such an approach on the grounds that it would 
d~astic~lly diminish the F3Ivs role in the intelligence . 
community, would give ClA carte blanche to operate in the. 
U.S., and in many instances would certainly result in CIAs 
compromising on internal secu~ity and counterintelligence 
operations. 
- 100 ... 
' • 
