r 
·~ 
I 
I ., 
:j 
• It "♦ l ►t • tt .. ,.. , .;--..,.. ••• ► .!:ar , ,/, fftrt"edttt:ew<Mt tc ~ e ne e :t( bJ ·n 
- . •' .,. -' 
.~ • ,;_., ♦ ♦ I ♦ • e :.,. .. ., 
j • ~ 
2. Other Th::i.n No.me Check Requests 
.. 
Any in.formation received by the FBI which is of interest to another · 
Federal Agency is f:-1I1llshed in writing to that agency. 
G. Protection of Inform:::i.tion Disseminated 
'When reports or letterhead· memoranda already in the file are disseminated 
to a requesting agency, each such document contains th~ following state1nent: 
.. "This document contains neither recommendations 
nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of 
the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its 
contents are not to be distributed outs1de your 
agency. 1' 
Data abstracted from the files and disseminated by letter or in letterhead 
1nemoranda form contams, in substance, terminology appearing above. 
III. Issues 
Basic issue appears to be whether FBI should retain and disseminate 
.information in its files which is not acquired as a direct result of its investi­
gationso 
IV. Options 
The-re are· no options .. We are required by law to retain information 
which has been made or received in connection ,vith th~ tranf.!action of public 
business and which has been preserved or ,vhich is appropriate for preservation 
as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, 
operations, or other activities or because of the informational value of data 
contained there. With respect to the dissemination 0f information to Federal 
agencies, we are requirei by law, Presidential directives, a..11.d instructions 
of theAttorney General to furnish in.for1nation in our files to agencies of the 
Executive Branch. The exception~? cited previously are log·ical and no change 
is_ believed necessary. 
;Likewise, the welfare of the general public requires that we continue. 
our policy of furnisl1ing pertinent inforn1ation regarding local criminal n1atters 
to local and state law enforcement agencies. • 
.., \ 
NW#:88608 Doc Id: 32 98 954)1. ... 
