f. The Doolittle Committee, 1954 
In July, 1954, we received information·from the 
White House that the President had appointed Lieutenant 
General James H. Doolittle to study in collaboration with 
the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) certain aspects of 
the national intelligence effort. By letter dated 
• July 28, 1954, Sherman Adams, the Assistant to the President, 
requested that the Bureau brief General Doolittle's group 
concerning the relationship that existed between the Bureau 
and CIA. We subsequently learned that at approximately the 
same time a survey would be conducted by the Hoover 
Commission under the chaii~anship of General Mark Clark. 
We learned from Allen W. Dulles, Director of CIA, that the 
~ President strongly believed that General Clark should not 
permit the survey to get into CIA covert operations, 
particularly in the field of political and psychological 
warfare. The President had told Dulles that he·was selecting 
(") General Doolittle to study CIA's covert operations. 
'-..-' 
-General Doolittle's group was briefed on I 
August 25, 1954, at which time the Bureau's position in 
the intelligence field was described and the manner in 
which the Bureau transacted business wiJch CIA was explained. 
In addition, certain constructive criticism concerning 
problems and conflicts experienced in dealing with CIA was 
furnished General Doolittle's group. The following salient 
• features of the criticism appear to bear·on the current ·study: 
We were Critical of a policy of the Office of 
Operations, CIA,which precluded that Division from 
i4entifying any of its sources in the United States when 
i such sources~possessed information bearing on the internal 
j. , .. ·.,. . security of the Vni ted States. The. 9:?fice _of _Operations_ as 
; • of· 1954 collected foreign intelligerice·information in the·· 
i . . United States from aliens, businessmen, and others, and 
"f-,::·-, ,.,,..:J:....:~--·:;.._~:• .. periodica11y·-would receive information of interest· to- ,the···' =· •• ,-...-./,:..-:-· 
=; .. ·: •• ,. , • ·Bureau· .•. tnstances arose .. where 'the ·Bure.au desired ·to···1nterview · ·• , .• ·· 
1 
the original source but was· prevented from getting to the 
' . 
< •• 
- 39 -. 
i \ 
· .. 
