SECRET 
such targets has a primarily political and propaganda value to Castro 
in that it tends to show public opposition to US policy. It is also rela­
tively easy for Castro to promote attacks against official US installations 
in a crisis situation and to get help from all the various elements which ' 
are opposed to American influence in the area. Future attacks may 
be anticipated in situations in which Castro feels that the public resent­
ment of us policr exists or can be stirred up. 
b. Physical targets vulnerable to a limited sabotage effort. Prime 
targets for sabotage will be mining, industrial, and business installa­
tions in which there is a large proportion of US capital, which are other­
wise a~sociated with the US, or which are so important to the local 
economy that damage to them would create difficulties for govern­
ments which are anti-Castro and cooperating with the US. Oil facilities 
in Venezuela, incluq_ing the oil and water pipelines to the~efineries on 
the Paraguana Peninl?ula, and similar facilities are likely to be chosen 
as targets for Cuban s~botage. Installations for the handling of Vene­
zuelan iron ore are alsp likely objectives. US installations in Panama 
might be attacked. • 
c. Port and communications facilities are generally vulnerable to 
sabotage and are appealing targets to Cubans and other Latin American 
Communists particularly in countries which are cooperating with the 
US and whose communications media. are taking an anti-Castro line. 
Telephone, telegraph, radio and television facilities, and most public 
utilities, particularly electric power and transformer stations, are poten- • 
tial targets. Selection of targets for sabotage will depend on the im­
portance of particular facilities but even more on the varying access of 
Castroites and Communists to them. 
d. Political targets susceptible to exploitation. Politi~al instability 
throughout Latin America, in almost every case characterized by pres­
sures from below upon relatively conservative and generally anti­
Communist governments, provide Cast1;0 with opportunities for sub­
versive political activity. Particularly unstable situations include the 
following: 
(1) Venezuela, where Communist-inspired disorders have been kept i 
in check by the government, but where continued Communist 
and leftist violence may lead the military to take control. 
In a country such as Venezuela, where the stability of an anti­
Castro and anti-Communist government d'epends heavily upon 
one man, assassination is another danger. 
• (2) Nicaragua, where Communist-led groups, in anticipation of 
coming elections, may seek to incite or exploit violence against 
the Somoza regime. 
(3) Guatemala, where President Ydigoras' position is weak and 
uncertain. 
SECRET 9 
NW 38601! Docld:32423995 13 
, 
