• 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Senate Select Committee 
• 
reason and for the reason that the Director desired to be cooperative with 
the Committee, we would request a meeting with Senator Church and 
Senator Tower to arrive at an understanding as to Pt2AeduJ'eS. I told 
Mr. O'Connor that I would consider such a letter ant1,7hiaw~uld discuss 
the matter with the Deputy Attorney General and with James Wilderotter 
at the White House. 
At approximately 9:05 a. m. on May 23, 1975, Mr. O'Connor 
called me and said that he had discussed the matter with Mr. Wilderotter 
and the Deputy Attorney General. He said that both had agreed that it was 
inopportune at this time to seek special guidelines for irterviews of FBI 
personnel and former personnel with the Committee. He said that a meeting 
has been scheduled for Tuesday, May 27, 1975, at noon in a final 
effort to resolve an understanding with Committee representatives. He 
said at the present time it is proposed that the meeting be attended by 
Wilderotter and Roderick Hills, representing the White House; Hoffman, 
representing the Defense Department; Warner, representing CIA; and 
O'Connor representing the Justice Department. Committee representatives 
would be Schwarz, Chief Counsel, and John Elliff. He said that at this 
time it was his thought that the Deputy Attorney General and I should not 
attend the meeting. He gave as his :i:-easoning the thought that "should 
something go wrong" the Deputy Attorney General could disassociate himself 
from any agreement arrived at, and that I would similarly be in a position 
of saying that we have not been a party to the agreement. 
I reminded Mr. O'Connor that meetings have been held frequently 
in the past and that tentative understandings made at such meetings have dis -
appeared shortly after the meeting was concluded. I told him that was 
significant to us because we now understand that two more former 
employees of the FBI have been contacted and may be interviewed in the 
near future. I told him that former SA Sam Papich and former Agent Nichols 
have been contacted. I told him that the extent to which we should release 
these two former employees from their obligation of secrecy could not be 
intelligently evaluated unless we:: knew the subject matter of the interviews 
and that we plan to contact the Committee to inquire as to the subject 
matter. I pointed out to him that such pending interviews make it imperative 
for the FBI to consider action in addition to meetings that may be planned 
to discuss guidelines. 
- 4 - CONTINUED OVER 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989588 102 
