f' 
... . : . 
. •. ''!. 
•• 
-(J 
:- • • ..I 
·&>= r-rcriiic,·t,,;,~~ 
still remain subordinate to the Attorney General, who .had been charged 
primarily with a prosecutive function. CorJfication oi duties to be performed 
by the Attorney General as head of the Department of Justice, and the Director . 
as. head of the FBI within that Department, plus recognition that both must 
attern pt to petfo1'm their related duties within the criminal justice system 
to the optimum, has led to the necessity ior a substantial degree oi inde­
pe~dence on the part of the Director, balanced with a responsiveness b-1 
him to reasoned counsel, guidance, supervision a.."ld control by the Attorney 
General. 
3. The issues raised: .·. 
(a) During the T'Princeton Conference" it was said that time ·and 
practice have made the FBI a totally separate power answerable to no .one. 
More specifically, the Attorneys General, J?-residents and Congress haye 
granted power and responsibility to the FBI but have failed to direct, guide 
and control it. 
(b) During the course of the FBI investigation of the •1'\,Vatergate 
J)reak-in, n allegations were made that the FBI has been too responsive to 
. demands made upon it, particularly those of a political nature. 
4. Options for future policy:· The Director of the FBI, as head 
of the principal L11vestigative Bureau within Llie 'Department of Justice, 
must be permitted to discharge his responsibilities free from political or 
unethical pressure. _This must be balanced ·with his responsibility to remain 
responsive to the Attorney General's leadership and direction of that Depart­
ment having as one of its principal functions the enforcement of the Federal 
· law through prosecution. A Congressional oversight committee, available 
to give the .1< BI counsel, guidance .and clirection, could greatly assist the FBI 
in achieving and maintajning this balance. 
There must be an efficient working relationship, with free and 
open channels of com·munication between the Director and the Attorney 
General, due to their mutual and interlocking responsibilities in the criminal 
justice field, primarily investigative on the part of the :FBI and prosecutive 
on the part of the Department. This relationship should generate, at 
descending levels in the Department and the FBI, a commitment to accomplish 
. an efficient work flow, in appreciation of the impact of this interaction on the 
--2 -
- NW# :-8-8 6 0 8- -O.o.c.Id!--3.2..9..8 9 5-4. 
