L NW 
The Third Agency Rule 
. 1. As early as November 1953, the third agency rule "\V.as 
included in Executive Order 10501, which has now been revoked. 
Section 7(c) prohibited the dissemination of 11classified defense • . 
information originating in another Department or agency!: to an 
• agency 11outside the receiving Department or agency without the:· 
consent of the originating Department or agency" . The only excep-
tion to this rule is that dissemination may be mad~ UB:per the authority 
of Section 102 of the National Security Act. This ~ection au1:f1oi-iies ··-
the Director of Central Intelligence 11to correlate and evaluate intelli­
gence relating to the national security, and provide for the appropriate 
dissemination of such intelligence within the Government using, where 
appropriate, existing agencies and facilities 11• 
2. Historically, the responsibility of the DCI to disseminate • , ... 
intelligence has referred to 11£inished intelligence 11 • This product is •• 
. the end result ~f contributions from members of the Intellig~nce Commu­
nity. Therefore, in this situation the finished product is ap{ homogenous 
product and therefore the approval for further dissemination beyond the • 
receiving agency must come from the Central _In~ell!gence Agency. • 
3. Executive. Order 10501 was superseded by Executiv:::! Order 
11652 which became effective· 1 June 1972. This ~ecutive order did not 
specifically .cover the third agency rule. Howeve:i:-, it does provide the 
following cont-cols: Sec .. 9. Special Departmental Ar:i:-angements. The 
originati.!2,g Department or other appropriate authority may impose, in 
conforrrJ.ty with the provisions of this order, special requirements with 
respect to access, distribution and protection of classified information 
and material, including those which presently relate to cornmlh.1.ications 
intelligence, intelligence sources and methods and cryptography. 
4. In anticipation of the implementation of Executive Ore.er 
11652; a directive was issued on May 17, 1972 entitled r:National.Siecurity 
Council Directive Goverr1ing the Classification. l)owngrading. Declassi­
fication and Safeguarding of National Security Jnformation 11 • This .. 
~-directive does not contain the term 11third ageqcy rule 11.but does have 
four subsections which relate to procedures -i.vhich ai·e simila::::.· to wha:: 
historically had been called the ·,·hird agency rule. These section.·,:; are: .• 
Docld:32989fi28 
A. (2) Determination of Need-to-Know. In addition":,·, :i 
security clearance, a pe1·son must have a need fo1· acces::; 
to the particular classified information or material sought 
in COIL'l"J.ection with the nerformar1ce of his official duties or ... . 
241 
-.. -,::_- ... 
