NW 38601! Docld:32900571! 
•• 
• 
Thirty-four days before Dr. King was to fly to Norway to 
receive the highest honor an American can earn, the Nobel Prize t•:t,. 
for Peace, the Federal Bureau ·of Investigation even sent h~~ )~.( 
message urging him .to take his own life. The unsigned note\read: 
King, there is only one thing left for you 
to do. You know what it is. You have just 
34 days in which to d9 it. (This exact number 
has been selected for a specific reason.) It 
has definite practical significance. You are 
done. There is but one way out fqr you. 
The FBI has engaged in a host of other questionable aqt.iy-
. -.. 
ities, including the collection of iti~elligence on critics ~nd· 
political opponents of incumbent Presidents. 
In 1969,.the Internal Revenue Service established 2 Special. 
Service Staff (SSS). For the next five years the SS Staff was 
used by the IRS and, indirectly,"the FBI to gather intelligence 
on dissident groups. Its 11,458 files included dossiers on anti­
war' leaders, black political leaders, writers, labor organizers, 
tax reform groups, civi: rights grc:.ips, women I s liberation gro:.ips ,. 
clergymen, and many more. 
In 1967, a Special Operations Gr'oup was formed in the Central 
Intelligence Agency. Its purpose was to explore possible ties 
between hostile foreien nci-tions and domestic dissent within the 
United States. The project received the codename "Operation CHAOS." 
Over a six-year period, CHAOS accumulat~d more than 13,000 files, 
including 7,200 on .American citizens. Through this program the 
CIA bec~~e a SLorehouse for the stockpiling of large quantities 
of data on citizens Qf this country. 
From 1940 to 1973, various illegal mail-opening p1°ograms 
were conducted intermittently by the CIA and the FBI. The CIA 
program ran -- off and en -- from 1952 to 1973., and involved the 
opening of mail to ar.d f1°om Ar:lerican citizens.:) This mail WilS 
intercept.ed in five major cities within the United States, _with 
the larges opera"t.ion taking place. 5 n • New York City. In that 
000 l ~~~-•-•rs w~r~ a_cene~ and read by CIA <lgent~ metropolis alon~, 9, --
59 
