. --
• 
The F-BI program against the.New Left was the most wide­
sweeping of all. Its targets included underground newspapers, 
students protesting various univeriity polici~s, the antiwar 
Inter-University Canmittee for ~ebate on Foreign Policy, and 
several colleges and universities . 
The FBI tactics included the use of anonymous letters and 
telephone calls designed to disrupt families, friendships., 
careers, and organizations; the use of agents provocateurs to 
sow dissensi?n and fragment groups; the dissemination of fake 
information about individuals to employers, credit ~ureaus, and 
creditors; the instigation of tax investigations against ~ertain 
citizens for harassment purposes, alone; the investigation of the 
private life of group leaders for whispering to the press; and an 
almost endless list of equally deplorable assaults on First 
Amendment rights. 
From 1962 until his death, Dr. Martin !J,lther King was the 
target of a vicious campaign by the FBI to discredit him as the 
most prominent black act i:v'ist in .America. The fu 11 array of the 
Bureau's sophisticated devices of ~echnical surveillance was 
turned against Dr. King. !-le w~s illegally bugged, tapped, and 
. 
followed. Information on his private life was•then delivered by 
agents of the FBI to clergymen, Members of Congress, the Whit~ 
House, United States A.-nbassadors, 'newsmen, the National Science 
F.oundation, and the British Goyernment, among others. Agents 
were sent to colleges to persuade them no~ to g~ant.Dr. King· 
honorary degrees. 
InfQJ'."mation obtained frcm microphone coverage of Dr. King 
was han,d-carried to prominent cl~rgyr!len throughout the country. 
As one·agent recalls: 
[Hoover} sent me .. ~co talk to an Episcopalian 
Bishop. He instructed me to tell this Episco­
palian Bishop, who had been speaking for King 
••. all sorts of details. It was not a pleasant 
assignment. But it was an order, an instruction, 
and I did go ..... [Toe Bishop] led me to believe 
that we could ha.ve done a much more honorable 
thing if we hed stayed ir. t-lc"lshin1:,ton and not 
carried that tale out there, and I'm inclined 
~o think that he was right. 
-2-
