• 
•• 
I 
The Organizatio~ of the Senate Select Committee - Rough Structure 
The Committee will organize into four Task Forces:... each with a Ta,sk 
Force Director, each with a. lawyer or lawyers assigned and each with 
several researchers. To~al professionals - 30/40 .. 
Task Force One ;::,_ Foreign Intelligence 
This will deal with the CIA as a line Agency and ·wi.th. the institution. of 
the Director of Central Intelligence in his responsi''?ility under NSCID #1. 
USIB intelligence e.ntities 9 io e .. , State, Tre_asury.r AEC and the 11.1.ilitary- • .• 
• establishments collecting, processing ·or producing foreign in\elligen.ce 
will be re-viewed in this context as wello CIA covert action is -aiso covered here., ·_ 
They plan tobegirii with basic papers being prepared on USIB agencies -
their missions, functions, organizations and general contribution so a.s to 
provide the Committee with a flsound understanding on the role., nature., 
performance·and·structure of intelligence looking toward legisla,tion-which 
would address national intelligence needs, and provide adequate oversight 
of national and defense intelligence entities and their relationships in .. 
foreign poticy generally!' William Bator is designated the Task Fo1.,.c:e 
Directoro 
Task Force Two - lviilitary Intelligence 
This T.ask Force will deal with the organizational entities within the 
Departm~nt of Defense collecting, processfng, 9r producing intelligence 
including the DIA, the Services Agencies, and the National Security Agency~ 
the NRO, and other collection entities such as AEDS, Attaches, etc.. The 
interrelationships between Task Force One and Task Force Two according 
to the Staff Director will be -accommodated by regular communication among 
the Select Committee staff and be addressed by the Committee in the broader- .. 
context of considering possible legislation for alternative structures. • The 
staffing for this Task Force is still in process and no Task Force Director 
has yet been appointed. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989530 Page 62 
