., 
' 
••. 1 
• • 
However, during a meeting between the President, 
Mr. Hoover and the Secretary of State on August 25, 1936, the 
Se-cretary of State did ask the FBI to conduct investigations of 
"Pascist and Communist activities, under the provisions of the 
Appropriations Act. In the discussion preceding the request, 
however, it must be noted that the President stressed the fact that 
fascism and communism were international in scope, and that 
commun.ism in particular was directed from Moscow; that this was a 
matter which fell within the.scope of foreign~affairs over which 
the State Department would have a right to request an inquiry to 
be made. 
According to the information presently available, 
President Roosevelt agreed to place a handwritten memorandum of 
his own in the White House safe, concerning the request of the 
State Department for investigations of fascism and communism. The 
President asked Mr. Hoover to speak to the Attorney General about 
the matter and that the Secretary of State also discuss the 
technique to be followed with the Attorney General. Mr. Hoover 
recorded that he did inform the Attorney General on September 10, 
1936, of a conference he had with the President on September 1, 1936, 
at which time the Secretary of State was present, and at which time 
the Secretary of State - at the President' suggestion - requested 
of Mr. Hoover to have investigations made of the subversive 
activities in this country, including communtsm and fascism. 
The Attorney General Verbally directed Mr. Hoover to proceed with 
the investigations and to coordinate these matters in the 
possession of the Military Intelligence Division, the Naval 
Intelligence Division, and the State Department. Mr. Hoover 
considered this the authority upon which to proceed. 
Jhe circumstances surrounding the manner in which the 
President had the State Depa.rtment request investigation very 
!Jkely explains why the September, 1939, directive did not--contain 
any language relating to subversive activities. President Roosevelt 
was fully aware that the FBI was alr,eady- conducting confidential 
investigations of the activities of fascists and communists who 
represetied a threat to the national security at that time. There 
was obviously a private and understandable confidential agreement 
between all interested parties, including the other Federal 
investigative agencies whb had an interest. There was no need 
to mention subversive activities in the first part of the directive 
since the pertinent Federal agencies were already on notice and 
local ai~ncies·would turn over all matters relating to the 
national security. 
- 5 -
l-. NW 38608 Docld:32989fi09 Page 140 
