I 
.. 
\ 
• • .,. 
against us. All their major programs of espio~age, counter­
espionage, subversion, sabotage, deception, and disinforma-· 
tion are intertwined. For example, a computer program 
designed to keep track of CIA personnel at home and abroad 
was planned in the Sovie·t Union, is maintained in 
Czechoslovakia, and draws upon information from East 
Germany, Hungary, and elsewhere. Another example: informa­
tion from multipl,e defector sources indicates. that the .. 
Cuban security service, the DGI, since 1968-69, has agreed 
to operate against the United States and American intelli­
gence in areas where the Soviets _are at an operational • 
disadvanta~eo 
A second reason why United Sta.tes counterintelli,.;. 
gence must be coordinated is the ~eed for effective liaison 
with counterintelligence services· abroad. No one Western 
service can cope by itself with the worlqwide, centrally 
~irected, attack of the Soviets, the bloc (including the 
Cubans), and the whole array of Communist Party auxiliaries. 
A counterintelligence defense which stops at a border is 
uo cte.f t:-nse at a 11. • 
The work within our borders is· equally essenti-al. 
to our safety. Because the United States contj_nues to·be· 
the ma in site of hosti·le clandestine oper.ations, it 1s 
also the main site of American counterintelligence. 
Both forms of counterinteYligence--the security 
, 'of our own operations and the penetration of operations 
against us--have to be sustained if the Director of Central 
·Intelligence is to be able to protect United States intelli­
gence methods and sources, as required by law. 
Counterintelligence has th:ree values which flow 
from its functions. The value of its security function is 
that it prevents our adversaries from gaining information 
that the United States Government does not want to make 
public. Counterintelligence cannot perform this security 
role by rote and routines. And it cannot depend entirely 
upon guards, safes, and other passive me~sures. It must be 
active to prevent the subversion of those people to whom 
... 
NW 38608 Docld:32989530 Page 154 
