.• 
- 19 -
OLSEN: Do you remember at that time stating whether you th.ought 
that there was a conspiracy or not a conspiracy in connection with the 
Peesident's assassination? 
STURt=.;IS: I believe that to this day, that there is a possibility that 
there was a conspiracy to assassinate the President of the United States. 
OLSEN: Well, what I'm asking you is do you remember stating at that 
time to th.e press or otherwise in Miami that you thought there was a conspiracy? 
STURGIS: r would say yes, because I felt that way all along. 
OLSEN: Frank, do you have any facts that you would be willing to 
give us -- or that you know of--that would indicate that there was in fact a 
conspiracy to assassinate the President? 
STURGIS: Well, the only thing that I can add would --what makes me 
think that there was a conspiracy at that time in assassinating the President 
( was the fact that knowing the political situation in Cuba before Castro and 
during Castro,with.many of th.e Cubans who supported Batista that were 
involved and were connected with the crime syndicate, the Cuban crime syndi-
the.American crime syndicate cate,/w1tn the tlatista government at the same time supporting the Fidel Castro 
rebels, in order to safeguard not only their position in the crime syndicate 
--not only· to get th.ems elves better situated ·personally within the rebel 
groups·; tf tfiey were success.,ful,. . I believe that these same people would 
in my-experience with. them, what l have seen, from the people I was in contact 
with that crone over to the United States into exile, now this is only a small 
group of people we are talking about--it probably would represent maybe several 
hundreds of people--many of these·people were integrated in t~e revolutionary 
forces, th.e Frende (sp?}, or the Revoluntionary Councj 1, the brigade , or what-
ever you want to call iti this force which CIA supported. Now these same 
people came here; they got connections with the Cen1.ral Intelligence \gency; 
·~ ·~-····• .. ,<,._.__, • ._y.• ... ~ 
-~-~---~ . .:l}L.~i:::::.:.,.~ 
