,, 
'. I 
·.L 
.. 
I 
Memorandum for Mr. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
Mr. James Vlilderotter, Associ te Deputy Attorney 
General, and Mr. John Warner, General Counsel, CIA, will 
have a meeting with the Counsel of the SSC on Tuesday, 
3/11/75, to work out precise wording for a Secrecy Agreement 
that all members of the SSC staff have agreed to s·ign. 
On 3/10/75 the staff of the SSC will convene to 
develop a list of requirements that they expect to levy on 
all agencies making up the Intelligence Cqmmunity. Hopefully 
Mr. Clarke will have some information on these requirements 
prior to the time they are levied on the individual agencies. 
As a result of Mr. Colby's appearance before the 
House Government Information in Individual Rights Subcommittee, 
Government Operations Committee, 3/5/75, CIA is getting many, 
many, calls from Senators and Congressmen asking how they can 
find out whether CIA has a file on them and what its c.ontents 
are. Mr. Clarke noted that members of the Group should 
anticipate receiving similar calls from Congressmen.~) 
Mr. Hank Knocke, who heads up the CIA task force 
responsive to the ~ockefeller Commission, advised that staff 
members of the Rockefeller Commission have been issued CIA. 
, \badges, occupy CIA office space, and have authority to 
. ,~~ ~~ personally contact any CIA employee without clearing such 
J 
:contact with CIA officials. In addition, the Rockefeller 
Commission staff employees have been g~anted access to CIA 
files. After reviewing these files, if the staff decides to 
make certain portions of the files a matter of official 
Commission business, CIA has a right to excise the names of 
any sensitive sources. In the event information contained in 
these files originates with another Agency of the Government 
CIA has insisted and the staff concurs that the originating 
Agency must be consulted before such inf:ormation can be 
released to the staff.;€:::(_V) 
I Mr. Knocke also advised that it is his understanding 
l~
hat both Mr. Kelley and Mr. Colby will receive in the mail 
shortly a request from the Commission to prepare a joint 
esponse cov~i~~the activities of foreign intelligence officials 
in the u. s.A{.YJ 
- 2 -
CONTINUED - OVER. 
381w: Docld:32989530 3 
