Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Senate Select Committee 
• 
I further explained to him that the Attorney General Order relating to 
responses to subpoenas would apply to him and that we had been advised 
that the Department had approved a waiver of the Attorney General Order 
limitation permitt:ing his testimony, but only as to matters concerning 
Martin Luther King, Jr. , and Stanley David Levison, and the Southern· 
Christian Leadership Conference, including related matters. I told •• 
Mr. Sentinella that should the questioning involve other areas and he w.as 
in doubt as to his authorization to respond, he could request an opportunity to 
consult with the Department to secure approval for his testimonyf.consistent 
with the terms of the Attorney General Order. I also reminded M~:Jentinella 
that a representative of the FBI would be available during his testimony 
for such consultation as he felt might be necessary. I told him that 
SA Paul Daly would be available for that purpose. -
I told Mr. Sentinella that our concern is not that matters of 
historical fact might be revealed, but that testimony which might be 
required of him could impair the Bureau's current efforts to discharge its 
responsibilities. I explained that in specific terms what this meant was that 
information that would identify sensitive sources, techniques or methods, 
or that would identify confidential informants, or would expose current 
investigative operations should be reserved for members of the Commit:f;ee 
or perhaps the Chairman of the Committee depending upon the sensitivity 
of the particular information. I advised him that in the event such matters 
are involved in the questioning he could request consultation and that 
arrangements could be made for the answers to be supplied under appropriately 
limited conditions. I told Mr. Sentinella that as to other areas of possible 
testimony, the Bureau would impose no request that he decline to answer 
questions. 
Mr. Sentinella advised me that he understood the matters I 
had explained to him and that he did not at this time feel the need of personal 
counsel because he said that he did not regard the appearance as one in the 
nature of a grand jury appearance. I told Mr. Sentinella that he should 
be aware that his testimony would be given under oath and in the event 
he made a s!atement that was self-incriminatory, it could be used against 
him. I reminded him I was not advising him in order to deter him from 
furnishing testimony, but only telling him of the protections he has under the 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
. NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989588 150 
