,.. 
• 
U~ S. SENATE· SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOV~RNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
CHARLES T. HAYNES BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
did not know, explaining that such information may have been 
made a matter of record, and yet may not have been made a 
matter of record. Epstein stated that at this point he would 
• stop the questioning in order for Haynes t'o go upstairs to the 
FBI Office and review the files to determine whether or not 
such information was in the files. Haynes explained that such 
a project wouid probably entaii1 extensive file review tn order 
to state whether such information was, or was not, in the file. 
Epstein asked if Haynes could have someone else conduct the 
necessary ~ile review regarding this matter, at which time 
Haynes replied he would request a break at this point to con­
sult with· an FBIHQ representative in the FBI Office. After 
consulting with the FBIHQ representative for approximately 
five minutes, Haynes returned to Senator Talrnadge's office 
and informed Epstein that the clearance for the interview was 
based on what ijaynes could remember regardiRg King and not 
on inforrnat:ion from the files. Epstein was advised that. any 
request by him for information from the files should be submitted 
in writing in the usual manner. Epstein dia not pursue this 
matter any further. • 
Epstein asked 'if Haynes knew Bill Sullivan and if 
he recalled him coming to Atlanta.· Haynes replied that he 
did know Sullivan and recalled him coming to Atlanta in the 
196O's at 1.east on one occasion and possibly twice. Haynes 
explained he recalled Sullivan corning to Atlanta in the early 
or middle 196O's in connection with a regional type FBI 
conference regarding developing and handling of informants 
in Klan organizations, and possibly a second visit at a later 
time, but no other details were recalled. 
Epstein asked Haynes if he knew of any instance where 
an Agent in Atlanta furnished any information regarding King 
or the SCLC to the news media and Haynes r~plied he did not. 
Epstein asked if Atlanta had a COINTELPRO file re­
garding King or the SCLC and Haynes advised it did not. Haynes 
was asked if he knew of any COINTELPRO information regarding 
King or the SCLC and Haynes stated he did not. When asked 
where such material would be filed, Haynes· stated that sinee 
he knew of none he did not know where it would be filed. When 
asked if such information could be in the case file, Haynes 
advised it was possible. 
- 4 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989626 60 
