,, .. 
I 
• 
. . 
directive of 1941 instructing that the FBI set up a Special 
Intelligence Service covering the Western Hemisphere to handle 
and coordinate all intelligence work within the hemisphere. 
There are many other examples, but a more recent one is the fact 
that President Nixon, in spite of responsibility assigned to 
CIA, asked that the FBI establish Legal Attaches in several 
countries where there had been a dearth of good intelligence 
information. 
SPECIAL WHITE HOUSE REQUESTS 
Over a period of years the President came to rely on the 
FBI to provide first-hand intelligence information concerning 
both domestic and foreign si~uations bearing on policy affecting 
the national security. As a result of numerous conferences in 
which the various Presidents outlined to Mr. Hoover their needs 
for information which would assist him and his staff in their 
policy decisions, Mr. Hbover instructed that important developments 
concerning the national defense or which might otherwise be of 
value to the White House should be reported directly to the 
President or one of his high-level staff members. In most 
instances the same information was made available to the Attorney 
General simultaneously. Over the years it became a common practice 
for White House staff me·mbers to telephone requests .for information 
or investigations to Mr. Hoover's office or the office of one of 
his officials. Such requests were usually considered as being 
within the constitutional Executive power, and for the most part 
such requests were comuletely legitimate and well within the 
recognized scope of th~ FBI investigative auth~rity. 
Occasionally, however, requests were made - and complied 
with - which in retrospect appear to have been beyond any recognized 
Executive authority. An example is a telephone request to furnish 
all available information to the White House concerning a forth­
coming Earth Day rally in 1970. The rally, which was sponsored by 
groups concerned with pollution and ecology, attracted the 
• attention of a few subversive elements, but appeared to be very 
much under the control of the sponsors. Senator Edmund S. Muskie 
spoke at the rally in Washington, D. C., and Rennie Davis, an 
antiwar act,ivist with a subversive background, ·appeared on the 
same platform with Senator Muskie. A .few minor disturbances 
erupted in some areas, but overall the Earth Day rallies were -
peaceful and_ attained their general objective, the calling of 
attention to environmental problems. Senator Muskie, who learned 
that the FBI covered the rally in Washington, was incensed that 
the FBI was involved. We had a poor defense and in this case, at 
least, it is doubtful that there was any legitimate Executive 
authority to have the FBI involved. In any event, it would appear 
that such requests should flow through channels, including the 
Department of Justice where possible, to assure that unreasonable 
and improper requests are made for investigative activity. 
- 22 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 157 
