,,,· .. .. 
• 
It was under j.ust such constitutional powers that 
P~esident Roosevelt requested the FBI to investigate the fascist 
and communist movement. And, of course, it was under just such 
constitutional powers that the President authorized the 
Attorney General to approve without a warrant electronic sur­
veillances on both domestic and foreign organizations engaged 
in activity detrimental to the national security. However, the 
Supreme Court has considerably narrowed the President's consti­
tutional authority as a result of the Keith -ca:se. In essence, 
the court stated that insofar as domestic organizations are 
concerned, the President does not have the power to abrogate 
the First and Fourth Amendments. In other words, the President 
cannot order an act (investigation) which would interfere with 7 
or abridge the First Amendment rights to assemble or redress 
grievances. or to enjoy freedom of speech, or the Fourth Amend-
ment rights requiring the issuance of search warrant in connec-
tion with the seizµre of evidence. 
The courts have considerably broadened their inter­
pretation of both the First and Fourth Amendments. Civil 
libertarians have proclaimed that any activity on the part of the 
Government which might have a "chilling effect" on an individual's 
legitimate right to dissent constitutes a violation of First 
Amendment rights. In some cases the courts have adopted this 
view. By the same token, Fourth Amendment rights have been 
broadened to include overhearings of conversation, and the issue 
of invasion of privacy is being raised more and more. With all 
these factors being considered there are, however, numerous 
situations bearing on the national security where the President 
unquestionably has the constitutional authority to have the 
FBI obtain information which will enable him to fulfilr his 
broad responsibilities under the Constituion. With the exception 
of the recent Keith decision, the courts have declined to define 
or circumscribe the President's constitutional power. 
Ordinarily, when we speak of the constitutional 
power of the President we think in terms of a specific order 
such as a directive or Executive order or some other tangible 
evidence. However, over the years, beginning with the years 
preceding World War II, Mr. J. Edgar Hoover established a 
rapport with the President which resulted in the President 
making requests of the FBI under his inherent Executive authority. 
The request made by President Roosevelt in 1936 as described 
herein is an excellent example of a lon~ series of Presidential 
requests extending through a long line of Presidents and at least 
until Mr. Hoover's death. Presidents from Roosevelt to Nixon 
have confided in Mr. Hoover and sought his advice and product of 
FBI investigative skill, particularly in matters affecting the 
national security. One very excellent example of the confidence 
the President has had in the FBI is the confidential Presidential 
- 21 -
NW 38601! Docld:32989ii09 P'age 156 
