PROTEST AND TROTSKYIST GROUPS UNIT 
This Unit is responsible for the investigation of 
antiwar protest groups and key activists connected therewith, 
as well as the Eastcon case. Accomplishments of the Unit 
worthy of note are as follows: 
EASTCON 
As a result of our investigation of the plots to blow 
up the underground tunnels housing the heating system servicing 
Government buildings in Washington, D. c., and to kidnap a 
high Government official, an indictment was returned at 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, on 1-12-71 covering six individuals 
as defendants and seven unindicted co-conspirators. Our 
investigation into this matter continued, and on 4-30-71 a 
superseding indictment was returned at Harrisburg which added 
two additional defendants and reduced the number of unindicted 
c~-c~rmp::.r~ to:-s t!> :f!:.''1_!~. !!! ~.d<li i;i nn; -five ;ind,i viduals J1a,.v:e _____ . 
been cited for civil contempt for refusal to testify before 
the Federal Grand Jury regarding this matter, and four individuals 
have been indicted for criminal contempt. By letter dated 
2-25-71 to the Director, Assistant Attorney General Robert c. 
Mardian advised of his appreciation for cooperation extended 
by the Bureau in this case and singled out the efforts of six 
members of the Domestic Intelligence Division, as well as two 
Agents of the Philadelphia Office. 
Of paramount importance to the successful prosecution 
of this case is our principal witness, Boyd Frederick Douglas. 
He testified before the Grand Jury in January 2--Y9"tl,' a:'i{d'"'" ;z..a• 
" 1£JO.WJ wao:i,;: • _. 
subsequently assumed a new identity and has been living under 
appropriate cover in~ Iowa. Inasmuch as he is a 
witness rather thanan informan~~epartment is primarily 
responsible for his welfare and his cover. We maintain liaison 
between the witness and the Department in order to insure that 
the Bureau's interests are properly looked after. The:..£l_eath. 
..Q~IJ:t!eJ.aj;ll,~~.naJply,.,,,.J ... 997.l.1. created a situation 
whereby the informant's identity and location could have been 
ascertained by irresponsible members of the press. Through 
the concerted efforts of the Omaha Office, the informant and 
his wife attended the funeral with no adverse effects. Assistant 
Attorney General Mardian, by letter dated 7-21-71, praised the 
high degree of proficiency of five Agents of the Omaha Office 
in protecting the identity of the witness. 
DOMESTIC 
8-18-71 
4.t FBG:plm 
14-E 
NW 38601! Docld:32989£38 
INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
- 9 -
63 
