• 
. . . 
But the same problem exists in many areas covered by 
Federal statute. In the narcotics field. tremendous intelligence 
programs are in existence to stop the spiraling increase in drug 
add i ct ion and t raff i c in n a r co t i cs by or g an i z e d crime . Even 
broader intelligence programs are being planned. It is true that 
violations are occurring. And some arrests are being made as the 
result of excellent police work following the violations. But 
the Government is also concerned with preventing drugs from even 
getting into the United States, and from preventing any that do 
get here from being sold to our children. So, we are conducting 
preventive investigations in the narcotics field. We are conducting 
intelligence-type investigations. Certainly prosecutions will 
be sought wherever possible, but we are conducting the same type 
of in~estigations in the narcotics area as we are in the field of 
national security. We are doing what has to be done, and the 
statutes are the basis of what has to be done. 
In the field of organized crime we know that the Mafia 
and the Casa Nostra have spread like a cancerous growth into the 
very economy of the Nation. Certainly there are violations of 
law. Statutes of some sort are usually involved. Many of the 
statutes involved are outside the primary investigative jurisdiction 
of the FBI. What has to be done? The individuals controlling 
the organizations of crime syndicates must be identified and the 
nature of their activity analyzed to see what - if any - Federal, 
or even local, crimes are being committed. In other words, we 
know that syndicated criminals are engaged in crime, yet we do 
not know exactly what crimes. We are therefore conducting 
intelligence-type investigations to first identify the criminal 
and then identify the crime. I fail to see why there isn't a 
parallel between intelligence-type investigations conducted to 
prevent criminal depredations on the public at large and the same 
kind of investigations to protect the Nation from the nihilists, 
anarchists, terrorists, revolutionaries and otheT subversives. 
While drawing a parallel between criminal investigations 
and national security investigations, there is no intent here to 
show that both types of investigative activity can be or should be 
conducted alike. The two types of activity are as diametricially 
opposed as the two poles of the earth. One is concerned with the 
individuals and organizations which are involved purely for 
financial gain. The other is concerned with the individuals and 
organizations which are involved purely for ideological and 
philosophical reasons. There is a vast difference between the 
two. Intelligence-type investigations are necessary in the 
field of narcotics and other areas of organized crime and they 
are conducted without the need for any inherent Executive power 
being conveyed. 
- 27 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989fi09 Page 162 
