4. Page 00221 
Item (A) is believed to be accurate and in the absence of 
additional detail no serious damage would be suffered b¥ release of 
this information. 
Item (B) is accurate and as long as target is not specifically 
identified no serious damage should be incurred. It should be recognized, 
however, that although the concept of intercepting cryptographic 
machine emanatiop.s would come as no surprise to those familiar with 
) 
intelligence work, confirmation of a functioning system could encourage 
implementation of countermeasures which would deprive the U.S. of 
invaluable information. 
Item ( C) is accurate except that the equipment has not been 
operated for some time. Without specific identification no serious 
damage would result from disclosure of this information. 
Item (D) is inaccurate to the extent that it states that 
"installation is not fully operational because the full complement 
of personnel have not yet arrived." Aside from.that,disclosure 
of information could lead the knowledgeable foreign government to be 
certain of Bureau's participation and take whatever diplomatic steps 
they felt necessary. Decision to withhold is an operational/political 
one rather than one which would affect technical capabilities and, therefore, 
the Laboratory is making no recommendations in this regard. 
5. Page 00222 
l 
Item (E) is accurate and entirely too revealing. If there 
is any way this :item can be deleted from material yet to be given to 
anyone outside the intelligence community, it should be done. As "'•~ 
written, it suggests a concerted effort toward a penetration to be 
attempted in the future. Disclosure of this information could easily 
negate millions of dollars already spent and literally years of work 
already performed - the largest single project ever undertaken by 
this Bureau. In view of our responsibilities in the counter-intelligence 
field, the FBI, as well as the intelligence community, and perhaps the 
free world as well, would suffer incalculable harm from release of this 
information. It would also be appropriate for the Intelligence Division 
to comment on this item. 
- 3 -
NW 38601! Docld:32939r6.2£ Page a T~p SECR:Z ,, 
