The· Attorney General 
, Based on this study, we believe that had there never bean a 
single one of the Presidential directives in question the FBI would h.nve 
-conducted and will, through necessity, continue to conduct tl10 same intelli­
.gence-type investigations as were conducted from 1939 to the present date. 
We also believe, however, that in order to counter the criticism· and skepti­
cism of such individuals ns Professor Elliff and Scnato1• Srun J. Ervin that 
an up-to-date E~ecutive order should be issued clearly establishing a need 
for intelligenee-type investigations and delineating o. clear authority for the 
FBI to conduct such investigations based on guidelines established by the 
Attor11ey General and adhering to constitutional principles. 
'l'he study concluded with two baHic recommendations. 
l) That the .Oepartrnent of Justice be requested to sponsor compl'ehensive 
legislation spt~lling out the FBI' s investigative autho1--ity in the collection of 
intelligence information relating to the national security and; 2) that the 
Department of Justice be i·equested to seek a comprehensive Executive order 
which would cover any. possible gap betvrnen statutory authority and Executive 
necessity in protection of the national security. 
At first glance these recommendations may appear to contradict 
our position that we already have statutory authority to conduct security-type 
inveatigations; that this being the case we do not need additional Ieg·islativc 
enactments. nor do we ,need an Executive order. But being realistic we think 
that the basic statutes uoou which we rely for our authority to conduct - . 
domestic intelligence investigations need to be updated to fit 1973 needs. 
Title 18 U. S . C . Sections 2383, 2384, and 2385 relate to the national security, 
but the legislative history of 2383 and 2384 indicates that they were designed 
for the Civil War era., not the Twentieth Centu1•y, ond Section 2385 has been 
reduced to a. fragile shell by the Supreme Court. These sto.tutes a-re unques­
tionably still valid , but updating is certainly indicated. The bills introduced 
. as H .R. 6046 and S. 1400 in the 93rd Congress appear to contain language -;vhich 
should fill our statutory needs. except perhaps for those groups, such as the 
Ku Klux. l{lsn, which do not seek to overthrow the Government, but never­
theless are tvtruiturlan in rn:.ture and seek to deprive constitutionally guaranteed 
rit:hts. 
LNW#:88608 Docid: 32 98 954'14 -
