- • International News 
Panthers profess to believe that American Negroes comprise isolated "col­
onies" in the heart of the "mother" country, and are part of the Third World, 
defined as the nonwhite, undeveloped, and underdeveloped countries of the world. 
The 10-Point Program of the Black Panther Party includes, as a major political 
objective, a United-Nations-supervised plebiscite to be held throughout the 
black colony to determine the national destiny of American Negroes. 
To internationalize their Party and enlarge their importance, Panther leaders 
have sought acceptance, support, and funds from sources abroad. They have made 
numerous trips to foreign countries, including Canada, Mexico, Cuba, Palestine, 
Germany, France, England, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Soviet Union, North Korea, 
North Vietnam, and the Chinese Mainland. 
Both at home and abroad, Panther leaders loudly proclaim anti-American 
sentiments and align themselves politically with the aims and tactics of enemy 
lands. The international contacts most important to the Panthers are made with 
revolutionary groups and communist countries, especially those that more closely 
follow Maoist thinking. The international news section of The Black Panther 
reflects attempts by the Black Panther Party to attract such attention, support, 
and aid. 
THE BLACK PANTHER, SATURDAY, JUNE 2'1, 1970 PAGE 8 
TELEGRAM TO 
COMRADE KIM IL SUNG 
KlM IL SUNG 
PREMIER OF THE CABINET 
DEMOCRATIC PEOPLES RE­
PUBLIC OF KOREA 
June 25th marks the 20th anniver­
sary of the U.S. im::,erialist ag­
gressive invasion of the DP RK in 
1950. 
The Black Panther Party takes 
this occasion to salute the D.?RK 
and the wise and brave leader of the 
40 million Korean people, Com­
rade Kim ll Sung. 
We recognize and respect the 
long history of resistance and vic­
tory that Com:-:ade Kim ll Sung 
and the 40 m~lion Korean people 
have contributed to the world wide 
struggle against imperialism and 
fascism; the shining examples of 
socialist construction VI hile under 
severe conditions of U.S. pro­
vocation and aggression, the many 
brilliant ideological contributions 
you have made to the socialist 
camp and in particular the con­
cept of "Juche". 
Because of our historical ex­
perience in America; because we 
are faced with no alternatives but 
genocide or liberation we under­
stand the criminal nature and 
gangster logic of the U.S. ruling 
class. Black people are increas­
ingly the victims of overtmtlitary 
aggression aRd U,S, plots to sub­
vert our struggle for national sal­
vation, Under these conditions we 
have an increasing awareness that 
the expulsion of the U,S. imper­
ialist burglars from Korean soil 
and the reunification of Korea will 
be a victory for the Korean peo­
ple and a victory for oppressed 
people the world over. 
We see clearly that the reuni­
fication of Korea is not seperate 
from the salvation of Black and 
other oppressed people in fascist 
America. As gang boss Nixon and 
his mob of criminals intensify 
their attem::,ts to loot Asia they 
are intensifying their murderous 
repression of Black people in 
America. These attacks will be 
met with revolutionary solidarity 
manifested in action, both around 
the world and in the gangsters 
lair, and with one-beat-a-hundred 
fighters in Africa, Asia, Latin 
America, and North Am,1rica; the 
U.S.A. will surely be brought to the 
peoples JUSTICE. 
ALL POWER TO THE PEOPLE 
CENTRAL COMMlTI'EE 
BLACK PANTHER PARTY 
U.S.A. 
35 
W 38614 Docld:32989ii06 Page 158 
