• • 
For.the purpose of this paper 0 we ~re 
thinking about the search for knowledge considered 
·vital for national· survival. One could suggest 
that clnndestin~ collection of intelligence.is 
ovGrcmphnsizod and that ou~ Government could readily 
protect its interests through overt collection and 
the employment of our best analysts and evaluators. 
If we take this approachp we may as well discount 
the importance.of tho Bureau's activities in the 
counterintelligence field, which essentially are • 
of a clandestine nature and which have produced time 
·and again vital intelligence. We, therefore, must·. 
move on the assumption that the clandestine 
collection of foreign intelligence is very definitely 
a most necessary element of our over-all intelligence 
capabilities. 
In addition to the overt sources, there 
exists a rich potential in the u_ s. among the foreign 
., diplomatic establishments including the U. N., the 
officials of foreign governments, and visitors such 
as students, professors, and scientists. A certain 
amount oi iu..Cv.ciuatlor:,. f:.."'or.1 such source~ ~?.~. bP 
obtained in an overt fashion, but the high ~uality 
data is normally acquired through clandestine means. 
This can be done through technical- monitoring, 
development of live sources, access to records, 
files, et cetera. There are approximately 10,000 
foreign officials in the u. s. assigned to embassies, 
consulates, trade missions, U. N., and other 
• international organizations. This excludes 
dependents. During the fiscal year ending June 30, 
1965, 38,544 foreign government officials visited 
the U. S.; about 1500 of these came from communist-bloc 
countries. During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1965, 
approximately 50,000 foreign students came to the U. s.; 
73.3 of these came from the communist bloc. During the 
same fiscal year,· there were 2,075,967 visitors from 
all countries. Everyone of the foregoing is a potential 
,· ••. ,. , .. ·,·" ' ·-. ·' • •·.-source of foreign intelligence. As can be readily 
accepted, the U. s. Government does not have a capa-
... ,. .. bili ty. of. ,assessi1,1g each and every one of ·these sources 
:f.or :foreign intelligence. We can say at this point 
that the FBI and CIA are just·scratching the surface.·· 
It is recognized that a program designed to assess 
- 57 -
1· 
,:\. ... .. 
' ·~-. . . . ; 
,, 
