' . . , 
• 
COMMENT - REBUTTAL 
'.' .. 
It is believed that in at least three of the above­
described situations the FBI would have been able to conduct 
investigatons based on statutes relating to advocacy of over­
throw of the Government, seditious consRiracy, inciting to 
insurrection or rebellion, civil disorders, antiriot, 
neutrality laws (foreign relations) and perhaps sabotage. The 
questionable case, the Drum and Spear Bookstore, would have 
probably been brought adequately to our atte-ntion from various 
public sources or through our informant coverage of overall 
matters affecting the national security. 
NATIONALITIES INTELLIGENCE SECTION VIEWS 
The Nationalities Intelligence Section listed four 
situations wherein, generally speaking, much of the FBI's 
investigative activity has not been based on statutory authority, 
but has been designed to develop intelligence data regarding 
individuals and organizations which have established themselves 
as a potential threat to the security and safety of the 
United States Government or its citizens. Listed are the following: 
(1) The Jewish Defense League (JDL). Although involved 
in terror-type bombings covered by statute, FBI investigation of 
JDL is also developing information regarding future plans and 
activities, particularly violent acts against Soviet diplomats 
and diplomatic establishments and pro-Soviet groups and indivi­
duals. In the case of JDL, Department of State has a specific 
interest from the standpoint of U.S. relations with other 
countries. Certain of our intelligence-type investigations of 
JDL are aimed at satisfying State Department requirements. 
(2) Al Fatah and Popular Front for the Liberation of 
Palestine are two ~rganizations that are well known for violence 
potential. In light of state~ents and actions of members and 
leaders, it is obvious that the FBI should conduct intelligence 
investigations when these organizations are active in the U.S. 
(3) Revolutionary Union and Venceremos Organizatio.n are 
two groups which adhere to a pro-Chinese communist political 
phiiosophy and pledge overt action through use of weapons to 
bring about revolution in this country. With this in mind, we 
have undertaken int e 1 li gence- type investigations to i den ti fy 
those involved wh-0 may be responsible for carrying out violence 
directed against the U. S. Government or the citizens of this 
country. 
- 30 -
~W 38ti-Oa Docld:32989ti-09 165 
