.. 
I . 
Separation of the internal security function also 
presents serious political corisiderations. Internal security 
or as some say, at least in reference to its 11subversive
11 
investigations, political intelligence, is the mdst controversial 
of government's intelligence collection activities. In the 
U.S., this function was originally given to the FBI which· 
had established for itself a repµtation for being responsible, 
competent, and most importantly, politically neutral, and had 
the confidence of most Americans. It is recognized that this 
reputation is not etched in stone, and that because of the 
diversity of peoples, political views, and activities tolerated 
in the u. s. no internal security agency can, using hum~n 
judgement, attempt to fulfill its responsibility without 
offending someone, sometime, some~lace. 
It-is to the advantage of an internal security 
agency, which is subjected to such political pressures, to 
be somewhat insulat--ed by baing ~art 0£ a larger, respected 
organization whicl:. has a high profile as a competent and fair 
investigative agency in the less politically complex law 
enforcement and counterintelligence fields. Adding to this­
insulation is the tradition of FBI political independence, and 
• .. - • ... • t ... , • t ., -- - ... • • • ... , 
L.u~ Hew 1...,VH'::jJ.e::.;::,.i.vua..i. t..;uH1.-1:;:J.u W.J.L.H J\.cl::):.,.Lu<::J t.:.ut;; .1:.ui. 1:10.1..1. L..1.'"'u.1..1._r 
independent. While the law enforcement: and counterintelligence 
wing~ of tbe FBI dislike the controversies into which its 
internal.security wings drags the FBI name, separation of 
internal security into a separate agency would probably subject 
it to more intense political pressures, both from within the 
administration and without, which pressures it might not be 
capable of withstaLding. Such separation appears politically 
unfeasible and undesirable. 
Pr~ctical conslderations against divestiture of 
the counterintelligence and internal security f~1ctions from 
the FBI are that: basic criminal investigative experience 
equips men in many areas to be intelligence officers; a pool 
of trained criminal investigators is available to the intelligence 
missions to draw from, either on an ad hoc emergency basis, 
e.g., seizure of an embassy or political kidnapping or skyjacki~g, 
or as candidates for the position of intelligence officer;· 
a divestiture might result in the loss to the counterintelligence 
and internal security wings of the. effective use of the FBI nana, 
reputation, and contacts and sources built-up over years using 
the FBI name. 
- 5 -
Ii NW#: 88608 Docid:32989541 
