'·. 
,· 
I 
I 
.. . . . ·:· -.: . ·:· ; .. ·. ·. l 
', ; ,.:\• .. .:·:· . :.,-• ·1 
• • I ., 
". . . . 
Intelligence is distinguished from the Director of Central 
Intelligence Agency (CIA) in that the Director of Central 
Intelligence as Chairman of the United States Intelligence 
• Board is considered the President's principal advisor on 
foreign intelligence. Membership on the United Stnto~ 
Intelligence Board consists of the Director of Intelligence 
and Research, Department of State; the Deputy Director of CIA; 
the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency; the Director 
of the National Sectirity Agency; the Assistant General Manager 
for Administration 9 Atomic Energy Commission, and the Assistant 
Director of the FBio The primary responsibility of the USIB 
is the coordination of intelligence activities. In this 
regard, USIB's major effort is concerned with the preparation 
and approval of National Intelligence Estimates (NIE) for use 
by policy maker~. • • 
. - .. As a rule, the Bureau does not participate in the· 
preparation of NIE's inasmuch as the subject matter is usually 
outside the jurisdiction of this Bureau. We have in the past. 
~participated in some selective NIE's such as certain estimates 
on Cuba, world communism, the clandestine introduction of 
221..m~ e~,r weapons. tnto th~ TTn,itAd St~.te$ ~.nd Qn tbe Do~il)i~an 
Republic. 
As part of its staffing procedure, USXB has 
cre~ted numerous committees in some of which the Bureau 
maintains membership. The USIB committees on which the 
Bureau has representation are the Technical Surveillance 
Countermeasures Committee, the Signal Intelligence Committee, 
the Interagency Defector Committee, the Watch Committee, the 
Joint Atomic Energy Intelligence Committee, the Guided Missile 
Astronautics Intelligence Committee, the Security Committee, 
and the Committee on Documentation. As a g~neral rule, 
attendance at Committee sessions is handled by the Liaison 
Section. Attendance at meetings is in the·main restricted to 
the Interagency Defector Committee, the Watch Committee, the 
Security Committee, the Technical Surveillance Countermeasures 
-Committee and the Committee on Documentation; The Bureau has 
.. a primary interest in.the business of these f°ive committees. 
All decisions made by these committees, which are subsequently 
approved by the USIB, are the subject of individual memoranda. 
submitted to the Director for his approval. , • 
·,•• 
.·. 
'' .. 47 - ,· 
. . -:. 
' f .: ·. , ' . . ~ 
.. ,•. 
