ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
NEW LEFT GROUPS UNIT 
Included in the work of the New Left·Groups Unit are 
the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) factions (with 
the exception of the Weatherman), other New Left campus 
groups, the Key Activist program, New Left Movement reports, 
New Left publications, and the maintenance of a ljbrary of 
research material on the New Left for use of Bureau. 
officials in connection with approved speaking commitments. 
In 1969, the Worker Student Alliance (WSA), 
Weatherman, and Revolutionary Youth Movement (RYM) factions 
of SDS split into separate groupso Accomplishments concerning 
Weatherman are reported elsewhere in this survey. The RYM 
faction of SDS is now practically defunct. Currently, 
the largest faction of SDS is the WSA faction, which is 
dominated by the pro-Chinese Marxist-Leninist Progressive 
L~bor Pa-rt-y -{P.LP). 
. App.-oxi.mately twy.,n~ Bureau informants attended the 
SDS/WSA National Convention in Chicago, December 26-30, 1970. 
This convention was dominated by PLP controlled leadership; 
however, dissent was widespread, much of which was led by 
our informants. Since the last Inspection, this dissent has 
spread further and has resulted in additional factionalism 
w i thin the 'SDS/WSA. 
During the past winter, the SDS/WSA has continuously 
attempted to inject itself into labor disputes without success, 
due mainly to factionalism. The objective of the SDS/WSA is 
to build ties with workers inasmuch as in the old Marxist­
Leninist tradition, they view the students-workers as the 
vanguard of the revolution. In this regard, the SDS/WSA set 
up a Summer Project with the twofold objective of a massive 
recruitment program and the fostering of a general strike, 
nationwide, . through-infiltration of industry and unions. We 
have been on top of this program from its inception and have 
kept all interested Govemment agencies advised of developments 
on a continuing basis. In addition, again largely due to 
factionalization, the SDS/WSA Summer Project program has not 
had significant success in any of its twenty-one target cities. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/19/71 
DPW :0 .ilPJ.. 
4-E 
- 13 
NW 38608 Docld:32989£.JB Page 67 
