--- • .-, • - • .2 
' -.. C>b 
.. 
-4-
believe that the infor_mation on Osi.vald ,vas unusual enough to have 
caused recipients to take special measures ,vhich might conceivably 
have led to a closer· scrutiny of Lee Harvey Os\vald and his movements. 
lvir. Helms pointed out that ttie inforn1ation on Os1vald's visit to the 
Cuban and Soviet embassies in ?\'lexico City came from telephone inter­
cepts ,vhich \vere placed on both embassies. These intercepts ,vere 
recorded.on tape and revie,.ved by persons at our St2.tion for any infor­
mation affecting U. S. security. Such information is routinely passed 
to other agencies and entered in CLt\ files. Given th2 enormous bulk 
which is involved, the tapes are not kept on file but erased after a brief 
period of time. Thus the information on Os\vald ,vas similar to that 
provided on other American citiz~ns ,vho might have made contacts of 
this type. In Os,vald' s case, it ,vas the combination of visits to both 
Cuban and Soviet Embassies ,vhich caused the Mexico City Station to 
report this to Headquarters an9- Os·\vald1 s record of defection to the 
Soviet Union ,vhich prompted the Headquarters dissemination. At the 
conclusion of his remarks on this subject, 1\/'"ir. Helms specified that 
the inforn1ation he had given 1,'lr. Rank.in ,v·as extren1ely sensitive and 
that the very ·existence of these telephone intercepts had to be very 
carefully protected. 
10. The Commission, 1'.1r. Ran.l.dn said, ,vould be interested in 
any information held by CIA on Jack Ruby. I'.-lr. Rankin said the Coin­
mission staff had prepared a roundup on Ruby, a copy of \Vhich he handed 
Mr. Helms. He said he ,vould appreciate any file reflections or commen_ts 
that CIA analysts might n1a..~e on this material. 1rir. Rankin and .men1ber s . 
of his staff then discussed Ruby's confirr.1.ed trip to Havana in 1959. The 
Commission has received information from an unspecified source that 
Ruby ,vas in Havana again in 1963 under a ·Czech passport. lvir. Ran!dn 
asked ,vhether CIA could provide· any ass"istance in v.erifying this story. 
Mr. Helms replied that CL'\ ,vould be limited in its possibility of assist­
ing, to air manifest checks in :rviexico. These would be carried out he 
said. 
' 
11. Mr. Helms ,vas then asked if CI.A h8.d done a...11y follo-..v up to • 
its original telegraphic dissemination of the infor_mation on Os\vald's 
visits to the Cuban and Soviet embassies in Iviexico City.. Mr. Helms 
replied that there had been no CIA action follovring our initial dissemi­
natio_n. Mr. \Villems then asked if there ,vere any liaison problems 
faced by CIA in its ef£or ts to deal ,vith other agencies in n1atter s ·affect­
ing internal security. :rv1r. Helms replied that there ,vere al,vays under­
standable human problems in conducting any liaison on any subject but 
Page6 
{ 
; 
--
