• 
. ' t . 
• 
Over the years, consideration has been given to 
the Bureau's withdrawing its membership from USIB. On each 
occasion the Director has chosen to have the Bureau retain 
its membership on the Board, The last such occasion occurred 
in 1964 ·during the period when John McCone was Chairman of 
the United States Intelligence Board. At that time, the military 
services were removed from membership on the Board and replaced 
by the Defense Intelligence Agency. At the time, Mr. Belmont, 
then Assistant to the Director, orally discussed with the • 
Director the possibility of the Bureau's withdrawing from the 
USIB. The Director's comments were that we would not request 
removal from membership on the Board but would withdraw our 
membership only if so requested by the Director of Central 
Intelligence in his role as Chairman of the USIB. The Bureau's 
withdrawal would, 9f course, require action on the part of 
the National Security Council. 
d. The President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board (PFIAB) 
This group was originally organized in January, 1956, 
as tne l?resicient ts Bua.rd of CCH.1;:,ultanta vn ~c~ci 6 :-:. I:::talligence 
Activity. Its primary function at that time was to review 
periodically the Government 1 s foreign intelligence efforts 
with specific emphasis on the operations of the Central 
Intelligence Agency. It was established as a result of 
recommendations by the Hoover Commission. In the later years 
of the Eisenhower Administration the activity of the group 
,fell off and it was re-organized in its present form with the 
•• advent of the Kennedy Administration. 
Our relationship with this Board has historically 
been one of informal liaison in view of the fact that the 
primary function of the Board is concerned with foreign 
intelligence. There have been occasions where representatives 
of the Bureau-briefed individual members and/or panels of 
the Board concerning our jurisdiction, techniques and 
accomplishments in.the intelligence field. ·These briefings 
.. •,., .. ,, ·-··:....-.:.ha:ve··been received ytith a. receptive and sympathetic attitude. , 
.. , ... Our main .. concern in ;following the _activities of this Board .,:••'· •• --~-,::-. _:ha.s·-··b"e•eii"'-:to assure·,.that····-t11.e·•:central" ·Intelligence· Agency-, doe-s···-.. · ··•:-•: ••· • · 
not encroach upon our jnrisdiction and upon the functions of •• ••• • 
the variou~ intelligence communities in which we hold membership. 
·,. 
- 48 • ... . .. 
