• 
DEVELOPMENT OF INVESTIGATIVE POLICIES 
. ' . 
By examining our investigative policies and procedures 
over the years it can readily be seen that procedures adopted 
out of necessity, such as those d~veloping out of the period 
preceding World War II, in time come to be accepted as gospel 
both within and outside the FBI. The intelligence-type investi­
gations originally ordered because of circumstances existing in 
1936 and even before, continued after World War II, and in reality 
became necess~ry again during the Korean Wai pe±iod. And although 
the actual basis of authority in 1949 and 1950 was not the same 
as in 1936, we evidently considered it the same and obviously the 
Department of Justice and White House did also.· Even though the 
Congress provided legislative authority to investigate subversive 
act s , i t a pp e a rs th at w e di d n o t f e e 1 th at th e t yp e o f in v es ti -
gations necessary could be conducted except under an authority 
which did not require collection and preservation of evidence with 
a view of eventual prosecution, but rather to gather information 
only for the purpose of determining the nature and extent of 
subversive activity. 
This is not to imply that the statutes were not used. 
On the contrary, the statutes were used an~a large number of 
t·op level Communist Party functionaries were convicted under the 
Smith Act, but we still conducted investigations based on what 
we considered to be authority under constitutional power of the 
President - investigations which Professor Elliff has called 
continuing investigative activity within a broad range of delegated 
authority. While this study has not gone into the procedures 
and policies developed by the FBI in conne~tion with investiga­
tions rei~ting to our Emergency Detention Program, various 
documents were examined and it is known that this program preceded n/ 
the Emergency Detention Act, which was a part of the Internal 
Security Act of 1950. A great deal of investigative activity, 
dating back to the 19 30 's, was conducted cone erning the Se cur~lY 
Index, an integral part of the Emergency Detention Program. tfts a 
matter of interest, the·Emergency Detention Program, which was 
a program devised to insure that individuals constituting a 
threat to national security would be arrested and detained in the 
event of a national emergency. The Department at one point felt 
that· the constitutionality of such a program was high~y question­
able. However, the program was implemented and was in existence 
at the time the Internal Security Act of 1950 was passed. 
And most curiously of all is the fact that even after 
the Internal Securiti Act of 1950 became law, providing a legal 
basis for the program in existence, it was not until the 1960's 
that our Emergency Detention Program was switched over from an 
emergency plan under Presidential powers to the authority 
vested by statute. Of course, the part of the Internal Security Act 
- 24 -
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989ti-09 159 
