' ,. 
Executive instructions concerning broad, sweeping authority for the 
FBI, which cannot now be found for one reason or another. Certainly 
there is indication that at least President Roosevelt had more than 
one conversation with Mr. Hoover concerning the necessity for the 
-FBI to conduct investigations beyond the statutory authority it 
normally used. 
DIRECTIVES SUPPLEMENTED OR SUPERSEDED BY STATUTES 
Eventually, however, there were legislative enactments 
which broadened the scope of our statutory authority, increased 
our legal jurisdictioh and added to our investigative responsi­
bility~ Following the September, 1939, directive, which has 
been used as a source of FBI authority to conduct certain types 
of domestic intelligence investigations, the Smith Act of 1940 
became law. Several successful prosecutions resulted from the 
Smith Act, although some parts of it were invalidated by the 
Supreme Court. The revised statute (Title 18, U.S.C. 2385) remains 
on the books and is enforceable. 
Legal Counsel's Office analyzed Title 18, USC 2385, 
in June, 1972. It was noted that this statute contains the 
substance of the original Smith Act. The House of Representatives 
Committee on Judiciary, Report No. 1869, 74th Congress, 
First Session, made clear the purpose of the original legislation: 
"The reported bill is based on the natural right of 
self-preservation inherent in every ·government. It simply 
authorizes the exercise of the power of_t~e government to defend 
itself against those who seek by force and violence to destroy 
it." Further clarification of the legislative objective was 
made by Representative John W. McCormack, who said, "And by 
the way, this bill is not alone aimed at communists; this bill 
is aimed at anyone who advocates the overthrow of government 
by violence and force." 
VALIDITY OF THE _SMITH ACT 
The Supreme Court held in 1951 that teaching the 
doctrine of forcible overthrow of the United States Government 
was a violation of the Smith Act where there was a clear and 
present danger that a substantial public evil would result. 
The Court further held that the Act did not violate the First 
Amendment. Chief Justice Vinson, who wrote the majority opinion, 
used language which must be considered at this time to be 
very significant in detiding whether the Government may in 
fact conduct preventive-type investigations in the interest 
of self-preservation. • -~-- • •• 
c:....--- .. ,. ·" -•.,__ ........ .,._.. 
- 11 -
NW 386-0B. Docld:32989fii09 Page 146 
