NW 
i 
SECRE'I' - SEJ/IS~TIVE 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: SELECT COMMITTEE OF THE SENATE 
• 
instances of failure or error that may have occurred in the past 
l
be understood in context. He states we cannot operate effectively , 
without more precise provisions in the law to protect our secrets.~) 
Referring on page 5 specifically to the FBI, he notes that 
intelligence collection on a worldwide basis contributes to our 
internal security. The efforts of foreign nations to penetrate our 
society and to manipulate our citizens are well documented. There 
are several hundred foreign members of the KGB and intelligence 
operatives in this country seeking information about the United 
States and its plans and their efforts must be met by an intensive 
counterintelligence effort. He states "Within the United States, 
this is the function of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
Abroad, it is CIA's responsibility to identify the foreign agent 
before he arrives in America or to learn of the plans of foreign 
groups to try to subvert our institutions. To this traditional 
danger has been added a new threat of international terrorism. 
CIA's foreign and the FBI's domestic intelligence activities have 
collaborated to frustrate several plans to bring to America and its 
citizens the kind of hijacking and indiscriminate~terrorist bombings 
that characterize too many areas of the world." (s 1 
Beginning at page 7, Mr. Colby undatakes to explain the 
processes of collecting intelligence and on page 10 briefly goes 
into the roles of the various intelligence components and the 
legislative bases for their activities. For example, he states 
the intelligence roles of the other members of the Intelligence 
Community in part stem from the 1947 Act and in part from separate 
legislation, such as that charging the FBI with responsibi~ty for 
internal security, which I consider a correct statement.($) 
On page 11, he notes that all intelligence elements operate 
within legal authority and are given further direction by the 
National Security Council, but (page 13) "each of us in the Intelli­
gence Community takes full personal responsibility for the actions 
recommend~ or taken in conformance with such general guidance and 
policy." (S) 
He explains the role of the President's Foreign Intelligence 
Advisory Board (PFIAB) whose "members are an impressive group of 
responsible Americans who report their independent views of the 
accomplishments and weaknesses of the Intelligence Community directly 
to the President." (5) 
Following this, he notes that in addition to responding to 
various Congressional committees,the National Security Council and 
the PFIAB, all of which exercise oversight-type functions, the(s) 
Docld:32989530 Page 161 
