• 
expended before the termination of a six-month development 
period thus requiring additional paper work in the field 
and resultant supervisory work at the Bureau. 
It is extremely difficult to draw meaningful 
conclusions concerning any savings between payments under 
SAC authority and costs accrued under delayed SOG approval 
of payments on a regular basis. The informant while operating 
under SAC authority is in a developmental stage. It can be 
expected that at any given point in his development whether 
.he continues on SAC authority or is approved for regular 
payments, expenditures to him will increase. It is the natural 
and practical order of informant development. 
The sooner a developing security or extremist 
informant can be brought under SOG control the more effective 
and consistent becomes his supervision. The SAC remains 
accountable, of course, for the informantts handling, the 
validity of his expenditures, and the worth of his information. 
Additional supervision, based on broad field needs and applied 
with consistency to the over-all policies of the Bureau, 
necessarily is- furnished by SOG supervisors and officials. 
This amoun~s to far more effective field-wide supervision of 
these sensitive matters. 
Strict economy continues to be the rule in Bureau 
supervision of security and extremist informants. During the 
period 4/1/70 through 6/70 for example as a result of reviewing 
regular payments to informants $4392 was saved. During the 
period 1/1/71 through 3/1/71 $5156 was saved. More recently 
on 8/20/71 a letter to all offices ~nstructed them to cut back 
five per cent in their total payments to security and extremist 
informants--a projected saving of $129,000. 
It is respectfully submitted that, in view of the 
over-all sensitivity of security and extremist informants, current 
procedures allowing for initial payments under SAC authority with 
a shift to Bureau approval of payments on a regular basis as the 
informant progresses and develops productivity, provide the most 
.effective and consistent field-wide supervision for the over-all 
needs of the Bureau. 
2 - • 
317 
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989fi38 Page 334 
