• 
.Ill .. 
/~DENDUM 
1 SPECTORE. S. MILLER: 
(ESM:wmj 8/23/71) 
.. 
I 
• 
For the ini©r ation of General Investi­
gative DivTuion, by separate write -up 
Domestic To:telligence Division (DID) 
was advised that Assistant to the Director Sullivan bas suggested that DID be 
divided into two separate Divisions. In order that suggestion could be analyzed 
during current inspection, DID was requested to furnish certain observations 
regarding suggestion. Among these, Division was as:ked ''In the event you feel 
work now being handled by another Division should re realigned in the event 
above suggestion adopted, so indicate under appropriate new Division." 
DID responded, "It will be noted that supervisfon of antiriot and bombing 
cases currently in General Investigative Division has been included in table of 
organization of proposed Domestic Intelligence Divhsi:on and specifically assigned 
to the Extremist Intelligence Section. Four Agents and two clerks are now 
assigned to this Unit in the General Investigtl:ive Division and should, of course, 
be transferred to the new Division. 
"This is the most logical move and will afford tighi.er· awl :aw1't:: eIIedl:va 
supervision of antiriot and bombing violations in view of fact that extremists and 
terrorists mostly involved are being actively invesngated by Domestic Intelligence 
Division (DID). Accordingly, in addition to avoidini duplicative supervisory 
action, it follows that DID is better prepared to handle these criminal investigations 
and final prosecutive actions. " 
~ 
• . A separate white write -up captioned "Anti-Riofl Laws and Bombing Matters" 
was prepared and DID asked specifically to commeniti regarding these matters . 
. This addendum is part of that write-up. • 
You are requested to furnish your views of WJE-. Sullivan's suggestion both 
as to the present structure of DID and as to the handling in the event DID is 
split. For your information, DID has proposed AHL and Bombing Matters 
be handled in the Extremist Intelligence Section. 
Comments of.Assistap.t Director Rosen requested. It would be appreicated 
, • if you would expedite this requ~st. 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fill! e251 
