' . •; 
In January, 1960, CIA agreed to comply with 
conditions ·imposed by-the Bureau with rognrd to developing 
positive ~ntelligencc information through contacts between 
U. s. ;esidonts and visitors from Iron Curtain countries. 
CIA agreed to contact us first before promoting such 
associations. In March, 19\G~, CIA inquired if it might obtain 
Bureau clearance at the field level for such contacts in the 
interest of oxpodioncy. Mr. •rolson notod: 11Moro nnd rnoro wo 
are agreeing to ·cIA operations in the U. s. I am opposed 
to this relaxation. We can exercise better control here than 
through our field offices." The Director added: "I share 
·Tolson's views." CIA was advised clearance was to be obtained 
through Bureau headquarters. • 
, . / 
A- ?OUrce, furnished information allegfng 
penetration of American intelligence. One Serge Karlow, a 
CIA officer, was developed as a suspect. On 2/9/62, we took 
., over the investigation. On 2/26/62, Sheffield Edwards, then 
CIA Director of Security, admitted CIA had had technical 
coverage on Karlow from February, 1961 to 2/9/62. Edwards·· 
clai:~:::d. his relu::::tanc'? to tel 1 nis: of this situation earlier 
because of obvious possible jeopardy to prosecution, plus 
emqarrassment to his Agency should the Bureau raise an 
objection to CIA's maintaining such coverage. The Director 
.. noted: "I only wish we would eventually realize CIA can 
.never be depended upon to deal forthrightly with us. Certainly 
my skepticism isn't based on prejudice nor suspicion but on 
specific instances all too many in number. Yet there exists 
wistful belief that 'the leopard has changed his spots'." 
In April, 1962, we received information on a 
strictly confidential basis from Jay Sourwine of the Senate 
Internal Security Subcommittee to the effect that an 
unidentified CIA representative had talked to Senator Eastland 
concerning an alleged move to place CIA in charge of· all 
intelligence-gathering operations for the Government -- to 
include Soviet espionage in the U.S. The Director noted: 
"I am not surprised at the above alleged effort. There is no 
doubt in many quarters a desire to eliminate the FBI in 
dealing with espionage and subversion for we are a thorn not 
only in the side of communists but also the ADA and Fabian 
Socialists. CIA which failed again and again to. know what 
is actually going on abroad could be counted upon to blunder 
the same way in the USA." 
• 52 -
