.. . 
Memorandum. c. D. Brennan tow. c. Sullivan 
Be: ADEQUACY OF J?.Eri.SO:tH{EL 
.,., 
specific instructions. Therefore, one part of Wannnll's "enormous" 
problem ~~s resolved in one woek with one interview and one letter to. 
the Department. 
,. Of eqt1al concern to me is Wanna11 •s handling of leave requests 
. during the pe1·iod of 6/15/71 to 8/5/71. When conf~:-onted with the Ellsber; 
case, he had discussed leave with me aud had sur;gei;ted that if it was 
necessa1•y for him to cancel leave requests i-n ·n:Lm 11:;:ection he felt lea-e 
should be cancelled throughot\t the enti1"e .Division... I told him it would 
be ridiculous to cancel ·1eave Division-wide because one section hud a 
problem. I advised him leavo throughout tha Division would be npproved 
on the basis of sound judgment in reJ.atiou to.overall Division work loa~ 
and i.n accordance with the Directorts instructions concerning indivi"du.alF 
inv:olved ou major cases. . 1 
I have ascertained that since 6/15/71 Wannall has approved leave 
.. for -12 supervisors in his section totaling 763 hours. This is an avera~e 
of nenrly 8 days per man for each of those 12. He approved these exten­
sive leave requests during the same period ·that he advised his probleES 
were so 11eno:rmous11 that he needed 'l additional men. 
'1!:tstoricaily, the ~B"llreatt has learned to live with specials of 
various kinds. I-agree with the concept that such specials are a test 
of the respo1w~ble official's ability to handle-them within the frafile­
work of the Bureauts overall responsibilities and capabilitins. Xn like 
manners I expect no less from supervisory personnel .under me and will 
.pot condone unwar1·auted attempts to grab manpower within the Division 
~egardless of -whether the attempts are based on an inability to think 
clearly, an incapacity to adjust to a stress situation, or oversight 
_r~sulting from a provincial attitude and outlook. 
DID has absorbed into its periphery of responsibilities-many new 
problem. areas involving racial and new left extremists in 1·ocent years. 
These probler.is have taxed our ingenuity and resulted in acr;oss-the-board 
heavy woi·k load increases brought about by the need· to flexibly realign 
ma11powe~ to meet new challenges. When other p:riori ties of the Bureau 
have precluded additiona1·manpower being ad<led to DID, I have attempted 
to tnke the -positive approach of making internal adjustments to fulfill 
our responsibilities with available resources. • 
In this vain, there is attached a copy of a memorandum 1 preparetl 
for all Branch and Section Chiefs of DID dated 7/23/71.which resulted 
in my memorandum to Mr. Sullivan of 7/29/71 recommending DID manpower 
(CONTil'1UED - OVER) 
.. 
NW 38601! Doc:::ld:32!:t89i538 Page 273 
