; 
I I 
I 4-E 
Nationality Unit I 
I 
Israeli and Middle East Investigations 
Prior to the beginning of the 25th Session of the United 
Nations General Assembly, this Unit re-cognized the vulnerability of 
the large concentration of foreign diplomats attending the Session to 
acts of terrorism and demonstrations originating with groups dissenting 
with the incumbent regimes of the countries represented. We issued 
appropriate instructions to the field to alert sources and provide . 
information immediately which would indicate a threat to the physical 
security or well being of these dignitaries who were coming to the 
United States for the Commemorative Session of the United Nations. 
Subsequent to this action, the White House similarly recognized the 
potential danger of embarrassment to the United States as host country 
for the United Nations if incidents occurred, and called on the Bureau 
to cooperate fully with United States Secret Service to uncover such 
incidents and provide full security for the chiefs of state and missions 
resident in New York City during the commemorative celebration. 
We established a system of liaison with United States Secret Service 
command post in New York City, as well as intensifying our liaison 
with New York City police and United States Mission to the United Nations. 
A flow of information from our sources was furnished to the interested 
agencies locally and to the intelligence community at a national level 
-which resulted in laudatory comments by Secret Service liaison 
personnel who commented favorably on the Bureau's assistance in 
completing the Presidentially ordered mission of United States 
Secret Service in providing security for the officials mentioned. 
During the same period of the 25th General Assembly of 
the United Nations, we furnished a continuing flow of information to the 
United States United Nations Mission regarding the the tense Middle East 
"- situation and developments related to peace talks instituted by the 
• ·united States and carried out by United Nations officials. The data 
furnished to the United States United Nations Mission resulted in the 
United States Ambassador to the United Nations, Charles W. Yost, 
advising the Director by letter dated 11/13/70 of his desire to pay 
special tribute to Agents of this Bureau who had provided him with 
swift and accurate reports which he had found helpful and which provided 
him with privileged insight and perspective into the maneuverings 
during the 25th Session. 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fill! 416 
