'. 
.·. 
4-H 
. ; . ' 
NAME CHECKS OF ALIENS HOLDING DIPLOMATIC AND 
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION VISAS 
This program was initiated in January, 1952, as a means of 
.. • .. , keeping the Attorney General advised of information of a subversive 
nature relating to the diplomats and officials of foreign countries entering 
the United States in official capacities. These data are required by the 
Attorney General to assist in discharging his responsibilities under the 
Immigration and Nationality Act for exclusion and/ or deportation of 
foreign officials where their activity requires such action. 
The basis for this program is found in the procedure by 
Immigration and Naturalization Service in its submission of a form 
·advising of the arrival of the alien officials in this country, which form is 
sent to member agencies of the intelligence community. The separate 
-agencies perform name checks on the data in these forms with the results 
being channelized to the FBI. We correlate this information with data 
. from our files awl furnish s&.me to the .Attm~ney Gei16l'Ei.l. In th0;;c 
instances where additional investigation appears warranted, we obtain 
-cl.earance from Department of State and issue appropriate instructions 
tQ tl;le field for active investigation. 
. . 
Since the program was initiated, 794,570 Immigration and 
Naturalization Service forms have been processed and we have 
undertaken '474 investigations based on results thereof. 
The program continues to supplement our overall coverage in 
• the intelligence field with the majority of the work being handled by 
. trained clerical personnel within the Nationalities Intelligence Section 
• and some isolated instances of involved investigations being handled by 
. substantive desk supervisors within the Division. Based on the limited 
•. · number of active investigations opened since the inception of this program, 
• • the cost of the program, consists mainly of name check expenditures. The 
program continues to serve a necessary purpose in our overall intelligence 
coverage, serving to alert us to the presence in this country of persons 
having a capability for intelligence activities or who may pose a security 
threat to the United States. 
. The program is justified annually, with the last justification 
having been made February 18, 1971. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/18/71 
+.¥fillli:;.PJ2~ 4-H 
NW 38601! Docld:329ffl.J8 Page 170 
