, • 
By letter to all offices dated 2/27/70, approved 
by the Director, offices having BPP investigations were 
instructed to submit intelligence ~eports on the BPP every 
six months in compliance with instructions in the Manual of 
Instructions. Previously offices were submitting quarterly 
reports on the BPP. The Ghanges made on the basis of a 
recommendation by a Racial Informants Conference of field 
supervisors to eliminate some paper work in the field. 
All field offices having a BPP investigation are 
also required to submit a monthly report containing evidentiary 
data required by the Department. Original instructions in 
th_is regard were issued by Bureau airtel 12/3/ 68 and the 
continued submission of this monthly report is necessary in 
view of possible prosecution of the BPP . 
.All field offices conducting an active BPP investi-;.. 
gation are required to submit a monthly airtel summary of the 
status and activities of the BPP within its territory. This 
survey was commenced as a biweekly summary in November, 1968, 
and changed· to a monthly summary on the approval'of the 
Director by letter to all offices dated 2/27/70~ This change 
is a result of a recommendation by the Racial Informants 
Conference of field supervisors to cut down paper work in the 
field. The monthly summary relieves the field of sgme paper 
work and at the same time keeps the Bureau and the field up to 
date on BPP developments. 
San Francisco as office of origin in the BPP case 
continues to submit a biweekly summary and analysis of the 
BPP. Because of the excellence of this summary and the need 
for such an analysis by the field, San Francisco was instructed 
by Bureau airtel 1/21/70 to furnish copies of its summary to 
all continental offices which is the current practice. 
All field offices conducting an active BPP investi" 
gation were instructed by airtel 6/17/70 to submit a monthly 
summary on the financial activities of each BPP branch. This 
financial summary includes data on sources of income, foreign 
funding, expenses, the mechanics of local finance operations, 
NW 38608 Docld:3~89638 Page 489 
