~ 
'lJJ·· 
\ 
_that he had the feeling that someorte in the Whi~e House should 
• •• · be constantly i'n touch with and on top of covert operations; • 
·and-he.observed that the Congress believes that someone in the 
White House is keeping close watch on such matters. After a 
discussion of the Indonesia situation, President Kennedy­
thought. that the Cuba_ fiasco wap "Indonesia all o,ver again.," 
and he wondered if the Secretary of State and the Secretary 
·or Defense should not be better informed regarding. these 
matters.. The President also expressed conc·ern ·over the recent 
development in Sirigapore which involved some bungled efforts 
on the part of CIA to penetrate the Singapore police. Fqllow­
ing · expressions. :of views by General Taylor., Mc George Bundy, 
and Mr. Gray,.the President agreed that in addition to the 
I 
I 
I -
I need for staffing of· NSC 5412/2 matters, the President needed 
to be -kept informed with resp~ct to the~~ programs~on a ' ! 
cohtinGing basis. • 
' 
Meeting of May 26, 1961: 
In this sec'ond meeting of the PFIAB the discussion in-
cluded a statement by General D0olittle that propo~ed \
1 reorgan'ization steps with respect to the CIA would involve 1 
the question of tne interference of covert operations with /. 
intelligence collection. General Doolittle had found., _he<. said.,'. 
that the "covert operations dog is wagging the intelligence • • 
.tail II when· in fact. t,his. should be reversed. General Doolittle • 
added that a great number of peopl'e in the CIA are more 
interested in the political, psychological., pr6paganda an~ 
paramilitary than they ate· in the dry., difficult but important .\ 
task of collecting., interpreting and distributing intelligence-
~ matter which General.Doolittle thought could be corrected 
by a change- of-emphasis and by a change in.organization. 
' ( 
At. one point in .the meeting when the DCI, Mr. Allen Dulles, 
was present, that official said that with respect to organiza­
tional matters he favored transferring paramilitary activities 
to th~ Def~nse bepart~ent; he opposed the sepatation of other 
cpvert action activities from foreign intelligence activities; 
and he was opposed· to separating· the post of DCI from that ·of 
Head of the CIA. 
Meeting of June 7, 1961: • 
. -• Upon ·the completion of its third meeting on June 7., 1961., . 
. the Board met that evening with _President.Kennedy (the Attorney 
General ·and Mr. McGeorge Bundy were also present.) In connection 
with a statement by the _President that.he was.receiv1ng ih­
adequate inf9rmation concerning developments in a:number of 
countries., Boa-rd Chairman Killian sa:id, that. it wa-s the general 
NW 185 
Docld:2607 - 2 -
NW~-~.., 
892 Page 8 
