' 
. 
• 
SAC R. E. GEBHARDT 
10/22/70 
- 4 -
: 1 · ill. 1:i' 
J ~ ') "I: 
',1 11 1:, 
.1\ I 1·! 
~ . i ' 
I ~ :! 
I I l 
/1/ I 
i ' .. ···1 
if he failed to pay the debt. This case· is currently 
under investigation with the matter being presented to 
the Federal Grand Jury at San Francisco for violation 
of Title 18, u.s. Code, Section 894, E:ctortiona.t:.e credit 
Transaction Statute. 
It should be pointed out that "BILL" BONANNO 
and JOSEPH BONANNO, JR. are the sons of JOSEPH BONANNO, SR., 
a "Co~.mission" member of the LCN in the United States • 
.. The aforementioned Subjects are also involved in 
a separate ECT case involving the shakedown and threats to 
do bodily harm to. WILLIAM JOSEPH ELLIS. This matter is 
presently under investigation and will be presented to the 
Federal Gra..11d Jury, San Francisco immediately upon completion 
of Gr~-~d Jucy Action in the ECKSTIN ECT case$ 
Since last inspection investigation has continued 
in regard to GUISEPPI CONFORTE, the reported Vi9e Lord, 
State of Nevada, who for years has headed up a major pros­
titution operation. Through extensive in-:.restigation and 
the placement of SF 3239-C-TE and SF 3369-C, this organization 
has be(9n completely penetrated identifying his lieutenQnts 
,-and scope of operation. As a result of the above., it has i.ieen 
.determined that CONJ:"'ORTE' s operation has spread to the State 
9£ Hawaii being controlled there by one of !)is top lieutenants, 
• TOMMY SEALE. San Francisco has tmder. Preoa:ration an affidavit 
for a request of a Title 3 electronic surveillance on the 
phones utilized by this organization in Honolulu. This Title 3 
affidavit has been prepared with the assistance of Departmental 
Attorney at San Francisco and who has discussed same with the 
Organized Crime Section, Department of Justice, who has advised 
that upon completion of current investigation in Honolulu the 
affidavit should be- immediately submitted for approval. 
As another example of the progress made in the 
penetration of the racketeering operation since the last 
inspection information was received that HARRY JOHN JOHNSON 
and ALAN "SUITCASE" FIDLER,:·two.· Boston "hit men,; received a 
contract, reportedly by a printer, to travel to San Francisco 
and 11straighten somebody out o\.•er-.a union matter . .u JOHNSON, 
a former. resident of San Francisco, is kno\-m as· a former 
associate of JACK GOLDBERG~R, top local Teamster official 
i 
lNW.JISGIIB..Docld:329Mfill..eaue 116 210. 
