NW 38601! 
• I 
I • 
: \ 
investigation must be immediately instituted and informants 
directed to develop full facts concerning the attack. The 
purpose of these investigations is to obtain complete 
intelligence data concerning any extremist influence. 
SAC Letter 70-48 (B) dated 9/15/70 under caption 
"New Left and Black Extremist Terrorism - Informant Coverage" 
instructed the field to immediately institute an aggressive 
policy of developing new productive informants who can 
infiltrate the ranks of terrorist organizations, their 
collectives, communes and staffs of their underground newspapers. 
Constructive plans to implement this program are to be 
included in Item 4 of the monthly airtel on "New Left Movement­
Violence" which was outlined in Bureau airtel to all offices 
5/13/70. 
Bureau airtel to all offices 10/1/70 instructed the 
field to replace the word (Weatherman) as noted in Bureau 
airtel to all offices 5/13/70 with the word (Extremist). This 
was done to insure prompt and efficient routing at the Bureau 
as well as prcper haudl::.~g i:i 't~e fie:!.c. ~ A !1'91!! ~~-uttn11. 
statement was also to be included in all correspondence in 
respect to those individuals involved in Weatherman and other 
New Left extremist activities. 
SAC Letter 70-57 (C) dated 10/13/70 captioned "New 
Left Movement - Police Training Matters'' advised the field 
,that in view of. recent developments concerning violence caused 
by·New Left terrorists, the Bureau will consider requests 
from the field for SACs or ASACs to brief local law enforcement 
command and supervisory personnel regarding New Left extremism 
and violence at law enforcement meetings and conferences where 
attendance is restricted to full-time dul.y:· constituted law 
enforceme.nt officials. 
Bureau airtel to all offices dated 11/3/~0 advised 
the field that the moratorium of suspension of report writing 
in Priority II Security Index cases and suspension of 
verification of residence and employment in Priority II and 
Priority III cases is rescinded. Offices were instructed to 
reopen a proportionate number of cases each month and insure 
all were open by 6/30/71. Furthermore, residence and 
employment on all of these subjects is to be verified, annual 
reports submitted in Priority II cases and LHM submitted in 
Priority III cases where necessary. 
- 7 -
77 
