• 
THE BLACK PANTHER, SATUROA Y. OCTOBER l?, 19'10 PAGE I 
NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY BOMBED, 
;;;;~; ' . I HEROES SUCCESSFULLY E~CAPE . 
ONLY As for the military personnel 
the weapons of the pig army, M-l records, they can obviously be put to 
rifles, .45 caliber pistols and .30 good use. Our oppressors mt1st be 
caliber sniper carbines, but were not harassed and intimidateddayandnight. 
able to do so. The act was accom- They must not sleep, nor rest, these 
plished in one fast motion, and the are the devils who plot the genocide 
heroes escaped capture and one week of Black people. The National Guard 
later, "law enforcement officials" are Armory in the small town of New­
still scratching their heads in wonder- buryport, like other small tim,: towns 
ment. surrounding the Black colony m Bos­
And although the weapons, them- ton is designed to be used against us 
selves, tools of our liberation were not in the fascist genocidal plot devised 
-"""""-- liberated from the oppressor, the by the treacherous minds oftheNixon­
success of this actioncannotbedenied. Agnew-Mitchell clique, It is to be Newburyport, Mass. is a small re-• 
sid1mtal New England town basically 
composed of people from the White 
working class. Until last Saturday, 
September 19, Newburyport's 0111.v 
claim to fame was that it is one of 
th'e many small _towns surrounding 
Boston which are strongholds for 
groups like the Minutemen awl other 
right-wing fascist reactionaries, La~t 
Saturday, however, at 6:00 a.m. m 
the mo ming a National Guard Armory 
was bombed. hundreds of rounds of 
aminunition ripped off, militar?' 
personnel records taken and to top it 
off, they left th•i scene in a one ton 
army pick-up truck. They (the bomp • 
ers) attempted to ope11 the vault holding 
As has been the case in liberation carried out by those men whose names 
movements all over the world, the guns and addresses are now in the hands of 
and arms made by and for the op- the people. Unknown m~mbers of the 
pressor eventuallyendsup in the hands fascist majority now appear before the 
of the oppressed. More imp~rtant, t~e people's tribunal and will be judged 
unknown PeoPle wJw accomplished this according to their actions. 
act obtained hundreds of rounds of This action is just one of many blows 
de;perately needed ammuniticm. Aga(n, which will be dealt out to the op­
past experiences has shown that w_hile pressor. If this action was intended 
the guns themselves can be _o?tamed to help and serve the p~ople,_ we w~l­
in ample supply, the ammunition, the come their help to our Just liberation 
bullets, that actuallyinflictsdeathupon struggle against the Babylonian 
our enemy, becomes very scarce. O~e Empire. 
of the necessities of our st~gle is ARM YOURSELF 
our ability to liberate, stockplle, and Michael,Fultz 
then accurately use the ammunition of Boston Chapter 
our oppressor upon our oppressor. Black Panther Party 
ENTIRE FAMILY 
25 
W 38614 Docld:32989fi06 Page 148 
