r---------------------------------------....__.,...,4 .. 
Alt~ough many officers from ,other Federal law enforcement agencies attend 
:the FBI National Acaden1y -each year, the number in attendance is limited 
due to the mandaie that the FBI provide this service to local and state law 
--"E!nforcement officers. 
:B. Extent to which the FBI should keep tabs on other Departments 
and .Agencies through ·the development of sources and informants 
· _in those Agencies 
·The FBI -does not have the authority or responsibility to keep 
·tabs on other Departments -and Agencies of the Federal ·Government; 
1herefore, it does not have .any policy whereby it checks on other Depart­
ments and Agencies. Because of the lack of FBI jurisdiction to keep tabs 
:on other Federal Departments and Agencies, no effort has ever been made 
for the developn1ent of -sources and informants in those Agencies for that 
-purpose. 
Although the FBI does not k·eep tabs on other Departments and 
.. Agencies, it has long been an accepted procedure among other Agencies of 
the Government tii~.i the FBI would conduct investigations of violations of 
Federal law in those Agencies where primary investigative jurisdiction is 
-vested in the FBI, and we do so ·on :a .regular basis. ViolationG of Federal 
law involving personnel of ,other Government Agencies over which the FBI 
has statutory investigative jurisdiction include bribery, civil rights, 
Fraud Against the Government, Theft of Governn1ent Property, and Federal 
Housing Administration 111atters. This is not a sit-i.1ation uniciue to the FBI. 
A comparable situation exists in "l1lhich the U. S. Secret Service is charged 
·-with investigating the theft of a Government check. It carries out its • 
-responsibilities not only in its own Department (Treasury) but in all other 
. Federal Agencies as well. 
. ·m THE ISSUES RAISED: 
A. Relationship between the Federal Bn!·cau of Investigation and 
other Dcp:1.rtnicnts and .Afencies of the Federal Government 
No issues are known to have been raised relative to the FBI's 
-present policy regarding its relationship with other Departments and Af,(:ncics 
·,of the Federal Govcrn1nent. 
. . . . . . 
NW#: 8·8608 \ Docid:32989541 
