NW 38601! 
• • 
I 
I 
' ' 
\ I 
SAC Letter 70-30 (D) dated 6/2/70 reiterated 
prior instructions of moratorium on Security Matter -
Communist investigations. Recent field inspections 
indicated some offices needed clarification of this . 
moratorium. The SAC Letter noted instructions concerning 
moratorium only applied to routine communist investigations 
and not those individuals belonging to such groups·as the 
Weatherman, Progressive Labor Party, Socialist Workers Party 
and Young Socialist Alliance. 
Bureau airtel to all offices 7/16/70 noted that 
New Left terrorism is continuing through bombings, arsons 
and other forms of violence and each SAC must personally 
insure su~ficient personnel are assigned to handle these 
matters as well as investigating individuals involved and 
those following Weatherman ideology of utilization of 
violent revolµtionary tactics against our Government. 
Bureau airtel to select offices dated 8/20/70 
handling Key Activists were instructed to promptly submit 
to the Bureau su.£Iici~11 t haiH'.::wl'"'i tiilg sp6ciuicilG c:f o::t~h 
Key Activist and the specimen is to be placed in the 
National Security File maintained by the Laboratory. This 
was done in view of the propensity for violence of these 
individuals and the fact a number of them are currently 
Bureau fugitives. 
SAC Letter 70-46 dated 9/1/70 captioned "New Left 
Movement - Violence, Internal Security - Miscellaneous 
(Weatherman)" refers to strategic sabotage plans- of 
Weatherman against military and police installations and 
''Declaration of War" by Weatherman underground and instructs 
all security personnel to develop better informant coverage. 
This development should concern informants and sources who 
can furnish advance information regarding activities of 
Weatherman and other terrorist groups and was specifically 
stressed. 
1 
By airtel to all offices dated 9/3/70 captioned 
"Attacks on Police, Extremist Activity" the field was 
instructed, because of increased atta~.ks on police, thaf 
it can be expected there will also be physical attacks~ 
against the FBI and it should be insured that all Speci41 
Agent personnel are fully cognizant of this possibility. 
If i~ormation is received targeting police, appropriate 
- 6 -
