insurrection or rebellion; to engage in seditious conspiracy; or 
to plot the overthrow of the Government. Under such circumstances 
it would seem that the FBI not only has the duty to conduct 
ifivestigations to prevent the crimes, but has the obligation to 
do whatever is necessary within the law to neutralize such 
threats. 
It is true that this type of investigation might be 
contrary to the established concept of investigating only after 
there is evidence of crime. It is al·so true that such investi­
gations might take place over a long period of time without any 
• indication or prospect of presecution. However, as pointed out 
by Legal Counsel in his memorandum dated 7/14/72 on Wiretapping, 
that "Running through the whole (decision) is a golden thread· 
of philosophy that when the functions essential to the preservation 
of a nation itself are at stake, the nation has the power to take 
the action reasonably necessary to protect itself." While this 
comment had to do with a particular court decision not related 
to the national secuirty, it is very apropos. It would be 
unrealistic to contend that the FBI could only investigate 
crimes or potential crimes affecting the national security after 
the crime has been committed. How ludicrous this would be. 
Right o~ point in this regard is another part of the 
majority opinion upholding the Smith Act convictions in 1951. 
Chief Justice Vinson wrote, 11 Likewise we are in accord with ... 
the trial court's finding that the requisite danger existed. The 
mere fact that from the period of 1945 to 1948 petitioners' 
activities did not result in the attempt to overthrow the 
Government by force and violence is, of course, no answer to the 
fact that there was a group that was ready to make the attempt, 
The formation by petitioners of such a highly organized conspiracy, 
with rigidly disciplined members subject to call when the leaders, 
these petitioners, felt the time had come for action, coupled with 
the inflammable nature of the world conditions, sifuilar uprisings in 
other countries, and the touch-and-go nature of our rel~tions 
with countries with whom the petitioners were in the very least 
ideologically attuned, convince us that their convictions were 
justified on this score. 
"And this analysis disposes of the contention that a 
.conspiracy to advocate, ~s distinguished from advocacy· itself, 
cannot be constitutionally restrained, because it comprises only 
the preparation. It is the existence of the conspiracy which· 
creates the danger. (Emphasis mine) If the ingr-edients of the 
reaction are present, we cannot bind the Government to wait until 
the catalyst is added." 
- 17 -
NW 38608 Docld:329896-09 Page 152 J 
