I 
,, 
I 
I 
' ·: 
r 
·• 
NSCID No. 2 i~3ued 1/13/48, relates tq coordination. 
of :foreign intelligence collection activities "not covered 
by other NSC Directives." 
The Director of Central Intelligenco has responsi­
bility for planning to assure there is no undesirable 
duplication and that coverage is adequate. 
I 
Responsibilities are then assigned as follows: 
(l) The Department of State shall have primary 
responsibility for, and shall perform as a service of 
common concern, the collection abroad (i.e., outside 
the U.S. and its possessions) of political, sociological, 
economict· scientific and technical information. 
(2) The Department of Defense shall have primary 
:responsibility for, and shall perform as a service of 
common concern, the collection of military intelligence 
information. Owing to the importance of scientific and 
technical intelligence to the Department of Defense 
and the military services,. this collection responsibility 
1:>i1a'.i:l ill<.;luJ.ti scie;.1tific·ai:l-cl.--t--e-3hn-i.ca.l, ~s 1.'!el}. -?S 0~("lriomjn; 
information directly pertinent to Department of Defense 
missions. (It seems significant that while State Depart­
ment primary respons;i.bility was limited by tlle phrase 
"the collection abroad,tt there was no such limitation 
on the.Department of Defense in its responsibility.) 
(3) The Central Intelligence Agency may collect 
abroad intelligence information in support of assigned func­
tions or as a byproduct of assigned functions: Provided, 
that -this collection involves no undesirable duplication 
of any of the specific assignments to State and Defense 
Departments, and Provided, that any such overt collection 
is coordinated with the Department of State or with the 
.. ;senior U. S. Representative. • 
In Section 7 of NSCID No~ 2 there.is delegated to 
CIA responsibility for overt collection of foreign intelligence 
·in the·u. s·. as follows: 
. . 
mrhe Central Intelligence Agency, as a service of 
common concern, shall be responsible for the selective 
exploitation within the United States of non-governmental 
organizations and individuals as sources of foreign • 
- 24 -
