In view of this definition of record material, we are required to retain 
any material which we have made or received during the course of publi_c 
business, and which has been _preserved or is appropriate (9r preservatim:. 
In 1969, NARS surveyed the records of the Department of Justice 
including those of FBI and subsequently instructed that certain categories 
of FBI files at FBIHQ be retained indefinitely. Included were files which 
would have historical value and would document policies 1 procedures, functions 1 
bml~etary policies, etc. In addition, vast majority of investigative files must 
be kept indefinitely although it was prescribed that only a representative sampling 
of certain types of yiolations at five year intervals be retained. These require­
ments apply only fo· files at FBIHQ. NARS has previously approved destruction 
of closed field files as all pertinent information is in file at FBIHQ. As a 
practical matter, however, field investigative files are retained 20 years 
before being destroyed. • • 
. to 
The FBI has an active program to keep its records at FBIBQ/the barest 
minimum. ·while cer.ain categories of our files, as previously n1entioned, 1nust 
be retained permanently, some are obsolete and valueless. With approval of 
NARS we destroy certain categories of such obsolete material. Examples of 
the larger categories are: Results of investigations over 25 years old regarding 
alleged subversive and espionage activities wherein complaints were nebulous 
and no derogatory information was developed, and investigations where the 
perpetrators of the crimes were never identified. 
In order to reduce ~.molUlt of storage space required for files we 
1nicrofilm, with approval of NARS, majority of files regarding criminal 
violations which are over 10 years old. 
B. Categories of Files 
Material is filed into one of the follm.ving general types o.f files: 
lVIain Files 
A 1nain file is opened on an individual, organization, or subject m:;ttter 
when there \1iill be an 2.dequ,.1.te volume of mail or the matter is deen1ecl of 
su.fficient importance to be assen1blecl in one place. Main files are referred 
to as "Case Files" when we are making an investigation. 
- 2 -
Docid:.32989541 
