\~ 
I , 
In the letter President Roosevelt clearly limited 
Donovan's jurisdiction with the following statement: "I 
should iike to emphasize that Colonel Donovan's work is not 
intondod to supersede o~ duplicate or involve nny direction 
.of the activities of established agencies already obtaining 
and interpreting defense information." 
The Presidential order dated September 11, 1941, 
established the position of COI with clear cut authority to 
collect and analyze information bearing on national security; 
correlate and make such information available to the President 
'and other Government officials as the President may determineo 
COI was finally authorized to carry out, when requested by 
the President, supplementary activities as might facilitate 
ifie securing of information not then available to the 
Government. 
Donovan, in a memorandum captioned "MEMORANDUM OF 
~ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE OF STRATEGIC INFORMATION," expanded 
on the President's directive in general terms. Under his 
plan for procedure there was a Coordinator of Strategic 
Xnformati.on responsible di.r:eci..ly to ·the :i?re:::;iJeut. O~vtG 
this same organizational set up was later adopted by the 
Director of Central Intelligence.-) Donovan noted, however, 
in his memorandum, "The proposed centralized unit will 
neither displace nor encroach upon the FBI, Army anq Navy 
Intelligence, or any other Department of the Government." 
(62-64427, serials 23 and X3.) 
Our file on the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) 
reveals that that organization continued its organizationalt 
training, and operational activities in this country based 
on Donovan's premise that he was the central clearing point 
for anti-Axis espionage and counterespionage. An interesting 
insight into OSS operations in this country is provided in 
the nonfiction work "The Scarlet Thread" by former OSS agent 
Donald Downes. Downes noted that he was a former British 
intelligence agent serving for that organization in New York 
when he was recruited, by OSS immediately a.fter Pearl Harbor. 
He· te.lls of his recruitment by Allan Dulles, nis associa tiori 
with Donovan, and his·work in th~ counterespionage field in 
New York City and Washington, D. C., with other OSS agents, 
including the current United States Ambassador to the 
United Nations, Arthur Goldberg. Downes detailed attempts 
by him and other OSS agents to steal diplomatic codes from 
... 12 -
,,. 
