. . . 
. . . . .. 
I-£!'-10?-AJ:-mTJH FOR THE ATTORNSY GE1'1ERAL 
. . 
..... ' '· . •. 
. It is felt a telephone s'..lrveillance at[!ackson' s 
residence, 855 Amsterdam Av·enue, New York City'_] ·will pi:-ovide. 
vital information in our efforts to effect a solution of 
this murder case as well as information of intelligence 
value regarding black extremist activitieso It is anticipated 
results of this telephone surv·eillance will be introduced 
in court or that leads to evidence may be obtained; therefore, ·~ 
this request is being made not only for the purpose of 
obtaining intelligence information but also on the basis that 
evidence. may be obtained ,;-;rhich will be used in C:OUrt. • In 
line with instructions on page f'iv·e of your -referenced letter 
the following information is set forth: · 
It is believed that E acks;:iJ and other individuals 
having access to this location may become inv-olved in . . 
discussions which co·.1ld lead to the solution of these murders .. 
At the present time we are conducting in::elligence inv-estigations 
0£Qacksoi5}and other leading members of SNCC. , 
On }13.y 21, 1971, two New York City police officers 
. ware shot from behind and killed by two unkno,-m black, male 
assailants while re~urning to their car after responding to 
a legitimate call in the Harlem section of New York City. Two 
days prior to these murd-~rs two other New York City police 
officers were wounded by black assailants and a letter to The 
New York Times said that the shooting ·was for revolutionary 
justice for black people against 11fascist pigs." w,2.apons of 
the same caliber ·were used in bo:h shooting incidents which 
may have been r':!lated. In this crime, with the type of motive 
involved, telephone surveillances of selected persons are most 
valuable and ne~essary since a remark during a conversation or. 
a contact often results in leads to the ~lution of the crime 
wnich would not otherwise be available. tJacksoi:il has been 
selected as a person likely to lead to the solution of these 
tturders. 
.. 
