.. , 
• 
u. s. Senate Select Committee 
to Study Governmental Operations 
With Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC) 
Re: Interview of Former FBI Special Agent (SA) 
Joseph William Magee by an SSC Staff Member 
Magee was released by this Bur~au fr.om his confidentiality 
agreement for purposes of the interview. 
On Janua'.ry 7, 1976, Magee voluntarily furnished this 
Bureau the results of the interview which are as follows, not 
necessarily in chronological order. 
Interview took place on January 6, 1976, and Epstein 
was the sole interrogator. Tha interview was very informal,. 
most of which took place in a coffee shop in the Dirksep, Senate 
Office Building, and it lasted little more than a half hour. 
Magee was not advised of his rights. The following subject 
matters were covered. Epstein inquired as to whether the FBI 
had had a drug program. ~:Ia.gee responded by asking if Epstein 
meant u program relating to the use of truth serum and Epstein 
responded in the affirmative. Magee told him that the FBI did 
not have such a program but that during the 25 years he had 
been with the Bureau, there may have been some very selected 
occasions when truth serum may have been used, but that he had 
no specific knowledge of such use. Magee further advised that he 
never knew of any FBI SA also being a medical doctor and that he 
did not believe that an SA would ever have injected anyone with 
a truth serum. Epstein voiceds;:irprise that the FBI was not 
aggressive enough to have a truth serum program in connection 
with its use of tha polygraph. 
Epstein next inquired as to what the FBI did relative 
to vulnerability studies! Magee told him that he did not know 
what Epstein was talking about. Epstein elaborated by stating 
that in the 1960s 1 Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) allegedly 
conducted surveys such as spraying chemicals in a subway station 
to see if it could be sabotaged in this manner. Magee answered 
that he knew of no such type of activity by the FBI and did not 
think the FBI would ever engage in nuch activity. 
- 2 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989570 Page 42 
