I 
I 
• 
- 4 - 6-E 
currently average 27 per month; and (2) the appreciable increase {62 percent) 
in the past ten years of the Foreign Police Coop,eration cases we handle. 
The Legal Attache expansion in D-ecember, 1970, increased Bureau 
personnel abroad :from 60 to 88, of which latter number 42 are Sp,ecial Agents. 
The latest case load figures available for the 11 Legal Attache offices then 
existing are for 10/31/70, at which time the 11 offices carried a total of 
3,020 cases. In O~tober, 1960, five Special Agent Sup.-~rvisors were assigned 
to the FLD, one of whom devoted a portion of his time to Buplans matters, 
which m.::.tters have now been transferred to a..riother Section. At that time 
the case load for all foreign offices was 1693. 
In October, 1960, we had 166 Foreign Police Cooperation cases on 
the FLD. In Oetober, 1970, there were 273. This large increase in Foreign 
Police Cooperation cases was absorbed as a result of the delegation to a 
clerical employee of supervisory responsibility for about 95 percent of the 
cases. This clerical employee, who is in Grade GS-7, is most efficient and 
quite capable but cannot be expected to have the experience of an Agent to 
recognize promptly potentially embarrassing situations arising. 
As we now have six new Legal Attach•e offices, we can expect both 
the case load and the Foreign Police Cooperation requests to increase substantially. 
The FLD Supervisors should be watching mail flow to d-etermine 
the promptness with w.hich Legal Attaches respond to requests; the thoroughness 
of handling such cases; and the ad·equa~y of foreign agency·contacts in a 
positiori to afford the Burea::i the desired degree of cooperation. The F.LD 
Supervisors sho:Ild be prepa.ring memoranda reflecting Legal Attache accomplish­
ments in ord1~r to keep the Director fully apprised of the truly excellent work 
being dorie by our ~ents abroad. As the situation now sta..11.ds, the two present 
FLD Supervisors just do not have time to do this and we are incurring the 
risk of failing to afford d:lrection and g-1..1.idance in this very important area 
of the Bureau's operations. 
To comply with Bureau requirements our 42 men abroad must 
seek cooperation of foreign agencies. In reciprocity they must accept 
requests for investigations in the U. S. regarding matters as simple as ru:'.ming 
down bad debtors to complex investigations involving the locatio:i of murder 
suspects. The two present FLD Supervisors at this time, because of the 
NW 38608 Docld:32989638 Page 558 
