.. 
D. Consent of Originating Department to Dissemination £y_ 
Recipient. Except as otherwise provided by Section 102 of the 
National Security Act of 194?, 61 Stat. 495, 50 U .S .C. 403, 
classified information or material originating in one Department 
shall not be disseminated outside any other Department to which 
it has been made available without the consent ~f the originating 
Department. 
E. Dissemination of Sensitive Intelligence Information. 
Information or material bearing the notation 11WARNING NOTICE -­
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND IVIETHODS INVOLVED 11 
shall not be disseminated in any manner outside authorized 
channels without the permission of the originating Department 
and an assessment by the senior intelligence official in the 
disseminating Department as to the potential risk to the national 
security and to the intelligence sources and methods involved. 
F. Restraint ~ Speci~l Access Requirements. The establish­
ment of special rules limiting access to, distribution and 
protection of classified information and material under Section 9 
of the Order requires the specific prior approval of the head of 
a Department or his designee. 
5. Examples of the application of the third agency rule are: 
(a) In a national security estimate, contributions are 
received from all members of the Intelligence Community, then 
disseminated to members of the community under the authority 
of the DCI. Recipients may not disseminate the estimate outside 
the Intelligence Community without the approval of the DCI; 
(b) A CIA intelligence report disseminated to the State 
pepartment may not be sent by the State Department to the 
Department of Commerce without the permission of the CIA; 
(c) Information which the CIA furnishes the President's 
Commission may not be disseminated to other agencies or to the 
Congress without the concurrences of CIA. Thus, a request 
from the Congress to the Commission for CIA information should 
be referred to CIA for action so that the necessary protection of 
the information can be insured; 
313'600 Docld:32989532 .Page 126_ 
