BLACK PANTHER PARTY 
Ill. RISE OF BLACK PANTHER PARTY 
Proclaiming a legal right to bear arms, the Panthers by early 1967 had begun to 
appear in public wearing black leather jackets and black berets, openly carrying 
shotguns, rifles, or pistols, and shouldering bandoliers of ammunition. 
Calling the police "pigs," the Panthers began a buildup in Negro areas of the 
idea that police departments, especially that in Oaklancf, were dedicated to the 
brutalization and harassment of minority groups, and, acting as an appendage of 
white government authority, were working toward the eventual annihilation (geno­
cide) of the Negro race. 
Invasion of California State Legislature 
The first incident that brought national attention to this group occurred on May 
2, 1967, as the California Legislature was in session in Sacramento. Approximately 
40 members of the Black Panther Party, carrying loaded rifles, pistols, and shotguns, 
and some wearing bandoliers of ammunition about their waists or draped over their 
shoulders, burst into the Chamber. They were protesting a bill being introduced on 
that date outlawing the carrying of loaded weapons in public and were proclaiming 
their right to bear arms and criticize the police. Before they were arrested, they 
passed out mimeographed leaflets calling on all Negroes to end the "terrorist" 
oppression of colored races by white America and referring to the preparation of 
concentration camps in the United States as a beginning of genocide. 
Police Officer Meets Panthers--and Death 
The Panthers became more militant with the passing of time. At 5:00 a.m., 
October 28, 1967, two Oakland, California, patrol officers, John F. Frey and Herbert 
C. Heanes, made a routine traffic violation car stop. While the officers were a­
waiting the results of the car registration check by radio, the driver, Huey Newton, 
got out of the car. Suddenly, shooting broke out. Officer Frey was ki.lled; Officer 
Heanes was wounded critically; and Newton received a stomach wound. He stopped 
a passing automobile and had the driver take him to a hospital where he was taken 
into custody and hospitalized. After a state trlal, which began July 15, 1968, 
Newton was sentenced on September 27, 1968, to serve from 2 to 15 years on a 
charge of voluntary manslaughter.* 
11
Free Huey" Campaign 
Two days after Patrolman Frey's death, the Huey Newton Defense Fund was 
established at a meeting of a section of the Negro community of Oakland. 
The cry of "free Huey" became a clarion call. The imprisoned Newton was 
built up in the public eye as "black and bold in defense of his people." Each 
*It was ruled later that the presiding judge in this trial erred in instructions to the jury. 
Newton was released August 5, 1970, and scheduled for retrial. 
6 
NW 38614 Docld:329896;()6 129 
