, 
MemorandU11t to Mr. W. R. Wannall 
l?e: flam A. Jaffe 
105-28333 
• 
Jaffe filed a &eedom of Information Act request 
in 1975 for a.11 information in our :tiles, claiming tha.t 
... 
the FBI or CIA had leaked an allegation 1:bat he was a KGil 
agent, which has prevented him front obtaining employment 
in the raedi.a field. Il:i.s claim is not substantiated by 
anything contained in our files. Both the Senate and House Conuui.ttees on Intelligence Operations have taken :an interest 
in his <:as& and we have furnished both Committees with exeised. 
copies of Jaffe •s file. v 
1'he "Washington Star Nows" i.ssue of 1/22/76, carried 
an article reporting an interview of .Ja.:ffe by ~ ''N'ew York Times" 
t reporter in which Jaffe: related he had been an unpaid FBI 
informant during the 1950s and 1960s, :reporting on his contacts 
w1 th Soviet nationals. * The article is generally factual and 
does no.t touch on Jaffe's allegation as to a leak. On 1/21/76, 
Ja.:fte telephoned SA Richard Kinsey of the Intelligence Division 
(SA Kinsey had participated in an interview of Jaffe on 11/24/75• 
on Deputy Associate Dn-ector Adams• instructions to hear out 
Ja£fe•s allegations). Jaffe was concerned because an unnamed 
11liew York Times" reporter had interviewed hint on the same day 
and interred he had information tha.t Jaffe was a. paid FBI 
inf<>ntant. Jaffe wanted to know if we had so advised either the 
Senate or House Committees since the reporter claimed to have 
aeon documentation that Jaffe had received money from the FBI. 
Jaffe was advised that he could not: be furnished inf'orma tion 
a~ to what we had f'U:L'nished the Comrd.t.tees but that he knew 
whether or not he had :received money fron1 us. Jaffe said that 
he was concerned tha.t we had leaked additional derogatory 
information concerning him. v 
Whil-e it is possible that the 11Newl'ork Timesn 
reporter has had access to Jaffe •a f'ile as furnished to the 
Senate or Bouse Committees, it is not believed that we have 
sufficient evidence o:f this in order to maka a complaint to 
either Committee. based only on what Jaffe rep<>rted as to 
the reporter's bAckground for his inquiry of Jaffe. <,,1 
* Our records disclose that Jaffe was never paid, either for 
services or expenses during the period he was operated as a 
S)'-mbol number informant.ti 
--Si1QRB'.P-
NW 38608 Docld:32989570 Page 118 
