U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO 
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH 
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
O. RICHARD HAMILTON BY SSC STAFF ME:MBERS 
Squad that the case be closed since there had been no known 
communist influence upon the activities of the SCLC 
organization for a long period of time. In response 
to the mechanics of closing the case they were advised 
that SA Hamilton dictated a letter to FBI Headquarters 
from the Special Agent in Charge of the Atlanta Office, 
advising that a review of the file reflected no communist 
influence upon the activities of SCLC and that unless 
advised to the contrary by FBI Headquarters, the case 
was being closed. The Staff Members asked if a form 
letter was used whereby blanks were filled in and they 
were advised this was not the case. The Staff Members 
inquired if FBI Headquarters agreed with the closing and 
SA Hamilton advised that to his knowledge, no communica­
tion was thereafter received from Headquarters which 
would disagree with the closing of that case. The Staff 
Members inquired as to whether SA Hamilton or anyone in 
Atlanta conferred with any persons in the New York Office 
of the FBI prior to closing the case and SA Hamilton 
advised that to his knowledge this 9id not occur. The 
Staff Members then inquired as to the basis for closing 
the case on SCLC as compared with the basis for opening 
the case originally. Hamilton advised he did not speci­
fically recall the wording of any communications upon 
which the case was originally opened, however, a review 
of the case at the time it was closed did not indicate 
that SCLC might be involved in any activities which 
could constitute a violation of the Internal Security 
Statutes. The Staff Members inquired as to whether the 
investigation was based upon the Smith Act and SA Hamilton 
stated he did not recall specifically seeing the words 
"Smith Act", however, FBI investigations regarding communist 
influenc·e was based upon the communist goal of forceable 
overthrow of the u.s·. Government. 
The Staff Members asked if, after the death of 
King, whether Stanley Levison was in contact with Reverend 
- 5 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989626 ~age 36 
