\ 
,. 
It should be noted in considering the proposed 
change of USIB membership that the Bureau was a member of 
six of the twenty-six subcommittees which formed the committee 
malte-up of the US IB. • 
, Memorandum January 10, 1961, Mr: Belmont to 
Mr. Parsons outli.ned the proposed USIB membership change 
for the Director. It recommended that Bureau make no issue 
of the proposed recommendation. The Director underlined 
a passage of the memorandum which stated "In one sense of 
the word it could be arbned the FBI would lose prestige 
by changing from a regular member to an ad hoc member." 
The Director approved the recommendation of the memorandum 
with the following notation: "OoK. but I am not enthusiastic 
about the change of our status. H." Our status, however, was 
not changed and the Bureau has continued to hold full member­
ship on the Board. 
In brief, the Joint Study Group Report noted that 
the majority of the recommendations of the Study Group had 
be~:::. f~vorably rece:t_vi:::-n by the intelligence community in 
that positive action had been taken to place most of them 
in effect. Many of the recommendations of the Group were 
felt to have-been met by the creation of the Defense 
Intelligence Agency (DIA) which acted as a coordinator and 
overseer of the intelligence effort of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff. There is no comment made in this report which 
would bear on our present survey of CIA jurisdiction or 
activities within the United States in conflict with our own 
jurisdictional and investigative interests. The only• 
reference to the Bureau.in this latter report w~s as 
previously mentioned in the comment relative to reorganization 
:; of the membership of the USIB. . •. ' .. ;. 
5. · ResEonsibilities of the FBI 
· ... 
a. Laws and Directives 
No information has been developed with •'respect to·· 
any laws passed or directives ispued specifically delegating 
to the .FBI responsibilities for the positive acquisition of 
foreign intelligence in the United S_ta tes. As• has been 1set 
' . . .. 
.. 44 ... 
