• 
, .. 
For these reasons, it ca~ be seen why the FBI used the 
September, 1939, directive as one of the bases for its investi­
gative authority. The unfortunate thing is that the 1939 directive 
was never really updated, in spite of the reiterations of 1943, 
1950, and 1953. It was really never broadened to incorporate the 
Executive request made in 1936, and to reflect the Executive 
intent that became so obvious in the succeeding years up to this 
very time. It would be very difficult to convince someone 
examining our legal authority for conducting intelligence-type _ 
investigations that we derive any authority, particularly any • ? 
reitera·ting it. What we have, it appears, is a hold-over or 
perpetuation of a concept of authority (or beiter, responsibility) 
which had some basis in _19·39, and perhaps even through the 
Korean War years, but which has long since ceased to have any 
bearing on FBI investigative operations. 
This leads us to the third part of the question and 
that is what effect the lack of authority derived from the 
directives will have on past and future domestic intelligence 
investigations. Although there is division of opinion by some 
supervisors and officials in the Domestic Intelligence Division as 
to how much investigative activity has in the past and will in 
the future depend on the nebulous authority of the directives 
in question, examination of all the evidence leads to the 
conclusion that in the past our investigations have to some 
degree depended, not on the language of any of the directives, 
but ra.ther, on the Executive request of President Roosevelt in 
1936 andon. basic authority derived from the many statutes-
relating to the national security, both before and after the 
issuance of all the directives in question. 
INVESTIGATIONS UNDER STATUTORY AUTHORITY 
Argument has been advanced ~y some in the Domestic 
Intelligence Division that it will be impossible to carry out 
our internal security responsibilities of conducting purely 
intelligence-type investigations using statutory authority only; 
that the only way we have been able to do this in the past was 
from the authority contained in one or more of the directives 
in question. If this were true, i.e., that we have conducted 
some investigative activity solely on the basis of the directives, 
the FBI would be in for a rough time if the efforts on the part 
of several congressional figures to look into our operations 
ever come to pass. The fact of the matter is, we have had 
ample authority to do just what we have done without the 
directives. Administratively perhaps, we could have been more 
precise in advertising our investigative jurisdiction and 
authority. And unquestionably, we could have been more careful 
in writing reports and other records of our investigative activity 
to show that our investigations were predicated on information 
indicating violation or possible violation of statutes. 
- 15 -
l NW 38608 Docld:32989fi09 Page 150 
