• r 
'-
B. 
• • -2-
2. All agreements on jurisdiction or operational authority between the 
CIA and other U.S. intelligence and law enforcement agencies. 
3. All legal opinions, memoranda or other materials analyzing the 1947 
and 19t~9 Acts, Executive Orders or National Security Intelligence Directives 
in regard to: 
(a) the authority of CIA to conduct covert actions 
(b) the authority of CIA to conduct particular categories of activity, 
or specific activities, within the U.S., including without limitation: 
(i) the collection or maintenance of information or files on U.S. 
citizens; 
(ii) the conduct of domestic surveillance on U.S. citizens or :foreign 
nationals; 
(iii) the organization and operation of proprietary organizations 
(c) the appropriate scope or application of the agreements requested in 
#2 supra, including documents prepared in connection with their 
negotiation 
(d) the applicability to CIA of restrictions placed by Congress on the use 
.of funds included in appropriations from which CIA funds a.re transferred 
• (e) the generation or use of funds from any source other than appropriations 1 
transferred to CIA, and the investment for profit of funds from any source' 
.All legal opinions, memoranda or other material analyzing the desireability 
or effect of legislation proposed or considered to alter the authority of 
the DCI or the nature, structure or powers of the Agency in areas other than 
employee co:n:rpensation and benefits or headquarters construction. This should 
include anaJ.yses of the CIA amendment to the 1974 Military Aid Act, whether 
prepared before or after its adoption. • 
All Director CentraJ. Intelligence Directives ("DCIDS") • 
Operating Procedures 
1. An index of aJ.l major directives, guidelines, reguJ.ations, manuals or similar 
materials which prescribe or explain authorization and reporting procedures 
2. Directives, guidelines~ manuals or similar materiaJ.s describing the various 
filing systems of the Agency 
3. Specifically, all directives, guidelines, manuals or other materials prescribing i 
or explaining procedures to be followed and the authorization and documentatictl----.,::
1 
required in connection with covert oper~tions, including without limitation: 
(a) field or headquarters initiation of proposals 
(b) plapning and modification of proposals 
(c) approval for commencement, continuation or renewal, and termination 
(d) field reports on .the conduct or results of operations 
(e) evaluations following operation~ 
The materials should indicate the criteria which determine the· level of 
authorization required--Division Director, Deputy Director for Operations, 
DCI or Forty Committee--for a particular operation. They should also indicate 
the procedures and documentation involved in CIA inter-agency staff coordination 
and CIA staffing for the review by the principals on the Forty Committee. To 
the extent the procedures described differ from those previously in effect, 
furnish earlier directives, guidelines, manuals or similar material regarding 
such previous prbcedures and provide a narrative description of how and when 
these procedures have changed from 1948 to present. 
(Request #3 is confined to procedures so that the Committee can subsequently 
better understand CIA operations in the covert action area.) 
Co Financial Procedures 
In addtion to budgetary and cash flow figures, the Committee will need explanatory 
information to understand the financial operations of CIA. This request consists 
of all directives, guidelines, manuals and other materials governing or describing: 
1. Procedures for preparing and discussing budgets with 0MB, including ident­
fication of the documents involved in the process 
2. The general procedures for expenditure approval, accounting or auditing which 
are used either within the CIA or in connection with Executive or Congressional 
oversight 
3 . .All special procedures for expenditure approval, accounting or a~diting in 
-regard to particular funds or types of activity, e.g .. , proprietary organiza­
tions, currency transactions, or the dir.cretionary fund of the Director. 
NW 386iOI! Docld:32939530 73 
