Since that time, according to NK T-1, subject has made 
no further mention of this matter, although he has seen her on 
several occasions. NK T-1 said he had heard it rumored that 
the subject has been involved in the sale of guns to Cuba in the 
past, as well as having visited Cuba since CASTRO took power, but 
did not know this of his own knowledge. 
NK T-1 said that ARCHER is divorced from her husband, 
has •• two children and. resides with her mother, ANNA ARCHER, on 
Route 36, Union Beach, New Jersey. He added that she is employed 
as a cashier at Ye Cottage Inn, Keyport, New Jersey. 
It is to be noted that during the course of another in­
vestigation the subject's mother, ANNA ARCHER, was interviewed at 
her home by SA VICTOR J. CAMPI, on July 6, 1960, concerning an 
abandoned car found near her home. Upon requesting a paper upon 
which she said she had written the license number of the abandoneq. 
car, Mrs. ARCHER started to enter the next room, at which time a 
woman's voice, in a loud tone, objected to an effort to open the 
door. Mrs. ARCHER said her daughter was making a phone call and 
that when the call was completed she would obtain the requested 
item. Shortly thereafter, the subject emerged from the next room 
stating she had been interrupted making a very important teleptione 
call -- a call to Cuba. She did not identify the. individual to • 
whom she was talking nor did she furnish any information con­
cerning this telephone conversation. 
On October 6, 1960, Captain WALTER HUTTON, Union Beach, 
New Jersey, Police Department, advised SA CAMPI that the subject 
had two brothers, noting that one brother, FREDDIE ARCHER, was 
a well-known boxer. He noted that the subject had been married 
to a local man but had stopped living together in the late 1940s 
and since that time her mother, ANNA ARCHER, has been helping to 
rear the two children from that marriage. Captain HUTTON did not 
know how the subject made her living, but it was his opinion she 
probably had boyfriends who kept her, that she did a bit·of 
traveling with her boyfriends but always returned to visit her 
children. He said the subject was also known under the name 
RUBY KORBIN. 
In the course of another investigation, Alcohol and 
TObacco Tax Division (AT'ID) Agent JOHN C. MULLIN, on January 18, 
1960, advised SA LINCOLN J. STOKES that the last girlfriend of • 
CHARLIE "THE BLADEu TOURINE was a girl named EVELYN ARCHER 
(phonetic) of Houston, Texas. He said this girl was married and 
may be involved in gun purchasing and selling. 
- 2 -
i 
---·. - - -·-------------------------- -~-- ~ 
NW 7831a Docld:34489792 21 
