-.; . 
i 
,I' ( j' 
~;it(. 
• • 
> 
• -
gation beyond that is made only upon approval by Headquarters. If such 
continuance is approved~ investigation continues to resolve whether juris­
dictional standards are met. If met$ and Headquarters' approval obtained. a 
full investigation is conducted. 
Apart from these situations, specific instructions from the Attorney 
General, pursuant to Presidential Directives, to the Director of the FBI concerning 
matters of internal security are the basis for investigations. Until the instruction 
is complied with. these matters remain pending. 
Bureau rules require an Agent to limit investigations to relevant 
matters. Field office and Headquarters supervisors review the progress and 
relevancy of investigations and reports are forwarded to the Department of 
Justice. The FBI is ever aware of and controlled by court decisions interpreting 
the law. Agents receive continuing legal instruction in order to recognize relevance 
and the rights of persons under the law. 
These regulatory procedures are the means by which the FBI 
implements the responsibilities imposed by the statutes. Presidential Directives, 
and orders of the Attorney General. An examination or the domestic security problems 
confronting this Nation would reveal that, as early as 1936, concern arose over 
"Fifth Column" activities of Oommunists and Fascists and continued through WW II. 
This concern bas evolved to other threats , through the years, such as the 
foreign-dominated Communist influence in America during the Cold War, 
the Ku Klux Klan's interference with the rights of others, the turbulent 
anti-Vietnam War demonstrations, the urban ghetto riots• and the rise of the 
raoinlly ... oriented organizations preaching revolution and their more violent 
splinter groups practicing open guerrilla warfare. The FBI, charged by statute 
and supplemented by Directives to investigate such matters in order to fulfill 
the duty, promulgated the investigative procedure for a duol purpose. The 
FBI recognizes not only the duty to investigate, to preserve the Constitution, 
but the fact the Constitution delineates zones of, privacy and individual liberties. 
These regulatory procedures speak reasonably to both. 
NOTE: 
See memorandum Mr. W. R. Wannall to Mr. J. B. Adams, dated 4/1/75, 
captioned n Congressional Testimony," prepared by ALL: vb. 
-2-
NW 38601! Docld:32989532 t!O 
