RE: · JA1iES EARL ~AY; 
•••• =···= 
. . . . 
• 
Dr. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. ' - VICTIM 
... 
r 
I 
. - . :-' - ' ,~, "' 1 ·, 
. ' ' ~ ~ ,. , .... 
This group was concerned with how the subject Ray 
had•knowri how to obtain false documents following his arrival 
ih Canada. Mr. Hester pointed out.that a "Top Ten" criminal 
had been arrested· in Canada and had been returned to the 
Missouri Stii. te Penitentiary and had served time there with . • 
·James Earl Ray prior to Ray's escape. "Mr .. Hester indicated 
it' was his b_elief that this "Top Ten" fugitive had been 
responsible for instructing Ray on how to proceed in obtaining 
-false documents i~ Canada . 
. fhis group touched on such diverse elements as the 
information furnished· by John McFerren regarding Frank Liberto, 
and one of the interviewers. agreed that they· had not believed 
McFerren to be a very reliable witness. They also discussed 
Ray's purchase of the rifle in Birmingham; the fact that 
Officer Redditt was moved from the firehouse near the Lorraine 
Motel just prior to the murder; what motive did R~y have for 
k~lling Dr. King; whether or not there was any evidence to 
indicate a conspiracy; w~ether or not there were any wiretapp 
and whether or not there had. been any surreptitious entries 
made against King and his followers at Memphis prior to the 
assassination; and when, following his escape, did Ray appear 
to have made up,his mind to assassinate Dr. King. 
In ~ddition, they asked numerous questions about 
the political climate in Memphis just prior to the assassi­
nation and inquired as to·what investigation was being conducted 
by tb:e FBI in regard to the Sanitation Workers Strike and the 
first march conducted· by Dr. King. Mr.. Hester was forced to 
adµIit that h~ had had nothing to do with the investigation of 
Dro K~ng prior to the murder and he suggested that they talk 
to current.Special Agent· Howells. Lowe who would be in a 
pqsition to fu~nish information.in.this regard. 
They inquired about the interview of.James.Earl 
-Ra:y ·conducted -·by former. Special Agent in Charge Robert G. 
Jenseri, former Special Agent Robert F. Boyle, and Mr. Hester 
at the state prison in Nashville, Tennessee, following Ray's 
plea of .guilty. Mr. Hester recounted as best he could recall 
t;h.e .. events ·that transpired in connection with this attempted 
interview and advised the interviewers that former Speci-al 
Agent Robert F. Boyle has suffered a cerebral hemmorrhage 
and possibly might not• be competent to furnish information 
r~garding this investigation. -
