r • 
Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
• 
advised that he. had to: again postpone. the executive session 
testimony of Assistant Director Bassett because of scheduli!]-g 
conflicts and that the testimony would be sometime during the 
week of 2/2/76. He could not give. a definite time nor assure 
that the testimony would take· place during. that week. 
On the morning of 1/29/76, Epstein requested that 
Assistant Director Bassett appear in executive session at 2 p.m. 
on 2/3/76 to. give hiS' requested testimony. After consultation 
with Ass·istant Director Bassett, Epstein was advised that As­
sistant Director Bassett had delayed his departure from Washington, 
D. C. , to conduct Bureau business in order to be .available for 
testimony and that on two separate occasions. the Committee had 
found it necessary to: reschedule his testimony. He was advised 
that Assistant Director Bassett would be available during. the 
week of 2/9/76 .and that we requested he be g.iven the opportunity 
to testify during. that week or some other :mutually agreeable time. 
Epstein stated that it was the intention of the Committee to go 
forward on 2/3/76- without Assistant Director Bassett .and mentioned 
that former Acting Associate. Director w. Mark Felt who had been 
head of the Bureau's Inspection Division would be available to 
testify concerning this matter. It was pointed out to Epstein 
that Mr. Felt is.· no longer with the FBI and is not in a position 
to act .as spokesman for Bureau inspection policies and procedures 
which are currently in existence under Director Kelley. Epstein 
~gain indicated that the Committee would go on without a Bureau 
repres.entative. • 
John T. Ell·iff, Director of the Domestic Task Force of 
the Senate. Select Committee., was immediately contacted and advised 
of Epstein's decision and the background concerning this matter. 
Elli·ff was advised that the Committee certainly would want all the 
information .available concerning inspection procedures in the 
Bureau to get a fair picture of this area ·of Bureau operations. 
Elliff agreed .and .stated he would insure Assistant Director Bassett 
would be g.i ven the opportunity to. testify as to. the Bureau's current 
inspection ·procedures and policies. This testimony, however, may 
not be at the same time as the appearance of W. Mark Felt, et al. 
RECOMMENDATION: 
For information. 
- 2 -
L_NW 38tiiO_L_DQcld_:32989578 30 
