SURVEYS, PROJECTS, .AND/OR INTENSIFICATION PROGRAMS 
SECTION CHIEF GEORG'E C. MOORE he-----· 
RACIAL INTELLIGENCE SECTION 
RACIAL MATTER'S 
4-H 
Racial matters investigations were intensified through 
establishment of the Racial Intelligence Section on 10/2/67, • 
This Section handles racial matters investigations involving 
black extremist organizations and individuals. Objectives are 
to identify organizations and indMduals that are involved in 
extremist activities, that advocate or had actually committed 
or have conspired to commit acts of violence, that advocate 
revolutionary or terrorist activities and that violate Federal 
J.ew:=;, ThP d;:irnzi?rn1.1snP.ss to the United States of such individuals ..., 
must be assessed and a determination made as to whether they 
should be included in the Security Index or the Agitator Index. 
The exten~ of foreign influence or influence of-the Coi11Illunist 
Party or other domestic revolutionary groups among racial 
extremi'sts, especially black extremist organizations, is a prime 
objective. To accomplish these objectives, sources have been 
developed who can furnish quality and timely information concern~-~ 
individual extremists and extremist organizations. Such sources 
likewise have forewarned us of potential violence and enabled 
the Bureau to stay on top of the racial situation. These 
sources have assisted the Burea~ in executing its responsibilitie5 
of alerting local authorities and to keep ·other Government 
agencies dependent upon us for information informed of 
pertine...-it developments including information· concerning 
.potential violenc~. 
Our informant coverage has made it possible for us 
to keep a constant flow of information going to the "White House, 
the Attorney General and other Government agencies having an 
interest. Additional information pertaining to- racial intelli­
gence matters and the survey regarding "Potential for Racial 
Violence" is set forth under data furnished by the Research 
Section. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
1/12/71 
1WHA: sef . 
NW 38601! Docld:~38 ~,4M·,m:3 
