• • 
- 3 -
2. Upon the Cbtnpletion of the interview with the committee repre­
sentative the employee will prepare a summary of it for the file, with a 
copy routed to his division head and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney 
General. 
C. EMPLOYEES TESTU'YING BEFORE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES 
1. Hhen an employee is requested to testify before a congressional 
committee regarding official matters id thin the De:pa.rtment the Deputy Attorney 
General shall be promptly informed. tlhen the Deputy Attorney General's approv­
al is given the employee is expected to testify freely subject to limitations 
prescribed in A respecting open cases and data in investigative reports; 
2. An employee subpoenaed to testify before a congressional committee 
on official matters within the Department shall promptly notify the Deputy 
Attorney General. In general he shall be guided in testifying by Order 3229 
(Revised) and the President's letter of lifay 17, 1954, cited at the beginning 
of this Order. 
3. Upon the completion of his testimony the employee will prepare 
a memorandum outlining his testimony with a copy routed to his division head 
and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney General. 
D. REQUESTS OF CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES FOR THE TESTIMONY OF FEDERAL PRISONERS 
Because of the custodial hazards involved and the extent to which 
their public testimony may affect the discipline and well-being of the institu­
tion, it is the policy of the Department not to deliver Federal prisoners out­
side the penal institution in which they are incarcerated for the purpose of 
being interviewed or examined under oath by congressional committees. However, 
when it appears that no pending investigation or legal proceeding uill be 
adversely affected thereby and that the public interest will not be otherwise 
adversely affected, Federal prisoners may be interviewed or examined under oath 
by congressional committees in the institution in which they are incarcerated 
under the following procedures, and with the specific advance approval of the 
Deputy Attorney General. 
1. Arrangements for interviewing and taldng of sworn testimony 
from a Federal prisoner by a committee of the Congress or the authorized 
representatives of such a committee shall b.e made in the form of a written 
request by the chairman of the committee to the Deputy Attorney G~neral. 
2. Such written request shall be made at least ten (10) days 
prior to the requested date for the interview and the taldng of testimony 
and shall be accompanied by v7ritten evidence that authorization for the 
interview or the taking of sworn testimony was approved by vote of the com­
mittee. Such request shall contain a statement of the purpose and the sub­
jects upon which the prisoner will be interrogated as well as the names of 
all persons other than the representatives of the Department of Justice who 
will be present. 
3. A member of the interested committee of the Congress shall be 
present during the entire time of the interrogation. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989fi09 Page 220 
