EXCERPTS FROM MINUTES OF PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN 
INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD MEETINGS WITH 
RESPECT-TO COVERT ACTIONS MATTERS 
Meeting of May 15, 19_6i :-
The then DCI, Mr·. Allen Dulles, joined in a discussion o·f 
the highlights of CIA1 s activities. In th~ covert actions field 
Mr. Dulles suggested that the Board look into the future relation­
·ship of CIA to paramilitary activities -- Mr. Dulles being of the 
opinion that paramilitary operations should not be conducted by 
the ·crA. Mr. Dulles thought that the Board should look at such 
CIA activities as the use of proprietary organiz~tions including 
Radip Free Europe, REA, the Afro-American Institut~, and various 
labor and youth groups. ·Mr.Dulles was asked whethe~ a removal 
of paramilitary activities from CIA responsibility would permit 
-·a significant cut in the CIA budget and personnel figures, and 
Mr. Dulles replied that such was not the case because Of the -
extensiv~ activities being carried on by the International 
. Organizations Division of the DDP, and because of the many pro-
' • 
I 
t 
I 
' 
l . p~ietary ~ctivities in which CIA is involved. (Dr. Land said 
that he was both shocked and indignant to learn that Radio Free 
Europe is-a proprietary organization of the CIA. Mr. Clifford 
said that he had been on the Board of Directors of RFE for the 
. l 
f 
I 
I 
' I 
.. . .J 
· • pa·s t three years and this was the first time he had known it . 
was connected with -CIA. Mr. Dulles was asked what was the extent:: 
of the knowledge·of American business men concerning the RFE-CIA 
connection and Mr. Dulles replied that certain American business 
men are aware of the connection, but not the man-in-the-street 
who makes dollar contributions to the tune of $3 million a year.) r 
I 
Board Chairman Killian appointed himself and Messrs. Murphy; / ,I 
Langer and Taylor to serve on a Panel of the Board to study the J ! 
extent to which the Govern.~ent should be involved in political, 1 J 
psychological, propaganda, and paramilitary activities; and the J:JJ 
~ policy which should be pursued by the U. s. Government in these matters. • 
-··. 
President Kennedy joined the Board meeting, and when the l 
discussion turned to a recommendation of the prior Board, the. ~ 
President referred to a recommendation that covert action } 
, programs of the CIA may not have been worth the risk nor worth J (· 
the great expenditure of manpower and money; that CIA concentra- U 
tion on such activities had tended to detract substantially ~ 
from the execution of its primary intelligence-gathering mission;: 
and that there shoulo. be a total reassessment of U. S. covert :{\· 
action policies and programs. The President indicatE::?d that • • 
-except for Laos and Cuba:, he did not have extensive knowledge . 
of other covert operations being conducted by the CIA; he said 
NW185 ,, 
Docld:2507 
N~et•· 
! Docld~611892 Page 7 
