• • 
Epstein then stated lets get to the point. When 
did you hear about the King case. I responded that some­
time early in 1964 - rec~lled since it was shortly after 
President Kennedy was sh~t and King was named man of the 
year - I was summons tote SAC's office either by my 
associate Bill Bergeron o my supervisor Mr. Belter not 
specifically recalled. e SAC, Marlin Johnson, Assistant 
Director William Sulliva, Bergeron and probably several 
others not recalled were in attendance. The following is 
a narrative of information I fumished in response to 
Epstein's questions. 
The SAC made several remarks and Assistant Director 
Sullivan then stated that he did not want any information . 
discu~ to leave the room. Sullivan stated he had informa­
tion that indicated King was associating with communists and 
it was possible his movement was being infiltrated. Sullivan 
said he wanted a technical installation on King in an effort 
to verify this information. ._._ 
/' A~ ~~;;~~ dat'e I-~as assigned to monitor the 
installation which was a radio transmitter. I could not 
recall if the equipment was signed out to me or not but I­
took the equipment home and on a Sunday aftemoon I caught a 
bus to Union Station, I walked around for a short time and then 
by cab went to the hotel and checked in under an assumed 
name (name not remembered). I did not recall who made my 
reservations. The first night King did not enter the room 
we were monitoring. (I did not recall the names of 
individuals who occupied room but they were associated with 
King party.) The next day we (John Borys of WFO and myself) 
moved to a different room. I could not recall how the 
arrangements for the move was made. We then monitored King 
for about two days, stayed one extra day at the hotel, and 
checked out. Either Borys or myself stayed in the room at 
all time. One would take the logs and tapes out of the 
hotel each day and tum them over to someone from WFO (details 
not recalled). At no time did I ever enter any room in the 
hotel that was occupied by King or any member of his party. 
The tape recorder was manually operated and we attempted to 
run it any time someone was in the room. I know of no physical 
or photographic surveillance on King during this time. I 
had no instructions that I can recall conceming only listening 
to certain types of conversation. 
-2-
NW 38608 Docld:32989617 Page 10 
