·;.,, 
•'. >-
' , .. ; ~-..., 
~ ~ !;"~ )! 
INTERNAL SECURITY SECTION 
Subversive Individuals Unit 
, This Unit has an Agent complement of 5. At the time of the last 
inspection it was a 3 -man Unit; however, one was assigned on a special in another 
Unit, leaving actually two Agents to handle approximately 1300 cases, or 650 
per man. Since the last inspection the case load has increased to app.oximately 
2600. Consequently, it would appear that 4 men averaging 650 cases per man 
could handle the work of this Unit. This position is further strengthened as it . 
can be anticipated that the case load will decrease since the deadline of lifting 
the moratorium expired 6/30/71 and the bulk of investigations have been brought 
up to date or will be brought up to date in the near future. By memorandum dated 
8/26/71 it was recommended that SA.J .. ohn..N .. _Ouellette be returned to the Internal 
Security Section due to the slackening of activity in the EASTCON case. ,.OJlelleJIJi 
was formerly assigned to this Unit and the reduction could be accomplished by 
reassignment of him (or another Agent) to more pressing duties elsewhere. 
Security Informant Unit 
This Unit ·presently has 4 supervisors assigned; however, one has been 
on temporary assignment outside the Unit since June , 1971. The case load as 
of 8/71 for this Unit was 869 and would result in about 217 cases per Agent in 
a 4-man Unit, ~nd 290 cases per Agent in a 3-man Unit. Further, you have 
indicated one of the factors affecting the productivity of the Unit is the necessity 
of obtaining authority by memorandum for the utilization of students and/or 
. teachers as security informants. It was determined that 122 memos have been 
prepared since the last inspection requesting such approval. This is approximate 
1 memo per workday, which does not appear to be an excessive work load. Since 
this Unit was formed it has functioned with 3 Special Agent Supervisors. This 
does not appear to have effected the efficiency of the operation and in view of the 
work and case load it is felt that the Unit could function quite satisfactorily with 
2 Special Agent Supervisors. "' 
Klan and White Hate Groups Unit 
Under the reorganization of DID proposed by Assistant Director 
Brennan in his memorandu1n of 8/3/71 it was indicated this Unitrs cases could b 
absorbed by the Extremist Intelligence Section. This would free two Special 
Agents for other assignment. It is felt this could be accomplished even if the 
proposed reorganization does not become an actuality. 
NW 38608 Docld:32989638 Page 310 
