• 
The· immediacy of the need for member informant 
coverage in all extremist organizations is obvious if the 
Bureau is to be forewarned of plans for bombings, kidnappings, 
demonstrations, and other acts of violence in this country. 
\ • 
It is suggested that the New Left and Internal 
Security Sections devise a form similar to the FD-4O5,designed 
to fit the unique requirements of those Sections, which will 
assist Supervisors to more accurately evaluate and control 
informant development and coverage in the field. The form 
should require specific information on member informant develop­
ment and coverage in each revolutionary, New Left, extremist, 
-and protest group under investigation in each field· office. 
In devising the new form, the New Left and Internal Security 
Sections should bear in mind the suggestion which has been 
proposed separately for the Racial Intelligence Section 
to revise FD-4O5 by~actding a section to read as follows: 
"Explain why you do not have member informants in 
th0s'2' g!'ours listed in colu.mns #1 and #3 on FD-4O5a. 
"Indicate what specific action is being taken to 
develop member informants in those groups and advise when 
member informa·nt coverage is anticipated for each group." 
FD-4O5 also lists statistical accomplishments 
attributable to racial and ghetto informants. FD-374 is 
• used for criminal informants. This information is tabulated 
by computer in the Voucher-Statistical Section and is 
available for immediate reference, including use by the 
Director in his Budget Testimony. 
While not ordinarily ·engaged in criminal activity 
to the same extent as criminal, racial, or ghetto informants, 
it is nevertheless true that security informants, especially 
in the New Left field, are increasingly responsible for 
statistical accomplishments each year. These include 
location of Bureau fugitives, recovery of stolen merchandise, 
and other similar data. It can be reasonably anticipated 
that they will be responsible for additional statistical 
accomplishments in the future. There is no current procedure 
for compiling and recording this type of statistical data 
by the New Left or Internal Security Sections. 
- 2 -
. NW 313'600 Docld:32:989fill! Page 597 
