ti\ l I 
! ' 
. I \ 
l 
ADEQUACY OF PERSONNEL 6-E 
The proposed work adjustments contained in my 
memorandum of 7/29/71 essentially took manpower from work 
presently i~ the Internal Security Section (Klan and Wliite 
Hate cases and Informant matters) and made them available to 
other more heav~ly loaded work areas. The Front Office staff 
of Internal Security Section will be available for other assignment 
as well. It also called for Nationalities Intelligence to absorb 
one of the five men on Ellsberg from that Section's complement 
because of relatively low caseload. 
Details set forth in "Pending Work and Delinquency," 
4-D-l, disclose caseload decreased in Nationalities Intelligence 
and Internal Security Sections by 19% and 28% respectively, which 
is proportionately high compared to other Sections. 
Espionage Section was proposed to receive a one-half 
man's time to compensate for the !~<?...~~J.Fd case. This is consistent 
with that Section's 13% decrease in case count under the new 
procedure. 
That write-up also discloses a case coun~ uncter the 
new procedure of 275 cases per Agent for the Nationalities 
Intelligence Section compared as follows: Espionage - 303; 
Extremist Intelligence - 303; New Left - 334; Internal Security -
401. These figures are based on Supervisors assigned to case 
desks and do not include men on specials in any Section. 
, I, do not believe the problems faced by Nationalities 
-Intelligence Section far outweigh those of other Sections to 
justify that low figure and, therefore, believe my original 
-recommendation that Nationalities Intelligence absorb one man from 
existing complement was justified. W.R. Wannall's comments in 
write-up captioned "Ellsberg Case," 4-A-3, relative to manpower 
presently utilized on tfiis case validate this further as he has 
now utilized manpower in his Section on this case. Obviously, 
tangential issues will arise from time-to-time in an investigation 
of this type an4 can and should be handled on an emergency basis 
within the Section handling the special. This has been the 
traditional practice and should be followed. 
The second problem is essentially intra-divisional in 
nature and deals with a Division Head's responsibility and authority 
to effectively utilize resources available to him to cope with 
DOMESTIC INTELL~GENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/30/71 
CDB:mls 
6-E 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fill! 268 
