NW 38608 
I 
I 
• 1··. 
I l ADEQUACY OF PERSONNEL • 6-E 
the area of responsibility levied upon himj As detailed in 
Wannallts write-up captioned, Ellsberg Case," 4-A-3, from the 
beginning of this case I made manpower avai'lable for the Ellsberg 
case as requested by him. As this investigation progressed, 
however, Wannall continued to levy demands for manpower which I 
believed unwarranted in view of (1) his failure to effectively 
adjust and use his existing manpower at a time when he had a 
proportionately low case load and (2) his granting extensive 
leave to personnel in his Section while continuing to levy manpower 
demands. 
Wannall now claims to have nine men assigned to the 
E!ls~erg case. I invite comparison of the handling of the ,E}Js,,g_erg 
CaseSfo Eastcon. Eastcon at no time has had over 5 men assigned 
full time to it, even though the case is of the very highest 
£riority and of a magnitude and complexity seldom matched in 
Bureau investigations. In addition to the basic and complex 
conspiracy itself, the case incorporates six separate substantive 
investigations (draft board entries) which had to be brought 
up to trial standard for prosecution of Eastcon. There are at 
least 85 volumes to the Eastcon file alone at this time. Eastcon 
was absorbed within the responsible Section until it was firmly 
established that Section's case load could not continue to absorb 
the impact of Eastcon. No requests for additional manpower were 
refused by me on Eastcon, and those requests made were fully 
supported by facts, justified and granted. 
~n my memorandum to Mr. Sullivan dated 8/12/71, captioned 
"Adequacy of Personnel, Leak cases, Domestic Intelligence Division 
(DID)," I candidly stated my position and evaluation of Wannall's 
demands for manpower (copy attached). Attention is invited to 
page 2, paragraph 4, concerning the 5 highly qualified and ex­
perienced men available to Wannall 1 none of whom were being 
utilized by him on the Ellsbe~ case. Attention is also invited 
to page 2, paragraph 5, which details Wannall's claim to :Mr. Felt 
of 0 enormousn problems and need for still 2 more men. Note that 
part of that uenormous" problem was resolved in one week with one 
interview. Concerning the first reference your attention is 
directed to my memorandum to Mr. Sullivan dated 8/16/71 captioned 
"Adequ~cy of Personn.el, Domestic Intelligence Di vision (DID), 11 
(copy attached) which attaches a memorandum from Wannall to me 
requesting an additional Supervisor for the Special Coordination 
Unit. Concerning the second reference above, and the tenor of the 
entire memorandum, your attention is invited to Wannall's write-up 
in this report captioned "Ellsberg Case," 4-A-3 1 page 10, 
paragraph 1, wherein he s~en are now assigned to that 
case. 
DOMESTIC 
8/30/71 
~~i:mls 
INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
Page:269 
