. '( 
• • 
Epstein asked if I kept a card at the office 
showing my location. I responded that it was the normal 
practice to place a card in file when one was away from 
the office. In this case, if I placed a card in file I 
probably would place a notation like "Special - See 
Supervisor Belter for contact." 
I had never seen any paper, memos, etc. (other 
than logs) dealing with this case. 
Epstein asked if I ever saw the tapes again • 
after departing the hotel. I stated that sometime after -
(possibly one or two months) I was asked to review the tapes 
and logs in an effort to obtain additional information. I 
did this at the FBI Laboratory and was assisted by SA John 
Matter, retired, in the technical enhancement techniques­
such as filtering. I was not directed to concentrate on 
any one part of the tapes but reviewed all of the tapes. 
I did not type any of the information and if it was typed 
it was probably typed in the Intelligence Di-vision. I have 
not seen the tapes since that time. 
I first heard about my interview.from Mr. Daly of 
the Legal Division and did not discuss this case with 
Mr. Bergeron, Mr. Matter or Mr. Borys after that contact. 
I do not knt)y if the tapes are still in existpnce. 
]i V'tfo k d • f i h 1 • Dorio as e 1 twas t e norma practice to 
erase tapes. I s·tated that in this type investigation I 
was sure only new tapes were used. I was certain the tapes 
were new if they were still wrapped in cellophane and they 
had the appearance of new tapes. She also asked how I got 
the key for the second room at the hotel and did I have 
to re-register. I stated, I did not recall but felt sure I 
did not re-register and some agent from WFO probably got 
the key to me. No other person entered the rooms except 
Borys and myself where the monitoring was taking place. 
Other responses to questions from Epstein were: 
We only had one radio receiver and only listened to one 
radio microphone, I could not recall if there were others. 
Borys and myself took turns listening to the transmitter. 
I did not remove the transmitter when I left the hotel as I 
never entered any of the rooms assigned to the King party. 
-3-
NW 38601! Docld:32939ii17 11 
