~ Trust Company Bank 
lj
l •· 
• 
., . . . 
At~anta Georgia 30302 
,.. 
Special Agent Seymour Phillips 
November 25, 1975 
Page Tlwee 
' Q Any directions I had given to Rowe to attend political campaigns 
and/or disrupt them? 
A - Did not recall such. 
Q Knowledge of any Klan violence in which Rowe participated? 
A - None recalled but explained that due to his personality he 
could not. look like an angel. 
Q - Did I ever tell Rowe that the FBI had declared war on the Klan? 
A No, but elaborated he w,as well aware of the FBI1s interest in 
solving the various bombings throughout Alabama. 
Q My reaction to the fact that Rowe was a member of the Klan 1 s 
Security Detail and one of Bobby Shelton's bodyguards? 
A Explained that the fact that he'lfe'Ievated· in the Klan 1 s ranks was 
a concern of mine and .the FBI'st We wanted him put where he would 
be able to furnish valuable information, but restrained him from 
rising to any executive position in the Klan. 
Q - Testimony that Rowe had given the Committee that there were certain 
Birmingham police officers who were i~volved with the Klan? 
A - Because of the general possibilities, any information he furnished 
was disseminated only to certain known reliable police contacts. 
I pointed out to them the delicate nature of most of Rowe1 s 
information_ and the fact that it could not be disseminated 
by memo,form to·all department employees of any agency. 
Q - Another question regarding attendance at political meetings with 
the direction that Rowe persuade· the Klan to take a certain position 
·for candidates? 
A - No such directions ever made. 
Q - What was the scope of Rowe1 s assignment as a Klan informant? 
A -- To obtain and report any or all intelligence information.he could 
detc~rmine. 
Q - Any directions given Rowe about Matt Murphy, a candidate for police 
commissioner in Birmingham? 
A - \'las not at all familiar with Murphy other than hearing the name by 
Kelly who commented from his memo .that the question pertained to 
something that occurred after I left the FBI. 
Q When I was assigned to handle Rowe what was my recollection of his 
reputation and value to the FBI? 
A - That he was known to the Department of Justice and the FBI as the 
top Klan informant and that he was in the position to furnish vital 
information to the government. 
Docld:32989570 Page 70 
.... 
l 
a 
I 
! ! 
! t 
! 
I 
' I 
I I 
I I 
I I ! 
• I 
l 
I 
I 
I I 
t 
