By airtel dated 3/19/71, captioned "Black Extremist 
Section of Single Fingerprint File, Identification Matters, 
Racial Matters," all offices were instrueted to give greater 
emphasis to this program on a continuing basis due to increasing 
participation of black extremists in crimes of violence and 
continued reports from knowledgeable som:ces of plans of these 
extremists to participate in bombings, hijackings, kidnapings 
and other crimes of violence. As a result of this communication 
and aggressive supervision by Extremist Intelligence Section 
supervisors, the Black Extremist Section of the Single Fingerprint 
File has doubled. The value of this valuable investigative 
tool was demonstrated in the special investigation being handled 
by this section kno'W!l as Newkill. This ca:se involves the murder 
of two New York City police officers on 5/al/71. Latents 
forwarded by our New York Office for compa~ison against this 
file resulted in the identification of two Black Panther Party 
(BPP) menbers and directlv led.to the solution of the machine 
gunning of two New York City poli~e officers on 5/19/71. This 
information has also resulted in these individuals being . 
developed as suspects in the Newkill murd'.er. Supervisors are 
constantly alert to insure logical black~xtremists are included 
in this file. 
In view of the high percentage 0f black extremists who 
have been reported to have weapons in thefr possession, the field 
by letter 3/18/71 captioned "Firearms Ac'tsJ'' and by airtel 
5/17 /71 captioned ''National Firearms Actv State Firearms 
Control Assistance Act, Unlawful Possessf0n or Receipt of Fire­
.arms, Racial Matters," emphasized that ae:ttive investigation 
should be initiated concerning firearms -w.i.:olations stemming 
from Bureau investigations over matters within our primary 
jurisdiction, includ~ng racial {now extremist) matters investiga­
tions. .Field was instructed to vigorous]z pursue possible. 
violations arising out of extremist matters investigations. Such 
investigations will lead to statistical aecomplisbments and to 
1:he neutralization of black extremists. Tt was emphasized that 
all Agents assigned to extremist matters should thoroughly review 
all of the criminal statutes involving Federal gun law violations 
so that they would be in a position to rec0gnize and vigorously 
pursue possible violations coming to their attention during 
extremist matters investigations. 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fill! 141 
