• 4 
1. Whether meaningful and stringent guidelines can be 
written which do not so hamper the administration 
of ari internal security intelligence program as to 
make the product not. just marginal, ·as GAO ·suggests, 
but worthless .. * 
·2. In light of the possibility that the present Attorney 
General may address this matter via internal Justice 
Department guidelines, whether this approach does 
not ignore the legal authority question which can· 
only be resolved by statute. 
3. Whether or not Congress could d_raft a st~tutory ver­
sion of the guidelines which could oe flexible enough 
to meet an evolving threat and at the same time 
place meaningful restrictions upon the program. 
4. Even .assuming there·is no absence of legal authority 1 
is it safe to leave these guidelines in the form of a 
departmental order which can be rescinded by the· next 
Attorney General? • 
C. Delegation. of Jl.uthority to Attorney General. Simply 
ratifying the present program via en&~tment of a statutory 
charter wn.i:ch grants the FBI authority to conduct an 
internal security intelligence program subject to its own 
internal guidelines or departmental guidelines as proposed 
by the Attorney General. 
In we:igh:i-n:g this option, the Committee should consider 
many o.f the issues set out above and~ 
. l.· Whether such a statute would not be an unconstitu­
ti,onal delegation 0f powers to the Executive Branch. 
~. "'.i: 
2. Whether enactment of such a statute'would not repre­
sent a .failure by the Congress to confront the issues 
raised above. 
*A preliminary staff analysis of the Attorney General's draft 
guidelines suggests that, despite months of conscientious and 
painstaking work by a departmental task force, the guidelines 
are not adequate.. 'This analysis, which will be presented when 
Attorney General Levi testifies on December l0t indicates that 
several of the m0re q1,1estionable FBI investigations {e.g., of 
Dr.. King and the women's liberation movement) woulc still be 
permissible under these proposed guidelines. 
L NW 38614 Docld:3~02 Page 8 
