r • ' 
- 4 -
Issues 
The following issues are among those which are raised by 
the FBI mail opening programs and the FBI's cooperation in CIA's 
New York intercept project: 
(1) Whether mail opening as an investigative technique 
should ever, under carefully circumscribed regulations 
and with proper authorization, be sanctioned in the 
counter-espionage field. The FBI mail opening pr0grams 
raise thi·s issue with mo-re force than the CIA programs 
since, in general, the FBI programs w~re more circum­
scribed, more tightly controlled, and more focused 
than the CIA programs. The FBI programs were also very 
successful in achieving their counter-espionage goals. 
Mail opening does represent an extremely valuable 
iW&As of intercepting i;he communications link in espionage 
communications. On the other hand, the sanctity of the 
mails is an established tradition in the United States, 
and it is doubtful that any selection criteria could be 
sufficiently precise to allow for the opening of only 
mail to or from illegal agents. 
(2) Whether the mail openings that did occur were properly 
authorized. It is c1e·ar that FBI Director Hoover ___ _ 
personally approved the majority· of the mail opening 
programs. The one which was.implemented without Head­
quarters approval was terminated shortly after it came 
to the attention of Headquarters. It does not appear, 
however, that any Attorney General ever authorized these 
programs or that the exact nature and full scope of the 
programs was eve·n brought to the attention of any Attorney 
General, even though opportunities existed to do so. 
Similarly, despite frequent contacts with the·Postal 
Inspection Servic~ regarding the implementation of these 
programs, no Chief Postal Inspector was ever informed 
that the FBI contemplated the actual opening of mail. 
(3) Whether the legal implications of the mail openings were 
adequately considered. There is no evidence that legal 
constderations were discussed after 1951, and there is 
evidence that Headquarters personnel who ran the progrdms 
either considered them illegal or ignored the legal 
implications entirely. 
(4) Whethe~ the mail opening programs were adequately con­
trolled to ensure that- t_hey remained focused on counter­
espionage matters.· As noted above, the programs--d{d­
generate some info~matton regarding domestic organizations 
and criminal activity, .. al though 'the primary purpose 
always remained in t71e✓ co ier-espionage field. The fact 
.. •• ~\\~ • • 
~ . 
"\,A",-·- -1 
If 
29 ,. 
