! .. 
. ,, .. 
'. 
: \ 
. , 
• .. 
'. :. ; '. ~ 
•. l 
. :1 
. . . ' ·1 
forth in the statute .. Current procedure is to submit to 
--. -~; I . --
the Attorney General a copy of the affidavit 'the FBI proposes 
to submit to the court, with a cover memorandum setting forth 
the background of the case. The affidavit has been workeu out 
between FBI field personnel and.the local United States or. 
Strike Force attorney, and between FBI Headquarters personnel 
and Department of Justice attorneys before submission to the 
Attorney General. The Attorney General either approves 
or disapproves proceeding ,vith the application for court 
_approval via a memorandum to the Director . 
. · .. 
c. National Security 
. . 
.• 
The continuous position of the Department of 
Justice and several Presidents has been that the President 
has the constitutional power to authorize warrantless 
electronic surveillances in the exercise of his Articles II 
and IV responsibilities 11to conduct foreign affairs 11 and • 
"to protect the States against invasion." This power has 
generally been exercised by the Attorney General for the 
President. While not specifically approving this interpre-
. tation or in.tending to grant or restrict any powers along 
these lines, but rather as a declaration of no"ninterference, 
Congress, when it passed Title III, stated in 18 U.S.C. 2511(3). 
that nothing·in Chapter 119, Title 18, of the U.S.C. or in Sectic~ 
605 of the Federal Communications Act of 1934 limited the con­
stitutional powers of the President (whatever they might b~) to 
authorize electronic surveillance: (1) to protect the Nation 
against actual or potential attack or other hostile acts of a 
foreign power; (2) to obtain foreign intelligence informatio:i 
deemed essential to the security of the United States; (3) to 
protect national security inforrnati9n against foreign intelligence 
activities; (4) to protect the United States against the over­
throw of the Government by force or other unlawful means; (5) 
(to protect) against any other clear and present danger to the 
structure or existence of the Government. •• 
In United States versus u.s. District Court for the 
Eastern District of Michigan (407 U.$. 297), commonly called 
the Keith case after Judge Damon Keith, the Supreme Court held 
that the President did not have the power to authorize warrant­
less electronic surveillance ·directed against purely domestic 
organizations (and their members). The Court stated that the 
issue in Keith fell within the language of categories 4 and 
Doc;:J:·d.:..3..2 
.i 
