The Attorney Gen.:!ral 
i!, As a matter of historical fact, President Roosevelt in August, 
1936,. did request former Dire~tor J . Edgar Hoover to ~onduct investigations 
of subvei .. sive activities in this country , including communism nnd fascism. 
This request, however, was a confidential oral 1-equest and there is doubt 
that any l't.>cord of it was made out.side the FBI. This requast, or Prosidential 
mandate, was. Q:)$ed, incidontally, on the fact that the le.w provided that the 
FBI could conduct sl.!ch investigations it' the Secretary of St.'lte should so 
request. 
The study reveru.ed tl1nt while the 1939 et soq. directives did not 
grant any special intelligence-gathering mithority to the FBI, ,ve were respon­
sible under these direethres to collect all intelligence information furnished 
by local, stu.te, and Federal law enforcement agencies snd patriotic citizens 
and to sift and coordinate all such information for indications of subversive 
activity covet>ed by Federal statutes. 
The study concluded that the FBI has the responsibility to con­
duct whatever investigations m-e necessary to determine if statutes relating 
to espionage, sabotage, insurrection or rebellion, sedition, seditious ccn­
spiracy, advocacy of ove1·thr-owL.,g the Government, and other such c1>imes 
affecting the national security have been violated. In 1l'lis connection we 
note that in a letter dated September 14, 1967, the Department of Justice 
advise<i that the FBI is continually al~rt to the problem of :recurring· riots 
and is submitting intelligence reports to the Department of Justice concern­
ing such activity. ·r11is letter enumerated se-.,reral F{;:deral statutes and 
._ stated these could be applicable in· using maximum available resources, 
investigative and intelligance, to collect an<l l'eport all facts bearing on 
the question of schemes or conspirecies to plan, promote or aggravate riot 
activity. 
. In other words. the Department was requesting all possible 
intelligence-type investigative activity based on the existence of certain 
statutes. We see this as being no diffe1•ent ii•om our intelligence-type 
investigations relating to plans of groups 01• individuals to-overthrow , 
desti·oy, intcriere with or threaten the survival of effective operation of 
national, stnte, and local governments. 
NW#:88608 
-3-
Docid:32989541 .... ~..,. 
