QUESTION: 
ANSWER: 
QUESTION: 
ANSWER: 
QUESTION: 
ANSWER: 
QUESTION: 
ANSWER: 
QUESTION: 
ANSWER: 
NW 38601! 
• 
Sir, would you sqy that the Cubans who burglarized 
Daniel Elzberg' s,1 psychiatrist's of !ice should not 
have been convicted then since they thought that 
they were on a national security mission? They 
didn't intend to violate any laws. Th~t was their 
testimony. 
I have no judgment insofar as that because my 
province is in presenting the facts and for the 
review and determination by the courts and if such 
an inference was made it was not intended by me 
to give them any sanctuary. I'm trying to keep in 
the area of our facts and that particular thing as 
to whether or not they had any intent or whether or 
not it is a viable defense is up to the courts. 
Mr. Kelley, did you twice mention that you expect 
some resolution to this question in the courts? 
How is it going to get into the courts? 
I don't know. It possibly will be some sort of a 
defense, rather some sort of a presentation to the 
courts by the Attorney General. He has indicated 
that perhaps this being a Constitutional question-­
it being a matter of the executive privilege of the 
presidential power--that it might well be necessary 
to have such a review to determine. 
Were all of these break-ins conducted with the 
permission of either the Attorney General or the 
President at the time? Or were there any that were 
conducted without such approval? 
I cannot, at this point, give you any particulars 
about the program. I just say, as I did before, 
and this .... 
Because you don't know or because you're withholding 
comment? 
I'm withholding comment. 
Mr. Kelley, I'm still unclear about distinction 
between break-ins before 1966 and afterward. Is the 
reduction in number the only change that was made or 
was there change in the limitations on the targets 
that were used? 
There was a change insof·ar as the targets just being 
in the subsequent area confined to those matters which 
were concerned in foreign counterintelligence. 
- 15 -
