• • s 
. 
Memorandum to Mt·. W. R. Wannall 
Re: SENSTUDY 75 
62-116395 
The purpose of the TF and functions of the TF 
leaders were discussed. Briefly, each TF leader is to become 
a substantive expert on the particular topic assigned to him 
(e.g. political abuses), locate all documents, identify 
potential witnesses, develop strategy for presenting subject 
matter to the SSC and work to minimize any delays which might 
be caused by the Third Agency Rule. TF leaders will not 
themselves be witnesses unless their activities other than as 
TF leaders are subjects of testimony. TF leaders will, in 
consultation with legal counsel, define terms pertinent to 
their topics. They will outline directly to the SSC staff, 
insofar as the SSC is receptiv~, the scope and direction of 
pertinent inquiry, who is and is not competent to testify, 
what documents are available, and what areas may or may not be 
pertinent to the Committee's interests. TF leaders will prepare 
themselves to be able to answer any inquiries from the 
White House on their topics. Al though TF leaders must know 
the location of all documents pertinent, the documents them­
selves will be made available to the SSC by the agency having 
custody of same and each agency may negotiate with the SSC 
regarding access by the Committee to material on a case by 
case basis. The agencies will, of course, coordinate first 
with their own legal counsel and then with the White House 
before releasing documents. 
I 
On sensitive matters, such as notional organizations 
or proprietary organizations, the SSC has agreed that it will 
not be necessary for agencies to furnish the names of u. S. 
citizens and companies who have cooperated with the u. S. unless 
. those persons or companies have received notoriety (e.g. Hughes 
Tool Company, Sam Giancan~). It is reportedly understood that 
agencies must protect their ongoing operations. Agencies are 
free to attempt to negotiate with the SSC regarding the extent 
and form of their responses. 
Attached 
memorandum 6/10/75 
margin notes as to 
each subject. j{i 
ACTION: (, 
is a copy of an intelligence community staff 
showing the TF assignments and, in the left 
the agencies expected to have input into 
{J✓ ~ 
For record purpose~•/ 
SEC~T 
- 2 -
J
-;{' u 
I ~ .r {r✓ 
I NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989ti-09 112 
