. . 
/ 
.· : 
·"The Keith decision has suggested a standard of 
'significant connection with a foreign power, its agents 
or· agencies. ' We do .not interpret this as meaning casual,. 
unrelated contacts and communications with foreign governments 
or agencies thereof. We would not try to apply this standard 
without the presence of such factors as substantial financing, 
control by or active collaboration with a foreign government 
and agencies thereof in unlawful activities directed against 
the Government of the United States. Obviously, such factors 
will be present in a very minimum number of situations. 
(Emphasis added.) 
•• • "I wish to assure the (sub) Committee on behalf 
of the Attorney General, that the Department of Justice 
accepts both the letter and the spirit of the Court's ruling 
in the Keith case. It is the intention of the Executive 
Branch to util~ze electronic surveillance in present and 
. future national security matters in full and ungrudging 
application of the rationale of the decision. 11 (Emphasis 
• added.) 
. The FBI carried on an informal dialogue with 
· the Department of Justice after the Keith decision in an 
attempt to establish some general guidelines in the ·abstract, 
but the discussions eventually came back to the above language, 
and the conclusion that each case requires a facts and circum­
stances test,· and an exercise of the independent judgment of the· 
Attorney General on the facts presented. 
-As a result, the FBI submitted some borderline 
cases, which it recognized as such, to the Attorney General 
in order to get a feeling of hot\1 he and the Department of 
Justice applied the above stan~ard to specific fact situa­
tions. Some were approved, some refused. As a result 
. the FBI feels it has• a fairly clear idea of the outer limits, 
beyond which no electronic surveillance will be approved. 
The lack of formal guidelines beyond the Court's 
language and Maroney's testimony presents no practical or 
administrative difficulty within the FBI. As Maroney noted, 
the factors he related would be present in a very minimum 
number of cases. That is true. Prior to Keith, domestic 
national security electronic surveillances conducte'd by the FBI 
had been winding down for some time. At the time of the Keith 
decision only six, four telephone and two microphone, were in 
8 
• "' L NW#+-8-8-6-0-8 
I f 
i 
i . t 
l 
! 
! 
l 
·1 
! I 
i ! 
