,, 
I 
/ 
,. 
\ 
C. THE HISTORY OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION IN THE 
tfNTi'ED S'i'A'l'ES 
· 1. Prior to World War I I 
A study of the history and progress of foreign 
intelligence collection in the United States reveals that 
prior to World War II such collection efforts were incidental 
and in direct proportion to the intensity of the coverage 
maintained in the counterintelligence field. Accordingly, 
the history of foreign intelligence collection in the 
United States prior to World War II is primarily a history of 
counterintelligence and internal security coverage, of which· 
foreign intelligence was a by-product. Historical highlights 
:of .t~e developments in this field are as follows: 
(a) In August, 1914, when German espionage agents 
Count Johann Von Bernstorff and Dr. Heinrich Albert of the 
• German Embassy, Washington, D. C. , arrived in the 
• • U.1~ "!;od. States ·w-i th $1-50 >CH)(), ooo :!. n German treasury notes to 
finance the first foreign espionage and sabotage apparatus 
. to be organized in this country, United States Government 
intelligence work was handled for the most part by five 
small organizations (Bureau of Investigation of the 
Department of Justice, Secret Service, Army, State and Navy), 
all operating on their own with small staffs and without 
.coordination and sufficient delineation of responsibilities~ 
(b) On April 6, 1917, Congress declared war against 
Germany and President Woodrow Wilson. gave the Bureau of 
Investigation the task of enforcing his proclamation 
governing the conduct of enemy aliens. The Bureau at the time 
had 300 Agents but shortly after the outbreak of the war 
the staff was increased to 400. 
(c) As result of a rash of bombings believed 
executed by Bolsheviks, Attorney General Palmer appointed 
Francis P. Garvan of New York as Assistant Attorney General 
to deal with the problem. He created a General Intelligence 
Di vis ion under command of J. Edgar Hoover and Mr. Hoover was , 
instructed to make a study of subversive activities in the 
United States to determine their scope·and the potential 
for prosecution. 
-- 8 -
