EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY CONTAINED IN 1939 DIRECTIVE 
Further in his testimony Mr. Hoover was asked if any other 
agencies of the Government were covering the same work that 
emergency employees of the FBI were covering. He replied that 
he would like to 1Bave the committee a publieation listing the 
statutes, proclamations and Executive Orders pertaining to 
national defense matters. He then stated that the President in 
1939 directed that all invest -ations dealing with espionage, 
sabotage, subversive activit, , and national defense activities, 
w o u 1 d b e h an d 1 e d by th e F B I t, .. ~ e p t th o s e a r i s in g w i thin th e 
Army or Navy. He .. went on to say that other g,overnmental agencie.s 
were instructed under this Executive order to report to the FBI 
any information showing any violation dealing with national 
defense matters. 
No Executive Order could be located which contains the 
language used by Mr. Hoover in this instance. He might hav~· 
be~n referring to either the directive or statement made by 
• President Roosevelt in June, 1939, or the directive dated 
September 6, 1939. However,. the. above-quoted language is much 
broader than used in-·either of these documents. • • -·-···------
In considering the full impact of the June and September, 
1939, Presidential directives, and how they subsequently influenced 
FBI jurisdiction and responsibility, it must be borne in mind 
that the Nation was at the very brink of World War II. President 
Roosevelt issued a proclamation on September 8, 1939, declaring 
that state of national emergency existed in connection with the 
observance, safeguarding, and enforcement of neutrality, and 
strengthening of the national defense within the limits of peace-
tim~ authorizations. An Executive Order (No.8233) dated September 5, 
1939, prescribed regulations governing the enforcement of the 
neutrality 0£ the United States. The War Department, Navy Department, 
Treasury and Commerce Departments, and the Governor of the Panama 
Canal were assigned certain enforcement duties. The Justice 
Department (FBI) was given responsibility of enforcement of the 
neutrality of the United States not especially designated to other 
depart men ts, independent offices and es tab lis hm en ts of th-e 
United States Government, and prosecution· of violations of the 
neutrality of the U. S. • 
Unquestionably in time o.f national emergency the broadest 
possible interpretation was being applied to every statute, resolu­
tion, proclamation, Executive order, Presidential directive or other 
lawful order or mandate in the interest of the preservation of peace, 
the national defense and general welfare of the country. Undoubtedly 
there are many other documents recording Executive intention, 
- 10 -
........ "'w 38601! Docld:32989ii09 Page 145 
.)__ 
