· ... 
.. . . ,:• 
I. AUTHORIZATION OF CONSENSUAL, TITLE III, AND NATIONAL 
: SECURITY ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCES 
. _,, 
•• : The legal foundat--r~ each of the above types 
of electronic surveillance differs, and in part as a con­
sequence of that, the administrative procedure for securing 
authorization to use each type differs. 
A. Consensual ..·. 
. The current· law is that as long as one party to a 
conversation, whether over the telephone or in person, consents 
to a monitoring of that conversation by another or a recording 
of that conversation by another or by himself, such a mon,itoring 
_or recording is·legal, and may be introduced into evidence ·in a 
·1egal proceeding. 
• At present, the monitoring or recording of telephone 
conversations by the FBI with the consent of one of the parties, 
e.g., via a device attached to the consenting party's telephone 
or a monitoring via use of an extension telephqne, is authorized 
·,internally within the FBI by either a Special Agent in Charge 
.or, if the case is "sensitive," by a Headquarters official, 
generally the Director. On the other hand, the present policy 
with regard to consensual monitoring of nontelephone conversations, 
e.g., body or hidden recorders or transmitters, is that the 
·Attorney General must approye these in advance, except in an 
e~ergency, at which time the Director (or someo~e designated 
by him) can apprpve them and then promptly notify the Attorney 
Genera~. The method of requesting Attorney General approval, 
or of notifying the Attorney General of· the exercise of the 
emergency authorization, is a memorandum to the Attorney General 
setting forth the identity _of the target, the background of 
the case, and the reason for-the request or authorization. 
Bo Title III 
These -electronic surveillances are permitted. by 
act of Congress for the purpose of gathering evidence of 
enumerated crimes. A requirement for the submission of 
an affidavit to a court showing probable cause that a crime 
is being committed and that evidence not obtainable otherwise 
can be obtained via the electronic surveillance is set 
"' NW# : 8 8 61Ylr --Docia:3"2-9-8-9-5-4-: 
