·,) .... . , 
• 
authorizing emergency apprehension and detention was repealed 
in October, 1971. Under the Emergency Detention Program, while 
it existed, a great deal of continuing investigative. activity 
was conducted concerning thousands of individuals who were 
believed to represent a ·threat to the national security in time 
of national emergenc~. Some of our investigative practices today 
are based on criteria authority growing out of the original 
Emergency Detention Program. 
Now this is not to say that the FBI is in a position of 
having to defend its investigative policies or practices. If there 
has.been but a single thread of continuity running through our 
investigative practices and procedures over the years it is that 
the individual's constitutional rights are paramount; that nothing 
is so important as a citizen 1·s rights under the law .. Lega_l 
·coutisel pointed out an extremely important point last year at the 
time of the Princeton Conference where a group of FBI critics 
zathered to expose the FBI 1 s faults. He noted that for years 
preceding the Miranda decision and the Escobedo decision the FBI 
had been warning persons of their rights prior to taking any kind 
of statement. Every Special Agent knows that the first and 
perhaps most important element in preparing for a prosecution is 
preserve the individual's rights guaranteed under the Constitution. 
The PBI has legally conducted investigations of individuals 
and organizations whose philosophies include the overthrow or 
destruction of the United States Government by force or violence. 
Whether conducted under a Presidential ord~r or statutory 
authority any such investigations were absolutely necessary and 
continue to be so. For administrative reasons documents reporting 
results of investigations often have not always clearly shown the 
authority, statutory or otherwise. A caption has usually been 
used for routing and supervisory purposes _which is no~slearly 
1.ncifcative of the nature or purpose of the investigative activity. 
Such captions might well be confusing to one not connected with 
the FBI and they might well lead to the conclusion that investi­
gation was not based on any legal authority. For example, the 
caption 11Security Matter - Miscellaneous" or "Internal Security -
Revolutionary Activity" means little to someone outside the FBI. 
To those in the Domestic Intelligence Divison such designations 
identify the type of case and supervising unit at Headquarters. 
In other words, there has been nothing wrong with the 
~ conduct of_our investigat~ons. Only those deserving of investi­
_gation under statutory provisions have been investigated. While 
we would have been more precise to predicate our investigations on 
a specific authority, whether statutory or Executive order (10450), 
we have not engaged in extra-legal investigative activity 
simply because we failed to cite any specific authority to 
conduct the investigation in such a way as to make it a "closed 
end" investigation such as Professor Elliff described. 
- 25 -
