REPUBLIC OF NEW AFRICA 
Bufile 157-9079 
•• 
. . 
. The Republic of New Africa (RNA) was fonned in Detroit, 
Michigan, in March, 1968, by followers of Malcolm X, assassinated 
black extremist. It has chapters in nine U.S. cities and a 
current hard-core membership of approximately 116 individuals. 
RNA was primarily f onned by ~.in1.t.9!l. and Richard ]';nry_ 1 
long-time extremists in the Detroit area. ·When first fonned, 
RNA named as its President-:-in-exile Robert_ Franls:J.;i.n ·william..£..,._ 
violence-prone black extremist then livI~""inCn~~i!ff~pJ... 
who has since returned to the U.S., has resigned his position 
as head of the RNA due to his own legal problems and dissension 
existing within the organization. 
RNA was established to create a black nation ·withih 
the U,S, demanding from the U.S. Government the States of Alabama, 
Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and South Carolina, in addition 
to individual reparations of $10,000 per black citizen as payment 
for 400 years of ancestral slave labor. 
,RNA's organizational structure is revolutionary in 
character and its leaders have proposed efforts be made for inter­
national recognition and financial assistance from Cuba, Red China 
and the black nations of the world. RNA, in September, 1970, made 
a fonnal agreement of mutual revolutionary and financial support 
with the leader of the Black Power Movement in Surinam. 
RNA established a black army known-~as· r.he Black Legion 
whose function was to protect the persons and property and to 
attack the enemies (police) of that nation. Training programs 
were instituted and uniforms complete with leopard skin epaulets 
were designed as the official dress for the Black Legionaires, 
RNA maintains its national headquarters in Detroit, 
Michigan, despite the fact that since early 1970, two factions 
have arisen within the organization. One faction, led by Richard 
Ji@-n.IJfu is attempting to establish a national headquarters in 
New Orleans, Louisiana. This faction is the most active and 
militant of the two groups and has called for intensification of 
RNA activities throughout the U.S. The other group, under the 
NW 38601! ~d:32989ti38 Page 156 
