2. Positive Results Achieved Since Last Inspection. 
Investigations since the last Inspection have totaled 
95. Many of these individuals were interviewed; however, it 
has been dete.rmined that none were allowed to enter Communist 
China. Duripg the cultural revolution which ended during 1970, 
very few United States residents were allowed to enter 
Communist China including a number of United Nations employees 
who had previously made numerous trips to Communist China. 
There is every indication, however, that the Chicoms have taken 
011 a "new look" internationally and are attempting to gain the 
·friendship of the western world. This program has not reached 
its great potential due to the xenophobia which existed during 
the past three years. Communist China is expected to open an 
embassy at Ottawa, Canada, in 1/71 as result of Canadian 
recognition. This will make it far easier for United States 
residents to cross the border into Canada and either seek a 
travel permit to visit Communist China or make contact with 
Chi~vm i~telligance ~epresc~t~tivGs &t tha eilib"Gsy iu Ottawa. 
3. Extent and Nature of Current Supervision. 
This program is handled by one Bureau supervisor who 
cQrrelates information as received from either United States 
intelligence agencies or friendly foreign intelligence services 
and directs the office covering the individual~s residence ~nd 
employment to conduct necessary investigation according to the 
Manual of Instructions. Investigations are conducted to fully 
identify the individuals, determine current residence and 
employment and ascertain whether he has access. to classified 
information. In absence of any unusual circumstances indicating 
need for further action, the case is closed. Each case is 
closely supervised and evaluated bp its individual merits. 
4. Current Justification for Continuation. 
The potential of this program is far greater than 
what has been realized in the way of results to date. As 
mentioned above, the Canadian recognition of the PRC has given 
Communist China a foothold in North America. RCMP~ 
that the.y·· fee.l that 50 2ercent of the Chinese Communist 
_i_n_t .... e ... 1 ... 2-.... -Af§F~~!2r~~~Eill~!?.~~-::vi1~ · 
- 2 -
NW 38608 Docld:31989£.J.8 Page 462 
