1,· I. 
1. 1 
• 
11 
I I. 
I 
•· . 
' i 
- 4 -
It is evident from the 
backlog of cases awaiting trial (414), backlog of cases' 
awaiting prosecutive action by the Federal Grand Jmry 
{749) and the fact that these violations are being re­
ceived by your office at the average rate of 175 cases 
per month, that something must be done to get these 
cases before the courts. The most aggravated cases should 
be singled out and tried first, particularly those indi­
viduals who are members of extremist groups. Experience 
has shovm that after several subjects have received rigid 
sentences, and a widely publicized trial, that many subjects 
enter guilty pleas hoping for lesser sentences by avoiding 
the Government the expense of a trial. 
It is recognized the San 
Francisco Division has been most forcefully making every 
effort to expedite the handling of these cases, particularly 
through the judiciary. Indications are that the reiatively 
newly appointed United States Attorney is sympathetic and 
receptive to the problem and is making an effort to diminish 
-t-he backlog of cases awaiting Grand Jury presentations, but 
it is recognized once an indictment is returned, it is then 
up to the judiciary to proceed through the final step, to 
.which they have not been particularly receptive. They have 
•• not responded enthusiastically to handling these matters in 
Federal Court . 
• It is obvious the Federal 
Judges in Northern California (San Francisco Division) have 
·resisted any and all pressures brought to bear upon them 
concerning this problem. In my analysis of this situation, 
I° have determined that the·united States Attorney's Office, 
personnel of the FBI, and Selective Service personnel have 
• all attempted to influence the Judges in handling these 
matters more expeditiously to no avail. Furthermore, within 
recent .mon~hs the~e has been wide-spread nation-wide publicity 
relative to their coddling and minimizing this particular 
probl~m.... This apparently has had no effect upon them. It 
would., ;therefore, appear that the various Federal Judges 
will.not react to this problem unless some sµperior influential 
individual or group can forcefully bring this matter to their 
attention, particularly if such individual or group is one 
,which the ..Pede:r:al Jud~.e-s i\'muld .r,espect. The obvious answer 
is :the Administra.tor of the Courts for the Federal Judicial 
System .in Washington, D.C. and/or Chief Justice of the Supreme 
Court, ·WARREN BURGER. 
NW..&llfiiOL!JnG:ld;J298:9fr\Ll2g:e,, 15Q 
