• 1 •· 
\ 
Set forth below, by Branch, are ore specific 
observations with respect to the Inspectorrs comments and 
~ecommendations; however, in summary, I desire to point out 
that we cannot reassign manpower of the quantity involved for 
an extended period of time and eliminate entirely by 
attrition 11 clerks without such action having a deleterious 
effect in certain areas of our operations. I am strongly 
opposed to such lessening of our coverage in these areas but 
if such recommendations are approved and ordered, I will do 
my best to see that our responsibilities are fulfilled to the 
maximum degree possible under the circumstances. 
The following comments are·made concerning 
reallocation of Agent personnel to top priorities regarding 
the Internal Security and Research Branch. The Inspector 
recommends seven superviso"rs be reallocated from this Branch 
to other work areas. Based on day-to-day experience in 
these work areas and having available end of August case 
count figures, the following alternatives are recommended 
to make seven supervisors available. 
ltesearcil 8ection: 'The pre·serri:: SU1,H:::.:i:viBo.i"' c::1.ssigned 
to the Ellsberg case is a talented writer experienced in 
complicated research projects and preparation of research 
papers. He is utilized full time on the :,Ellsberg case in 
this capacity and on his own time continues to handle some 
speeches and research matters. Research Section will make a 
second supervisor available for the ~JJ_sbe¾g case and the 
,original ~upervisor will return to Research Section as soon as 
his project is completed on ~~:i;:g,_~ This is predicated on 
the assumption a replacement will be provided this Section for 
SA.Ji~ 4~who was transferred to another Division. 
Internal Security Section: Will make four 
supervisors available instead om five as recommended by the 
Inspector. 
This is predicated on experience and present case 
load regarding the Subversive Individuals Unit primarily and 
also the Security Informant Unit. August 31, 1971, • case count 
for the Subversive Individuals Unit is 2,663 cases, in addition, 
523 cases were opened and 496 cases were closed during August 
in this Unit .. This woulq be an average case load of 666 cases 
. ·per Agent, not including the_ opening and clos_ing mail, flow • 
NW 38601! Docld:32989fi.J8 Page 320 
• '..!. ... 
