L 
• • 
the volume of the n;1aterial you have requested is considerable. 
At our meeting,. I showed you a list of the materials that have 
already been provided, and Mr. Miller has been kept advised 
about the status of other materials. 
In discussing some of the concerns of people in the 
Intelligence Community about the procedures addressed above,.• 
you agreed to raise with the <:;ommittee the question of ultimate 
disposition of materials provided. I understand that this is in 
t~ain. In this connection, I was ver_y muc_h apprecia~ive of youl\ 
r·eassurap.~e that you and the Comll}Jttee members w11l .con~ult 
with me 'J?it"ior to the release of any classified materials in 
public stater.q.ents or unclassified reports of the Committee_ 
Such consulfa:tion is consiste!}t with the spirit of the inquiry. .... .. ... 
I believe our -staffs are working we.fl t;getl~er. ~here 
have been the usual inherent problems that one can expect in .. 
an investigation of this scope 1• Because the Select Committee 
staff personnel engaged in the inquiry are relatively new to the 
field of intell~gence and to the seriousness of the inquiry, 
expectations aJ; ambitious~ But there is something to be said 
for both sides of the equation. For example, we await the 
convenience of your investigators on selective follow-up matters 
on which they had reqtfested further data. Meanwhile, we have urged 
and are providing the staff with detailed briefings by way of introduction 
to the Agency's history and functions. I am personally convinced 
that direct discussions about our work and about specific instances 
of interest to the staff investigators will be far more direct and 
pro::luctiye to them (saving us much useless work) than engaging 
in debates about massive document transfer reque·sts. 
To that end, I am very anxious to renew and by this letter­
I would repeat my request to you that the Co·mmitt_ee move 
personally and directly into the inquiry at an early date. I am 
delighted that you and the Committee are coming to visit our 
headquarters £or a discussion of the Intelligence Community 
and the Agency and for an exchange on the precise interests which 
2 
NW 313'600 .Docld:32989532 11!7 
