.. 
• I 
A. RESPONSIBILITIES AND SUPPORT J • 
In treating with Congressional inquiries, the Director of C!:!ntral 
Intelligence will provide leadership to the Intell:i:gence Cornrnunity. 
The, Associate peputy to the DCI for the Intelligence Community,. 
supported by the Intelligence Community Staff, will provide the 
principal staff direction and congressional liaison for the DCI in these 
matters. }re will serve as a focal point fo.r cooxdination among Community 
entities and assure communication with the· Executive Office as appropriate. 
The IC Staff with the as.sistanc.e of. USLB-Agencies:.will .p:r.ovide J~gal, . 
security, substantive., and registry support structur~cl so as to assure 
. ___ -'"'..appr.opriate support to the DCI and the Intelligence Carnmunity. • 'J;he • • 
. AD/DCI/IC will chair _an Ad Hoc Coordinating Group of USIB as a 
principal mechanism for exchanging information and coord-i.nating USIB 
activities with respect to the inquiry where ·needed. The AD/DCI/IC and 
the USIB Ad Hoc Coordinating Group will establish periodic and special 
time sensitive reporting to keep the DCI, the,USIB principals, and·involved • 
E~ecutive Branch agencies advised on USIB Agencies 1 lfaison relationships 
with the Select Committees and on substantive exchanges in response to 
Sele(:°!: C:c.-!:.l~i-tt~~ in'i•-"!.h•i':'s. WherP 111=;P.fnl; c.nrnmon standards and procedures 
will be developed by the USIB Ad Hoc Coordinating Group. 
B. CO ORDINATION 
1. Physical security is proceeding well. The Chairman of the Security 
Committee of USIB has been assigned as the principal Intelligence Community 
officer on physical security "'-nd clearance matters. Agreements have been 
reached with the Senate Select Committee on physical security standards. 
These standards have been provided to the.House Select Committee Staff. 
The Senate has arranged for .central facilities which meet the physical 
security standards and has appointed a full-time security officer "vho will 
provide certification of personnel clearances. The House at the present 
time is not planning central facilities and we understand will be dispersed 
in at least three different locations. 
• Discussion of classified information will occur outside of the 
security-approved Committee rooms ·and partic\1-larly in the offices of the 
members of the Select Conunittee. · Agreement has been reached that the FBI 
will approach the House and Senate Staff Directors and offer technical sweep 
services for the Congressional offices involved . 
. NW 38608 Docld:32989530 Page 18 
