• 
Memorandum for Mr. Wann all 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
The FBI - CIA 1966 Understanding: 
Mr. Clarke advised that the Rockefeller Commission 
requested a copy of the FBI - CIA Understanding of 1966 and 
inquired whether one could be made available to the Commission. 
I advised Mr. Clarke that we had made the 1966 Understanding 
available to Congressional committees and I saw no reason why 
a copy of the Understanding could not be furnished to the 
Rockefeller Commission but I would have to defer to Deputy AG 
Silberman (also in attendance). Mr. Silberman said by all means 
we would have to respond to the Rockefeller Commission and he 
authorized Clarke to furnish a copy of the Understanding to 
the Rockefeller Commission. 
Clearances for Staff Members of the SSC: 
Attached hereto is a copy of a letter to the Staff 
Director of the SSC from Mr. Clarke outlining procedures for 
the certification of clearances granted to SSC staff members. 
As an enclosure to this attachment is a suggested format which 
the SSC could use in certifying that staff members who have 
received a sec~rity investigation by the FBI meet the require­
ments of Executive Order 10450 for access to classified informa­
tion up to and including "Top Secret." A second enclosure to 
Clarke's letter to Miller contains a copy of Director of Central 
Intelligence Directive (DCID) 1/14 which sets up the Uniform 
Personnel Security Standards and Practices Governing Access to 
Sensitive Compartmented Information. Clearances for access to 
compartmented information are the responsibility of CIA and such 
clearances will be issued to select members of the SSC on a 
"need-to-know" basis. 
Staff Members on Whom Substantial Derogatory Information is 
Developed: 
Mr. Clarke asked if I could describe for the Group 
what procedures had been worked out with Senator Church when 
information was developed of a significant derogatory nature 
regarding potential staff employees. I advised the Group that 
upon such a determination a Bureau official would bring the 
CONTINUED - OVER 
- 2 -
I 
l NW 38tiiOB Docld:32989530 Page 4ti 
