t' 
J 
NW 38601! 
\ 
\ 
SECRET 
II. CASTRO'S SUBVERSIVE . POTENTIAL IN THE AFTERMATH OF AN 
AGREEMENT·.• UNDER WHICH THE SOVIETS WOULD WITHDRAW 
THEIR STRATEGIC MISSILES AND THE US GIVE ASSURANCES THAT 
IT WOULD NOT INVADE CUBA 
9. Castro's subversive capabilities-and his disposition to. use them­
will be enhanced by the sense of security provided by such sophisticated 
weapons as are retained in Cuba after the withdrawal of, Soviet strategic 
missiles. The IL-:-28 bombers, if retained, and other modern equipment 
noted in Anhex B, would be important in this regard. A US commit­
ment not to invade .Cuba will further strengthen his sense of immunity 
from reprisal and almost certainly encourage him to intensify subver­
sive activities in other Latin American countries. 
Response of Castro Supporters to Missile Base Crisis 
10. Castro's supporters throughout Latin America, with few though 
important exceptions (e.g., sabotage of oil facilities in Venezuela), failed 
to respond to the missile base crisis with effective acts of sabotage or 
with impressive public demonstrations. Two important limiting factors 
should be taken into account in judging this response, however. US 
action to alert Latin American governments led them to make extensive 
advance preparation, including deployment of security forces and the 
roundup of suspects, a condition· of readiness which is unlikely to be 
maintained indefinitely. There also may have been some uncertainty 
among the activist followers of Castro whether they should make their 
big effort in response to the announcement of the US blockade, or wait 
for the anticipated US invasion. Moscow's: apparent failure to provide 
guidance may have contributed to the confusion. It is our judgment, 
however, that the response to Castro's appeal for attacks on the US. 
and its friends indicates that his power to command revolutionary 
action, at least in the circumstances of the :rp.issile base crisis, is limited) 
I 
I 
Support Which Castro Can Expect in the Future 
11. The range of Castro's support has been, we believe, considerably 
narrowed by events since Castro declared himself a Communist./ Rev­
elation of the fact that he ha<;l allowed the Soviets to establish cfffensive 
bases under exclusive Soviet control has alienated many non-Communist 
nationalists, genuine neutralists, and even r~volutionaries seeking social 
and economic betterment. San Tiago Dantas, formerly Foreign Min­
ister under President Goulart and an author of Brazil's nonalignment 
policy, and leading Mexican officials have publicly expressed their 
disenchantment. 
12. The activist revolutionaries are probably the only important force 
on which Castro can·'now count, but even their support has apparently 
been rendered less effective by differences on the question of Soviet rela­
tions· with Castro and with Latin American Communist parties. • 
SECRET 
Page 9 
\ 
I s 
, 
I 
I 
I 
i 
I 
.I 
1 
J 
