.. 
• • 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities 
f 
formal understanding with Senator Church as to the Bureau's position 
in regard to such interviews. I reminded the Deputy that our sole concern 
was to make a representative available to assist in the interviews 
in the event they touched upon sensitive areas and by no means was our 
interest to be understood to be an effort to interfere with the Senate 
Committee's inquiries. 
The Deputy said he fully understood our position and agreed. 
He asked me whether I would be willing to agree to hold off on formal 
notification to Senator Clmrch until the negotiations to be conducted by 
Mr. Lloydc could be concluded. I told the Deputy I would agree to that 
on the condition that I and also Inspector Hotis would participate in the 
discussions by Lloyd with the Committee representatives. The Deputy 
Attorney General said that he fully concurred in my condition and if there 
developed any difficulty in making such arrangements, he would assist 
in seeing that it was accomplished .. , 
Inspector Hotis advised that Schwarz, the Committee counsel, 
has arranged a meeting on Wednesday morning, May 7, 197 5, with 
Assistant Attorney General Scalia of the Office of Legal Counsel of the 
Department. We will also be represented at that meeting. 
The Deputy Attorney General told me that he had been advised 
by Schwarz that a former Bureau Agent, Leo Clark, had objected to the 
fact that a Bureau representative had contacted him and had indicated a 
willingness to be present during Clark's interview by the Committee. 
I again assured the Deputy that our sole purpose in contacting Clark was 
to be available in the event a Bureau representative was needed to discuss 
matters of a sensitive nature or matters concerning current Bureau operations. 
The Deputy said he understood and Clark's complaint was likely the result 
of a misunderstanding. 
RECOMMENDATION: 
For information. 
- 2 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989532 93 
