r.--)&.>Si-Or#:M~p••_.,,1QC1t.,..· ,.,.,,1111,. 
J ' 
. .. . . . . .. , 
1. • Beginning in 1D39, various ;presidenti.:il directives 1.·cquested :ill 
law enforcement officers to report inform::tlion regarding espionage, sabotage, 
subversive activities and related matters to the FBI. These directives charge 
f(H~ FBI with the respon;:;ibility of correlJ.l:ing the m:iteri::il ::tnd" referring matters 
under jurisdiction of other Federal agencies to the appropriate agencies. 
2. The Delimitations Agreement between the FBI and the Arn1ed Forces 
intelligence agencies provides that the responsibilities assumed by one organization 
i;i a given field carries with it the obligation to exchange freely and directly with 
other subscribing organizations all information of mutual interest. In addition, 
a :::;upplemental agreement_p~ovides that certain information of general interest 
to the intelligence services of the Armed Forces be furnished them. ' 
3. The National Security Act of 1947 provides that upon written request 
from the Director of Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) the Bureau shall make 
available information for correlation, evaluation and dissemination essential to 
national security. 
4. Executive Order 10450 (Security of Government Employees) reqµ.ires 
the FBI to check names of all civil applicants and civil incu1nbents of any 
department or agency of the Executive Branch against records of the FBI. 
5. Supplen1ent Number Four {Revised) of Departmental Order 3464, 
signed by the Attorney General in January, 1953, classified all official records 
and information of the FBI as rrconfidential." However, in accordance ·with 
long-standing policy concurred in by the Attorney General, the practice of 
passing to other Governm.::mt agencies information coming to the FBI1s attention 
in connection witri the conduct 0£ investigations normall~.~ with:m the Bureau's 
jurisdiction was entirely appropriate and correct. The Attorney General advised 
the Bureau it would be remiss in its duty if it failed to pass along information 
which rnight prove of interest to the general welfare. 
·b. \Vhlte House Requests 
Pursuant to requests from the ,,nute House, the nanrns of individuals ·who 
:ittend, serve or perionn at vVhite House functioi1s, or who n1ay be considered 
for Presidential appointrnents are .checked against Bureau files including 
Identification Division records for any derogatory data which indicates the indi­
vidual might pose a threat or 01nbarrassment to the President or members of 
his f3.nlily. Suc11 requests are handled e:\-peditiously and any derogatory infor-
1nation is reported directly to the \Vhite House staff security officer by ~_ppropriat 
con1mu.nicati-ons depending upon the time factors involved. At the request 0£ 
the \in1ite House, the FDI conducts background investigations on Presidential 
appointees, \.Vhite Ho~se employees and persons having regular access to the 
\Vhlte House. 
