' 
I 
I 
i 
I ! 
,. 
-
I 
·-
\ I ,• 
I 
(g) President Roosevelt publicly designate·d the FBI 
to investigate matters relating to espionage, sabotage and 
violations of the neutrality regulations by Presidential 
Direct:lve dated September 6, 1939. 
(h) On May 21, 1940, President Roosevelt in a 
memorn.11dum to the :then Attorney Genern.l, Robert H. Jackson, 
authorized and directed the Attorney General in such cases as 
he might approve to authorize the use of listening devices • 
directed to the conversations or other communications of 
persons suspected of subversive activity against the Government 
of the United States, in.eluding suspected spies. 
Pursuant to such authorization, commencing on June 1, 
1940, technical surveillances were installed on diplomatic 
establishments throughout the United States of such countries 
as Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia and France. These 
.... installations in addit·ion to providing counterintelligence 
information of value produced a substantial quantity of foreign 
intelligence information. 
(i) Although lines of responsibility· were established 
for domestic intelligence work in connection with the September 6, 
1939, Presidential Directive, there were no clearly defined areas 
of responsibility of overseas intelligence operations and as 
time passed the need for decisions in that field grew more evident. 
As a result, the Special Intelligence Service (SIS) 
came into being. By Presidential Directive June 24, 1940, 
President Franklin D. Roosevelt set forth lines· of responsibility 
in the operations of United States intelligence agencies in the 
foreign field. This Directive grew out of a series of meetings 
involving representatives of State Department, Army and Navy 
intelligence and the FBI wherein it was agreed that the SIS would 
act as a service agency, furnishing the State Department, the 
military, the FBI and other governmental agencies with information 
having to do with financial, economic, political and subversive 
activities detrimental to the security of the United States. The 
June 24th Directive' placed the responsibility for nonmilitary 
intelligence coverage in the Western Hemisphere on the FBI. Less 
than thirty days thereafter the FBI had organized an SIS operation. 
Through World War II and until approximately March 31, 
1947, the FBI continued its SIS operations. The culmination of 
our activities in this field came about as a result of the· 
January 22: 1946, Presidential Directive_ establishing the 
Central Intelligence Group and giving it the responsibility of 
collecting foreign intelligence abroad. 
- 10 -
