, ,, 
It was pointed out that the procedure recommended will not., 
provide against in~eruiews with neighbors of the applicants or subJects 
under investigation in connection with tha Loyalty Program nor would it 
provide agains-t in:terviews of associates whose -names are brought up 
during the course of the investigation. Likewise it would not provide 
against interview~ with college professors whose names were not given 
by ·the applicant or the Loyalty subject as references, but who are 
contacted. in the course of the ordinary investigation. It was felt, 
however, that the bulk of the people who are interviewed•in these 
cases are set out as references by the applicant and it would only be 
on a rare occasion that a person hostile to the Burea-u would be in·ter­
viewed in a neighborhood investigation, as an associate or as a college 
professor. • 
- It was also unanimously recommended .by the Conference that in 
addition to the preparation of the list recommended and the checking 
at the Seat of Government by the indicated Supervisors, that where a 
specific individual has manifested hostility or unjust criticism against 
the Bureau that the specific field-office or offices which would likely 
contact the individual be advised in writing in the form of ·a Personal 
and Confidential SAC letter. In these letters the SAC will be instructed 
that it is his respon.si bility to advise all of -the Agents in the office 
of the undesirabili~y qf contacting.the individual in question withou~ 
prior Bureau authority. The field will be instruc~ed that in address-
ing their communica~ions to the Bureau requesting authority to contact 
such individuals, the letter or communication should not contain the 
phraseology that the interview will be conducted unless advised to the 
contrary but specific approval must be obtained from the Bureau before 
such a contao~ is made. , 
Should the ~irector agree with the recommendations of the 
Conference set for-th in this memorandum, appropriate steps wi-11 be 
taken to inaugurate the policy recommendedo 
Respectfully, 
For the Conference 
✓ 
.Clyde Tolson 
CC - llr. Clegg 
,. 
.. 2 
_r,,w 38601! Docld:32939ii45 16 
