• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
• Re: Senate Select Committee 
62-116395 
•• 
"Kissinger 17" and he stated his office would, in the near future, 
prepare a letter to the Director similarly requesting that 
Mr. Shaheen or some other designated representative of his staff 
be granted authority to review the Bureau file concerning the 
matter in question. 
OBSERVATIONS: 
During the above conversation Mr. O'Connor appeared to 
be primarily interested in the completeness of the Bureau file with 
regard to matters relating to the rrKissinger 17" and to what degree 
information in this file had been made public. It was explained to 
Mr. O'Connor, who appeared knowledgeable concerning the history of 
these documents, that this file contains all communications known 
to be in existence concerning the "Kissinger 17," but no one can 
state with certainty, due to the manner in which this material was 
handled at the specific request of the White House: that the file 
contains all commu~ications prepared in this matter. With regard 
to publicity afforded these documents, Mr. O'Connor stated he is 
familiar with the documents which had been made available to the 
Department for referral to various Committees and he is familiar 
with excised versions of these documents which had been published 
by these Committees. He indicated that the Department's present 
\ 
problem is that no record has been located in the Department to 
date as to just which material or in what form such material 
furnished by the Bureau to the Department was subsequently turned 
over to the Committees by the Department. O'Connor stated it 
could be embarrassing at this time to make available to the SSC 
!
material which had not previously been made available to the 
Congressional Committees and equally embarrassing to withhold 
from the SSC material which was previously furnished ·congressional 
Committees. 
ACTION: 
None. Above submitted for information~ er 
- 2 -
I NW 38tiiOB. Docld:32989fii09 Page W9 
