,.. 
I 
Investiaation of Private Contractors 
• K of lhe A1=nieci }'orces 
It is agreed by the subscribers of the Delimitations 
Agreement (hereinafter refe:r·r·ed .. to .as subscribers) that with 
reference investigations of civilian employees, applicants for 
emp+OYfiI.~n! ~. director~ and l~e;(.. p~rs.on1~e.;t of pfiva~_ely . o.w:ne~ p~ant_s• 
and fac1l1 t1e s" work2ng or· b1.dd1ng en contracts 11rrporta11t to the 
Anny, Navy or Air Force (hereinfl,fter ref.erred to as the Armed 
Forces) procurement, the follcwj.ng w:i.11 be followed insofar as 
practicable. Exceptions the.:r'eto will be adjusted by mutual 
agreement between the subscr·iters concernedo 
. a. The Armed Forces will conduct background 
.investigations of such persons unless there is a particular reason 
for requesting that an investigation. be conducted by the FBI or 
the FBI has a special interest in a particular case and has 
notified the Armed Forces of such interest. 
-b. The FBI will conduct complaint investigations 
of such personnel upon specific re.qt1e.st in each ca~e by one or 
more o-f the .AJ:".""m:ad F01"ces.. If m:>..e c-:f the Armed Forces has no 
. further need fer, an investigation rrequ..ested 7 but not completed, 
prompt notification will be made tot.he FBI. 
~ c. Investigations conducted by the Armed Forces 
under a above will be terminated and all infonnation passed to 
the FB'I when credibla derogatory information of a loyalty nature 
is uncoveredo Upon receipt of such a case, the FBI will proceed 
as under· £ above if one of the Armed l7orces so requests. 
do When one of the subscribers is aware that 
another is conducting an investi~ation on a person or firm 
identical or closely connected with a person or finn it 
contemplates investigating 9 no investigation will be under-
taken without the urnsent cf the s1~bscriber which ·has an investi­
gation in progresso The investigating agency 1?ill make available 
to the other interested agency copies of the reports of the 
investigation madeo · 
e. Normally, identity of confidential informants 
will not be communicated from one subscriber to_another; however, 
when such communication occurs, the receiving subscriber will 
employ the highest possible safeguards to_ insure that such informants 
are not compromised. No transmittal of information concerning confidential informants to a third subscriber or to another agency 
is authorized except by specific con&3nt of the. originator. 
NW 38601! Docld:32989628 Page 213 
