~-~·~--
l . ·\ L. 
, 
.. , . . .. ', ~ ~ .. 
• _,1,,A ,l J "',,, "'I, 
(Ed. 4-26- 6\) 
UNITED STATES GOVER;-..;1fENT DEPARTMENT OF Jl'.STICE 
t7 
Memora1zditm SECRET - EYES O!·:T.J Y 
TO 
jFROM 
:The Attorney General 
: Rob~rt C. Mardian ~Y\ 
Assistant Attorney General 
Internal Security Division 
SUBJECT: Intelligence Evaluation Committee 
The second meeting of the Intelligence Evaluation Committee took 
place at the hour of .. 9 N1 in the Conference Room of the Vice 
President, Executive Office Building, on Wednesday, December 16, 
1970. Attending were Justice Morell Sharpe, Egil Krogh, John 
Dean, Robert Froehlke (DOD), James Angleton (CIA), Thomas Kelly 
(Secret Service), Benson Buffham (NSA), George Moore (FBI), John 
!.:0herty ('l'e, .... hnir;:i.1 An.visor to the Chairman) , and myself. 
Assistant Secretary Froehlke explained that he had been requested 
I -
by Secretary Laird to attend the preliminary meetings and that 
alter he had had an opportunity to brief the designee (probaoly 
/Colonel Downey) that said designee would attend future meetings. 
• He requested that I meet with him and Don Bennett of the DIA 
preliminary to Secretary Laird's making any designation. This 
I agreed to do. 
C 
I opened the meeting by briefly outlining the conclusions reached 
at our first meeting for the benefit of those who were not ,?resent. 
We then discussed how best to approach a sol~tion to the problem 
and it was unanimously agreed as follows: 
That on or before January 6, 1971, the operative agencies 
represented would furnish to me under appropriate security 
measures: (1) organizational targets and (2) intelli­
gence targets (such as the extent and nature of foreign 
influence on our organization targets an-i the extent and 
nature of the financing of our organization targets). 
Inspector Moore disclosed that the FBI had compiled a calendar 
of dcmonsfraticns and events planned by certain of the target 
organizations. He agreed to furnish ct copy of the calendar to 
SECRET - EYES ONLY 
