: . 
I 
I 
i : 
I 
I 
• 
intelligence information, in accordance with policies, 
procedures and practices established as provided in 
paragraph 3a of NSCID No. 1, by the Director of Central 
Intelligence with the concurrences of the u. S. Intelli­
g~nce Bon.rd." 
Section 9 of the same Directive pro~ides that CIA 
"shall conduct the exploitation of foreign language publications 
for intelligence purposes, as appropriate, as a service of 
common concern. When this function is carried out in the u. s., 
this also constitutes overt collection of foreign intelligence 
by that Agency in this country. 
It may be worthy to note at this point that NSCID 
No.'s 1 and 2 were discussed, approved, and issued in their 
original forms prior to 7/7/49 when the FBI was designated a 
member _-o~ the Intelligence Advisory Committee. 
NSCID No. 3 on Coordination of Intelligence Production 
, contains definitions of various types of intelligence (including 
those defined in NSCID No. 1) and then delineates primary 
responsibilities for "producing" intelligence among various 
agencies, ~~ating with re~p~ct to CIA: 
"The Central Intelligence Agency shall produce 
economic intelligence on the Sino-Soviet Bloc and / 
scientific and technical intelligence as a service of 
common concern. Further, the Central Intelligence 
Agency may produce such other intelligence as may be 
necessary to discharge the statutory responsibilities 
of the Director of Central Intelligence." 
·Since, as noted hereinbefore, "collection" activities 
are defined in NSCID No. 2; it would seem to follow that the 
·word "produce" as used in NSCID No. 3 has the same definition 
as set out in a footnote to NSCID No. 1, paragraph 4, i.e., "to 
correlate and evaluate intelligence .. relating to the national 
·-·security." Thus, NSCID No. 3 would not appear to extend CXA's 
jurisdiction :to collec_t intelligence or be operational in any way. 
The remaining NSCID9·s appear to have no bearing on 
the subject matter of foreign intelligence collec~ion in the 
United States. 
... 25 -
. . ,,. 
-•--.w-----•--• 
j 
l I . : 
l 
j 
