Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
Senator Church stated that it was the Committee's 
/
intention to investigate all agencies' participation in "covert 
I 
action" with primary emphasis on CIA activities overseas. 
(Roughly interpreted, this could involve the Bureau's COINTEL 
Program.) The SSC hopes to avoid any confrontation with any 
members of the intelligence community over the release of 
sensitive documents or testimony and it is Senator Church's 
intention for him and Senator John G. Tower to consult with 
both the President and the Vice President to resolve this 
matter. In this regard, Mr. Clarke advised members of the 
Group that Deputy Attorney General Laurence H. Silberman has 
been designated by the President to act"'-as hls~oifilsef7:n-­
dealing with -bet'fl.-..:t•he-Sena,te--a:·nd-th"Er'.H'OtTs'e select. comm1 ttees. 
n·-1s·'Mr .• "Ciar~s ··opinio·n that Mr. Silberman will act in this 
c~~ only . as l~r;_ a.§_h~~ai:..~..1?~~~~~.!or~:1'~.::!-1 • 
It iS 1b3 feeling of Senator Church at this time that 
all staff employees of the SSC will be afforded "Q" clearances. 
(issued by the successor to the Atomic Energy Commission.) 
However, there is some question as to whether this in fact will 
be true and Clarke h0pes to get further clarification on this 
point. 
Mr. Colby advised Senator Church that CIA requires 
all employees to sign a CIA secrecy agreement. It is 
Mr. Colby's intention, as he did in the case of the Rockefeller 
Commission, to issue an agency notice to all employees releasing 
them from their obligation under the secrecy agreement in the 
event an employee is called before the SSC. Additionally, 
Mr. Colby intends to write a letter to the SSC advising it that 
he has so relieved CIA employees from this obligation. (Attached 
is a draft copy of an Agency notice circulated within CIA. Also 
attached is a copy of the letter Mr. Colby forwarded to the 
Honorable Nelson A. Rockefeller advising the Rockefeller Commission 
that he was relieving Agency employees from any obligation under 
the secrecy agreement.) 
Inasmuch as the Bureau requires all employees to 
]
complete a secrecy agreement, the Intelligence Division believes 
that the Legal Counsel Division should review what action, if 
any, the Bureau should take in anticipation of FBI personnel 
being called to testify. 
With regard to deleting the names of Agents and 
confidential sources from documents furnished to the SSC, 
Senator Church agreed that this would be acceptable providing 
he or members of his staff could consult with.officials of the 
submitting agency if it was deemed necessary that the names of 
Agents or sources had to be revealed. 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
~- NW 38601! Docld:32989530 98 
