r 
The Dulles Commission recommended that the FBI 
should be made a member of the Intelligence Advisory Committee 
to improve coordination of domestic intelligence and counter­
intelligence insofar as these matters related to tho national 
security. 
While discussing the production o:f National 
Intelligence Estimates by CIA, the report noted, "There ia 
no systematic way of tapping that domestic intelligence 
information, which should be chiefly in the hands of the FBI P. 
having a bearing on broader intelligence issues· and there 
is no regular and agreed arrangement for participation by the 
FBI and for the use of intelligence irom domestic sources in 
a national estimate." 
National Security Council Intelligence Directive 
Number 7 provided that CIA shall be responsible for the 
.. exploitation, on a highly selective basis, within the United 
States of business concerns, other non-Governmental organizations 
and individuals as sources of foreign intelligence information. 
Th~. ~A~or.t concluded the amount of foreign intelligence which 
can be obtained through the exp101ta"tion of no11-uvvc:ri,.;.;,.c.1.tal 
·sources in the United States is considerable and its quality 
• could be very high if appropriate arrangements were made and 
discrimination was employed, It was felt the vast n-~~ber of 
organizations, institutions and individuals having foreign 
interests and knowledge represented a potential source of. 
intelligence that in many ways was. superior to any other, 
'as it was felt that they were in a· position to provide 
information obtained from their foreign contacts and from the 
findings on their own p7ople abroad . ., 
. A further important source of information, the 
.• • . exploitation for intelligence purposes of foreign individuals 
: , . • •• • and groups in the United States was also being developed.. The 
• report noted that these individuals and groups as well as 
.·political refugees and former foreign government officials 
• -: were often engaged in p'oli"tical activity with significant 
international implications. •• ••••• • ··, • ._,. ·•··• • · ·· -·· ·•. · ·· .... , .. ,., 
- 32 -. 
. ,,. 
. . 
