"' 
! ,I 
• 
3. National Intelligence Authority (NIA) 
On January 22,,1946, President Harry s. Truman 
addressed a Directive to the Secretary of State, the Secretary 
of War, and the Secretary of the Navy stating, in part, "I 
hereby designate you, together with another person to be named 
by me as my personal representative, as the National Intelli­
gence Authority. . • . " The Directive provided that each of these 
three Secretaries would from time to time assign personnel and 
:facilities from their respective departments "which persons 
shall collectively form a Central Intelligence Group" (CIG) 
under a Director of Central Intelligence. It was provided that 
the latter would be responsible to the NIA. 
President Truman then stated that subject to the 
existing law the Director of Central Intelligence should 
(a) accomplish the corre~~tion and evaluation of intelligence 
and the appropriate dissemination within the Government of the 
results; (b) plan for the coordination of such activities of 
the intelligence agencies of the three departments involved as 
!'~lated to th0 !18.ti onal security; ( c) Perform such services of - . " ... 
common concern as the NIA determined could be more effectively 
accomplished centrally; and (d) perform such other functions 
and duties related to intelligence as the President and the 
NIA might from time to time direct. 
The Presidential Directive said that no police, law 
enforcement or internal security functions should be exercised 
under the Directive; that certain intelligence should be freely 
available to the.Director of Central Intelligence "for correlation, 
evaluation or dissemination"; and that "the existing intelligence 
agencies of your departments shall continue to collect, evaluate, 
correlate and disseminate departmental intelligence." The ninth 
provision of the Directive stated, "Nothing herein shall be 
. construed to authorize the making of investigations inside the 
continental limits of the United States and its possessions, 
except as provided by law and Presidential d_irectives." 
A series of communications between the Bureau and 
Lieutenant General Hoyt s. Vandenberg; who was designated as 
Director of the Central Intelligence Group, then followed. On 
June 21, 1946, a memorandum analyzed a communication from 
Vandenberg which submitted a proposed memorandum to the NIA and 
a proposed Directive to be iss~ed by NIA extending the powers 
and duties of the Director of Central Intelligence. The Directive 
provided, in essence, the following additional functions and 
powers for the Director of Central Intelligence: 
- 15 -
.f 
--,-,-.-__,...., 7~·....,,.;._ :.,........;_,.--.,...,, .,....-.,.....-.,..,.-~....,,..---,...,,.........,..,..---.~-1 
. ·=-·. -- .... :.... ... - .. -•. ·-----~ . ,_ • .. \,_•J·~~ . . , 
