NW 313'600 
• 
ADEQUACY OF PERSONNEL 
CLERICAL 
The following comments are made concerning reduction 
of clerical personnel in the Internal Security.and Research 
Branch. 
Internal Security Section: In the past, it has been 
necessary on a frequent basis to afford considerable clerical 
.assistance from the Klan and White Hate Groups Unit to the 
Subversive Individuals Unit because of the extremely heavy 
clerical duties involved in the escalating case loads carried 
in this Unit, coupled with 523 cases opened and 496 cases 
closed during the past month, for example. It is necessary 
and warranted to retain two· of the three clerical personnel in 
the disbanded Klan and White Hate Groups Unit for utilization 
in the Subversive Individuals Unit. If this is not done, it 
will result in an impractical clerical work load, with nowhere 
to draw upon clerical help and result in supervisors being 
additionally burdened with clerical functions, which they can 
• ill affora·to handle. This would also be consistent and in line 
with the assignment of Agent personnel in this Unit detailed 
pr~viously and allow one clerk per Agent, which is adequate 
but not excessive for the type of work involved. 
New Left Section: It is believed the Special 
Investigations - East and Speqial Investigations - West Units 
can function with one less clerk each as recommended by the 
·1nspector. It is not believed good management, however, to 
reduce a clerk in the Subversive Individuals - New·Left Unit. 
With one supervisor reduced, the clerical work remains the same 
and retention of the clerk would allow one clerk per Agent, 
which is adequate but not excessive for the type of work 
involved. With the very heavy case loads in this Unit, coupled 
with 768 cases opened and 776 cases closed within the past 
month, for example, clerks are extremely busy. Reduction in 
clerical staff merely means Agents will have to perform clerical 
fu,nctions which is uneconomical and hardly practical with the 
work loads involved. 
Bearing in mind Agent manpower reductions in the 
Internal Security and Research Branch, it is believed the Branch 
can operate with efficiency and in good faith with the 
Inspection Staff and Di visions desire to use m·anpower to its 
fullest and make the above three clerical reductions. 
326 
