. 
/ 
' ''• :. .. 
. ·-. ' 
Because these elements threaten and commit crimes in 
furtherance of their stated goal of overthrowing the United States 
Government, investigation of them has often proceeded on a 
"national sec~rity" basis; and because there is no practical, 
immediate prospect of their accomplishing this goal, the "nation2.2. 
security" foundation for investigation of them has, in many 
quarters, not been taken seriously, and is often suspect because 
of the latitude that has been allowed in "national security" 
investigations as opposed to simple criminal investigations. 
. .. -· 
The difficulty is that these domestic "internal security"' 
cases lie somewhere between what is generally accepted as 
11
natio;;2..: 
security 11 matters and plain, simple criminal violations. If one 
interprets national security to mean only matters which threaten 
the stability of the Government, either from within or without, 
then these cases are not national security mat·ters; yet, they 
pose a threat to the safety and tranquility of the 9ommunity 
·beyond individual incidents of crime,.or even random sprees of 
criminal acts by an individual or group. • These cases also· have 
some effect on national and international attitudes towards U.S. 
standards, morale, government, law enforcement, and the elements 
involved, e.g., "Why can't law enforcement protect society, and 
itself, against attacks"; or "These people are victims of a 
repressive system and attack is their only effective avenue of 
protest for change." 
Consequently, law enforcement is confronted with a 
situation. wherein it is threatened with criminal acts in further­
ance of a claimed political goal, the mere condition of being so 
threatened often having an impact beyond a completed routine 
criminal act (although many of these threats are eventually 
.-carried out); yet, this condition is generally insufficient to 
show probable cause to justify a warrant for an electronic 
surveillance. 
Assuming that there is valuable intelligence to be 
obtained from electronic surveillance in thes~ matters to be 
used in attempting to thwart these crimes, how can we fill the 
void created by Keith? 
Title III has very limited·value in this area. Its 
stated purpose is to gather evidence of crimes that we have 
probable cause to believe are being, or are about to ·be, com.-rni tte·::.. 
It is doubtful whether the threats of these elements, or even 
evidence of past attacks, would be sufficient probable cause to 
support a continuing electronic surveillance with no specific c=i~~ 
- 15 
NW :88608 Docid: 329895'41 
