• 
I , 
,. 
Our role in preparation of National Intelligence Estimates 
would be more active as a result of our increased contribution 
under this program. It might be necessary to utilize the 
assistance of highly trained personnel of oth0r agoncios to 
assist us periodically on interviews dealing with complicated 
military or scientific matters. 
(c) I Manpower: 
While no manpower requirements can be presently 
estimated should we assume full responsibility for overt \: 
foreign intell_ig~ce collection, CIA is currently using 
approximatelyll4O employees throughout the United States to • • 
interview indivi als in connection with its overt intelligence'' 
.gathering activities, and is reaching what it estimates to be' 
only 1~ ~r cent of available foreign intelligence ·information. 
Thesel]49.J~IA employees do not include personnel required at 
CIA Headquarters to correlate, evaluate and disseminate the 
data gathered in the field. We would want to more eff~ctively 
~xploit this intelligence potential. 
To merely handle the necessary review of the vast 
number of foreign language puD11cat:1ons wou.1.a require ma:uy 
additional employees proficient in foreign languages and 
with backgrounds in scientific or technical fields. 
(d) Selection and Training of Personnel: 
To assume full responsibility for the overt 
collection of foreign intelligence in this country, would 
require that we vastly broaden our selection and training 
procedures. We would require applicants with degrees in 
the sciences, languages, history, government and economics. 
Our basic training and In-Service agenda would have to be 
geared to meet our new responsibilities. We would undoubtedly 
desire to utilize the services of outstanding lecturers from 
the agencies constituting our intelligence community, and in 
turn, we would wish to afford our personnel training at the 
War .Colleges operated by the Department of Defense, and from 
··:,_; •• '' •••• ,, • ··"-·tfm~ .. t'o····tfine · ftirriish· them - the····bpportuni ty· ·of• specialized · ·, .··.;:·· 
training.and briefings_ provided by.the members of the U. s. 
•. Intel_ligence. B.oard... • •• : ...... .. .': ... 1•. .. • ·, . ; ·:. • •.. ·: .. •.'. 
78 -
