. ' 
•· • t 
CG 100-44963 
As the Bureau is aware, Chicago is in receipt of 
rinformation from confidential s0~rces indicating a potential 
for demonstration arising out of the "New Left" calling for 
(
/ direct confrontation with the Chicago Police Department as a 
diversionary tactic for a "crash-in" at the convention site. 
Sources have. alsq r~ported .. inoependent action on the part of 
individuals to cause some form of "sabotage" activity inside 
\ the convention itself. Information received from confidential 
\ informants in other divisions indicates attempts on the part 
\ of dissid~nt young people not orga~izationally affiliated with 
1_ the "New Left", to hire 50 buses O·1t of New York to bring 
; demonstrators to Chicago and a caravan of militant Latin 
jAmGricans to 0ome from the Miami, Florida area to Chicago for 
; the specific purpose of disrupting the Democratic National 
/ Convention. 
The Chicago area activists in the Youth International 
( 
Party are currently planning a "Festival of Lightsn in one of 
the parks on Chi9ago's lakefront during the period of the 
I 
Democ.:r·atic rm-cionaJ. 1._;onveni:1on. This nFestival of Lights;; 
9haracterized by Chicago area Yippie leadership as being peaceful 
I 
to show America thut there is an alternative to the "festival 
of death'', or the Democratic National Convention. However, 
. sources report that there are elements within the Youth Inter­
: national Party which are calling for direct confrontation with 
the Chicago Police Department during the "Fe!::ltival of Lights". 
There is a very definite indication that more and 
more plans are being made by· thesG groups to cause violence and 
trouble and undoubtedly this will increase even more as we 
approach the time of the convention. I strongly feel that we 
must use every possible means at our command to insure that 
the Director, the President of the United States and other_ pertinent 
officials are furn~shed every possible piece of. intelligence 
informati6n which we can gather from any source. 
l. I am $pecif ically asking for the servic<=;s of two 
Special Agents who proved during their assignment. in Chicago that 
they are expecially well qualified to handle informants and make 
contacts in the ''New Left" area. .They proved during thei.r 
assignments in Chicago that they have the knowhow, the interest, 
the dedication and the personality to be highly suc~essful in 
- 2-
NW 38608 Docld:32989550 86 
i 
I 
' 
