ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS UNIT - WEST 
The primary objective in this Unit has been and 
continues to be the goal of overcoming the threat to American 
institutions presented by violence prone extremists, such as 
those within the revolutionary Weatherman organization. This 
Unit and the Special Investigation Unit - East, supervise 
security investigations of the Weatherman group and its 
individual members. Through coordination with the General 
Investigative Division, which has handled certain criminal 
investigations involving Weatherman members, and with the Special 
Investigative Division, which has supervised the. investigation 
of Weatherman fugitives, substantial accomplishments in the 
task of neutralizing these extremists have been achieved. A 
number of Weatherman leaders have been indicted on Federal 
charges involving violations of the Federal Anti-riot, gun control 
and bombing statutes. Many leaders and activists in the 
Weatherman organization have gone underground and the organization 
is currently composed of a few hundred adherents including 
those underground and above ground. Its underground existence 
and the fugitive status of its leaders have isolated Weatherman 
·from the m~ss of American youth. Consequently, Weatherman 
has experienced a considerable reduction in strength, based 
on the number of its present adherents and its influence 
_a:mo~g young people. 
Weatherman, though a small group, continues to be 
extremely dangerous in view of its violent and destructive 
tactics. It is noted that Weatherman has claimed credit for 
a number of bombings, including the bombing of the national 
Capitol building on 3/1/71. • 
Weatherman continues to receive intensive investigation. 
~n recent months, a Weatherman bomb making factory has been 
discovered at 1038 A Pine Street, San Francisco, California, and 
subsequent investigation there has uncovered a number of persons, 
including attorneys, who are acting in a covert support role 
for Weatherman. The Department of Justice has now indicated in 
a letter to the Bureau that it will institute Federal Grand 
Jury proceedings concerning activities at this Pine Street address, 
with the prospect of further indictments and further discourage-
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
~/18/71 
"'vfFrM: srn2 
Tr-E~ - 2 -
I NW 31l600 Docld:3~38 Page 56 
