NW 313'600 
• 0 
RACIAL INFORMANTS 
I 
The prime purpose of development and utilization 
of racial informants and sources is to provide intelligence 
4-H 
and evidentiary information concerning black and white racial 
extremist organizations and individuals. These sources are 
also called upon to furnish information concerning the general 
racial situation in all parts of the country. 
Supervision of racial informants at Seat of 
-Government includes review and approval of new informants and 
confidential sources, review of progress of informant every 
six months, review of payments being made to informants, 
analysis of informant coverage in each field office, analysis 
of nationwide informantroverage of an organization, coordination 
of informant coverage of specific functions such as the national 
convention of the Black Panther Party (BPP) and supervision 
of R!)ecia.1 projects such as development of top echelon BPP 
informant, using informant to develop information concerning 
a black extremist underground escape route and coordinating 
utilization of informants abroad with other agencies. All 
procedures are· constantly evaluated in an effort to increase 
the efficiency of our operation and to provide the field with 
the necessary supervision and assistance with a minimum of 
paper work. 
As of 1/12/71 we are operating a total of 'L,,.l.,M_ __ _ 
racial informants, compared with a total of,.,.p~~E~at time of 
last inspection. This is an increase of~..Ji~~.ainformants. 
~ informants report on black extremist organizations. ,376 
informants report on white extremist organizations such as 
the Klan. (In line with recent reorganizatiori of Domestic 
Intelligence Divisioq supervision of racial informants 
furnishing information on white extremists will shortly be 
tra~sferred to the Internal Security Section.) .We are 
operating.§.,224~ghetto informants who provide general 
information within the black ghetto areas of our cities. 
Informant coverage of black extremist groups has 
been increased since the last inspection with a significant 
increase being noted in our coverage of the BPP. At the time 
of the last inspection we operated ll9 4 informants reporting 
on BPP as compared with ~as of 1/12/71, which represents 
an increase of 54 informants. 
-
INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
512 
