• 
Uf/i,cult to draft a letter to all SAa's po.inting up the problem to 
them and expecting them to adhere to any policy which will eliminate 
the diJ'j'iculty which we have encountered heretofore. 
I have discussed this matter with lir. Carlson in some detail 
1nd he feels that we may be. able to control to some extent the inter­
viewing of persons hostile to the Lureau at the Seat of Government 
1JJithout furnishing a "black list" or statement of policy to the field~ 
Uro Carlson feels~ and I agree with him~ that the major portion of our 
d if fi, culty stems from the Loyalty i nvesti,gati, ons and applicant i nvesti­
gati ons o liro Carlson and I therefore propose that the·Jollowing pro­
cedure be instituted immediately at the Seat of Government in order to 
~eet the objectives desired by the Director in'oonnection with this 
matter: 
lo The Crime Records Section shall be responsible for preparing 
and maintaining in a current status a list of those individual's known 
to be hostile to the Bureau. • It is felt. that· it is imDerative that a .,_. 
] .. i st be prepared. because the judgment of ind i, vidual Supervisors re­
ferring cases to the field will·diJ'fer depending upon the extent of 
,their day to day newspaper· 'reading, radio listening and perusal of 
'various and sundry period i oals. It would also mean that each Super vi, sor 
would have to either prepare his own list or endeavor· to depend on a· 
faulty memoryo Furthermore, an individual may at one ttme appear to·.be 
hostile to the Bureau and subsequently his attitude may change· and it 
may be very desirable to interview him. 
2o 'l;'hfs list shall be furnished to· only those Supervisors at the.· 
Seat of Government who have the responsibility for assigni,ng Loyalty 
or applicant cases to the fie•ld. This wi,11 include Supervisors in the·. ,; 
Loyal-l;y Section of the Securi·ty Division, the Applicant Section of the i' 
Investigative Division and those Supervisors in the Administrative t 
Division handling Bureau applicant cases. This will mean that not more 
than 25 Supervisors at most at the Seat of Government will have pos- • 
session of such- a list o T_hese Supervisors shall check all referenccts 
and present and former employers against this list before refe~r~ng 
the case to the field for investigation. . • 
It should be realized that the orocedure recommended will not 
~.....,.ouide against interviews with neighbors of the applicants or 
asso·ciates whose names are brought up d~ring the oourse of. the inves­
tigationo It is felt, however, that the bulk of the people who are 
interviewed in these cases are set out as references by the applicant·~ 
and it would only be on a rare occasion that a person hostile to the 
Bureau will be interviewed on a neighborhood inuestigation or as an 
associate of the applicant. c::;,::...---· •. •···) /: • J ._,;..,l~..,.,., ,,., 
,I" ,, , ,,,-,...... ,•.. ~ 
,. .... ~ .. ..,..,... . 
• 
/ 
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989ti45 Pago(!,_ 14, 
ii 
j 
I 
' 
