Violence has been noticeably abse t among Klan-type 
organizations during the past year. This is due in the main 
to our effec·tive informant program. We have· been able to 
direct our informants to positions of leadership throughout 
the country, and these informants have been extremely success­
ful in forming nonviolent Klan policy. We have also been able 
to keep local authorities advised of potential Klan violence 
in time to thwart such action. 
head of Minutemen, 
Since last inspection, informa on was also developed 
through Joan Gourl~x_, Jprm~r ...... mi.5tr,,e.ss.=o_f. Robe~, .. :P?..!'~, con­
cerning murder of ~¼@.f=-~-~~..:;~ former Minureiiien member who 
was allegedly murdered and buried by DePugh,while in underground 
hide-out in New Mexico prior to his arrest by the FBI. .. Gqu.rJ.~..¥.­
traveled to New Mexico to locate gravesite in company of local 
authorities who granted her immunity. Gravesite disclosed only 
four small bones identified by coroner as coming from foot of 
human victim. Gourlex..,.furnished statement to New Mexico 
authorities and, in addition, stated DePu~h had indicated in 
July, 1970, while imp!'is0ned, that body. Sct been. :removed from 
original gravesite, but she did not believe him at that time. 
Local District Attorney, wnile believing Gourley'§ story, felt 
prosecution not feasible without body. During July, 1971, 
SD 1J.._Q5~, a Minutemen informant of this Bureau furnished 
information and explosives reportedly to be utilized in the 
bombings of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms Division (ATFD) 
and Internal Revenue Service offices in the California area, 
resulting 1n the arrest of several individuals, including 
informant, by ATFD, thus preventing the bombings. 
Subsequent to last inspection, dissemination has 
been made concerning weapons, possible violence and demon­
strations of these groups which has resulted in the curtailment 
of activity and disenchantment with the Klan and other white 
hate group organizationshin some areas. In several cases, confiscation or weapons as been made by ATFD of the Treasury 
Department based on our information. We have also made 
apprehensions of extremist subjects for illegal possession 
of firearms following. conviction of a felony, a violation 
under our jurisdiction. • 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/19/71 
LLA:co/bcw 4"'.:il: ,_ 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989638 Page 50 
