L 
0 
• 
SECRET = SE.NSITIVE 
As a digression, Stein commented that, to the extent that CI staff may 
have gotten into 11 gray 11 areas, this may well have been as a result of 
an effort to restrict knowledge of a particular incident to the smallest 
possible number of people. Thus, rather than going to the Bureau, where 
control over the dis s imilation of the subject information ·would not be 
possible, the staff might go to another Agency component such as the 
Office of Security. Similarly, where an investigation proved fruitless, conti­
:o.ued maintenance of relevant files by the CI staff, rather than by the Agency 
or the Bureau generally, constituted part of an effort to avoid prejudicing 
the particular subject of the investigation. 
Another general area mentioned by Stein was that involving the use by 
CI staff of people having an historical relationship with the staff. Thes··e 
persons would be used against clearly foreign targets in the United States. 
As an exampl~, Stein said that such persons might be used to ~btain access 
to codes or the like in this country J 
Stein mentioned the allegations relating to the re po rted[~reaking and entering 
into the Chilian E1nbas sy:~.l I told- him that we had already reviewed this 
instance, and, therefore, there \Vas no need for him to review it any detail. 
(b) .· Files on Americans. 
The major source of files on Americans maintained by CI staff was the 
"American Targets Program" (ATP). This program invo~ved informa-
tion receive·d by CI staff from Agency sources, from the State Department', 
and from the Military. Information might also be received from the FBI. The 
purpose of ATP \vas to collate all contacts between any American and any 
foreign intelligence officers, particularly those from the USSR. Th~ concept 
of the program was- that all such contacts would be reported to CI staff, 
\Vhich would index them for future reference. 
Stein noted that, although the State Department actually had a formal regu­
lation requiring that all contacts with Soviets be repo~~it was extremely 
difficult to convince State o_fficers so ,to re port. Steir\ spent a substantial 
amou~t of time overseasG:'nder Stat~ ~dveEJ_ He said that, as a resul,t of 
that experience, he knows that State' officers are reluctant to report this kind . . . 
of inio:mation. (A State officer prohably will not achieve promotion by his 
contact with Soviet personnel.) As a result of this reluctance, the informa­
tion obtained by the CI staff generally originated \Vith the State Department's 
Office of Security. ' 
372 Page 4 
SECRET - SENSITIVE 
3 
r " 
