PART D. 
~ 
• -
~/ 
I 
1 • I .. I l : 
I I 
1 ! !' I, ( i, 
~ ! I 
i 
! 
' I·/ ;I ' 
,, 
, ; 
,1 
I 
I' ' .1 I 
t 
I 
I 
l 
1. The La Cosa Nostra (LCN) continues to exist in the Northern 
California area and includes a San Francisco 11family 11 
and a San Jose "fan1ily. 11 There are ·currently 8 members of the 
San Francisco 11family 11 residing in this division and 19 members 
of the San Jose "family" residing in this division. In addition, 
there are two members of the San Francisco 11familyt1 residing in 
the Sacramento Division, one member in the.Los Angeles Division, 
one in the Chicago Division and two member's :i:resently residing 
in Italy. There are currently 3 members of the San Jose "family 11 
• residing in the Sacramento Division and one in the Las Vegas •• 
Division. All of these members have been identified asnembers 
of the San·Francisco or San Jose "families by TE informants 
of the San Francisco Division. 
Four top echelon informants of this division who are 
members of LCN 11families 11 have failed to indicate that the LCN 
H.tamilies H of this di·-:is.io!'! reg.i8+.<~y, any control over gambling, 
narcotics, prostitution or any other organizeu illegal activity 
witiiin this division. 
: The present leadership of the San Francisco "family" 
has recent~y been assumed by ANTHONY LIMA, who took over this 
positfon ~hen the previous "boss", JAMES JOSEPH LANZA, stepped 
down in his favor. The "underboss" of the San Francisco "family: 1 
·is GASPARE "BILL" SCIORTINO and this "family" has one Capo de 
Decina, VINCENZO INFUSINO, who resides in Modesto, California, 
in the Sacramento Division. 
The leadership of the San Jose "family 11 remains the same 
as at the time of the last inspection report with JOSEPH CERRITO, 
the "boss, 11 PHILIPPO OCTAVIO MORICI and STEFANO ZOCCOLI, 
Consiglieris, and one Capo de Decina, EMANUEL FIGLIA. No·ao­
pointment has been made to the position of "underboss 11 since 
the death of the preyious "underboss, 11 CHARLES CARBONE,in 19$7. 
- . 
2. There are presently 8 members of the San Francisco "family 1t 
and 19 members of the San Jose "family" residing in this 
territory. All of these members have been identified by TE 
criminal informants of this division. 
TE informants of this office who ~re members of the LCN 
or associates of members of the LCN have been alerted to con­
tinue to furnish information and identities of any individuals 
j. 
J 
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989fi 
