Eqbal Ahmad 
INS records further indicate that Ahmad first came 
to the United States in September, 1957, on a trip 
financed by a Fulbright Travel Grant and that Occidental 
College at Los Angeles, California, provided this 
fellowship. His sponsor was the Institute of International 
Education. In September, 1958, Ahmad transferred to 
Princeton University on a university fellowship and 
remained there untii September, 1961, when he left the 
United States to take up residence in North Africa. INS 
records indicate that Ahmad last arrived in the United States 
~.-at New York City on September 21, 1963, destined for 
i Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey, on a teaching 
j fellowship. INS files also set forth prior residences at 
j Lahore, Pakistan; Los Angeles, California; Tunis, Tunisia; 
\1 Urbana, Illinois, and Ithaca, New York. Former employments 
:t include "lecturer in Modern History" at Forman Christian 
'.l College and the Pakistan Military Academy in- Pakistan as 
~-<1 well as teaching assignments at PrinceLon Uuiv~~c~ty, 
f University of Illinois and Cornell University. 
~ 
~ 
He was registered inabsentia during 1961 and 1962 
and during this time was in Morocco and Tunisia. He was 
awarded a Ph.D. degree on June 13, 1967, by Princeton 
University. 
; 
' 
On January 14, 1969, the Chicago Office determined 
' that Ahmad was employed at the time by the Adlai E. Stevenson 
Institute of International Affairs (ASIIA), 5757 South 
Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. Ahmad was listed as a 
recipient of funds for study in Vietnam for the period 
1968-69. ij 
1 
;j In July, 1968; the Albany Division reported that 
,_t information was developed indicating that the subject proposed 
, to travel to North and South Vietnam. It is further noted 
:l that Ahmad was leaving Cornell University because of failure 
:. to have his contrac·t renewed. He indicated in a published 
: article of the "Cornell Daily Sun" that he would travel to 
, North and South Vietnam during the 1968-69 academic year 
1 as a fellow of the Center for International Studies· of the 
i~ University of Chicago. The article further reported that 
' hmad would carry press cards from a Pakistani newspaper and 
o Algerian newspapers. He was identified as a person active 
the antiwar movement at Cornell University. 
