• 
Memorandum for Mr. Callahan 
Re: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON 
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES 
• 
formerly employed by CIA and resigned in December, 1974, after his 
clearance for sensitive compartmented information had been lifted as a 
result of his marrying an alien. This marriage would not preclude him 
I 
from clearance for access to lesser degrees of sensitive material but 
only for the more sophisticated clearances. Mr. Miller advised that Sloan 
had not been appointed and was not going to be appointed because of other 
reasons unrelated to a security clearance. 
Senator Church indicated that he felt it would be wtse to prepare 
a memorandum outlining our security clearance procedures and his staff 
would be glad to prepare such .a document. 
Following the meeting with Senator Church, Mr. Mintz and I 
dropped by to see Congressman Nedzi, Chairman of the House Committee, 
and delivered to him Mr. Kelley's letter congratulating him and offering 
_him our complete cooperation. Chairman Nedzi stated that he was very 
/
'.appreciative of this offer and would consider Mr. Kelley's request to confer 
with him as an open invitation and as soon as things had shaken down he would 
be in touch with us. 
We discussed with him the investigative and clearance procedures 
we were following with the Senate Committee and Chairman Nedzi agreed 
the same procedures should be followed with his Committee, including our 
making available to CIA any derogatory information which might be pertinent to 
a clearance determination. At first, he suggested that we send the results 
of our investigations to CIA before coming to the Committee but then 
concluded that it would be more appropriate for them to come to him first 
since some of the applicants under consideration would probably not be . 
appointed. He specifically asked that we prepare a memorandum of under- {: 
standing to be approved by CIA, FBI and himself. ' 
I asked Mr. Nedzi whether he felt the formulation of his Committee 
would serve to trim down the number of requests for information being received 
from various House committees and it was his opinion that it would help in 
some instances; however, in others committee chairmen would pursue their 
I 
own inquiries. He personally did not feel he had the clout nor the desire to 
try to preempt this area entirely for his Committee. He also stated he 
felt that CIA's problems had in the main been fully exposed and would soon be 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
614 Docld:32989ti-06 231 
