Nationalities Intelligence Section 
Middle and South American Unit 
. As of the close of business 8/20/71 the 3-man Cuban Unit had 
a case load of 776 and the Middle and South American Unit, also consisting of 
3 men, had 598 cases. These two Units, the work of which is closely related 
and frequently overlaps, had a total case load of 137 4 for 6 men for an average 
case load of 229. If the total case load of these two Units were handled by 5 
men the average load would be 27 5, which appears more equitable in view of the 
overall commitments and work load of the Division. In view of the above, it is 
felt that the personnel of the MiddlE;! and South American Unit could be cut by one 
man. With 5 incumbents and with the inter -relation and natural overlapping of these 
two Units future fluctuation in the work load could be equitably handled between the 
two Units. • 
Nationality Unit 
Under normal conditions it is believed that this 4-man Unit 
could be operated by 3 Supervisors. At present, there are 3 supervisors 
assigned this Unit's cases (exclusive of special) and the case load as of 8/20/71 
was 632 cases which represents 158 cases per Agent for a 4-man Unit, or 211 
per Agent for a 3 -man Unit. Consequently it is felt that 3 supervisors could 
adequately hanqle the work of this Unit. 
As can be seen, a pool of 11 men has been created. Treating those 
assigned on special to the Ellsberg case (9) as a separate entity, 2 men 'It S CMB .tm~ 
are available for general assignment. • One man could b~ assigned to the 
Chinese Unit of the Nationalities Intelligence Section and the one supervisor 
from the Foreign Influence and Pro-CHICOM Unit of the Internal Security 
Section along with his cases (492). (Note this Agent is not included in'the 11.) 
What is left of the Foreign Influence Unit could be consolidated with that of the 
CPUSA Unit. The other supervisor from the pool of 11 could be assigned to 
the Special Coordination Unit of the Nationalities Intelligence Section. 
This realignment would result in a considerable decline in personnel 
within the Internal Security Section. However, a balancing of work load could 
be accomplished through reassignment of the three -man Protest and Trotskyist 
Groups Unit from the New Left Section to the Internal Security Section where it 
was in the recent past. Further, as you are aware, a proposal is presently 
being considered to reassign Antiriot Laws plus Explosives and Incendiary 
Devices cases from the General Investigatiye Division to the Domestic Intelligence 
