-- ---
- ~"""<-".---=-.-·~~,~~---- ,.,. --~--- -----------..--~- .... -,.. ~ - ----~-
I ,, 
'.1 
I I -
. . • .. .. 
_,,,~ ........ TOP SECRET· 
CIA considers that of all nationalities, the Cubans are 
the most unreliable (prone to exaggerate). The best informa­
tion comes from non-Cuban agents. 
There are 108 agents in Cuba, including friendly diplomatic 
personnel. There are two illegal teams ·working, one of which 
has 200 sub-agents. There are 44 legal travelers world.ng; 
60 agents in Cuban shipping; and there are 31 penetrations of 
Cuban installations abroad. 
As to Soviet shipping into Cuba, CIA has an agent in 
every port, but observers cannot say what is in the crates 
they·see being off-loaded. 
1 Since January CIA has disseminated 150 photographs taken 
by agents on-the-ground in Cuba. Also CIA has furnished its 
agents in Cuba more and better radio equipment. 
I . 
CIA1 s estimate of bloc personnel in Cuba: 12,000 Soviet 
troops; 150 Chinese (mostly diplomatic personnel)· an unknown 
number of Soviet civilian technicians; and 11a loth of Czech and 
other bloc technicians working_with the Cuban military forces. 
CIA considers that in the past 9 months progress has 
been made in (1) intelligence collection with respect to Cuba, 
. and (2) effectiveness of the economic denial program-. CIA 
feels that the "X" factor is the volatility of the Cuban people 
whose resignation to their lot under Castro would change over­
night if they see evidence of successful sabotage operations 
against the Cuban government. 
CIA penetration of the Cuban military got under way in 
April. An.agent brought out a Cuban Army major and he is being 
sent back into Cuba next week. The major says that there-is 
a medium level acceptance among the milita;ry of the idea- of 
overthrowing Castro, but although this view is held by 
individual members of the military they are fearful of communicating 
it to others within Cuba. The.wife of the chief of-training of 
the Cuban Arrrry is a CIA sourceo Defectors are naming military 
personnel to be contactedo There is, however, a fear of the 
Castro security system. 
The subject of specific kinds and amounts of Soviet military 
equipment in Cuba is an area of the worst exaggeration and reporting 
·by no·nprofessional observers o However, there is no eviaence of 
, offensive missiles. , There are 47 MIG-21 1 s operated by, Cuban pilots. 
Cubans are at the SA-2 sites and are being trained to operate them. 
We don•t know what is in the caves, exactly. Neither CIA agents 
nor Cubans (nor even Castro) has access to the Soviet armored camps. 
A. R. Ash TOP SECR[T 
NW185 
Docld:2506 
NW~1,;il 
0oc1&:141il1 Page8 
- 6 -
r ! 
i 
. . 
; 
