U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO 
STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH 
RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
O. RICHARD HAMILTON BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
somewhere else and SA Hamilton replied he was not aware 
of any instance where this was done. The Staff Members 
asked to whom the case on King was assigned and who was 
the supervisor of the squad at the time that SA Hamilton 
was assigned to the monitoring of the installation. They 
were advised the agent assigned to the case was former 
SA Robert Nichols and the supervtsor was Charles Harding. 
At that point the Staff Members inquired as to who was 
the supervisor of the Security Squad when SA Hamilton 
was first assigned to Atlanta and who were the succeeding 
supervisors on that squad. They were advised that Mr. 
Henry Rowse was the supervisor when Hamilton was first 
assigned to Atlanta and that upon Rowse's transfer to 
FBI Headquarters, Harding became the supervisor. There­
after, in approximately 1968, Charles Haynes replaced 
Harding as supervisor of the Security Squad in Atlanta. 
The Staff Members inquired as to the reason for the 
replacement of Harding by Haynes. Hamilton advised 
that was an administrative decision made by FBI Headquarters 
and since that did not relate to the investigation per­
taining to Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr., he would respect­
fully decline to discuss that matter. The Staff Members 
subsequently asked if SA Nichols was subsequently assigned 
to the Vald0sta, Georgia, Resident Agency of the Atlanta 
Office and, then transferred to another field office. 
SA Hamilton advised that was correct. The Staff Members 
inquired as to the reason for SA Nichols' transfer to 
another field office, to which SA Hamilton replied he 
felt that question did not relate to the investigation 
of King and involved an administrative decision by FBI 
Headqua~ters; and, therefore, declined to answer. 
The Staff Members, after being advised by SA 
Hamilton that he was assigned to monitoring the technical 
installation. for a period of approximately four months, 
inquired as to whether he was ever subsequently assigned 
to any investigation relating to King or SCLC. Hamilton 
advised the case concerning SCLC was assigned to him 
- 3 -
NW 313'600 Docld:3298962fi Page 34 
