~I 
~1 
I ; 
STUDENT NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE, (~NCC) 
• 100-439190 \ \ 
SNCC was originally organized in Atlanta, Georgia, 
in 1960 under the name Student Nonviolent Coordinating 
Committee. Prior to the elect.ion of ~<l.~y 1119,&,rmichael as 
its Chairman in May, 1966, the organizat-ion operated as a 
nonmembership civil rights organization with both white and 
black participation. Carmichael 1 on assuming the Chairmanship 
of SNCC, immediately e'riminatect"1o11all whites from participation 
and changed the organization from a civil rights-oriented 
group to one whose aims were those of antiwhite revolutionary 
action and the overthrow of the United States Government, a 
position which the organization maintains today. 
l!,._,B.
0
g.g_
1
J3.,r..,Q)V.1l,. Bureau fugitive and well-known black 
extremist who served as National Chairman for a time following 
Carmichael's vacating of that position in 1967, again assumed 
the National Chairmanship of SNCC in the Summer of 1969. At 
that time, it was announced SNCC was eliminating the word 
"nonviolent" from its title. The organization's headquarters 
. Under J!r,.pJvp; s direction, SNCC moved to restructure 
a~d revitalize itself in an attempt to regain its prominence 
as a black extremist organization. The national leadership 
issued directives on the reorganization of the national 
office in New York City, as well as the local organizations 
and the formation of councils to include a Revolutionary 
. Economic Council, an•; Armed Guerrilla Tactics Council, a 
Research Council, and others which make up a body within SNCC 
known as the Revolutionary Political Council. 
As a result of H. Rap Brown's flight in May, 1970, 
to avoid prosecution in Howarct-County: Maryland, on local 
charges of inciting to riot and arson, SNCC is presently 
under the titular leadership of William Edward Hunt. Hunt 
TtS Q':P;,C,... Gll!iJlr Di! 11 
also serves as head of the organization's Revolutionary 
Political Council. Franc~s Beal is the National Political 
Education Officer. 'Hunt anct Beal are the only two national 
officers of SNCC. 
In July, 1971, a reorganizational meeting was held 
in Atlanta, Georgia. SNCC cadres gathered from several 
states and were directed by HunJ.to study, understand, and 
then practi~e principles set forth in "Contradictions" by 
Mao Tse-tung and "Dialectical and Historical Materialism" 
by Joseph Stalin. SNCC members in San Antonio, Texas, are 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/18/71 
+'~§X.;.~9- / -ff 
NW 38600 D&ld'm2989fill.! 158 
