• • 
- 2 -
b. Before malting the file available to the committee 
representative all reports and memoranda from the FBI 
as well as investigative reports from any other agency, 
will be removed from the file and not be made available 
for examination; proVided however that if the committee 
representative states that it is essential that information 
from the FBI reports and memoranda be made available, 
he will be advised that the request will be considered 
by the Department. Th~reafter a summary o~ the contents 
of the FBI reports and memoranda involved will be 
prepared which will not disclose investigative tech-
niques, the identity of confidential informants, or 
other.matters which might jeopardize the investigative 
operations of the FBI. '!his summary will be forwarded 
by the division to the FBI with a request for advice as 
to whether the PBI has any objection to examination of 
such summary by the committee representative. The file 
will not be physically relinquished from the custody of 
the Department. If the committee representative desires 
to·exa.mine investigative reports from other government 
agencies, contained in the files of the Department, he 
will be advised to direct his request to the agency whose 
reports are concerned. 
3. If the request concerns an o:pen case, i.e., one which liti­
gation or administrative action is pending or contemplated, the file may 
not be made available for examination by the committee's representative. 
The :following procedure shall be followed: 
a. The reply letter should advise the committee that 
its request concerns a case in which litigation or 
administrative action is pending or contemplated, and 
state t~at the file cannot be made available until the 
case is completed; and 
b. Should briefly set forth the status of the case in 
as much detail as is practicable and prudent without 
jeopardizing the pending contemplated litigation or 
administrative action. 
B. REQUESTS FOR INTERVIEWS WITH DEPARTMENTAL PERSONNEL 
1. Requests f'or interviews with departmental personnel regarding 
any official matters within the Department should be reduced ·to writing, 
signed by the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney 
General. l'lhen the approval of the Deputy Attorney General is given, the 
employee is expected to discuss such matters freely and cooperatively with 
the representative, subject to the limitations prescribed in A respecting 
open cases and data in investigative reports; 
NW 38608 Docld:32989fi09 Page 219 
