• 
the last inspection (1/12/71) at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, which 
charged six individuals with complicity in these plots and two 
of these six were charged additionally with a violation of the 
contraband statute in that they caused unauthorized letters to 
be exchanged into and out of the Federal Penitentiary~ Lewisburg, 
Pennsylvania. There were also seven individuals named in the 
indictment as unindicted co-conspirators. 
Our investigation into this matter continued, and on 
4/30/71, a superseding indictment was returned which expanded the 
charges and strengthened our case. Eight individuals were included 
in this indictment as defendants, and the number of unindicted 
co-conspirators was reduced to four. The superseding indictment 
includes those charges listed above and added the conspiracy 
aspects of the selected Selec~ive Service break-in cases in 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Rochester, New York; Wilmington, 
Dover, and Georgetown, Delaware. Two additional counts added to 
the superseding indictment involve three individuals and charged 
them with the mailing of a threatening communication. 
In addition to the substantive case, potential witnesses 
have been either cited for civil contempt of court or indic.tecl' for 
criminal contempt of court in connection with their refusal to 
answer questions before the Federal Grand Jury (FGJ) in Harrisburg 
after being granted immunity. Five individuals were cited for civil 
contempt, and four individuals were indicted for criminal contempt. 
Two of these cases are currently the subject of a petition by the 
Government to the Supreme Court of the United States for a writ of 
certiorari, and the other cases are being held in abeyance until 
the Supreme Court renders its decision. 
From the investigation conducted to date and the comments 
of the prosecutive staff of the Department, there does not appear 
to be any reason to believe._··.: • .. that. prosecution of this case 
will not be successful. 
The substantive EASTCON case is currently in the pretrial 
stage.with numerous motions of both the Government and the defense 
still pending before the court. At present, it appea~s that the 
court will be unable to set this matter for trial until January, 
1972. Even though we are well on our way to trial, due to the 
complexities of charges in the indictment and the broad scope of 
the violations involved, there exists additional facets of investi­
gation of a continuing nature which will possibly increase as the 
trial date approaches. 
NW 31l600 Docld:32989638 ~e 36 
