I I 
I 
i' 
i .1 •! 
SECRET 
sealift capability, the Cubans would be able to mount large-scale 
subversive interventions in neighboring countries. Furthermore, what­
ever degree of success is achieved in improving Cuba's position and in 
expanding its physical resources, Cuba's net capability for subversion 
and sabotage will in the last analysis largely be determined . by the . • 
overall situation in Latin America. 
21. We do not believe that Castro or the Soviets can yet foresee what 
the effects of the recent crisis will be over the long term· on their rela­
tionship. The crisis has probably created difficulties of a political and 
psychological nature that neither of them can readily solve, however 
determined they may be to do so. Castro may have been moved by the 
treatment he has received at the hanp.s of the Soviets to consider 
modifying his relationship with them and seeking to improve his rela­
tions with the OAS and possibly even the US. We believe, l':towever, 
that he is unlikely to find feasible ways. of reducing his dependence 
upon the· USSR. The Soviets certainly must consider that they have 
effective means of exercising control over Castro. Furthermore, ·his re­
peated assertions of continued loyalty to Marxism-Leninism make it 
unlikely that he is seriously contemplating a restoration of relations 
with the OAS, or that he could succeed if he tried. 
22. Policy of other American nations. Castro's subversive capabilities 
will be greatly influenced by the policies . and actions of other Latin 
American nations, as by those of the US. We believe that the high 
state of security alert that has prevailed since 22 October and the show 
of unity that marked the recent crisis are unlikely to last. There is 
sure to be a revival of nationalist sentiments. On balance, howev,er, 
we believe that the prospects for countersubversive action by Latin 
American States, on their own and in conjunction with the US, are im­
proved. Many responsible Latin Americans will have interpreted recent 
6)
-- events to mean that firm- and united action can be effective against 
( 'l\ the Soviet threat from Cuba. However, Latin American governments 
• . • ) will probably be less willing to take coordinated action against Com-
-~ ·--·· ~\:.~- 1 .. --munist inroads if the US commits itself not to invade Cuba. 
Likely Future Targets for Cuban Sabotage 
23. The extent of Castro's capabilities for sabotage and other clan­
destine activity in Latin America will depend upon the complicated 
factors noted above. Whatever his capabilities are, he will not be at 
a loss for targets against which to use them. Some of the more obvious 
targets are: 
C 
a. US missions and personnel. US missions and per.sonnel all over 
Latin. America were designated as targets fo!'.,_;attack in • the various 
. calls for action which went out during the recent crisis. Action against 
, ., -----~ 
8 SECRET 
·N.W 38601! 12 
I 
I 
" I 
I I 
~· 
l 
l I 
I 
I 
.l ., 
·1 
1 
