• 
in classrooms and costs of subscriptions had been charged 
to the school system. 
' Philadelphia division was authorized to send a 
letter to BPP national ~eadquarters bearing an excellent 
facsimile of signature of a former BPP officer in Philadelphia 
who had been expelled a week previously due to problems with 
BPP leadership in Philadelphia. The letter accused Philadelphia 
BPP members of stealing clothing, food and drugs collected for 
poor children. All of these accusations, incidentally, were 
true. Since this letter was sent, Philadelphia BPP chapter has 
experienced severe problems with BPP headquarters, has been 
chastised repeatedly and pr~vented from participating in some 
BPP activities. Several members were disciplined by transfers, 
Subsequently, this situation was exploited by an authorized 
mailing of an anonymous letter to Huey P . ..JieJ;l..t.,qJ}..~ Suprem~~ 
£..™8-~~t;_~,£ co~fou.nde.r of :sr:r, whlch c.cl"Llel.;;:;eJ. i..lJ.t mec:i...i.J.le,sl-J:::::hl 
under BPP auspices in Philadelphia September 5-7, 1970, 
concerning the planning for BPP-sponsored Revolutionary People's 
Constitutional Convention. These counterintelligence operations 
were primarily responsible for expulsion of head of the Phila­
delphia BPP and many of his followers from BPP on 10/16/70. 
These individuals have formed an independent local group in 
Philadelphia which contends with BPP for local support in that 
city. Thus, another result of thE operation has been the 
splintering of Philadelphia BPP chapter. 
To exploit a split in BPP leadership in ·winston­
Salem, North Carolina, Charlotte was authorized to prepare 
and send a leaflet to residents in vincinity of BPP headquarters.· 
The leaflet .insinuated the head of one BPP faction had pocketed 
,donations secured for BPP Breakfast for Children Program~_ The 
• leaflet caused consternation among BPP personnel and resulted in 
• young Negro males poking fun at this BP-P "J_eader and accusing him 
of being a parasite. A decrease in financial donations to BPP 
followed the distribution of this leaflet. 
Los Angeles set up a television expose of BPP in 
which 9eor.g~ Putu~z nfilj~,£,~_er K¾I.3l.:,,Los Angeles, California, 
• noted that spread of Panther hoodlum-type revolutionary activity 
NW 38608 Docld:32989£.JB Page 506 
