~ ... »-· • .,, •• , , -;.'"-'-.... ' 
! 
" .,.; th:,. '';::!,•:1 
t 
✓-~ 
' . i 
I 
\ 
BLACK NATIONALIST MOVEMENT 
Bufile 157-8415 
4-H 
Since 1/7/69 all offices have submitted semiannual 
reports presenting concisely a complete picture of black 
extremist activity in its area. This enabled us to identify 
groups and individuals involved in black extremist activities, 
to develope quality informants who report on such activities 
and to initiate intensified and penetrative investigations of 
such individuals and groups. Since the desired objectives 
for which these reports were originally designed had been 
realized, since field informs us on a timely basis insubstan­
tive cases of pertinent data concerning this movement and to 
insure manpower is utilized on priority matters, the Director 
on 7/6/70 authorized discontinuance of these reports. 
On 3/8/69 the Black Nationalist Photographic Album 
(BNPA) was established to assist in identification of ~ilitant 
black extremists who travel extensively. 
The BNPA is maintained in all offices. BNPA includes 
a photograph and biographical data on leaders of black extremist 
organizations and militant black nationalists.who are known 
totravel. Each office prepares a form on such individuals 
within its territory and the form is then furnished to the 
B~reau and all offices where it is maintained in a complete 
album. In the event of travel by any of these individuals, 
the office covering the area being visited already ha-s-~a. 
photograph and biographical sketch of the individual iTILmedtately. 
available. The album is also furnished to the Legats in Ottawa 
and Mexico City and to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and 
r Central Intelligence Agency, in the event of foreign travel. 
'Over 300 extremists are currently carried in this album. 
In view of importance of an individual's fingerprint 
classification for identification purposes, the field by letter 
dated 5/8/70 was instructed to include such data in biographical 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
4-H 
!W.HA; set, 
1/12/71 
.. I -
NW 313'600 Docld:3~,;VVPage 485 
