I 
. 
' 
i ·-..... " . 
~.......,__:._., --• -~---1>1~·.........____,.,,.,,,r• :.;..; ';-., '~"...;,.~~ .. 
! l 
'" 
5 
\ 
Section 108, I-12, Volume 4, Manual of Inst~uctions, which 
states informants should be developed on Gov~rnment 
reservations and military installations when warranted. In 
view of the large installations located within your territory, 
it is suggested you identify particular areas of these 
installations wherein informant coverage wo.uld be logical 
and productive and give consideration to p~npointing such areas 
for development. ! 
i 
You have also indicated that Supervisors approve 
payments to informants and in this way are also aware of the 
productivity of the informant program. However, it is noted 
that approval of payments provides a rather limited 
assessment of the productivity of informants and points out 
the need for a continuing evaluation of respective coverag-e. 
Supervisors raust constantly be alert to identify specific 
areas in which informant coverage would be logical and 
.productive., 
• ·OBS·ERVATIONs· "A1'ID RECO:MMEl®ATTONS 
You should give consideration to the development 
.of informants on Government reservations and military 
1nstallations as suggested by the Manual of Instructions. 
In a number of instances, it was noted there was 
no follow-up on incomplete information furnished by informants. 
In such instances, the informant was not recontacted any 
sooner tharr required by the 30 .day contact rule, which would 
indicate a lack of direction of the informant to further 
develop information of interest. The need to give informants 
direction to develop information to the point it can be 
copsidered useful and valuable should be brought to the 
attention of all apfY-ropriate investigative personn~l. 
There were few instances noted during review of 
the CI files wherein FD-302's had been utilized in recording 
informant information. It is recognized that much information 
regarding fugitives and possible suspects does not require 
NW 38ti-Oa Docld:32989fi33 103 
