U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
W. JOHN BENTON BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
telephone at the plant and he does not recall the telephone 
number or in what name this telephone number was assigned. 
SA Benton was asked what name the apartment was 
rented in and who paid the apartment rent. SA Benton 
advised he did not have any knowledge as to the name the 
apartment was rented in and he did not know who paid the 
rent on the apartment. 
SA Benton was asked who cleaned up the apartment 
since it was their understanding that this location was 
manned by Agents 24 hours a day. SA Benton advised the 
apartment complex was kept in a clean and orderly manner 
by Agents assigned to the monitoring operations. SA Benton 
was asked to give a description of the layout of the apart­
ment. SA Benton advised the apartment contained a kitchen, 
a living room, a bedroom, and one bathroom. 
SA Benton was asked which room the monitoring 
took place in and SA Benton advised the equipment was located 
in the bedroom of the apartment. 
SA Benton was asked if he had knowledge of any 
telephone calls intercepted of high elected Government 
. officials and the approximate:.date these calls might have 
been intercepted. SA Benton advised to the best of·his 
recollection and while assigned to the monitoring operation 
there was one telephone call intercepted of a high elected 
Government official. SA Benton was asked the name of the 
Government official and the parties involved in the telephone 
conversation. SA Benton advised the intercepted telephone 
call was between President Lyndon B. Johnson and Martin 
Luther King, Jr. SA Benton was asked when this telephone 
conversation took place and SA Benton advised it took place 
sometime in 1964 to the best of his recollection. (At no 
time did SSC Staff Members Michael Epstein and Mary DeOreo 
ask the contents of the telephone conversation between 
Presid~nt Lyndon B. Johnson and Martin Luther King, Jr.) 
- 5 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989£26 Pag~ JO 
