I: 
1: 
II 
., ... ~ 
,. .... • ., -.. C \ ...,_ 
..;" •' ')' ,,I 
... ", "' .... ti' • 
Memorandum to Mr. ...:Selmont 
RE: AGREEMENT REACHED IN CONNECTION WITH 
THE PROPOSED REASSIGNMENT OF SUPERVISORY 
RESPONSIBILITY INVOLVING THE KU KLUX KLAN, 
·• _O_THER HATE GROUPS, AND RACIAL MATTERS 
VI. 
.. . 
The Domestic Intelligence Division will follow and disseminate 
information concerning demonstrations, picketing activities, 
. racial disturbances, riots and incidents relating to matters of 
a racial nature. Any violations of a local nature which occur 
during the above and are not Federal violations should be 
• disseminated by the Domestic Intelligence Divisidn. 
~ 
(However, if during the course of any of theabove situations, 
/1 Federal violation is indicated, this should be immediately 
referred to the General Investigative Division. It will be 
the responsibility of the General Investigative Division 
to conduct any necessary investigation of the specific 
Federal violation which occurs. It will also have the 
responsibility of disseminating such information to 
persons entitled to receive same. Hhere special cases arise 
which are not Federal violations and an investigation is requested 
bytthetWhitebHou~ or Aiornev:t.Gen~:i;:al .. determination 1·11 be made at Jia time ase J.ID,an. e per1 ~A:OD,1..-~aci:ors mvo1vee1 as . o.1:w.th 1c.n 'AK'!' lJlVlSlOn b.as the respons1 1 1 y. J 
L The General Investigative Division will nave the responsibility for 
the Bureau's supervision relative to fue enforcement of all Civil 
-1-: Rights· legislation. It will also have the responsibility for the 
• -- supervision, accumulation of information, and dissemination of 
material relating to civil actions being undertaken to enforce 
compliance with the various elements of the Civil Rights laws. 
II. The General Investigative Division will have the responsibility for 
investigating bombings, police brutality and all other Federal 
violations now assigned to the General Investigative Division. 
m. The daily racial matters memorandum disseminated to the White 
House, the Attorney General, etc., which is coordinated by a 
representative of Mr .. DeLoach's Office, will be prepared in 
Headquarters building. This requires the use of a stenographer 
who reports on duty at midnight each night in order to complete 
the memorandum by 8 :00 a. m. , in the morning. This duty should ./ 
be alternated, a week at a time, between Division 5 and Division 6 . 
. R - 3 -
I; NW 313'600 Docld:32989fi29 Hi5 
I!.,___ 
