• • 
BLACK PANTHER PARTY 
VI. "SOCIALISTIC" PROGRAMS 
Panther Party leaders insist their primary aim is to serve the "people," 
meaning ghetto blacks. To establish good intent, Party officials have set up a se• 
ries of community services aimed at recruiting members and sympathizers and 
building Party influence in ghetto areas. These programs, described by the Pan• 
thers as "socialistic" programs, are suppo~ .. :· -to be carried out by all Party 
branches and include: "liberation schools" to giv:.:../~our people a knowledge of 
self"; free health clinics, with money, medical supplies a~d professional serv­
ices donated by laymen and professionals in the community; free clothing programs, 
with clothing donated by the community; Community Information Centers, to "an­
swer the basic needs of the people"; and a monthly free shuttle bus service for 
families of blacks in prison. Few of these programs actually are carried out, and 
those that have been attempted have been mostly unsuccessful. 
The program that has received the most publicity is the "breakfast program," 
devised as a further means of indoctrinating Negro youth in Panther teachings of 
racism and rebellion. As expressed in The Black Panther, June 14, 1969, "The 
youth we are feeding will surely feed the revolution." Breakfasts are held for 
ghetto children either at churches, housing projects, Panther Community lnforma• 
tion Centers, or other space that can be obtained-free of charge. Panthers usually 
ask local businessmen to donate food or money to this program, boycotting stores 
that refuse to participate. At these functions, children have been known to sing 
such chants as: "I am a revolutionary. I am a revolutionary. There's going to be 
some barbecue if Huey's not set free. Power to the people." 
In 1969, Panther "Coloring Books" were printed and given out at these break• 
fasts. The books contained 22 pages of drawings teaching the children to distrust, 
hate, and kill police officers. 
13 
W 38614 Docld:32989ti-06 136 
