i 
-I 
NW 38601! 
Venceremos Brigade 
implementation of this suggestion. 
7. The VB is currently formulating plans for a 
fourth contingent to travel to Cuba approximately March 1, 
1971. By airtel dated January 6, 1971, interested field 
divisions were instructed to immediately initiate an 
aggressive campaign to obtain informants to travel to Cuba 
as part of this contingent. These offices were instructed 
to advise the Bureau no-later than 1/29/71 and weekly 
thereafter as to their progress in this matter. This 
Division is acutely aware of the importance of such inform~nt 
coverage and will afford this program close attention. 
ADDENDUM 
You should bear in mind that the 
attitude and instructions expressed 
by the President, the Director, and 
many of the legislators in Congress 
have been to curtail the militant 
actions and the violent activities on the part of a significant 
group of young people in the United States today. The thin~ing 
of the Supreme Court of the United States with its several 
recent changes may be along the lines -of suppressing the 
activities of those who so openly espouse the overthrow of all 
forms of democratic authority in the United States. In 
addition, the Internal Security Division of the Department 
of Justice has been specifically enlarged and strengthened to 
deal with these matters. It is recognized that individual 
violations of the passport laws have been brought to the 
attention of the Department of Justice in prior times. It 
might be well to consider presenting the matter in its entirety 
to the Department showing the number and frequency of violations 
for their consideration and study. 
t 
We cannot overlook or minimize the fact that over 
1,300 individuals have willingly and freely gone to Cuba, 
contrary to the State Department's specific instructions. 
These persons left in many instances with the impression that 
they would be trained in the use of revolutionary weapons 
including explosives and incendiary devices. They were subjected 
