NW 313'600 
• 
! ... i ' i 
I 
' ' 5 -
t· 
I 
I 
I 
as pointed out, the primary designation of an individual 
as a PSI or SI is his ability to furnish information of 
intelligence interest, which may or may not depend upon 
his association with one Soviet-bloc national. This 
association almost without exception becomes productive 
only when the Soviet-bloc official initiates action to 
exploit this relationship. The fact that the Soviet-bloc 
national departs thE-country, first, does not end their 
relationship, and secondly, does not end the potential 
that exists in the relationship. Very often there is a 
follow-up contact by another Communist-bloc official based 
on the apparently disrupted initial relationship. 
Characteristic of the patient, long-range planning and 
execution of Soviet-bloc intelligence, this reactivation 
may occur at some indeterminate future date. We must be 
alert to this concrete possibility in order to fully exploit 
the potential that exists in such cases. Therefore, 
contacts with the source, in cas~s of this type, must 
continue for a reasonable period. 
Concerning paragraph d., in cases where the 
potential for development of an individual as a double 
agent is based exclusively on a social acquaintanceship 
with a specific Soviet-bloc official, the initiative for 
this development rests almost entirely with. that Soviet­
bloc official. Experience has taught us that attempts 
on our part to maniuplate our sources to hasten his 
development are most often recognized by the hostile 
intelligence officer as a provocation. When direction 
is necessary and practical, it must be developed in the 
overall context of the Soviet-bloc official's investigation, 
and such direction is apparent in the substantive case 
files. These factors will account for what appears to 
be "mechanical and perfunctory" supervision which "lacks 
ima.ginative, aggressive and timely direction," in the 
informant case file. 
Paragraph e. refers to the lack of communications 
in· the informant files reviewed. The nature and purpose 
of the informant fiie has been previously explained, and 
in this context it can be understood that operational 
instructions usually appear in the substantive files and 
~ot in the administrative file of the informant. 
520 /S3 
