I 
• 
SECURITY IN:FORMANT PROGRAM 
BASIC REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS 
4-H 
At the time of the last inspection in April, 1970, we 
had ~ member security informants in the Communist Party, USA • 
(CPUSA), while at the present time we have 264 member informants 
-in the CPUSA, a decrease of 15. In addition, there are ll_ 
member informants in the Socialist Workers Party (SWP); the 
number of SWP informants at last inspection is not known. 
On December 16, 1970, a reorganization of Sections 
within the Division resulted in a realignment of informant 
handling and record keeping, with the result that only informants 
in basic revolutionary organizations and related groups are now 
handled in the Internal Security Section. As of December 16, 
1970, there were ..§1§._informants in basic revolutionary organiza­
tions and related groups. The number at last inspection is not 
known. 
There has been continuing recognition of the fact that 
there mu;rt pe. no letdown in maintaining adequate informant 
coverage in basic revolutionary organizations. In this regard, 
SAC Letter 70-40 dated August 4, 1970, captioned "Racial and 
Security Informants," pointed out in-depth quality informants 
in these fields are more imperative than ever under present 
conditions in view of the upsurge in violence. SAC Letter 
70-48 dated September 15, 1970, captioned "Security and Racial 
Informants," pointed out that never in our history have we 
Qeen confronted with as critical a need for informant coverage. 
This SAC Letter authorized development of informants between 
the ages of 18 and 21, thus presenting the field with a 
tremendous opportunity to expand informant coverage not only 
among violence-prone New Left and radical groups, but also in 
the basic revolutionary g~oups as well. There can be no doubt 
but that these instructions have stimulated development of 
informants. 
Secur~ty informant development receives continuous 
supervision. It is not technically a program justified 
annually, but rather a fundamental procedure in our investigative 
operations that requires and receives vigorous day-to-dar 
attention. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
1/12/71 
~ftt.liEM.;.ui .. kL 
'rl' 4-H 
1, NW 38608 Docld:32989638 Page 431 
