. I 
I 
d. 
4-H 
' . 
·at the establishments of 24 non-Soviet bloc countries. 
. The principal cost involvea in this pha$e relates to 
Agent time devoted to investigations of sources and 
time spent in handling these sources. 
This phase relates to our intensification of efforts 
by our legal attache offices abroad to develop and 
instantaneously report high-level intelligence informa­
tion susceptible to immediate transmission to the 
White House for consideration by appropriate officials 
involved in determining national policy on -critical 
international issues. 
I • Since the last inspection we have instituted a program operating 
' under the code word of "HILEV" which provides for specific channels of 
• transmission and dissemination along the lines noted above. The 
expansion of our operations abroad, at the instruction of the President, 
has resulted in the development of considerable expertise on the part of 
our legal attaches in developing the type of information required in this 
area and.th.e, r.e,sulting product of their efforts has resulted in laudatory 
comments by Dr._~JE:Y'!'l"g.,,:~~ts.J§ig~~.r .. and other high-level members of 
th~ Executive Branch. • 
• 2. Positive Results Achieved 
. ;-. This program has enabled us to continue to produce a steady 
• • : :· flow of substantive information of an intelligence nature for the White House 
• and the highest level of the intelligence community. The program has been 
. particularly productive in our coverage of such critical areas of tension 
• · · as the Middle East crisis, the continuing crisis in Panama, and the recurring 
areas of tension created in South America by the frequent overthrow and/ or 
• establishment of regimes in that continent, some of which are strongly 
anti-American in political leaning. In other fringe nationality areas, the 
• • • -program has served as a basis for obtaining information which has served 
as a basis for advice to various high-level Government officials necessary 
for policy decisions within the international political arena. The majority 
of these data are not otherwise obtainable. • 
. The daily flow of information from our sources in the various 
facets of this program to the highest levels of Government has succeeded 
.: in firmly establishing the FBI as a lucrative source of foreign intelligence. 
~ :;. 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fill! 179 
