J 
• . .. t" 
A 
;. ; .. 
• 
• • ' • 
~ 1:~:.' 
. • documents relating to disciglinary problems of certain specifically named 
.. ·students, violated statutory, constitutional and common -law rights to pri­
vacy. The Supreme Court refused to determine whether dissemination to 
the public would serve the important legislative function-of informing the 
public concerning matters pending before Congress for the purpose of 
holding Members of Congress liable. However, it remanded the case to 
the Court of Appeals, in part to undertake just such a review in order to 
. • determine whether the Public Printer and the Superintendent of Documents., 
who were without blanket immunity, could be hel~ liable· .. 
9. - The discussio~ thus far has dealt only with congressional immunity 
._. for releasing cla~sified information in Congress. No such immunity exists 
in the case of disclosures. made by congressmen outside of Cop.gress ... Thus, . 
_:"in-Long v. Ansel, 69 F,2d 386 (Ct. App., D.C. 1934), affd. 293 U.S. 76 
(1934), and in McGovern v. Martz, 182 F. Supp. 343 (US Dist. Ct., D .C. 
1960) it was held that if a Senator or Repres·entative is alleged to have com­
mitted libel by republishing and disseminating remarks made in the Congress, 
. such republication and dissemination is not within the_ Speech or Debate 
• privilege even if such privilege would have heen applicable to the original 
• publication of the remarks. Again," in Gravel v. United States, 408 U.S. 606 
. (1972), and in Doe v. lvlcMillan, 412 U.S. 306 (1973) the court noted that 
-·the Speech or Dep~te Clause does not protect ria. private republication of 
documents introduced and made public at. a committee hearing, aithough the 
hearing :va~ _unquestionably part of .the legislative process. 11 
10, From the above it is apparent that a Member is not privileged to 
circulate CIA documents to his constituents, to the press, or by reading to 
·a meeting or on !adio or television. Such action could well make the member 
liable fqr prosecution under the espionage laws, but in any event would 
expose him to the same liability for these actions as any other citizen. As 
·a practical matter, however, the prosecution of a :tviember for unauthorized 
disclosure of classified GIA materiat, or disciplinary action by Congress 
itself, is very unlikely. -· • 
-...-.~-~~: 
ED:MUND COHEN 
Office of Gene:i;al Counsel 
' • 
• .. 
.·. ·•. 
. . -
·. 
·­.. 
... 
•, . 
