.. .. 
• 
Memorandum for Mr. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
Although I have no specific recollection of the 
conversation with Mr. Gaynor, I do have some recollection 
that such a conversation did take place with him as well as 
with_Mr. Osborn, the Director of Security, CIA. This is 
somewhat reinforced by the fact that I can recall CIA and 
specifically Mr. Osborn was concerned about the security of 
CIA's installations. The~e was considerable campus unrest 
during this period of time .. I can recall CIA recruiters 
were attacked and beaten. As a matter of fact, I am almost 
sure that CIA's recruiters were forced off campus and did 
potential employees' interviews in Federal buildings. 
Recognizing that both Osborn,as the Director of Security, and 
CIA generally were very security conscious, I can understand 
and believe it was probably likely that the Office of Security, 
CIA, began to plan the security and physical protection of 
all their offices throughout the U. s. The fact is that 
approximately one and one-half years after my reported con­
versation with Mr. Gaynor one of CIA's offices in Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, was bombed, resulting in the now famous Keith 
decision. In the interim Martin Luther King was assassinated 
4/4/68 and parts of the District were burned; Resurrection City 
l
existed during May and June, 1968. All of these events remind 
one of the situation that existed at that time and helps me at 
least put into perspective why CIA's Office of Security was 
concerned about the security of their installations. 
Although I cannot recall the specific con¥ersation 
with Mr. Gaynor, I did periodically speak to him during my 
eight-year liaison assignment. Had I received such a request 
as reported on Mr. Gaynor's note, I would have discussed it with 
the Assistant Director at that time. It is li~ely that 
Mr. Sullivan who was then the Assistant.Director would have 
reacted as reported in Gaynor's quotation. I say this because 
if the facts are true, no operational activity to collect 
intelligence was envisioned. CIA merely proposed to place assets 
in a position to know if any violent.activity was planned against 
' CIA establishments and the Bureau was merely interposing no 
objections to such activity on the part of CIA. 
CONTINUED - OVER 
- 2 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989530 Page 94 
