Legal Counsel to ·J. B. Adams Memorandum 
RE: SENSTUDY 1975 
• 
this were to. be the Attorney General's feelip.gs, he should 
advise this Bureau in writing so that we w-0uld be in a 
position to use this statement of policy should this 
question arise .during litigation. It was pointed out that 
in many areas of possib,le· abuse .set forth "by the Senate 
Select Committee we have pending FOIA requests and/or 
lit~gation which require the availability of those files 
for response-s. 
Elliff indicated that it was .the Committee's. desire 
in their forthcomip.g super.sedip.g request ·to request material 
l
.tha t had been pr.evious ly furnished the• Committee with the under­
.standing that there would be less excisions made in compliance 
with the new agreeme~t: He inquired as to whether the Bureau 
could advise 'him as to what material pr.eviously furnished was 
readily retrievahle and could be furnished in accordance with , 
a new reques·t. He was advised by SAs Daly and Thomas that it was 
not possible at this time to give. him a response, how.ever, we would 
endeavor to make an analysis of prior requests to obtain this in­
formation and have it available for the meetip.g Monday, 7/28/75. 
A .general discussion was had conc·erning the new agre·e-
1 
ment especially concerning the type of material.which might 
prop·erly be excised and third ?-gency problems. It was_ generally 
,agreed upon that ·not only the identity of informants be excised 
• but also information which might"'clisclose _tjie_...J.rleii:ELty of infor­
mants might also be ·properly· e4c1sea~--Ellirf indicated that the 
Committee did not wish to see many items ref-er.red to the Attorney 
General as is. called for by the agr.eement ·for his decision and 
would rather at least on a preliminary basis where it was a 
.question of t.Jie propriety of the excision that the discussion 
.be. held with ~,,.,.or one of his representatives before such a 
referral was made. Shaheen also indicated a des·ire that the 
referrals to the. Attorney General be ·kept to a minimum. Regard­
ing the "Third Agency" problems which are not addressed in· the 
agreement ·there was no final decision arrived at. Elliff and 
Shaheen were. under the ·impress·i:on that the. clauses referring 
to foreign intelligence operations or foreign intelligence· 
sources· would handle this probl~m. They were advised that • 
this was not the cas·e; This was not true since even in 
these instances Senators on the Committee are given access 
after the. Attorney General has made a determination that 
material involved "pecularily sensitive foreign intelli-
.. gence sources ·or pecularily ·sensitive op.goip.g fore~gn 
CONTINUED - OVER 
- 2 -
\ NW 313'600 Docld:32989633 15 
