will reportedly not begin until the Fall of 1971, information 
has been received that they already have substantial funds in 
their coffers. 
From information developed by PH 1223-S,. it was determined 
that J?hn .. P_etJ;tr._Q¾-~~ was planning an "action 11 which from an 
analysis of the facts known at the Bureau appeared to centered 
in the New Jersey area. After observations in this regard were 
furnished to the field, investigation culminated in his being 
located in the Camden, New Jersey, area. The investigation which 
followed resulted in the arrest of 20 individuals on 8/22/71 in 
the act of destroying.and stealing draft board records in the 
Camden Federal Building. The individuals arrested included Peter 
J...9.rpj.,, (an original member of the East Coast Conspiracy to Save 
Lives), Paul Coumin~~ and~' both indicted at 
Harrisburg for criminal contempt after refusing to testify 
before the EASTCON FGJ when granted immunity from prosecution. 
PH 1211-S determined Swinglish was the urecruiter" for the 
Washington, D. C., plots in the EASTCON case. It is to be 
expected that other individuals who are EASTCON activists will 
~lso be indicted at Camden. The evidence already obtained in 
that case discloses other EASTCON activists were responsible for 
the Selective Service draft board break-in at Trenton, New Jersey, 
5/21/710 Likewise, the obviously coordinated Buffalo, New York, 
draft board break-in on the night of 8/21-22/71 involved 
sympathizers.of the EASTCON movement. 
Much of the foregoing represents the continuing 
intelligence·coverage of the Berrigan antiwar movement, absolutely 
necessary to the Bureau's interests, aside from the important 
development of admissible evidence in the EASTCON prosecution . 
. Further, many pretrial motions (by defense counsel) have been 
ruled on by the court, and many others are still outstanding. In 
anticipation of the court ruling.on a motion for Discovery and 
Inspection as provided by the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, 
the Government, in order to expedite such matters, has previously 
allowed the inspection of certain evidence in this case. This 
has b~en. done at various field offices under Departmental super­
vision. The lists of evidence made available, other arrangements 
and detai-1s with regard to such inspection, has been handled by 
guidance from the Bureau. Approximately one half of this evidence 
has thus far been inspected with hundreds of items of evidence 
still to be inspected in Washington, D~ c., Philadelphia, and 
Baltimore. The court has ruled in favor of the defense broadly 
interpreting the right of Discovery and Inspection, particularly 
as to photographic evidence, Laboratory, and Identification 
Division reports. The Department has requested such material 
NW 38601! 39 
