• Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
62-116395 
• 
!
Bureau that he was to be interviewed). Brennan stated he was 
not furnished a copy of the Senate Resolution or its Rules of 
Procedures and was not advised of his rights or the fact that 
he could be represented by counsel. He was not put under oath, 
and was not given any indication as to the scope of the inter-
view prior to his appearance in Washington. In response to a 
question by Cregar as to what areas the interview covered, 
Brennan stated the interview covered three specific topics. 
(1) The organizational structure of the Bureau; (2) Martin Luther 
King, Jr.; (3) the COINTELPRO. 
With regard to the organizational structure Brennan 
advised that the Sta.ff Members appear to have little understanc;ling 
as to the way the Bureau was structured. He stated they had no 
appreciation of what a unit, section, or division was comprised 
of. They showed him, several copies of memoranda from iBrennan to 
Sullivan) and proceeded to ask him about the contents of these 
memoranda. When Brennan was unable to describe the background 
or details surrounding a specific memorandum, they voi<;!ed 
wonderment as to why he had such little recollection about a 
memorandum he apparently wrote. Brennan advised the Staff 
Members that just because the memorandum was written from him 
to Sullivan did not mean that he necessarily wrote the memorandum 
or even saw it. 
In respecttto Martin Luther King, Jr., Brennan got 
the impression that the Staff Members believed the Bureau was 
!
"illegitimately" interested in King. Brennan advised that he 
hit back hard on this stating that the Bureau's interest in 
King was predicated on the communist influence surrounding 
King. They asked if the Bureau had employed many wiretaps 
against King. Brennan advised that most of the information 
obtained on King derived from live informants. Brennan voiced 
! 
the opinion that the Staff Members were:i:ather disappointed with 
Brennan's defense of the Bureau in the King investigation. 
Staff Members showed some disappointment in Brennan's 
inability to remember circumstances surroun4ing COINTELPRO. 
Brennan responded by saying that he never paid much attention 
- 2 -
NW 386iOI! Docld:329896-09 212 
