. . : 
• ..... 
. . . . . .. 
and he felt that it would be very :,erious should it become • i· 
. knoi•m that the National Student Federation, for example,. • 
was being financed by CIA as a cover organization .. Dr. Lang r 
expre·ssed agreement with _this, but felt that CIA would be ' 
justified in using foundations as\a cover in combatting 
communist influence in such activities as.labor unions~ 
Mr. Clifford thought that perhaps Dr. Kil1ian•s·concern with 
regard to educational foundations might be possibly met by the 
use of cut-off organiz~tions between the CIA and the foundations,. 
as a· means of concealing CIA financial support to the foundations. 
Mr.-Coyne reminded Board members of the Board's recommendation 
or last July, that all existing covert action programs be • 
rev+ewed by the Special NSC 5412/2 Group o In answ:er to a 
question from General Doolittle, Mr. Coyne told the Board that 
written summaries which had been furnished.to the Board members 
.\ ·concerning CIA 1 s cover organization activities, were being • 
given special security handling and strict accountability. 
The Board ·meeting was joined by CIA representatives 
Lyman Kirkpatrick, Richard Helms, Cord Meyer, and others, for 
an orai presentation and discussion with respect to CIA cover 
organizations, including commercial organizations and such 
foundation-stipported -student groups as the National Student's 
Federation. After Mr. Helms had discussed the use of non-
official covers for.individual CIA personnel, Mr.· Cord Meyer 
described the CIA's use of foundations and proprietary-
organi-zations. Mr. Meyer then described such large scale · -~ 
CIA c~ver o~ganization~ as Radio Free Europe (where the objective 
is_propagand_a) and other or~anizations which CIA directs against 
Soviet front organizations twhere the effort is to exert 
influence and at the same time do genuine work for t~e benefit 
of the cover orginization and its program, as in the case of 
the-Asia Foundation and the Afro-American Institute which are 
based in the u. s. and whose activiti~s are subject to CIA • 
influence in the form of money and a degree of policy direction). • 
. . ' \ 
In answer to questions from Board members as to the
1 
dangent\ or a di~closure. of CIA1 s relationship to these various founda~ 
,t1ons, Mr. Meyer said that there was no grave danger of a 
"cultural U-2 incident'', an0 the risk of a disclosure, by a • 
defector, for example, was less than the risk of a U. s. news 
story or a disclosure resulting from gossip among members of_ 
the U. S. ufoundation community". Mr. ,Meyer considered it· 
inevitable that the Asian mentality would suspect that there 
is U.S. government influence in all U.S. based foundations; 
Chinese communist propaganda continually charges that U.S. 
government or Wall Street control exists in these foundations, 
even in the Ford Foundation where this is not the case; 
- 6 -
. . 
' 
(• 
