• • 
. . 
Assistant Director c. D. Brennanr/ /Security and extremist 
(JAS:ebc 9/8/71) • \lf' informants are essential 
to the Bur~au's investi­
gative responsibilities. They operate largely in controversial 
areas of old line and new left revolutionary organizations and 
individuals as well as in the volatile fields of black and white 
extremism and racial dissension. They are fraught with controversy 
and potential for embarrassment to the Bureau. Extended experience 
has taught us the absolute necessity for tight, effective, cen­
tralized control of these informants by SOG. 
Fundamentally, whether an informant is paid under SAC 
authority or on a regular basis by SOG the same standards of 
justification are to be applied. The distinguishing element is the 
flexibility of on-the-scene, spot payment authority available to 
the SAC on a daily basis without the formality of time-consuming 
correspondence with Bureau headquarters. Money is paid in both 
situations on a c.o.d basis and full value must. be received before 
~~ymP.nts aTe made. Initial payments to a developing informant under 
SAC authority, usually made on an expedient emergency basis, are 
not reviewed and evaluated ~t the SOG. The judgment of the SAC 
·prevails. Generally the Bureau approves payments on a regular 
basis only when emergency and exceptional local conditions no 
longer prevail, when the informapt is active, productive and gives 
promise of continuing to be so. 
Should the currently authorized initial SAC-authorized 
$400 be expended rapidly--as is frequently the case--there is no 
objection to the field's obtaining Bureau authority to pay a 
second $400 to an informant under SAC authority. This does 
require justification through submission of full facts in the 
matter for SOG judgment, similar to the justi.f ication required 
each six months for informants paid on a regular basis. 
Authorization for SAC authority to permit such payments 
up to six months.before the field requests regular payments from 
the Bureau as suggested by the Inspector, could dilute both the 
central and consistent control of payments at the Bureau and could 
cause an increase in paper work required to implement the 
procedure. SAC authority currently has no fixed time limit for 
expenditures and in many cases this authorization could be 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fill! Pa e 333 
