••• • 
SECRET 
subjecting overseas foreign intelligence surveillance to the proposed 
probable cause standards as a test of the "reasonableness II required 
by Fourth Amendment protections .. Moreover, this legislation could 
raise complex questions in situations where an element of the· inter­
ception process falls within the jurisdiction of the federal court, e.g. , 
the physical presence of the surveillance device. Even if these bills 
• would not directly affect authority to con~uct foreign electronic 
surveillance, they could ultimately w.eaken it by raising the 
(?ppor'tunity to argue that this authority rests op.ly on three 
bases--assertion of inherent Presidential intelligence-gathering 
powers, congressional recognition and judicial acceptance. Repeal 
o~ 18 U .S .C. 2511(3) may be viewed as weakening the argument that 
Congress has recognized foreign intelligence gathering authority 
inherent in the Presiden~ and delegated to his Executive branch age!1ts . 
. • • 7. Summary: 
--Proposed legislation would repeal 18 U .S .C. 25i1(3) and would 
impose judicial administration of a 11pJ;"obable cause 11 standard over foreign intelli-
• _gence electronic surveillance. At the v·ery least, this would restrict communications 
. interceptions agains~ foreign targets within the United States to situations 
:involving an anticipated, demonstrable and direct threat to the national defense. 
Also, this w9uld probably subject the interception of transnational communica-
tions, from either an overseas or domestic situs, to the same judicial standards. 
Finally, this would raise difficult questions concerning the abil-ity of CIA, NSA, 
an4 the service cryptologic agencies to c·onduct electronic surveillance overseas 
against foreign targets without conforming to the standards of Fourth Amendment 
"reasonableness" .articulated in this legislation. In sum, enactmept of proposed 
. legislation would severely restrict the collection and processing of foreign • 
SIGINT and would seriously impair the prod-µction of all-source intelligence. 
• --By repealing 18 U .S.C. 2511(3) and by introjecting the judiciary 
into the field of foreign intelligence gathering, proposed legislation raises a 
.. cqnstitutional challenge insofar as it purports to withdr.aw sanction of and 
place limitations on the President's inherent power to cohduct foreign 
·surveillance. This infringement could undermine the Executive sources of 
auth~rity upon which" the intelligence community depends. To be sure, the 
proposed requirement of prior judicial authorization of foreign intelligence 
. sui:veillances is altogether impractical. But the fundamental constitutional 
objection_ is that it purports to share Executive authqr-ity with judicial officers 
havi~g no expertise in or responsibility for national security or foreign 
.• -. affairs: The necessity of a foreign intelligence surveillance is ?imply 
inappropriate for judicial resolution. It is a matter committed to the Executive 
branch by·the Constitution and an area for which there are no judicially 
manageable standards.. An arrangement by which federal judges decide 
'\V~at foreign intelligence the President may have in his conduct of foreign 
5 
SECRET 
