• • 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Senate Select Committee, etc. 
Mr. Hills was reluctant to seek a modification of the language 
indicating that he had an understanding with Mr. Schwarz that the authority 
would be limited to the senior counsel and to members of the Committee. 
I told Mr. Hills I would request that the language be modified in writing 
so that the authority would be conferred on specific representatives of the 
Committee to avoid having staff authority which I thought would be a bus ed. 
Mr. Hiils finally agreed that the language would be modified so that the 
authority would be available only to both Committee senior counsel and/or 
a combination of senior counsel and a Committee member. Further, the 
language would be modified to require that the determination that an agency 
would not be given prior notice of a pending witness interview would be 
recorded in writing for the Committee's records. 
I asked Mr. Wilderotter and Mr. Hills whether this agreement 
was to be made between the staff and the agencies or whether it in fact would be 
accepted by the Committee. After some cl.iscussion, we were advised by 
Mr. Hills and Mr. Wilderotter that the document would be subm:iited to the 
full Committee for their approval and incorporated into the Committee's 
records. 
I pointectout that I believed it was necessary for the understanding 
to be made between the Committee and the Executive in order for there to be 
some basis for restraining CoD:3-mittee staff investigators who may not 
be inclined to follow the rules . 
Other proposed changes discussed would require the Committee 
represatative to furnish to a witness a copy of the Committee's rules which 
includes advice concerning the right to counsel and a copy of the proposed 
guidelines for. witness interviews. 
I recommended that the guidelines be expanded to address the 
problem of existing secrecy agreements with former and present employees 
and the procedural problem involved in Attorney General Order 501-73 
which requires prior Departmental approval in order for a witness to 
respond to a subpoena. As a result, Mr. Wilderotter advised on the 
morning of May 28, 1975, that he would recommend the addition of a sentence 
in the opening paragraph that would indicate the guidelines would not be 
understood to impair the constitutional rights of individual witnesses, agency 
agreements with employees or former employees, existing Departmental 
orders or the Committee's own rules. 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38614 Docld:32989fi06 Page 238 
