,, 
• ·:::ctil !I :rlt l ' Ct j} f 'bot_,. 2C S '.if' t',~ ii 
to be mad~ available for inspection at the D1artment in the 
near future, and this project is being coordinated by the Bureau. 
There are· estimated approximately 1,000 photographs submitted by 
11 offices. The Laboratory (document examinations) and Identification 
Division reports will be voluminous since they include not only 
those prepared in connection with the EASTCON case itself, but 
also all of those prepared in connection with six Selective 
Service Act cases included as conspiracy charges in the EASTCON 
indictment. It is apparent that the evidence from the three 
offices covering these six Selective Service Act cases will be 
voluminous and requir~ close coordination by the Bureau with the 
Department into the EASTCON case for a successful prosecution 
at trial. 
• At present, two supervisors are as·signed full-time, and 
one supervisor spends .approximately one half of his time in the 
supervision of this case. This investigation continues to generate 
a great deal of paper not only on the substantive case but also in 
connection with the other matters directly related thereto. It 
is anticipated the time of two and a half Agents will be the absolute 
- ---· -· - minimum ~ecrui!"ed to ':'f:r"'ni::i VP.ly handle th;i.s ma,tter throu~h the 
completion of the trial. Depending upon the volume of work 
generated by necessary requests of the Department in the pretrial 
and trial stages, additional manpower may be necessary at various 
times. 
,, 
. j 
1 
The Inspector has specifically inquired as to when these 
men can be reassigned to other work. It is to be noted that since 
the return of the superseding indictment on 4/30/71, two other 
full-time supervisors have been reassigned to other work within 
the Division. 
It is not anticipated that the two supervisors assigned 
full-time to this case will be released prior to the conclusion 
of the trial in this matter. ~/ 
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR Co D. BRENN J have read the attached and concur 
(JAS:lrs) 8-24-71 • in the views expressed by Section. 
Chief Shackelford. 
•. · . 
NW 38600 Docld:32989_638 Page 40 
