1, ,I ,, 
I, 
I, 
I, I, 
TOP SECRET WWW SENSITIVE 
- 7 -
22. Cable dated May 24,. 1962, to Luxembourg from 
Headquarters indicates that the Agency has changed its plans 
about assigning QJWIN any duties in Leopoldville. Paragraph 2 
reads, "Decision made keep QJWIN Europe. Leopoldville assign­
ment canceled." Cable also indicates that headquarters 
approves of Mankel's proposed move to Germany, probably 
Baden-Baden. 
23. Memorandum dated July 3, 1962, WKH [presumably 
William K. Harvey] from AMS, re ZRRIFLE. This memo discusses 
possible future uses for QJWIN. It seems perfectly consistent 
with the use of QJWIN merely for the purpose of recruiting 
safecrackers and burglars. Paragraph 4 of this memo refers to 
some ZRRIFLE authorization paper: "I have alre~dy given you 
the ZRRIFLE authorization paper signed by Helms and Skip .has 
been given QJWIN contract, including the extension to l_ 
Mc1.rch 1963." An attachment to this. mernorandum gives details 
on two possible candidates for burglary and safecracking. In 
this attachment there are two references, however, which may 
be somewhat disturbing: One candidate is stated to be ''willing 
to use gun"; the second "wanted to know if he should be armed 
for job--ready to go to the end." 
24. Immediately following a dispatch dated 
December 7, 1962, from Luxembourg to headquarters, there 
appears in the files two pages of penciled notes on yellow· 
"buck-slip" type paper which are difficult to read but may 
be relevant. At the top of the first page appears the word 
QJWIN. On this page appears the following words, wh)-ch are 
barel~ legible: ·~-77."In 1961 by Bill H or Bissell used (!,.rnold <t;t 
Estal~J [or ~state)0.3direct action capability established inO.:, 
B [illegible] QJWIN Luxembourg principal prelim capability 
for fourth country. QJWIN spotted three or four--moved to 
Italy .. ~" • 
25. Dispatch from Luxembourg' to Headquarters Chief, 
KUTUBE, dated February 14, 1964, indicates that QJWIN has 
been terminated. Paragraph 1 reads ·in part, "QJWIN has been 
terminated. "Rozeney told- him on 21 April that the operation 
in which he was to play a role had been ~helved and therefore 
his contract, which ran out on 29 February, was not xenewed. 
He was reassured that this ~ction did not result from anything 
he had done and his past coop~ration was appreciated. It wa~ 
mentioned as conceivable that the operation might have been 
off and running if he had been~able to establish his cover 
last year." 
SEHSI'f'IVB 
0'1331 Page 23 
