l 
i 
-l· 
j 
I 
. ' 
THE NEED AND THE POTENTIAL FOR 
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE IN THE U.S. 
In 1941, the u. s. allegedly had in its 
possession practically all of the foreign intelligence 
it needed regarding military and strategic targets in 
Japan. The informawion was scattered among various 
individuals who had personal knowledge or was located 
in libraries, various Government ngonc·ies 9 private 
business firms, institutions, et cetera. Tragically, 
the U. s. Government did not have any mechanism to 
collectP record and ~valuate such information. 
Intelligence was badly needed in 1941, and we paid 
dearly in lives and financial resources to accomplish 
certain missions because the information was,not 
readily available. 
Today, the need for foreign intelligence is 
grea·ter than ever. The stakes of foreign policy have 
never been higher. The U. s., being a dominating world 
power, has assumed vast responsibilities enmeshed in 
delicate political situations throughout the·world . 
. The ever-existing threat of an atomic war with communist 
countries ctemancis a. cv.i::l'i,h1uii:i 6 ac~ui::::-::=.~!!·!: c:f !t":1owledge 
so thatr,plicies and courses of action can be designed 
in the most effective manner possible. -The information 
needed applies to numerous fields of activity, a major 
area being scientific research and development~ In this 
connection, the revolutionary break-throughs in the : 
scientific category are occurring with unusually high 
frequency, and if the U. s. is to remain in the 
forefront, it is absolutely necessary that we obtain 
an accurate evaluation of the enemy's capabilities and 
intentions. We have been fortcinate to collect high· 
quality positive intell.?-gence through sophisticated 
collection methods 1 i.e high altitude photography and 
research in this area is proceeding at an accelerated 
pace .. Nevertheless, electronic gadgets and machines 
will never produce all that is required. We.still need 
supplementary coverage on a heavy scale, and the human 
being.still co~tinues to be a vital source of information. 
The individual talks ·and volunteers information. He talks 
and his statements are interceptedo All of this produces 
valuable increments of intelligence. The individual can 
still provide badly needed data either through his 7 . 
voluntary contribution or through his·unwitting divulging 
·t . / 
I 
·· ... 
:r-
... 
'• ·. · .. 
