,, 
J. 
. , 
NW 
.. ., . 
i 1' 
- • 
subversive activity at home, it was imperative to use special 
investigative measures (wire taps) in domestic cases. Mr. Truman 
concurred with the Attorney General and authorized the special 
investigative measures. 
There is one important point, however, which bears on 
any feelings President Truman might have had on the issue of 
domestic iubversive activity. When the Congress passed the 
Internal Security Act of 1950, consisting o~two subchapters, 
Truman vetoed the bill, citing as a reason that-Title II of 
the Bill - The Emergency Detention Act - constituted a threat 
to the democratic process . In "The American Cons ti tuti on -
Its Origins and Development" by Alfred H. Kelly and Winfred A. 
Harison, the authors declared that President Truman roundly 
condemned the Internal Secu~ity Act as grossly unconstitutional. 
They said that his veto message called the registration provisions 
of the law "the greatest danger to freedom of press, speech and 
assembly since the Sedition Act of 1798." A drastic new sedition 
statute, deriv~d from the earlier Mundt-Nixon bill which was 
bottled up in the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1948, was 
incorporated in the Internal Security Act. Mr. Truman thought 
the phrase prohibiting a person to "substantially contribute" 
to the establishment of a totalitarian dictatorship so vague as 
to cast grave doubts upon whether it met the standards of accuracy 
necessary for due process in criminal statutes. These authors 
did not even touch on the emergency detention subchapter of the 
Act. The political climate at the time, however, in spite of 
President Truman's censure and veto, was such that the Internal 
Security Act was passed over the veto and became law. 
While the 1950 directive of President Truman incorrectly 
stated "On September 6, 1939, and January 8, 1943, a Presidential 
Directive was issued providing that the Federal Bur~au of 
Investigation of the Department of Justice should take charge 
of investigative work in matters relating to espionage, sabotage, 
subversive activities and related matters.," the directive issued 
by President Eisenhower on December 15, 1953, said nothing about 
the FBI being responsible for such matters. Rather, the 1953 
directive began by stating, "On September 6, 1939, January 8, 
1943, and July 24, 1950, Pr~sidential Directives were issued 
requesting all enforcement officers, both Federal and State, 
to report promptly all information relating to espionage, sabotage, 
subversive activities, and related matters to the nearest 
representative of the Fe_deral Bure.au of In ves ti ga ti on. 11 
This language can, of course, be interpreted to mean 
that the FBI is responsible for investigating these matters 
otherwise the directive would not have noted that enforcement 
officers were requested to furnish all information to the FBI. 
- 7 -
Docld:32989ti-09 Page 142 
