.. ·,:-, 
I 
lo 1• , 1 l !, I 
In commenting on the role of the FBI the Committee 
:further notc<l, "The Federal Bureau of Investigation, howev0r, 
is the recognized center of the domestic aspect of internal 
security including countorintolligcnce within the Unitod St~tes 
and its possessions." 
. - I 
With regard to the use and surfacing of sources, 
the Committee noted that CIA was not bound to disclose its 
sources; however, it commented on the excellent liaison 
system of the FBI which had overcome this restriction so far 
as internal security within the U. s. is concerned. "Now, 
as a matter of practice ~he CIA usually refers domestic sources 
to the FBI, _the only exception being where the source is to be 
used in foreign intelligence worlt by the CIA." In the area 
of defectors within this country, the Committee .noted that 
the FBI will receive from CIA or by a direct interrogation of 
a CIA-controlled defector information which the defector may 
have concerning internal security. Persons who defect within 
'!" this country, on the other hand, were found to be under the 
cognizance of the FBI. Then the reverse of the above situation 
comes into play and CIA has access to the defector for developing 
le~ds ir1 the· foreign i:c:tallige!lce fieJ.d, rr.h~ C!omm.ittee 
commented, "It is the duty of the FBI to conduct investigations 
of all cases· involving f,reign nationals in the United States 
as s~t forth in the Delimitations Agreement." 
A review of the Commission report lends one important 
fact to our study of this subject matter. This was pointed 
,up by the membership of the various groups at the disposal 
of the National Security Council within the field of national 
intelligence. Ten subcom.i~ittees or working groups with member­
ship from separate departments or interested agencies acted 
in advisory capacities to the IAC parent committee. In each 
of these subcommittees the chairman was a representative of 
the Director of CIA and the working groups were individually 
serviced by a secretariat furnished by CIA. From the top­
heavy alignment of CIA personnel in IAC and ~ts working groups 
it. was obvious in which direction advisory opinions would be 
. .-.. slanted when dissenting. matters were presented by the IAC and 
CIA to the NSC. , 
· .... ,• ... 
.. 38 ... 
\ 
-7 
