NW 313'600 
U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECI~ AGENT (SA) 
ROBERT W. THOMSON BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
SA Thomson was asked how many telephone lines 
were monitored or if he knew the exact location of the 
telephones being monitored at which time SA Thomson stated 
he could not recall exactly how many telephones were being 
monitored but that they were at the residence of Martin 
Luther King and SCLC, and that he could not furnish the 
addresses of either of these locations. In addition, SA 
Thomson was asked if he typed logs or handwrote them. SA 
Thomson replied that he utilized both methods. 
SA Thomson was asked if he was furnished any list 
of names of certain individuals to be on the lookout for in 
contacts by Martin Luther King. SA_Thomson stated he could 
not recall any such list. In addition, when asked where the 
physical location of this telephone monitoring was accomplished, 
SA Thomson advised that it was at the Peachtree Towers 
Apar~ments but that he could not furnish the exact room or 
floor utilized. 
SA Thomson was asked if he ever highlighted or 
placed additional emphasis on any of the telephone calls 
that he monitored. SA Thomson replied that no such emphasis 
was placed on any such call, and when asked if SA Thomson 
prepared any other forms or memoranda or communications 
regarding any of the telephone calls, he monitored, SA Thomson 
replied in the negative. 
SA Thomson was asked if he could recall Martin 
Luther King or any of the other persons monitored being in 
any telephone contact with any public officials. SA Thomson 
replied that he could not specifically recall any such 
telephone conversations, however, during the time SA Thomson 
was assigned these monitoring duties Martin Luther King was 
traveling to other cities and it is entirely possible that 
Martin Luther King could have been in contact with some 
officials. 
SA Thomson was asked for the identities of other 
persons also assigned monitoring duties during the time he 
was so engaged. SA Thomson stated that he recalled that 
SAs John Benton, O. Richard Hamilton, Don Burgess and Brian 
O'Shea also were engaged in monitoring of the telephones. 
- 3 -
41 
