ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
KLAN AND WHITE HATE GROUPS UNIT 4-E . 
The FBI has continued its investigation of 18 
Klan-type organizations including 255 klaverns (units) 
throughout the United States which had a slight increase 
in membership from 4,300 a year ago to approximately 
4,500 at present. This increase in membership is prima~ily 
attributed to renewed interest in Klan-type organizations 
brought about by Federal directives regarding school busing 
in order to achieve racial balance in public schoois. 
In recent months the UKA and Shelton have under­
taken a major campaign aimed at harassing t!ne""""'FBI . The 
initial step of the campaign was named by Shelton as 
"Operation Polly" in which he sought to obtain polygraph 
machines to help "weed out FBI pimps." We have taken steps 
to assure he is not successful by instructing our key 
informants to talk it down and, if necessary, to ultimately 
refuse to take such an exam. We have also discreetly 
contacted a potential supplier to be assured we are aware 
of any positiv-e action iaken by Shelton in this regard. 
1 tg W~ JlbJUM ll 
Further, as a result of our hard-hitting investi­
gation and interviews of Klansmen, ~~~ printed a series 
of articles in the monthly UKA publication "The Fiery Cross," 
entitled "Exposing the CIA and FBI," in which ~J:.ru!_ 
vehemently attacked the Bureau as a "Gestapo-like police 
force" and the Director as "a man who has sold out his 
country for his prided FBI." Picketing of the Norfolk and 
Richmond FBI Off ices to protest. interviews of Klansmen by 
FBI Agents as infringement of the individual rights of Klan 
members also took place recently and Klansmen were instructed 
to attempt to secure photographs and identities of our Agents 
in order that this information could be published in'The 
Fiery Cross" with the-intent that the FBI be embarrassed and 
our Age~ts transferred. This information was furnished to 
appropriate field offices and to the Department. To date 
our Agents have avoided having their photographs taken by 
the Klan. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/19/71 
LLA:co/bcw ~"W'ii'.19 ~,Yl2T::3ii 
4-E 
1r -6 -
37 
NW 38601! Docld:32;989£38 Page 49 
