I 
I\ 
II 
11 
,', 
' 'i 
i 
: 
I: 
11 
11 
,, 
I'. 
I 
. . 
'POP SECRE4' SENSI4'I!JE _ 
- 9 
directly to Chief, FI/Division D, 1502 L Building_. No other 
distribution is to be made without the specific approval in 
each instance of the Chief, FI/D." Paragraph 2 reads, "The 
above has been personally approved by the Deputy Director 
(Plans)." I question whether such close handling of cable 
traffic is not unusual ev~n in a case involving safecracking 
and burglary. Perhaps Harvey intended traffic ~f more 
sensitive issues to be passed through the ZRRIFLE channel. 
4. In a large manila envelope filed immediately 
after a dispatch to Luxembourg from the Chief,. KUTUBE, dated 
September 30, 1963, is a large manila envelope marked 
"Documents in Receipt Supporting ZRRIFLE Activities." Within 
this envelope are several smaller manila envelopes, one of 
which is entitled "ZRRIFLE, Receipts for Accounting Submitted 
by WK Harvey, Receipt for Operational Phone Calls May 15, 1963." 
Within this envelope are two sheets- of yellow legal size paper 
which contain lists of operational expenses submitted by W.K. 
Harvey covering the period April 13-21, 1963, all of which are 
to be charged as operational expenses to QJWIN/ZRRIFLE. These 
expenses cover hotel expenses in Miami and Perine, Florida, 
long distance hotel calls for these locations, plus $75 for a 
boaf chartered for operational purposes at,Islamorada,. Florida. 
A hotel receipt indicates Harvey paid the bill of a Mr. John A. 
Wallston of 56510 Wilshire Boulevard, Los 1'..ngeles, California, 
for the nights of April 17, 18, and 19, and a Miami hotel, 
probably the Eden Roe. These documents are the first indication 
of any activities within the U.S. with respect to ZRRIFLE. 
Apparently they did not involve QJWIN but rather other 
activity, perhaps directed at Cuba because of his location in 
Miami. Perhaps Harvey should be confronted with this listing 
and asked to explain ~t. 
A ·third file was examined, which was marked "ZRRIFLE- ... 
QJWIN Project/Contract. The following items of interest were 
found: 
1. A long memorandurnwritten in ink'in longhand on sheets 
of yellow, legal size paper at the very back of this file 
entitled "Project ZRRIFLE." This is apparently justification 
material submitted for the project. The first portion of this 
memorandum seems to end abrup~ly at the end of the second page; 
~ 
i-f 
'f'OP SECRE4' 
I . 
Page25 
SE~JSITIVE .. 
' 
I 
;-
