•· • 
., . 
T oOk No Action to Prevent • KLAN VIOLENCE. 
Klan Violence, FBI Admits 
~!_)nfinucd from First Page 
1 
/1 in Southern California under an assumed name. : 
Rowe was one of two former undercover operatives i 
who testified before the committee Tuesday. The other, 'I 
Mary Jo Cook of Buffalo, N.Y., told of supplyin~ the FBI. 
with information about 1,000 persons while servmg as an ; 
informant against the Vietnam Veterans Against the War i 
during 1973-74. 
BY 1ACKNELSON 
Times Washington Bureau Chief 
WASHINGTON-An FBI official 
conceded Tuesday that the bureau 
had failed to use an undercover 
man's information to head off Ku 
Klux Klan ,·iolencP in Alabama in the 1960s. 
But, the official, James B. Adams, 
.a&Sistant to the director, told the Sen-
1 ate Intelligence Committee that the 
FBI was "just as frustrated as anyone 
else" at "rank lawlessness" that exist­
ed in Alabama at that time. Also, he 
said. the FBI is an investigative 
: agency and has no enforcement pow­ers. 
Adams' defense of the FBI came 
immediately after Gary Thomas 
Rowe Jr., wearing a hood to conceal 
his features, testified that on many 
: occasions he had warned the bureau 
, of the klan's plans for Violence, but 
: that the violence occurred without 
i ()fficial interference. • 
' Rowe served six years as an FBI 
r und~cover agent before surfacing in 
• 1965 as the star witness against three 
I 
l~ 
WITNESS-Gary Thomas Rowe 
Jr. wears hood while testifyir;1g. 
AP Wlrephoto 
• Testimony by both witnesses prompted committee ', 
members to criticize FBI tactics and to suggest that legal : 
restraints be put on future FBI activities. 1 
Sen. Philip A. Hart (D-Mich.), commenting on testimony . 
by Rowe that he engaged in klan violence with the 1 knowledge and approval of the FBI, obs~rved that the , 
bureau's infiltration of the klan not only failed to prevent 
violence, "but indeed may have contributed to it." 
Sen. Walter F. Mondale (D-Mont.) told Adams that the : 
. FBihad bungled its job in investigating political activities ' 
and added: 
"It has interfered with civil liberties and finally in the 
• • last month or two through its public disclosures has 
heaped shame upon itself and really led toward the un­
' dermining of crucial public confidence essential to law en­
forcement agencies in the country." 
Mondale criticized the FBI for trying to "protect people 
.. from subversive and dangerous.ideas," and he told Adams: 
klansmen accused .of killing a white "Time and time again, we're going to protect the blacks 
civil rights worker in Lowndes Coun- . from Martin Luther King because he's dangerous. We're 
ty, Ala. Since then he has been living , . going to protect veterans from whatever it is, we're going 
Please Turn to Page 6,.Col. t , , to protect the (National) Council of Churches from veter-
• ansandsoon... . , "Don't you agree with me 'that we've got to control this, 1 
iestrain it, define it, so that precisely what's expected of 
All INFORMATION CONTAINED 
HEREIN ~JCLASSIFI~ 
DATE./0 00 BY'AIJJJtf 
the FBI is known by you and by the public and you can : 
justify your actions when we ask you?" , 
.Adams disagreed that the FBI had bungled in the politi-
. cal intelligence field but agreed that restraining legisla-, 
tion wa'" il'l order. • • ' 
Los Angeles Times 
12/3/75 
-Nw-38fi1-.t-Docld:32989fi.02 Page 100 
0 ,;>_ -~ I~ 
Et1CU1S~~' . -
