+,· dt:: "#' t' r~ :Vt • :tt rt,- K 'I f i , ' l't ';') .. .,,, '• ~t; h :l, 6: 
,r 
Positive Results Achieved 
Determination as to the validity of an individual's 
inclusion in this program is constantly under review. Since 
the last inspection, critical attention has been given this 
matter with the result that the number of persons on the 
Cuban Special Section of the Index has been reduced from 
193 as of 3/16/70 to 96 as of 12/15/70. These 96 persons 
are judged to be the hard-core pro-Cubans, action against 
whom in a Cuban emergency would be mandatory. Of these 96, 
27 are Cuban aliens. Each subject of pending security 
investigation with Cuban ramifications is considered for 
inclusion in the Index. 
Extent and Nature of Current Supervision 
The Supervisor responsible for this program is 
required to review each investigative communication in 
current cases of pro-Cuban individuals to determine whether 
the individual meets the criteria for irwlusio,1 in the Ir.do::::, 
as outlined in the Manual of Instructions. He must make a 
decision as to the degree of dangerousness of the individual 
under the Priority Apprehension Program and rule on the 
field's recommendations regarding these matters. He initiates 
procedures with the Security Index Desk of the Domestic 
Intelligence Division and the Voucher Statistical Section 
of the Administrative Division regarding the placing of an 
individual on the Index, his removal, and assignment or • 
change in Priority. 
If the individual involved is an alien, 
correspondence with the Internal Security Division of the 
Department is required to assure the preparation of a pre­
positioned arrest warrant by Immigration and Naturalization 
Service. Action is also taken with the Department to cancel 
the arrest warrant if the alien is removed from the Index. 
On lQ/29/70, the Director approved the lifting of 
the moratorium on report writing and certain investigative 
procedures in security cases on indiyiduals. This will 
require the field to reopen by 6/30/71 and conduct investi­
gation in cases on some 372 individuals involved in this 
program who have not received recent investigative attention. 
The Bureau will receive in the upcoming months summary 
reports, letterhead memoranda and other communications in 
virtually ·all of these cases. The moratorium, in effect 
- 2 -
NW..&llOOLDoc:ld:3296%]:8 Page 478 
