• 
'.'B. EA-tent to \vhich the FBI should keep tabs ,on other Departments 
:and Agencies through the development ·of .sources and informants 
in those Agencies 
In regard to the present policy of not deve_loping sources and 
. informants in other Federal Depirtments and Agencies for the purpose of 
.keeping tabs on those agencies, no issues are known tq have been raised. 
IV .. • ·OPTIONS FOR FUTURE POLICY: 
A. Relationship between the Feder.al Bureau of Investigation and 
,other Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government 
It is imperative that .ther,e .be ,a -frien.dly ~ ·cooperative -association 
:between the FBI .and other Departments and Agencies of the Federal Govern­
ment. There must be an efficient working relationship, with free and open 
channels of comm1-1nications, .among .all Federal Agencies. The Director of 
·the FBI and the heads of other Federal Agenci!;?S should confer periodically 
on matters of 1nutual interest and ·definitely work together on all occasions. . 
-In -order to avoid duplication of effort and problems of jurisdictional responsi­
bilities there should be a clear ·delineation of ·duties ·and investigative limits 
ior all Federal investigative Agencies. 
A prevailing cooperative spirit throughout the entire Federal 
.Ia,v enforcement co1nn1tmity is a vital necessity in our Nation's ·,var on 
,crime and subversion. "The rapid escalation oI serious crime ,and. the 
complexities of upholding i.he law in today's society have n1ade it imperative 
that informn.Uon, expertise, and resources ~e ireely and expeditiously shared 
• by all Federal investig:ltiYe Agencies. Cooperation is a bilateral oblig~tion. 
Ir the FBI does not continue to cooperate .and reciprocate in exchange of 
information and resources with other Federal Agencies, it cannot conduct 
a successful operation. ··There! ore, it is n1_y recommendation that the FBI 
-continue ils policj,r of working closely and cooperating fully with other Dcpart­
. ..ments and Agencies of the Federal Governn1ent. 
. . 
6-
--· 
.. ; 
.=--,. 
NW#: 88608· · • :,. -OocI·d:·329.8954-1 
