-
, 
ALL APPLICAHTS 
Attach an unmounted full face photograph of yourself, not larger than . 
2¾ x 2½ inches. Print your name plainly on the back of the photograph. 
The photograph must have been taken not more than 3 months prior to 
the date of this application. 
--
t 
17, PHYSICAL DATA 
a. Height without shoes b. Do you now have or have you ever had any of the following: nervous, mental, or emotional disorder of any sort; tuberculosis; epilepsy, fainting 
spells or severe headaches; diabetes; ulcers; rheumatic fever or heart disease; or asthma? □No □Yes ., 
(If "yes" identify, describe, and give dates) 
Weight without clothes 
c. Do you now have or have you ever had any chronic or serious illnesses; or have you ever had any serious operations or injuries? □No □Yes 
(If "yea• describe and give dates) 
d. Have you ever been hospitalized? □No □Yes 
Dates Hospital Location Reason 
Mo, Day (Yr, 
\ 
e. Describe any past or present physical handicap, defect, or disabilicy not previously covered, but including extent of defective vision, if any, with and without glasses 
(Snellen) and deficiencies in color vision and hearing. 
f. How many days have you lost from work , Nature of illness(esl 
or school due to illness during the past 
five years? 
g. Have you ever received, is there pending, have you applied for, or do you intend to apply for pension or compensation for existing disability? 
(If "yes,• specify what kind, granted by whom, and what amount, when, why. If applicable, include Veterans' Administration claim number.) 
□No □Yes 
. 
"h. Special Agent Applicants Only: Do you have any physical defects such as, but not limited to, a bone, joint, or other deformity or Joss of finger, which would 
preclude unrestricted, regular participation in all phases of the FBI's firearms training, physical training and defensive tactics? □No OYes 
(If "yes" describe) 
I understand that all appointments are probationary for a period of ano year during which I must demonstrate my fitness for continued employment by the F'\deral Bureau of 
Investigation, I also understand that, In many parts of tho Bureau, It has been necessary to establish regular night and midnight shifts In view of which I must be available 
for such assignments as tho needs might require. I further understand that anr appointment tendered me will be contingent ~con tho results of a complete character and flt• 
noss Investigation, and I am aware that wilfully wlthholdin¥ Information or making false statements on this application will o-the basis for dism!ssal from the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation, and constitutes a violation of Section lOO;l Title 18, U, S, Code, I agree to these conditions and I hereby certify that all statements made by me an this 
application are true and complete, to tho best of my knowle ge, 
Signature of Applicant as Usually Written (Do not use nickname) 
10 
GPO: 1974 - 538-864 
NW 38608 Docld:32989588 61 
