NW38£14 Doc 
- -Another regular feature in The Black Panther is a weekly article giving detailed 
instructions for the handling of firearms, or setting forth deportment for urban 
guerri I la warfare. 
THE BLACK PANTHER, SATURDAY, MAY 9, 1970 PAGE 16 
ORGANIZING SELF­
DEFENSE GROUPS 
HOW TO COMBAT C.M.I. 
ORGANIZING SELF­
DEFENSE GROUPS 
Parr 6 ON REVOLVERS 
Parr 5 
Pa.rts I, 2, 3,4and5have been 2. l(ecpyo.1rflngcroH1he1rlggcr 
1n previous lssues of the mack unless pr.actlclng: trigger squcc,c 
Community News Ser-vi~. This or firing, 
The prJl'IClp.lJ ol Juchc c;elf• .slog:m m11st be, M.nlmum D.tmage .utlcle Is on revolven, It gives a 
Rellantc) clu-U'led by Eldrl(\tc- to the Enemy, Mfnlm1.1n Oi~ge baste run down on ~ use of rc­
Cleaver, the Mlnls1cr of lnfor~ to Us. Practice has shown 1hu volvcrs. Check out aUQhhephoto­
ma1lon of 1he Bbck p,1nthcr P.ar1y, when planning W.W.11. u n Is done graphs andnotcsto helpyouun~r­
Js ''Use wh,U )'Ou got to get wba.t wl1h knowl~e and .anunders1and- stand bem:r the funcUoning of Ii 
)'OJ need." To .inswer the ques- Ing of CJ,.1,1, c,aSualtles wlll be revolver, 
tlon,)rhowdoyouCQmbattheplgs' kept wllhln ari acceptable mlnl-
C,M.l. (communlc;1;rion, mobWty mum, Too o!ren, mach .mmrJen SAFETY 
and lnformaflon). v.-e must first Is given to a plan up to the point P RF.CAUTIONS: 
dc1ermlne wh.at we have ,:olng for of execution WithoJt giving the 
oursclVt"s, Checking out the prac- same attention to evasion and es-
cape, th.at phase of the o;,er.atlon 
I, Check to see If gun Is Joaded, 
You do this on.arcvolverbySwlll!:• 
Jng out the cylinder, Pull back on 
the cylinder latch and gently push 
out OIi the cyJJ,xk-r, (see unloadlng 
a revolver photo £2) 
3. Pulnt ),our gun away from 
where someone may be shot-Polnc: 
,at the celllng: or to the floor, but 
wherever you po[nt, make sure no 
one Is In the way and can be 
harrncd, 
4. Never Jeavcthehammercocked 
on a revolver, (Explanatlon later 
on cocking a revolver,) 
KINDS OF 
REVOLVERS: 
.38 Snubno.se - 'JMS gun has only 
a 2" barrel and sho0ts 38's, It 
that determines success, This Is 
a subjective .ipPro1ch, a oneslded 
appro.icb, W,W,H, ls only one slde 
of the CQln, C.M.I. Is the odlet' 
side, 8ec.i.use selr.Jefense grouu 
u,e w.w.11 .. "'••'•"" c.M.1.doo, PARTS OF A REVOLVER: 
not go lnto operation unttl a sell- p HOm ff I REVOLVER TERMS defense group commits ttsell by 
Is very easy co conce.J. 
.38 Specl.il. )las a 4" b.irrel 
.ind shoots 3fl's. 
.357 M.ignum • This Is the type 
of handgun the pig carries, The 
ammo for this Is .357 magnum, 
Metal piercing bullets wUI pierce 
an engine block. This Is the best 
type of revolver to 11,ve, 
,•II and,<14Magnums-Havemore 
knoek down power than a ,357 
Magnum, The H{ghway Pafl'Of tar• 
rles these to shoot through car 
doors, but a .357 will go through 
a car door also and ,357 ammun­
ition ts more plentiful. 
actually ~cutlrg .,ome t)PC' or 
seU-ddense aqJvfty. OAUE\ ltUCH 
COMMUNICATION 
"""'' /4 IOU: CY\U'IDU: 
.31 CAL HV0LVEI 
TIIGGD. CU.UO 
INFORMATION 
UNLOADING: 
Holding gun ln left hand (point­
ed ln •d'• direetton)relta■ eqlln• 
der latch wlth right hand. "3). 
Push OJt cylinder with the 11r«ers 
of left hand (f2). Now that you 
bave SMm£' out the cylJnder and 
the bullets are visible you iendy 
push down on the extt.actor and let 
bullets drop out Into )'Our right 
ha:id(f4). 
LOADING: 
To load, simply follow the ume 
steps In unlat<::hlng the cylinder. 
Then drop bullets Into the 
chambers of your cyllnder, C:ently 
push cyllnder closed, and you are 
ready to fire, 00 NOT SLJ.M 
cyi.n,.nER CLOSED, this causes 
extra wear on your gun. 
COCKING A 
REVOLVER: ttce of sell-defense groups, we All of us sho~ld be aware lhat 
sc.! th.st we have 1he power to once C.M.I, Is aetlvated pigs start Put the iJp ct yow- thumb on the 
determlr,e what!Stohappen,when showing on the s,etfrom30seconds hammer holding revolv,er steady 
I' ls to happtn and how It Is sup- to I ml11.1te maximum fa every In the palm of your hand, Do not 
posed to go down. What, When major cJtyfnDabyJo:,, there/Ott put your finger In the trigger, 
a11d How (\\',W,H,)- the element of the success or fallurc ot a de- Pull straight bact steadllyonyour 
surprise, TI1t pigs have C,M,I, fense operation ls dependent upon hammer spur un11I your hammer 
and sell.defense groups have W, the attention given ,o C,M,t, and locks back, You gun Is ready to 
w H the planning ol evas!on andescape. /Ere, do noc puc )'OU%' fJnger In 
To" consider a seU--defense op- AS Is~ 11, 1earnlng to deal with the trigger until you are ready 
eratlon sJccessful Is not to Just the pigs' C,M,I. Is the number one to fire. Alier C¢Cklng harnmer, 
plan and execute but to pJan, exe• mJJJiary problem f.iclrtg rcvolu- place your thumb directly on the 
cute ,\NO escape, There have been donary forces In Babylon today. frame beside the hammer, rest­
too many lns1anc:es where mem- JC Is time for all who have some-. Ing the tip of your thumb on the 
bers of sell..defense groups have thing to teach, by example, 10 step cylinder lalch, (Photo 14) 
planned and executed righteous forward. And remember. 10 die Your loullnger should be-placed 
EXTlACIOl ROD 
4 
blows agalnsi lhls racist system hOnorably,one does not need corn• on the other side of the gun UNCOCKlNG A 
only to be capt.ured. wounded or pany, Sll'.lllght out JuSt above the trigger REVOLVER (LOADED): hand, pointed In a s.,,fe direction, 
kUled. These are che conseq~• gu.ir<I until ready to fire, Every- Keep your fJnger oft thetrlggerJ and lhumb firmly on 1he ham;. 
ces tor revoluUonJrY actlvlty, USE WIIAT VOU C:\rr to C:ET time you cock thc hamrner before With gun already cock-ed, place mer (ttlll c:oc:ked) squee-ze 1hc trig:, 
however we must keep casualties WHAT \'(?U NEED firing, this Is called single action your thurnh on the hammerflrmly, ger slowly until you can feel the 
within an accep1ab1e mlnlmun. The D.C. firing, Now With the gun. firmly ln your hammer releasing. LW.IEDIA n:-
ALL POWER 
TO 
THE PE PLE! 
-06 Pa 
26 
