U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
DONALD P. BURGESS BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
Mr. Epstein then asked SA Burgess if he was quite 
certain of his period of assignment to monitoring the 
telephones of Doctor King and SA Burgess replied that he was 
virtually certain that assignment to these duties was from 
within ten days before or after Thanksgiving, 1965, until 
sometime during June, 1966, because of the aforementioned 
surgery approximately six weeks prior to his assignment 
on these duties. 
Mr. Epstein asked if SA Burgess could ascertain 
the date of his surgery from his doctor or hospital records. 
SA Bur?ess replied that surgery had taken place at St. 
Josephs Infirmary immediately adjacent to the FBI office 
and he would attempt to ascertain the date. Mr. Epstein 
asked if SA Burgess would be willing to telephone the 
hospital at that time in an attempt to verify this date. 
SA Burgess replied that old hospital records are sometimes 
difficult to locate and from experience, it would probably 
take two or three days. 
In response to a question as to whether anyone 
else immediately available could recall the date of this 
surgery, SA Burgess replied that his wife might recall. 
Mr. Epstein then asked SA Burgess if he would be willing 
to telephone his wife in an attempt to determine the date of 
his surgery. At that point in the interview, SA Burgess 
did telephone his wife who informed SA Burgess that she 
thought SA Burgess had undergone surgery during mid-September, 
1965. This was communicated to Mr. Epstein. 
Mr. Epstein also asked SA Burgess whether or not any 
record in the Atlanta Office would pin down the exact dates 
of his assignment to monitor the King telephones. SA Burgess 
replied that he knew of no such record. 
Mr. Epstein asked if an annual fitness .. or performance 
report would show his assignment at that time, and SA Burgess 
- 6 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989£26 Page 48 
