~\~~'. 't)~,. .- I I 
~-. 
• \~\_ . 
~- \ 
·- '\ - I 
\ .. ) 
i·· ... • .. , ..... . 
~;" 
G. :IBE.AS OF COI\'T'LICT 2 FBI - CIA 
I 
I 
Any differences between FBI and CIA are first 
related to a basic problem existing in any country among 
the major powers, namely• "How does a law enforcement 
agency coordinate its internal security functions with an 
intelligence organization which must operate as a clandestine 
service?" The very nat;ure of the funct·ions of the two 
organizations im.uediately introduces potential areas of 
conflict. One essentially operates overtly and the/4her 
covertly. This alone is enough to create an atmosphere. 
fraught with controversies and confusion. Because each 
agency was molded differently and because·responsibilities 
differ, there naturally will be conflicting approaches to 
national security objectives. For example, in the field 
of intelligence the Bureau is basically a counterintelligence 
body. CIA, to the contrary, has a much broader responsibility 
in 1ntelligence, which includes collection of foreign 
intelligence, political and psychological warfare, inter­
agency coordinating, evaluation, research, etc. Counter­
intelligence within CIA is actually· a relatively small 
component of the agency. Personnel in the two organizations 
is ;cccrui t<:;d. u:;.ide:i.~ di.ff a:.:a:u.t .:..:.ci t0:;:ic:4 a:,.:..J s't<:l.hd~ .... ds. 
Training is likewise at variance. In a final analysis, 
the experienced FBI Agent and the seasoned CIA intelligence 
officer are not of the same mold but certainly are tailored 
as two entirely and distinctly different instruments. We 
should bear in mind that little has bee~ done to introduce 
truly substantive cross-fertilization of outlook, approach 
and operational philosophy between the two agencies. This 
could be advocated from a Utopian point of view, but it 
-.. also could be argued that there are distinct advantages to 
' maintaining sound compartmentation. 
Separate from the above basic and fundamental 
situation, the differences between FBI and CIA also relate 
to other factors such as: 
1) FBI was first on the scene and was well 
.... · . established long before CIA .came to -life •. : - This-· led to a 
- conception in the early years that CIA was an intruder. 
2) The seed of CIA was the Office of Strategic 
Services (OSS), an orggnization whose personnel, activities 
and :free-wheeling were·. the sources of numerou·s conflicts 
- 69 -
.. •:· 
. .. ... 
.·_•t 
.. . . • i, 
