NW 38601! 
U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
ROBERT W. THOMSON BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
field. SA Thomson advised that he was assigned to the 
security squad and upon questioning stated that the nature 
of this security assignment was to monitor the telephones 
of Martin Luther King, Jr., both at his residence and his 
office. SA Thomson advised that he continued in this 
assignment until approximately August, 1964, when he was 
transferred to the Columbus, Georgia, Resident Agency. 
SA Thomson was asked the reason for his transfer 
from Little Rock to Atlanta and thereafter to the Columbus~ 
Georgia, Resident Agency, at which time SA Thomson replied 
that both transfers were routine transfers, the transfer 
to Columbus ·due to the fact an opening had been created in 
the Resident Agency. 
SA Thomson further advised that in 1969 he was 
transferred from the Columbus, Georgia, Resident Agency back 
to Atlanta, Georgia and that for a short period of time in 
1971 was assigned to security work in the Atlanta Office. 
SA Thomson was asked that upon his return to Atlanta 
and engaged in security work in 1971, if he was aware of any 
pending investigation concerning SCLC and SA Thomson advised 
he could not recall any investigation of SCLC but could state 
that he was not involved in any if there was such an investi­
gation. 
SA Thomson was asked if he had 
when this telephone monitoring of Martin 
instituted or when it was discontinued. 
that he had no such knowledge. 
any knowledge as to 
Luther King was 
SA Thomson replied 
SA Thomson was further questioned as to what pertinent 
instructions were furnished him in regard to his monitoring of 
Marting Luther King's telephones and who gave these instructions. 
SA Thomson advised that the supervisor at that time was Special 
Agent Charles S. Harding and that SA Thomson was advised that the 
monitoring of these telephones was being done because of national 
security and information was to be obtained concerning King's 
contacts and associates, and the reason for such contacts. 
SA Thomson was questioned if he ever questioned 
himself at any time as to the morality or justification for 
this monitoring. SA Thomson replied that after having only worked on such monitoring for two months he had no question in his mind as to the reason for this telephone monitoring. 
40 - 2 -
