I '1 •· . ' 
I ,, 
, 
",. ~~ 4 
"-~ • ... if.:· 
,. 
in immediate view. Title III could perhaps be used in some of these 
cases where the investigation has developed to a point where we do 
have probable cause for a specific crime, but the probable cause 
would be momentary and would expire after the act or probability 
• of the act. Title III also has limited value for continuing 
intelligence purposes because of its applicability only to 
specified crimes; the short time period .(30 days per request); 
the requirement that the target eventually be given notice and 
the results of the electronic surveillance (this can be post?oned 
but not indefinitely); and the number of people who could become 
involved with and thus aware of a recurring monthly application to 
a court. 
After the Keith decision, there was extensive debate 
within the FBI and between the FBI and.the Department of· Justice 
.on its effect, and how we could proceed, within the Keith 
restriction, in cases where we felt there was a clear "internal 
security" (which went undefined) threat where electronic surveil­
lance would be valuable. It was accepted that Title III would be 
of ~inimal value because of the problems noted above. Within the 
FBI it was also argued, and finally accepted, that FRCrP 41, 
might be utilized to obtain a routine search warrant to install 
an electronic surveillance where Title III was inapplicable. 
Assistant Attorney General Olson and Deputy Assistant Attorney 
General Maroney disagreed, feeling that Title III was intended to 
preempt all other methods of securing electronic surveillances, 
·-besides Presidentially approved surveillances. 
• The argument is largely theo_retical. FRCrP 41, like 
~itle III, requires a showing of probable cause, so it like-
wise is available only when specified criminal acts are believed 
to·be going on or are imminent. FRCrP 41 warrants must also be 
executed forthwith, and notice must be given to the target and 
\ he must be served with an inventory of the items seized. Given 
(' a case which. falls within both Title III and FRCrP 41, Title III 
• procedures are preferable because they are less restrictive and 
more clear cut since they dea.l exclusively with electronic 
surveillances. 
Title III is fairly broad in specifying the crimes fo~ 
which electronic surveillances can b~ authorized under its sectic~s. 
It is difficult to think of a threat'to the internal security so 
significant that acts in furtherance of the threat would not 
involve ~riminal violations specified in Title III. Of course, 
the FBI would be limited to basing its requests for electronic 
surveillances on Federal crimes enumerated in Title III, and the 
. ' 
--NW#-:..8.,af>,.Q.8.. __ 
