i ,. 
I 
i 
I 
• 
1 •· 
I 
I 
Numerous investigations have bee, initiated by the 
field as a_result of these instructions and recently four BPP 
leaders in Richmond or ·washington, D. C., were convicted for 
Federal gun violations and one is awaiting trial. With the 
emphasis being placed on violations of Federal gun laws by black 
extremists, the number of convictions will increase and add to 
the Bureau's statistical accomplishments as well as neutralizing 
black extremists. 
Investigation disclosed in Fall of 1970 that increased 
campus di.sorders involving black students posed a definite threat 
to the nation's stability and indicated the need for increase i.n 
both quality and quantity of intelligence concerning Black Student 
Unions (BSU) and similar groups which were targets for influence 
and control by violence-prone BPP and other extremists. On 
10/29/70 the Executive Conference approved a program to conduct 
discreet preliminary inquiries, limited to established sources, 
on BSU and similar groups, their leaders, and key activists to 
detennine if the activities of these groups and individuals 
warrant further active investigation. On 11/4/70 instructions 
were sent to the field to implement the pro~ram authorized by 
the Executive Conference. 
~The results of these discreet preliminary inquiries 
were analyzed and it was concluded that our responsibiliti~s 
could adequately be handled by limiting our inquiries to black 
student groups on college campuses which have engaged in violent 
and lawless activities or are reported by knowledgeable sources 
. to be moving in the direction of violence and lawlessness. As 
a result, field offices were instructed by letter dated 7/26/71 
that, thereafter, discreet preliminary inquiries on black student 
gro~ps on college campuses should be limited to those groups 
which h~ve engaged in violence and/or lawless activities or are 
moving in the direction of violence and lawlessness. Results of 
any preliminary inquiries conducted through established sources 
_only in accordance with the above provisions must be_ reported to 
the Bureau in form suitable for dissemination along with recommenda­
tions regarding whether an active investigation of the group 
and/or its leaders is warranted. The field was instructed that 
/3tl 
NW 38601! Docld:32989fi.J8 Page 142 
