-· ~~ 
, ' 
~ . -t' 
-· 
l 
I 
I: NW 386_00 
J -• 
~ .., 
- "' " 
U. s. Senate Select Committee 
to Study Govenmental Oparations 
With Respect to Intelligence Activiti~s (SSC) 
Re! Interview of Fo:mier FBI Special Agent (SA) 
Joseph William Magee by an SSC Staff Meml;>er 
Epstein inquired concerning the relationship between 
the FBI and CIA. Magee told him that he knew at one time the • 
FBI had one man who was the liaison link with CIA, that person 
being former SA Sam Papich. Epstein wanted to know if meetings 
between Papich and the CIA were primarily for the FBits benefit. 
Magee responded tha~ he did.not know much about the liaison 
arrangements and meetings but it was his belief that such m~etings, 
as may have been held between FBI and CIA personnel, were designed 
for the mutual benefit of all parties and that he did not know of 
any meetings which were designed solely for the FBI's benefit. 
Epstein inquired a$ to whai; the FBI did relative to 
certain gases, the exact type unrecalled by Magee in his report 
on thi$ intc:i;view. Magee responded that some FBI SAs possess 
gas masks to be used for obvious reasons but that the FBI had no 
programs for use of gas. 
Epstein asked Magee what he knew about Martin Luther 
King, Jr. cllld whether he, Magee, had ever heard any recordings 
concerning King. Magee said that he had not but that he under­
stood that the FBI had recordings of King which were bona fide. 
Magee then told Epstein of his recollection of an obscure news 
story of an event in North·carolina a number of years ago when 
it was developed that some of King's associates had illegally sold 
a number of rental automobiles ar,d that the news account indicated 
that no prosecution was authorized by the Oepartment of Justice, 
possibly on the basis that the Department of Justice did not 
than want to disrupt the civil rights activities of King•s 
associates. 
NOTE: -
. Magee' s report of the interview was telephonically --:_·, 
furnished to Supervisor S. F. Phillips of the Senstudy 75 Project 
Additional data herein taken from W. O. Creg~r to W.R. Wannall • 
memorandum 1/2/76, and Legal Counsel to Mr .. J.B. Adams memoranda 1/2,5/76. 
- 3 -
Docld:32989570 Page 43 
