j 
I 
• I 
1 ·· 
\ 
I 
I ADEQUACY OF PERSONNEL; 6-E 
As to Wannall's comments concerni~g manpower on the 
Ellsberg case, under write-up captioned "EllsbergCase," 4A3, 
the personnel assigned to Ellsberg is certainly adequate and he 
does not at-this point request adaitional personnel for that case. 
There are two interrelated but separate problems to be 
dealt with here. The first, and broadest, is divisionwide 
adequacy of personnel and the Director has repeatedly stated 
the concept that major case specials must be handled with existing 
Division personnel. I agree with this wholeheartedly and have 
attempted to comply with that concept. 
Also related here is the situation which uniquely affects th 
Domestic Intelligence Division in that our basic area of responsi­
bility has been subjected to shifting patterns of work. Essentially, 
the rise of the black extremist was largely met with reduction 
in other work areas. The newer expanding threat of New Left 
terrorist activities is similarly being met by reduction·of 
personnel committed to other areas of work of less urgent priorities. 
Obviously~ there are pr~ctic~l limits: to the elasticity 
of manpower and our overall increase in caseload is indicative 
of considerable strain on our manpower capabilities. Facts 
concerning this increase are contained under "Pending Work and 
Delinquency," 4-D-l. 
I believe, however, we can adequately cope with our 
responsibilities with existing personnel. In order to accomplish 
this, considerable study and review of existing administrative 
practices have been made at my direction since taking over this 
Division 8/1/70. In order to put available personnel where 
highest priorities existed, a major reorganization was effected 
12/70 and our last inspection approved that action. The Director's 
letter dated 2/12/71 advising me of the Inspection Staff findings 
included the comment, "Continue to pay careful attention to 
imbalances in work load throughout the Division and take necessary· 
action to correct these situations, as you did recently in your 
reorganization.". 
• Wit~ this ~n mind, and drawing on facts developed 
during the reorganization and subsequent inspection, I directed 
a memorandum to Branch Chiefs J. A. Sizoo and D. E. Moore dated 
2/19/71 pointing to (i) the need for case count to reflect active 
matters, (2) their responsibility to know what is going on in 
their respective Branches and (3) specifically instructing them 
to submit a monthly analysis of the work load of their Branches. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
8/30/71 
CDB:mls 
6-E 
NW 38608 Docld:32989£-38 Page 266 
