• 
SECRET SENSITIVE 
,_... 
Other files are maintained concerningLthe Soviet Embassy.· CIA's position 
on this matter is that this is a State case which the Agency is running on 
behalf of State. 
There 1s also a file on Vesco held by the CI Staff. The Agency became 
involved in this situation because John Dean of the White House called and 
stated that President Nixon's brother had obtained a job \vith IOS. He 
\Vanted to kno\V \vhat IOS was all about. CIA, in fact, had a file on IOS, 
because it was knovvn that the Soviets had been attempting to penetrate that 
institution as a vehicle for getting agents into this country or. at least 
allo\ving them to learn of economic matters relating to the United States. 
Stein said that, at one point, Vesco's lawyer called to say that he wanted 
to have an account of everything \vhich had been said about Vesco over 
South American radio channels. The Agency refused this request; stating 
that it \Vas beyond its charter. 
(c) Defectors 
There are four sorts of defectors handled by the CI Staff. The first 
group are those under lo\v level cover which are being used to scan Soviet 
publications and to extract anything relating to Soviet intelligence which 
they, in light of their expertise,- may recognize. The second group of 
defectors are those with "talents". This group are forrre r KGB agents 
\"·ho, as a result, have special knowledge. They may be used from time 
to time to go and talk with (either in the United States or abroad) USSR 
citizens. Another sort of defector is one from Czechoslovakia. This 
particular person is highly knowledgable in Maxist-Le'ninist matters . 
..i\ccordiJ:?-gly, he is used to write propaganda \Vhich is dis s.eminated ab~oad. 
The last category of defectors are those who are no longer in regular 
contact \Vith the agent. These particular persons are seen from time to 
time for some particular reason which could simply be an administrative 
matter concerning their pensions, etc. 
The . CI Staff also maintains a file on defectors from An1e;rica 
to some other country (such as the Sovi~t Union, Cuba and others). 
These names are recorded because the persons involved may eventuaily 
end up in the United States once again or in some cou~try other than the 
Soviet Bloc. This vvould not necessarily mean that that person is a spy, 
but it does m~an that he \Vould be of counter-intelligence interest, At , 
approximately the time of the Kennedy assassination the Secret Service 
and the FBI became particularly interested in potential defectors from 
SECRET = SENSITIVE 
6 
372 Page 7 
'lt 
·:; 
