• • 
U. s. Senate Selec~ Committee 
to Study Governmental Operations 
With Respect to Intelligence Activities (ssc)· 
Hhile no systematic report was made ort a regular basis 
by former Director Hoover regarding COINTELPRO activities, infonnation regarding the COINTELPROS was periodically provided 
to his superiors in the Executive and Legislative Branches. FBI 
files contain considerable documentation clearly establishing 
no effort was made by Director Hoover to conceal from superior 
authorities the fact the FBI was engaged in neutralizing and 
disruptive tactics against revolutionary and violence-prone 
groups. This documentation is as follows: 
1. Briefins of the President.. On November 6, 1958, 
Director Hoover pres'ented to l'residenE ll'wight Eisenhower and the 
Cabinet an oral briefing entitled °Current Communist Subversion 
and Espionage in the United States, 1958. '.' Included in the 
gresentation material was a description of the Bureau's effort to 
'intensify any confusion and dissatisfaction among its (Communist 
Party, USA) members. 0 Use of informants was cited as a technique. 
to further this goal. This particular effort was referred to as 
one of several progrruns to counteract resurgenc~ of Communist Party influence in the United States. In November, 1974, former 
Assistant to the Director Cartha D. De.Loach advised he ~ecalled 
very clearly briefing President Lyndon B. Johnson regarding the 
Bureau's activities against black militants. 
2. Notification of White House. In 195~ a letter was. 
sent to Presidentiar Ai.de R.o'6e'rt' Cutler "at· the White House 
specifically advising that ou~ CO!NTELPRO directed against the 
Communist Party had been initiated in August, 1956, and citing 
examples of techniques utilized. In 1965,a letter was directed 
to Presidential Aide Marvin Watson at the vn1ite House advising 
him this Bureau was seizing every opportunity to disrupt the Klan. 
3. Notification of Secreta~x of State. In 1961, 
a le~ter enclosing a memorandum setting fortn examples of 
COINTELPRO actions directed against the Communist Party was sent 
to Secretary of State Dean Rusk~ 
- 2 -
NW 386iOI! Docld:32989510 106 
I.._ -
