/ 
f' 
I , 
·• 
c. Director of Central Intelligence Directives 
To implement the National Security Act of 1947 as 
amendod and the various National Security Council Xntelligonce 
Directives issued pursuant thereto, the Director of Central 
Intelligence has issued 11umerous Directives (DCID's). The 
first of these having a direct bearing dn jurisdictional matters 
is DCID No. 2/3, captioned "Domestic Exploitation of 
Nongovernmental Organizations and Individuals." NSCID No. 2, 
paragraph 7, states that CIA shall be responsible for the 
selective exploitation within the U. S. of such organizations 
and individuals as sources of foreign intelligence information. 
We, therefore, have avoided, and should avoid, any operations 
among nongovernmental organizations and individuals designed 
solely to produce foreign intelligence without CIA prior 
approval or nullification of these pro~isions. 
DCID No. 2/3 provides for exploitation of nongovernmental 
"':' U. S. citizens by CIA domestic field offices and states 1 "In 
cases where the Federal Bureau of Investigation has indicated an 
op~r.~tionn1 intP.rest in a U. s. citizen, Central Intelligence 
Agency will. coordinate with that agency prior to further contact. n 
, ·, 
~\ I 
,_,,, This DCID also provides for exploitation by CIA 
l J ., 
! ( 
'i ' 
.I 
I 
! i 
l · 
domestic field offices of aliens, following a prior name check 
with FBI so our statutory obligations may be properly met without 
CIA interference. 
It is of possible interest to note that in dealing with 
these two matters, DCID No. 2/3 refers to nongovernmental U. S. 
citizens but only to aliens (without the restrictive adjective). 
The NSCID on which it is based refers to nongrovernmental 
individuals without distinguishing between citizens and aliens. 
Thus, there appears to have been an.intention to confine CIA's 
intelligence exploitation functions within the U. s. A review 
of our file on CIA (62-80750) indicates this might well ~ave 
been a concession to the Bureau since we went on record opposing 
delegation of any intelligence collection functions within the 
U. S. to CIA i~ letters to Lieutenant General Hoyt S. Vandenberg 
(then Director of Central Intelligence Group) on June 25, 1946, 
(Serial 96), August 6, 1946, (Serial 138), and August 23, 1946, 
(Serial 222), which have been.discussed more fully under the 
heading "National Intelligence Authority." 
• 26 -
~NW...&atIDILOocld :l29$29 ----·--
