• 
-Inflammatory Articles 
• 
Many of the articles in Th 
and concern regional incid t e 8/a~k Panther are written 
black sympath d . . en s and issues. The . by local Party members 
ities. y an Jomt retaliation for magnifi:d ar~ aimed at provoking national 
grievances against the author-
RACIST-MAD PIGS SIC K9 
POLICE DOG ON BROTHER 
OD Friday Dlrl>t, Marcb 1/1, 19'10, crnlad the '1clou attacl<wulatar WIien Lltu• Hot-Rod WU nailed 
14 rr, old Brother Jolul (Little ldenws.d u ooe of !Uuo'a faaot on Smday attheYouthstudyCent.r, 
Hot-Rod) Harcrow became the Tic• law and order boJ• of the GRANNY hi• body wu Dot beallllc properly, 
um of a brutal attack IDfllcted by PATROL. The Gramiy Patrol 11 a H• related that the nurse only 
a K9 Pollce doc. Thlabrotlleralq special •smoat O! Plaerr which IPPllesmercurochromeontheblui1. 
with two other bloods. were ptay. employ• pip to dr/111 up as women He la IRlffer!Ds . from sorenesa, 
fll11J chaa1llc each other alcec the ao that they can arrelt IUJ)eeted He la aleeplq on bard coti In the 
sidewalk In the area of Sixth aad ptct-pocl<eta. o"r•cl'OINled center, Tbe bites on 
SOyder Streets. - the brotbera TIie party COl1dllcted u lntemew bla body are noll.., 'and IDflamed. 
appl'Olched the corner, CM brother wllh Ille bloods wbo were tortml&le TIie brotber's :tlrat remsrta to bla 
ran put b~ acalDat a 1ai!y encaa;b to pt away, we also apdte family were, "Tell my prola­
alandlne at the corner. WIien thla wllhthebrotber'• parenta,and were tlon officer to pt me cut of here, 
bappeoed the lady Immediately able to Tls1t the brother. at the Ibis place 11 Uke Byberry' • 
er•- the brother. The twoother YClllth study Cecter. We a1.IO opcke . 
bloocla tapt 1111WllC, Soon after tbe with the people Ill Ille comralllllty Jast Jes■ lhlll two net■ aao, 
Pie crabbed Ibo brollMtr; a IICbt col· wbo wltaeued the horrid IDcldelltl the brother was bealell In a cell 
ored ataU011 ..._ appeared,. ID the Followtac are exceri,14 from the D1Tlll011. Tbls Pie beat him ao b..s 
s!4UOD waa,,awerehroplaln clothes tapes which describe the IDcldect, that Methodist H-ltal complallled 
Pie•· Tbeae pip Immediately pro- We canaot 11a mmes here ot the to the Polle• Departmeat., llla eya1 
cee<led to lwid•cuff tbe blood, beat bloods because II bu been paaed were badly damapd. TIie 1)1&' a 
blm In the face, and Ull1nah a Tic- down tbat Ibo Pies are lryln&'. to name wbo lntUcted that beall!>I 
loua poUce doc lhat ripped the round up Ille other brother•. :,ru Juwalle Aid Otttcer,. Cbarle■ 
null ott the brodier'abody. Aa !be TIie raclat pie• IPllrc&ched the Kora. Hot-Rod ldlDl!tled Kora u 
brother triad to acape the blow■ brother• bJ ■-Inc "Get them bl■ a■-llant and llDce tben, bebu 
ot tbe Pie beo.llllc him Ill tbe tac., DlcPra, cat tllem Diner■'' TIiey boea barruaed la lll■neisllborbood 
the KO proceeded to bite him all chaad the blooda with buteber by every Pie wbo comes tllrouct,. 
o,.r his body. While the brotber knives, and wbat ll)peared to be At 14, Jolla Har,rvye la a maned 
was betnc beaten by tbe P1i, and an ax. CIiio brother wu hit with Tlc:Um ot Frank Riud■ tuclsta, 
attacked by tbe doc, the other pip a pipe Ill the stomach. Ilk• 10 many otberBlackyouthl In 
wbo came &10111 proceeded tocbaae Peq,le ID tbe community re- thla city. Pip are 011 tbe 1ooN to 
lbe olbor two blooda, 'l'llel>lp:tlred •PODded to lbe arrest and attact 111111ct more pbyilic&I barm to our 
a shot barely mlsslDJtbetore-bud anpily. When aver&! Pl()l)le 1D people, It la lllcb Ume tbat we 
ot one oi lbe brother■. the commuDlt:, demanded tbat tbe eacalau, our war 011 lbe pip and 
Little Hot-Rod, lwidcufted, tac• Pie• call off tbe doc, they were drift l1lem cut ot ourcommualU11. 
lladly beaten and sufl'erlllctromdoc met with racist remarll■ from the 
bites all over bla body, wu tu... pip. Selae Tbe Time people ot Phlla­
to the local police llali011 where The attack wu so vlclowi, tbe doc deJpbla, Riuo and all of bla racist 
he was boolted 011 -lclon of ate tlle underwear oc Ille bro\lilr■ -• lipracaaberqlltoua1:,blon 
plck-pockeua,. He did Dot reeelft body. ID· addltlon to bite• Ob Cia away. 
any medical att111t1011 mw several brothers bands, lep and walat 
boars later at the Pllil&delphla the doc 1110 bit tbe brother Ill the Roseman Mealy 
G-ral Hospital; there Ibey pw beet and rectum. Tbe brolheuutt- PhiladellJbla Branch 
him one tetaua abot and put a ered trom asftre boatlnp by the Black Pantbtr Party 
baDdap 011 each le,. The Pie wbo Pie■, In the face, 
24 
NW 38614 Docld:32989fi06 Page 147 
