A penetrative and objective study of the 
Bureau's position has led us -to ·conclude that the Bureau 
should play a much more active and influential role in 
the clandestine collection of D~sitive intelligence in the 
United States. We are recomraending the impiementation of 
a plan which will le~d to a vr.i,luablo eontribution to our 
n~tional security effort and concurrently will improve our 
internal security capabilities. This plan presents~ 
concept of an FBI as an Agency pTimarily responsible \for 
internal security, but supplementing its covera-g-e· with a 
substantially expanded capability in the clande~tine collec­
tion of positive intelligence. We believe that we have the 
·capability of developing this new look knowing 'tirat at the 
same time we can institute a badly needed leadership to 
elim~nate a gap in the acquirement of high-quality intelli­
gence in the United Stateso The main features of this plan 
are: 
1) Establishment of a list of foreign diplomatic 
targets consistent with the needs of the Government. 
2) Expansion of our technical surveillance 
capabilities with empli.asis on misurs a 
3) Expansion of live sources characterized with 
selectivity and high-quality value. 
4) The FBI assuming a role of leadership in the 
i clandest.ine exploi ta·· ion of positive intelligence in the 
• U. S. , and in so doing nalcing maximum use of the talent and 
capabilities of other appropriate u. s. Agencies. 
Authorization 
The plan would be implemented under proper executive 
authorization (Presidential) and furthermore would be coordi­
nated with the United States Intelligence·Board (USIE). A· . 
, letter from ·the J?r.esident authorizing the Bureau to expand 
~ its capabilities in clandestine positive intelligence collec­
tion, consistent with the needs of the government, would 
suffice. ln order to avoid any misunderstanding or confusion 
within the intelligence community; USIB would be apprised of 
the Presidential authorization. The letter from the Pr~sident 
would not require any details regarding the nature und the 
scope of the action to be taken by the Bureau but could be 
- 86 -
