~ 
\._: 
'i 
( SECRET 
---------
also been reported, but the evidence is unclear as to,-cfuantities shipped 
and the extent of Cuba's role in these transactio*s. We believe that 
there is an extensive agent net in Latin America directed from Havana. 
6. Castro has associated himself with revolutionary activist groups 
throughout Latin America. In most cases these have been Communist, 
but where the regular Communist Party favored a legal or parliamen­
tary line he has not hesitated to support dissident Communist groups, 
e.g., in Brazil, and non-Communist revolutionaries, e.g., in Guatemala 
arid El Salvador. In some cases he has sponsored new revolutionary 
organizations, e.g., in Panama, Colombia, and Peru. In Chile he has 
endorsed a popular front coalition made up of Communist and moderate 
leftists. • 
Evaluation 
7. Instanofus of financial and material support sent by Cuba to revolu­
tionaries in other countries which have come to our attention are 
probably only a part of the total effort. Even so, the effort seems to 
have been relatively ·sm'a:U and ineffective. Yet along with the political 
and psychological stimulu~'~hich Castro's influence has provided, Cuban 
subversive activities have p~rceptibly strengthened activist revolutionary 
groups. Dangerous situations subject to exploitation by Castro and 
the Communists exist in a number of Latin American countrie~ 
notably Venezuela, Brazil, British Guiana, the Dominican Republic, and 
Bolivia. These dangers arise from political and social tensions which 
existed long before Castro came to power. They might lie dormant 
for some time; but with Castro as a potential detonator, they are more 
likely to blow up. The detonative compound will exist as long as Cas­
troism survives, whatever may happen to • Castro personally. 
8. The most dangerous aspect of Castroism has been its broad appeal 
as a symbol of revolutionary change and nationalist assertiveness in 
Latin America. Propaganda from Cuba has taken advantag~ of this 
fact and has almost certainly been a more important influence in the 
Latin American situation than Castro's other subversive activities. 
During 1960 and 1961 Castroism became a \force to be reckoned with 
politically in a. number of Latin American countries. Certain govern­
ments felt obliged to move in the direction of neutralist and leftist posi­
tions. This influence waned, however, after Castro identified himself 
with the Bloc in late 1961. Nevertheless, the appeal to Castro's move­
ment continued to be a source of major concern to almost all govern­
ments and seriously restricted their willingness to associate themselves, 
at least publicly, with the US. 
4 SECRET 
I _NW 38601! Docld:32423995 Page a 
