• 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Senate Select Committee 
• 
Mr. O'Connor asked that we not contact the Committee directly 
at this time, but that we allow him to call John Elliff and Schwarz to , 
request that he be advised of the identity of all proposed FBI witness es 
and of the subject matter of the proposed interviews, and that such inter-
views or testimony not go forward pending developments of an agreement 
on guidelines. O'Connor promised that he would make the contact promptly 
and advise me today of the results. I agreed to withhold our contact 
pending receipt of the information from him. 
Mr. O'Connor then insisted that a letter be prepared for the 
Attorney General to send to Senator Church pointing out the failure of the 
Committee to afford complete protection of the rights of witnesses. I 
declined to undertake that responsibility and I told him the reason was that 
a formal document addressed to the Chairman of the Committee would tend 
to impair our efforts to negotiate with the Committee and certainly would be 
untimely in view of the conference he described as being scheduled for next 
Tuesday at noon. 
Mr. O'Connor then said he would hate to have to tell the Deputy 
Attorney General that the FBI declined to prepare such a draft. I told him 
that not only would I not mind him telling the Deputy Attorney General, but 
I wished he would tell the Deputy Attorney General and explain my reason 
for not sending such a formal letter addressed to Senator Church at this 
time. Mr. O'Connor said that "well everyone else agrees to the letter," 
and I told him the F Bif, does not agree. 
Mr. O'Connor said that if he was going to have to draft the 
letter for the Attorney General's signature, he would do it, but that he would 
need the information concerning the interviews of former 'SA Devlin and 
former SA Sentinella. I told Mr. O'Connor that the information concerning 
Sentinella was en route to him already and that we would endeavor to 
furnish him as promptly as possible any additional information available 
to us concerning these interviews. 
At 11:13 a. m. on May 23, 1975, Mr. O'Connor called me and 
said that he had just concluded a conversation with John, Elliff during which 
Elliff agreed that in regard to the s-cheduled interview of former SA Sam !Papich 
on May 29, 1975, at 9:00 a. m., he would furnish us the substance of the 
- 5 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989588 103 
