NW 38601! 
SUGGESTION MEMORANDUM 
BOND DEFAULT MATTERS 
C. LARSON: 
matters under investigation. 
a fertile field for increased 
Default classification. 
As of.10/1/70, the San Francisco 
Office had 48 bond default 
This volume of cases presents 
convictions under the Bond 
An in depth survey conducted by the Inspection 
Division disclosed that there has been a significant 
incre.::ise in cases received by the FBI for investigation 
subsequent· to the passage of the Bail Reform Act of 1966. 
This Act liberalized bail and bond procedures in Federal 
cases whereby subjects were to be considered for release 
on their own personal recognizance or unsecured appearance 
bond in contrast to previous procedures which required a 
specific bond, creating an excellent opportunity for us 
to achieve statistical accomplishments. The ratio of 
cQnvictions to the number of cases inv~stigated in bond 
default matters is one of the highest of any violation 
handled by the Bureau . 
. One of our offices, namely San Diego, has been 
responsible for the most significant portion of the Bureau's 
convictions in bond default matters as a result of effective 
1iaison with the U. S. Attorney, who felt that an indictment 
obtained under bond default was more easily proven than 
the substantive offense. When a subject is apprehended, 
the sentence is, in part, influenced by the U.S. Attorney, 
who informs the court the length of time the subject's 
-apprehension has been sought by the Bureau. A number of 
these cases have a~isen through charges of narcotics and 
-~muggling of merchandise and aliens across the border . 
. ~ubjects were brought before a magistrate, and rather than 
pleading guilty, subjects obtained a court appointe~ 
attorney and entered a not guilty plea. They were released 
then on either personal recognizance or a minimum bond until 
their scheduled appearance. When the subject failed to 
appear in court, a b.ench warrant was issued, San Diego opened 
a case, and. us-ua-JJ:)11 w.ii.-th·in -..3,0 days an indictment was secured 
under bond default. 
SAN FRANCISCO INSPECTION 
10/23/70 WAK:kah ~/ 
[),qc!<!_:329~~Page 171 
