I 
f~· 1:. 
I. 
I i' 
)! 
l NW 313'600 
•- • , 
All United States governmental components have 
some individual internal responsibility .. for the security 
of personnel, records, and physical facilities. Aside 
from these basic security functions, the overall counter­
intelligence role in the United States Government is shared 
by several specific intelligence agencies. The conduct of 
~ counterintelligence overseas is one of CIA's original 
'functions flowing from the National Security Act of 1947, 
as amended, and specifically spelled out and developed in 
a series of National Security Council Intelligence Directives. 
The FBI has the general responsibility for conduct of 
counterintelligence operations within the United States 
based on statutory responsibilities (enforcement of espionage, 
sabotage, neu-trality, registration acts, and related ma·tters) 
as well as a series of Presidential Directives a-nd Attorney 
General orders. • 
Success of United States counterintelligence i-s 
proportionate to the exten·t to which it exis-ts a-s an 
integrated, .unified conc.ept with_ ful.lest coord:i,.nl:ltion amon_g 
the separate agencies •. It did not exist as such until 
World War II; and only small progress was made after that 
war, despite the National Security Act of 1947. An 
integrated system·first began to take .shape in 1958, when 
the National Security Council moved directly into the· 
. problem. Intelligence a.nd counterintelligence directives 
which.established the basic-ground rules were formulated 
, and placed in effect •. As a result the United State.s ha,s a 
set of counterintelligence concepts and precepts that 
organize our experience and hold us together. Throughout 
the recent years interagency coordination and cooperation 
. have become a working reality, becoming more ·and more 
effective as the level of coordination continues to rise. 
The e·ffecti veness of counterintelligence also· 
requires recognition of its separateness a.s a function. In 
CIA and elsewhere, before the mid-1950s, counterintelligence· 
was often identified only with security and the ad hoc 
exchange of limited amounts· of inf·ormation in liaison. It 
was sometimes regarded as an adjunct to other specialities, 
- 5 
Docld:32989530 Page 156 
