. . 
• •• I 
An examination of thi services of the democracies 
mentioned above, viz., Britian, Australia and Canada, reveal 
that all do distinguish between the pure law enforcement 
function and the counterintelligence/internal security 
function; however, there is not a total separation of the 
functions. For example, the British Security Service (llI-5) _ 
handles counterintelligence exclusively with MI-5 case officers, 
but places it's internal security investigations in the hanqs 
of the Special Branches .of the local constabularies (comparable 
to the intelligence divisions of 1 local U. S. police departments). 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organization (ASIO), 
modeled after MI-5, and of recent vintage (post W.W.II), 
handles all counterintelligence and internal security investi­
gation with its ovm officers; however, it is rivalled to some 
extent in the interval security fiel4 by the Intelligence 
Bureau of the national Commonwealth Police. The Royal 
Canadian Mounted Police, a truly na'l:ional police force, with 
.extensive local and Federal jurisdiction, has branched.off 
its intellig~nce division into a new, near autonomous Security 
Service, with operational procedures more akin to MI-5 and 
ASIO than to tradi-t:ional law enforcement. 
In short, these countries recognize that the 
political, social and foreign policy considerations which . 
must ao into counterintelligence and internal sec~~ity investi­
gations make them a different animal from "routine" cr2m1na1. 
investigation; yet:, they also recognize that the agency with 
internal·security jurisdiction must also have an intimate 
and close working relationship with a law enforcement agency. 
Complete separation, at least of the internal security 
function from law enforcement, does not appear to be 
~~~ ·~practically feasible. MI-5 and ASIO were o~iginated without 
t';:,\~S\ <otl~t1t. law enforcement powers, and MI-5 ca~didly admits it would 
~o~~',,l' like· to become part of a national police force. RCMP Security 
,~f,l)Q..J,s Service case officers would not consider surrendering their-c 
~ police powers. 
Separation of the counterintelligence func~ion 
would be more practically feasible; howe~Jer, the commingling 
of counterintelligence and internal security interests, and 
the threat of a merger of the counterintelligence function_ 
with the p0sitive foreign intelligence collection agency, 
especially in the u. s., are both practical and poJitical 
reasons militating against this course. 
- 4 -
Docid :,3,2989 
