Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall 
Re: SENSTUDY 75 
62-116395 
instances of institution of counterintelligence activities were 
discussed, and it was indicated that these activities were minor as 
far as the overall BPP investigation was concerned. 
In connection with COINTELPRO, the Bureau letter to 
SAC, San Francisco dated 5/11/70 captioned "Counterintelligence and 
Special Operations" was discussed. Basically, this .ilietter suggests 
San Francisco consider a proposal thau through the use of documents 
subtly incorporating false information, attempt to give the BPP 
the impression that the documents were stolen by a disgruntled 
police employee who is sympathetic to the Panthers. This 
document was presented to the House of Representatives Connnittee on 
Internal Security in 1974 and was included in their publication of 
hearings conducted Th¥ that Committee. Messrs. Seidel and Smith 
wanted to know if the activities outlined in this letter had been 
implemented by the San Francisco or Los Angeles Offices. He was 
advised that this letter was not implemented as it had requested 
connnents and ~econnnendations of the San Francisco Office, and that 
Office had reconnnended against the proposals contained therein-. 
Mr. Seidel asked the identity of the SAC who reconnnended 
against this proposal and was advised that the SAC there, at that 
time, would not necessarily have had personal knowledge of the matter. 
He then asked identity of supervisor who r~connnended against proposal 
and was advised this information was available in the field office. 
Concerning COINTELPRO in general, he inquired as to specific 
techniques used against the BPP and whether forgery and wiretaps 
had been a part of the program. He was advised that we were unable 
to furnish that information without extensive file review. 
Mr. Seidel attempted to discuss Special Operations but 
he was advised that the matter was not within the purview of the 
current meeting. 
Mr. Seidel explained that they would be traveling to 
San Francisco and intended to iqterrogate personnel in that Office 
as well as unspecified outsiders who may have been involved in 
COINTELPRO. Mr. Seidel stated that he had asked for the me·eting 
with Bureau personnel to obtain background data to aid them in these 
- 2 -
NW 38614 Docld:3298961()6 163 
