•· 
U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE-ON 
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES .(SSC) ; 
INTERVIEW OF SUPERVISOR RICHARD H. BLOESER 
BY SSC STAFF MEMBER 
Mr. Seidel then posed a hypothetical question 
involving the rollowing factors: Would Supervisor Bloeser 
now or in the past approve a counter intelligence proposal 
whereby one extremist with a criminal record of violence 
be anonymously informed that -anot~!€r -extremist with a 
record of criminal violence-was-an inf0rmant for the FBI,· 
knowing that the alleged informant-might be injured or 
killed. Supervisor Bloeser replied that under the present 
conditions s~ch a proposal would not be approved, but . 
that he could not give an answer as to what his feelings 
might have been six or seven years ago under any given 
situation. Mr. Seidel was again reminded that Congress .. 
in the past has not hesitated to ·support wars which kill 
thousands of people but that recently they have criti~~i-.:::..ecQ 
the CIA for allegedly plotting to assassinate one individual 
wlose death might prevent a war. Mr. Seidel was also informed 
that it was ironic that- Congress was investigating another 
agency'of the .Federal Government which was attempting ·po 
rrevent revolutionary violence in this country. 
Mr. Seidel.then inquired into the counter 
intelligence proposals appro.ved by the Bureau in relation 
to the actress Jean Seberg and Raymond Hewitt, a leader 
of the BPP. This proposal concerned the fact that Seberg, 
who was then .married .to .a. Fr.en.ch pro.ducer, admitted be.;i.ng. 
pregnant-by He✓itt who wa$,~a:ys.o·.:.:mar,p.i~d,·.a.t.·the ·time ..... The 
Bureau appro"ied c1nonymonsl::y a~akli.ng· .. :this· inf:ornv=rt-io.n • to a 
Hollywood _columnist. Mr. Seidel inquired as to whether 
Supervisor Bloeser did or did not b~lieve that this was an 
i~v~sion of privacy. Supervisor Bloeser responded that the 
item ·was news:J,orthy and that i-t would have been any .. f ai:c game 
for any .newsmen had they.· come .across it in t"he . cou;r-s_e 0£ ,·t:heir 
business which they could• have· probably e.as9y ·done, and t.hat 
certainly Congress would not .have cr.i ti~ a newspaper ::Bor 
printing such an item or claim it to be an:bvasion of privacy. 
Mr. S~idel inquired as to ·the purpose of this particular 
operation and he was informed that Miss Seberg was giving 
support.to the BPP and that it was hoped that such publicit~ 
-_would prevent. any future sup.port .by,..h.er o.f the BP-P •. •. __ ,_: 
-
- 3 
