I 
~~ Trust Company Bank 
~j rF8. 
• • 
-~ f} ' 
~ A~anta. Georgia 30302 , 1< 
r ~ 
. ' ,,. 
Special Agent Seymour Phillips 
November_25, 19/5 
Page·Four 
Q - Any special instructions I recalled on how I was to handle him? 
A - I was to maintain control over him and recognize that by his 
personality that if his control was not maintained that he was 
the type that would run off because of his enthusiasm and put his 
safety in jeopardy. He was also the type who would try to run 
the show if you let him. 
Q Any .recollections I had to the ¢r,,Iother 1 s Dayl- incident? 
A I had only heard of the incident, but was not with the Bureau in 
B irminghan:i. , 
Q - Did I ever direct Rowe while he was i..n i:he homes of Klar.smen to 
attempt to steer them to certain rooms in the house while t?ey 
engaged in conversation? • 
A - No.and.commented that they rarely discussed anything of value in 
homes or Klan ~eeting halls, but did so in small action groups. 
Q - A general question on. the problem of handli~ a Klan informant 
as oppos·ea to a criminal-. informant with Kelty setting an example 
of an informant in a ·bank robnery? • 
A - I did not see any particular difference from his example and that 
of a Klansman planning to bomb a buildLng. 
These were the only questions I rdcorded in note· form as he asked 
them. There may have been a few others, but none of any significance 
and Kell' appeared very cooperative and matter of fact throughout the 
deposition. Ward and Kell"y escorted me back to Room G-308 where I was 
asked to swear to the deposition by a f;N,otary :l?ublic, Audrey Hatry. -:t­
i--n:fo:1?-med Kelt'y that-I-hoped this would ~e the lasi:· time I ".'.:70uld se_e h:rm 
,0B-t-J;iJ.-,s matter and he responded-he was 1•1pretty sure it wasf·. 
Frease express my appreci~tion-0f-the manner in which the FBI 
helped me after I secured assistance, parti:et:1.J.a.rly the people .in the 
Congressional Affairs and the, staff in your division. 
-~ours very truly,_ ✓-· 
fJ!~foL-
•• J. Bro0'ke ':B,lake 
Seq.0nd Vice Pre$.:i.dent and 
Director of Secuf'ii:y "" 
""· 
Copies to: Special Agent In Charge, James Dunn 
A-5.1 
lNw 38tiiOB Dotld:32989570 11 . 
