U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
ALDEN F. MILLER BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
SA Miller was asked whether a feasibility study 
was made prior to the actual installation or a survey 
conducted. SA Miller replied that he did not recall at 
this late date whether such a feasibility study was made 
prior to the installation. SA Miller was asked whether 
if such a study or survey was made whether it was reviewed 
byhigh officials prior to ordering such an installation. 
SA Miller replied that he did not specifically recall 
whether such a review as that was made on a feasibility 
or survey, as if this were done, it would have been done 
in Washingt0n, and SA Miller woul4 not have been in a 
position to know of such a review. 
SA Miller was asked in making the telephone tap 
did the Atlanta Office have sufficient equipment here and 
if not, where did we get such equipment to make this 
installation. SA Miller replied that the Atlanta Office 
did not have equipment available for such an installation 
and at this date it is unknown where the equipment came 
from, however, a request for such equipment would have 
been made • ~ .0.f __ FBI Headquarters in Washington, D. C. SA 
Miller was asked whether he dealt with the phone company 
in conjunction with this installation and he replied that 
he undoubtedly had requested line_inforrnation which relates 
to pair and cable data for phones to be covered in this 
technical installation. Inquiry was made of SA Miller 
as to the identity of the person at the Southern Bell 
Telephone Company who provided such information and it 
was stated that at this late date it was impossible to 
say definitely who furnished this data as the phone 
company during this era was in the process of setling up 
a security office who would normally provide such infor­
mation under the proper circumstances and that if such an 
office were then in existence Mr. Theodore King would have 
provided the line information desired. 
SA Miller was asked whether leased lines were 
obtained from the phone company in conjunction with this 
installation, to which he replied he did not specifically 
recall whether leased lines were utilized or whether other 
telephone service was ordered with subsequent adaptation 
enabling the use of this service for the technical installation. 
- 3 -
NW 38600 Docld:32989626 Page 52 
