• - 3 -
Page 9, Para~ph C. A summary of procedures fol" rrail covers 
has been providecl by rro; recent letter to y0u. L11 addition to that, 
a s;l=a:'1!-J~ff;it~~~ surrmary of m3.il covers on closed matters will be :m3.de 
ava1.labie to you h's. Room 4-171, together witi-i access to the tmderly:ing 
docume.11.tation requesting the individual mail covers. 
Iocurr.en:ta:tion relatii,g to the opening of mail will be withheld 
at pr€sent, due to ongoing investigati<?ns. 
After your review of the mail cover sUIT1.rna.ries and any under­
lying docurrents you wish to r-eview, we will discuss any further access 
which you may request to IP.ail cover information. 
Page 10, Paragraph E. I under-stand and accept your explanation 
that the word !lirr,ple.i-nenta-tion11 in l:ine 2 of paragraph E(l). does not 
seek access to the 11rav111 files of COINTEIPRO programs. All of the 
rr:-e.mr-anda originating the several COiw"TET PRO prograiw will be made 
avai.lable to you and specific appropriately cleared staff for review 
in Room 4171. 
We will furnish ·to you, fer your study at Senate Sele9t. 
Corrroittee offices, a cor.rplete set of the excised ex.11ibits A-E to 
the Petersen Report; as previously agreed, your staff may have 
access to any unexcised pages of Exhibits A-E which you may wish to 
see, and which will be maintained at Room 4171. 'The back up _:rraterials 
underlyi..'1g any particular summary i.ri. A-E .will be extracted from ·the 
nrru-711 files up-on yo\IT' ~quest ·arid made avai:J,.able to you for your 
study in Room 4171. i General· access to the "raw" files is not 
required> as I understand it, for your purposes under:-this agreement. 
General disclosure of :inforrnation derived from documents other thai'"l 
the excised pages of Exhibits A-E will be made available subject to 
limitations to be determined, depeI1.dent upon the sensi-'ci vi ty ·bf such 
information, in conference .. with appropriate Bureau officials and in 
accordance wi·th the provisions of paragraph B of the Outline for 
Inquiry Procedures, to protect ·the considerations outlined aoove ~ 
Page 14, Item I. 'Ihis will confirm your tmderstand:ing that 
certain Huston Plan docu.rr..e.ri.ts prepared by the Bureau in response to 
your request under this headi.t,g have been delivered to the White 
House for "third age..ri.cy clearance 11 • This statement fonrally oonfinns 
w,y previous discussions with you of this fact when we met with 
Mr. Schwarz and Mr. Srr.ot11er-s on July 2. Be advised that the docu-
1nents which have been transmitted to the White House for clea:rai,ce 
will be forwarded to you, or made available for access, if appropriate, 
upon our receipt of the White House directions. 
Docld:32989ti40 Page JOT 
