CURRENT CAPABILITIES OF CIA IN 
THE FOREIGN INTELLIGfu1"CE COLLECTION 
FIELD IN THE UNITED STATES ' 
~ In order that there may not be aAY 
misunderstanding regarding CIA rs capabilit~es to 
collect foreign intelligence in the Uni~ed:statesP 
we should first clarify that one of the components 
. of the Ag0ncy which has offices in the United States 
does not engage in this particular activity. 
The Office of Security, which is responsible for 
personnel and physical security 1 maintains several 
offices in the United States under authorized 
Treasury Department covero Personnel of this 
office conduct investigations of applicants, firms 
or individuals who may be utilized by CIA on 
a contract basis to support intelligence operations 
overseas .. 
The overt collection of intelligence by 
CIA is handled by the Domestic Contact Service (DCS) 
(formerly called Contact Division)~• ·crA estimates 
that DCS has a capability of tapping approximately 
15 per cent of the total potential of intelligence in 
the Uo s. This Division has 18 field offices and 
16 resident agencies in the United States, and each. 
office is openly identified as being connected with 
CIA. Personn~l totaling approximately 140 carry CIA 
credentialso The Division regularly has a number of 
officers from the various military services who are 
assigned to this Division on a temporary basiso 
These military officers concentrate on the collection 
o:f that foreign intelligence which relates to the 
immediate United States military needs. The personnel 
of DCS interview aliens, tourists, officials of 
import-export firms, students 9 scientists, and the 
information collected covers a very broad spectrum in 
the positive intelligence category. DCS-claims to have 
contact with about 7200 organizations, institutions, or 
·~'' businesses and has approximately 60pOOO contacts or ··.• 
sources of inforoation. The information is reported in 
the form of "Information Reports," which is disseminated 
throughout the intelligence community. During/1965, 
: ··· .. ,'• • •, I • 
I 
• 59 ... • . 
. , 
NW 38608 Docl 
l f. 
I 
·• 1 
i 
~ ... 
~ 
... 
