' • I 
,, 
,, 
• 'I 
I 
. ,:.~'··· 
• -;ii" 
. ;~ ·!';. 
<, I 
'• .... 
• I 
.. . 
' : ... . . . 
V • DOMESTIC "INTERNAL SECURITY'' ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE: 
-. ; ALTERNATIVES TO KEITH PROHIBITION 
rhere are several elements within United States 
society which pose a threat to the safety and tranquility of 
segments of that society, e.g., police officers, symbols of 
t.he "Establishment,
11 
etc. While some of these elements claim 
to be "revolutionary" and claim as an ultimate objective the 
overthrow of the United States Government, there is no respon­
·sible opinion that feels any of these elements have any chance 
of success in toppling the Government. Yet, they do pose a 
significant threat of inflicting serious, and sometimes ex­
tensive, damage on individuals and property. 
In combatting these elements, law enforcement ts 
confronted with' the opposite of its usual task. Ordinarily, la·w 
enforcement is confronted with a completed crime and investigates 
to identify suspects and to prove guilt; in these cases it has 
> the suspects, e.g., individuals or groups have said they intend to 
murder police officers, bomb buildings, etc., so law enforcement's 
job is then to thwart co1Tu-nission of the crime. This is an intel­
ligence investigation. It is conducted prior to a threatened 
criminal act, not after the act, and as such ranges wider and 
.looks into more fawcets of the suspect's behavior. Yet, it is 
not a "fishing expedition''; it is•based on some solid indication 
·that the suspe~t intends to, and has the capability of,. committing 
some crime. 
. .Because of the exaggerated rhetoric of many of these 
elements, which never do actually commit a crime, the difficulties 
in identifying specific individuals as suspects, in showing a 
cause-effect relationship between the urgings and claims of group 
leaders and • the act o-f the actual triggerman or bomber, and in 
showing suspected imminenc~ of the criminal act, it is almost 
impossible to make a probable cause showing, as we understand 
that term today, to support a warrant for restricted types of 
investigation. Essentially what law enforcement has, or dependi~~ 
on your emphasis, all that law enforcement has, is a suspicion, 
based on stateq criminal objectives of these elements, claims of 
criminal accomplishments, and indications from behavior _and 
attitudes, that these elements may engage in destructive criminal 
behavior sometime in the future. 
- 14 -.. 
-NW#: 8-8-6-0-8---DG-G:Id..:.32989
1
54.1 
