·' 
~~. ,· ... __,_, __ ._.........,...,........, .. ....._..,,_ 
·TOP SECRET 
-~.· ... '-~·:· • The Secretary of State expressed concern at the Agency I s 
.planned coverage of Cuba, involving extensive peripheral 
• ·coverage as well as two legs directly over Cuban air space, 
·'all.in one flight. He said he had no objection to the 
p~riph~ral pa~ts and, in fact, thought it useful to continue 
to establish our right to fly over international waters. On 
·the- other hand, he recognized the necessity of obtaining vertical, 
coverage of the Isle of Pines and the eastern portion of Cuba 
at this time. He felt, hcn-·;ever, that, it was unt·1ise to combine. 
extensive overflying of international waters with actual over­
flights. He pointed out that the long peripheral flights 
would draw undue attention to the mission and, further, should 
the ·aircraft fall into enemy hands after an overflight had 
occurred,'this would put the United States in a very poor position 
for standing on its rights to overfly international water~. 
Taking these views into account, the Agency's plans to 
break this proposed coverage into four parts: the Isle of Pines; 
the area roughly east of longitude 77 west; and two legs along 
the coast, one north and one south. 
Within this framework, higher authority gave ?pproval this, 
morning for two additional missions to be added to th~ one for 
which authority is currently outstanding. Priority will be 
given to the two overflights. (A notation on the file copy 
of these Special Group minutes states that as of this morning 
it appears that weather will not permit a flight until at lea.st 
Friday, and longer range weather prospects are·not very good, 
consequently it will be some little time before these three 
authorizations are used up.) 
In connection with the minutes of this meeting, the Special 
Group records contain a note for the file dated October 25, 
1962, stating that COMOR later reconunended that the Bay of 
Pigs area should be looked at since it had not been seen since 
June ..•. Time over mainland would be 12½ minutes for a· total 
of 75 miles •.•. depth of penetration, 13 miles. o •• nearest 
kno.wn SAM site, 35 miles av.ray. The file note further stated 
that after considerable negotiation with the Department of 
State it was agreed that this additional coverage would be 
accomplished. 
(In quoting the minutes of this September 10 meeting in a ' 
memorandwn from.Mr. Tom Parrott to Deputy Secretary of Defense 
Gilpatric•dated November 30, 1962, there was an addendwn which 
stated: "N .B. Iv1r. Bundy said on 13 September 1962 that he 
thought the intent of higher authority's approval was such that 
the entire number of four missions would be considered as being 
approved. This thus extends the outstanding authorizations 
from three to four.") 
- 9 - ' 
I I : I 
•• ._ ..... 1--~, . .-.. ~ - .. 
; : •-• ~ \_, • I .,• 
r 
I 
! . ' i ' •. . . 
