• 
Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
62-116395 
• 
It is noted that we previously furnished to ~he 
Select Committee with the AG's approval one copy each.of 
Sections 87 and 122 of the Manual of Instructions. Section 87 
is concerned with investigations of' subversive organizations • 
and individuals . .Section 122 addresses extremist matters and 
civil unrest. In his discussion of these two Sections it was 
readily apparent Mr. Gitenstein had c0nd~cted a thorough review. 
In this regard, he noted a difference in the investigative procedure 
outlined in these two Sections of the Manual. Mr. Gitenstein 
was advised that the. Intelligence Division had just completed 
a Manual revision combining these two Sections into one and had 
submitted it to the Director for his approval. Mr. Gitenstein 
commented this was an excellent idea to combine these two Sections 
into one and expressed the hope that the ·revised Section could 
be made available to the Committee-for its review in anticipation 
of the forthcoming Committee hearings. 
' , 
At the conclusion of the meeting, Elliff asked whether 
the FBI would,be willing to meet with the S'taff' to discuss such 
sensitive issues as surreptitious entry, the opening of mail, and 
incomnrunicado interviews. Elliff w~s advised that the ~ureau was 
aware of certain allegations that have appeared in the press and 
felt that any interviews in sensit;i.ve ar.eas should be restricted 
to the Senators on the Committe~. Elliff interposed no objection 
to this suggestion. 
The thrust of the meeting gave Bureau officials present 
the impression t4a,t the task force was primarily concerned with 
identifying what areas of the Bureau's investigative responsi­
bilj.t.ies needed to be bet'ter defined through new legislation. 
In fact, Elliff solicited the observations of those present as 
to what the. Bureau's needs were in the way of new legislation 
to permit the Bureau to carry out its internal security responsi­
bilities effectiv·ely. He recognized certain limitations involving 
records of educational institutions, banking institutions, telephone 
companies and credit es~ablishments currently restrict the Bureau • 
.and suggest that some legislation with Congressional oversight 
should be written to assist 'the FBI in carrying out its mission. 
- .3 -
I NW 313'600 Docld:32989588 232 
