NW 38601! 
• -2-
The Committee has not yet received a formal response to those 
letters. Appendix A sets out those documents which have not yet 
been supplied t·o the Cammi ttee pursuant to the Harch 19 letter 
and follow-up __ corr~spondence. 
On the second matter, that is, the request for copies of addi­
tional documents (and for staff access to others), the Committee's 
interest falls into roughly three areas pertaining to the activities ... of the FBI and the Department of Justice: 
First, the C0mmittee has been mc;!.de aware of additional 
documents that are analogous to the background requests made 
in the First Document Request. These documents are set out 
as Appendix B. • 
Second, the Committee is ~oncerned about several programs 
or studies pertaining to specific intelligence or counter­
intelligence activities of.the 'FBI. S. Res. 21 specifically 
requires the Committee to inv:e·stigate "the conduct of domestic 
counterintelligence operatioi-is against United States citizens" 
. by the FBI. Therefore, the Committee must conduct an exhaustive 
investigation of the so-called "COINTELPRO11 programs as well 
as miscellaneous other incidents which have come to our attention. 
S .. Res. 21.also specificGlly re~uires·the Conunittee to investi­
gate all aspects qf the so-called "Huston Plan". Furth~r 
requests pertaining ~o these matters are set out. as Appendix C. 
T"nird, we are interested in· allegations pertaining to 
electronic surveillance generally, ··electronic surveillance of 
the so-called 1117 government officials and journalists II in 
1969-71 by the FBI, electronic 'surveillance and other intelli­
gence activities directed at Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and 
electronic surveillance and other intelligence activities at 
the Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City, New Jersey, 
in the summer of 1964. Requests pertaining to these subjects 
are set out as Appendix D. • 
In setting out certain specific documents in the Appendices, 
the.Committee does not change its position that the original request 
of rfarch 19 was general in scope and des:i.gned to encourage the 
Justice Department and the FBI to provide us with documents pertain­
ing·to the lega.;L authority and the policy and procedures of the FBI 
which .have not yet been brought to the ~~tention of the Committee 
and were theref0re not specifically mentioned in any of its requests. 
Furthermore, the Committee intends its r~quests to be generously . 
construed so that descriptive words used herein are meant in'a general 
r 
f' I 
I 
