NW 38601! 
• 
ADEQUACY OF PERSONNEL· 6-E 
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR C. D. BRENNA~ Attached find the Section 
(CDB:amk) 8/30/71 ~write-ups concerning each 
category of information 
requested by the Inspector relative to adequacy of personnel. 
These comments are current as of August 17, 1971. 
The personnel assigned to the Division Front Office 
consist of one Assistant Director, two Inspectors, two· Special 
Agent Supervisors, five stenographic employees and twenty 
clerical employees. This complement includes the personnel 
directly assigned to the Front Office, those in the Division 
teletype room and Mail Rooin and Messenger Service, and the 
Security Patrol force in addition to five Agents . 
. The overall authorized personnel complement of the 
Division at the beginning of Inspection was 120 Special Agents 
and 199 clerks, compared to an authorized complement of 116 
Special Agents anct l~0 clerks at tne ~ime of the last Inspection. 
As of August 17, 1971, we had 119 Special Agents 
assigned to the Domestic Intelligence Division (DID). This 
includes 2 Special Agents who are assigned on a temporary loan 
basis to the Intelligence Evaluation Committee in the Department 
of Justice (IEC). Since August 17, 1971, SA.D~an N~ ,Lloyd 
~eported to the Research Section as a replacement for SA Bernard A . 
. ~ell~~who retired on 7/30/71. We are awaiting the repla2";ment 
for SA Victor
2
R. lz.£.!.t~zf~ who was transferred to Salt Lake City 
on 7/23/71 as Assistant Special Agent in Charge of that office. 
SA George M. Quinn has been designated as SA Schaefer's 
replacement out has not as ye~ rep~rted to his assignment. With 
the reporting of SA Quinn, our assigned complement will be 121 in 
view of the fact that SA .... °Garnett T. Tunstall (on loan to IEC 
from Extremist Intelligence SectioilJ'''has''been r.eplaced and we 
include SA ..,T,µ.n1:,,:t~J.J. in our total assigned complement. 
As of August 17, 1971, we had 204 clerical employees 
assigned to DID. This is because r~cent replacements have 
reported to replace employees under transfer o·r resignation who 
have not left as yet. Since August 17, 1971, we had two 
additional clerks, GS-4, report to the Division. However, we 
have had two resignations submitted which will absorb them. 
We have one Section with an additional employee assigned which is 
d~pendent entirely upon the approval of a new position involving 
no increase in grade or salary. 
