' 'I 
I- - 7 ~-H-1 I . . I 
!-.• 
closely with ·Mexican police require our agents to be-on 
the scene for anything but relatively routine investigations. 
The Legal Attache has for some time been considering 
possibility· of opening one or more additional "Resident 
Agencies" to afford faster coverage and more thorough 
investigations in areas which now require extended road trips. 
Recommendation 
Continue.· 
OTTAWA 
.-r· • lVith ltfexico City. this is one of· oUl~ two most" 
important and productive offices. The establishment of 
a.· Chinese Communist Diplomatic Mission in Canada, the 
asylum afforded our deserters and Selective Service fugitives, 
and the relatively open border make Canada an area of 
int·ense FBI interest. We are fortunate in having RCMP with 
. n~:~ion-wide. secnri ty jurisdiction and nearly nation-wide 
police jurisdiction to handle our investigations. While 
we have a two-man office in Ottawa, RCMP has a three-man 
office in Washington because of the number of United States 
agencies with which they do business .. Our relations with 
RCMP are outstanding and they are the closest counterpart 
.of the FBI of any foreign investigative agency . 
. . 
• '. • _·· · ' .. ~_Productivity 
~ . ' ': . 
. The case load as of 6/30/71 was 548 which is by 
·far the highest on a per agent basis. During fiscal 1971, 
the office located 994 FBI fugitives, 37 fugitives for other 
agencies, 755 Selective Service delinquents, and recovered 
92 stolen automobiles. Ninety "informal deportations" were 
effected. As of 8/23/71, the office had submitted 22 HILEV 
items of which 10 were used. This is below average. 
Personnel -
The sheer volume of work makes the problem in 
Ottawa primarily clerical. As a streamlining measure, RCMP 
has printed routing slips with spaces for our titles and 
file numbers which the Legal Attache uses in forwarding RCMP 
work to the Bureau. An additional clerk has recently been 
furnished Ottawa and it is expected that the recent inspection 
will have noted the effect of this increase. 
Recommendation 
l · · Continue. 
NW-UfiiOl.:_i;:!9Gld~JJLe,ag 
