U-. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT((SA) 
CHARLES T. HAYNES BY SSC STAFF MEMBERS 
Epstein asked if it would be customary for New 
York to send Atlanta any information they received regarding 
Stanley Levison and if so what file it would be put in. It 
was explained to Epstein it would be necessary to know the 
nature of such information before answering such a question, 
however, since Atlanta did not have any pending investigation 
regarding Levison or SCLC there would be no reason for New 
York to send any information regarding Levison to Atlanta 
unless they had some reason to request information concerning 
some pending investigation. Epstein pressed the question of 
whether New York would continue to send Atlanta information 
concerning Levison and he was informed, based -0n information 
available at Atlanta, there was no reason for New York to 
send the information to Atlanta regarding Levison, without 
requesting investigation; however, it was possible that they 
may have some reason for having sent information to Atlanta 
for informational purposes. 
Epstein asked where the monitoring of the King 
technical surveillance was conducted and he was advised by 
Haynes it was conducted in the Peachtree Towers Building. 
He asked the room number and Haynes replied he did not 
recall the room number but did recall it was on one of the 
upper floors of the building. He asked who made the in­
stallation and handled the contact with the telephone company, 
and Haynes replied he did not know, that the equipment was 
in the apartment when Haynes was instructed to report there 
for the monitoring assignment. Epstein asked who else was 
present in the apartment at the time and was advised that 
SA Alden F. Miller was present, connected the equipment 
and instructed Haynes in the operation of the equipment. In 
response to the question of other Agents monitoring the 
technical surveillance at the time, Haynes stated to the best 
of his knowledge he was probably the first Agent to monitor 
the surveillance, with the technical assistance of SA Miller. 
Epstein asked the name of the person who rented 
the apartment at the Peachtree Towers and Haynes replied 
he did not know. He asked if such information was available 
in the files of the Atlanta Office and Haynes replied he 
- 3 -
NW 38608 Docld:32989£26 Page 59 
