v • 
U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
DONALD P. BURGESS BY SSC STAFF ME'MBERS 
SA Burgess was then asked for the physical location 
from which the telephones were monitored and if this physical 
location was an apartment in the Peachtree Towers. SA Burgess 
replied in the affirmative, but said he could not recall the 
exact apartment number or the floor on which it was located. 
SA Burgess was asked if the apartment from which 
the telephones were monitored was a one or two bedroom 
apartment and if he knew any of the neighbors or if he 
recalled maid service to the apartment. SA Burgess replied 
that he believed it ~as a one bedroom apartment, did not 
xecall any of the neighbors and insofar as he recalled, 
there was no maid or janitorial service. 
In response to a question as to where the monitoring 
equipment was located, SA Burgess replied to his recollection 
it was in the bedroom of the apartment. 
SA Burgess was asked if inspectors were at the 
apartment and if odd-hour shifts were maintained. SA Burgess 
advised that he recalled that odd-hour shifts were maintained, 
but he did not recall any inspection of the apartment. 
Mr. Epstein asked SA Burgess if he recalled what 
his duties were prior to the time that he was assigned to the 
aforementioned monitoring and SA Burges$ replied, general 
security work and particularly civil rights cases which 
included the observat~on of civil rights demonstrations in 
various locations. 
Mr. Epstein then asked about general policy regarding 
observation of demonstrations, whether it came from Washington, 
or originated in the field, and whether the instructions to 
01;:>serve demonstrations came by SAC letter to the field. 
SA Burgess replied that insofar as he knew it was the general 
policy of the Bureau for a number of years to observe at any 
type of demonstration involving civil rights type matters 
- 4 -
, NW 313'600 Docld:32989626 46 
