• 
Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY '75 
• 
Maley stated the article goes into some length that 
Michael Madigan and Lester Seidel, both members of the 
investigating staff of the SSC, were in San Diego conducting 
investigation relative to the FBI and SAO in the past. The 
/
article further states that another investigator from the SSC, 
named Arthur Jefferson, is scheduled to arrive in ~an Diego 
today (1/27/76) to begin a probe of FBI attempts to encourage 
warfare in 1969 between rival black nationalist factions in 
San Diego and Los Angeles. The article continues that the FBI 
already has turned over to the Senate panel a "1200-page 
document confirming that the FBI attempted to foster strife among 
blacks throughout the nation." An afternoon meeting was 
scheduled 1/27/76 between Arthur Jefferson and Leon Williams, 
San Diego's first black City Councilman. 
Maley stated the article in the "Union" newspaper did 
not indicate he, Maley, was to be interviewed. He did locate 
the Monday night article in the San Diego "Evening Tribune" 
which indicated that Maley would be interviewed. 
~ 
Maley stated that under no circumstances would he 
submit to interview by SSC investigators without first 
contacting Office of Legal Counsel and securing a waiver of 
his confidentiality agreement. Maley further stated he had 
earlier in the day forwarded a clipping to Inspector-Deputy 
Assistant Director Homer A. Boynton, Jr., External Affairs 
Division, concerning a press release which had been made by 
Madigan and Seidel when they were in the San Diego area. 
Maley expressed considerable concern that the investigators 
for the SSC seem to spend a great deal of their time making 
press releases (mostly unfavorable to the FBI) and very little 
of their time interviewing or investigating the facts. Maley 
stated that two articles, in Monday night's paper and in 
Tuesday's paper, were indicative of the type of press releases 
being made. He stated nobody has contacted him about interviews 
but he has read their intentions in the paper. 
- 2 -
NW 313'600 Docld:32989578 101 
