J'.l: ~.1 II. ft ,'£ 
I f'>t,.i r/ 'iii; 
. ,, 
4-E 
ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
PROTEST AND TROTSKYIST GROUPS UNIT 
This unit was formerly known as the Protest Groups 
and International New Left Unit. As of December 16, 1970, a 
separate International New Left Unit was organized which took over 
investigations pertaining to this particular work. Since the 
last inspection, the intensified.investigation of cases has 
continued to produce positive results. 
. Selective supervision has enabled us to have advance 
knowledge of New Left leaders, conferences, and demonstrations. 
Through this advance knowledge, we have been able.to furnish the 
White House and other interested Government agencies information 
on a daily basis regarding pertinent activities of individuals 
and groups of interest to us. We have disseminated voluminous 
letterhead memoranda, reports, and teletypes concerning plans of 
leaders of these groups which were most timely, particularly where 
violence was a possibility. On the basis of material furnished· 
by this unit, two Current Intelligence Analysis (CINAL) were 
published pertaining to the Student Mobilization Committee to 
End the War in Vietnam (SMC) and the New Mobilization Committee 
to End the Wp.r in Vietnam (NMC). 
These investigations furnished complete coverage of the 
major antiwar demonstrations in May and October, 1970, as well as 
sectional and national meetings at which plans for these demon­
strations were formulated. This coverage afforded detailed 
knowledge of the major shift in the antiwar movement, and the 
view of its leadership pertaining to the degree and amount of 
militant tactics to be employed. We were able _to follow closely 
the emergence of the National Coalition Against War, Racism, and 
Repression (NCAWRR) out of the once powerful NMC and the attempts 
of the Trotsltyist groups to exercise greater influence within -the 
antiwar movement through the formation of the National Peace Action 
Council (NPAC). The NCAWRR has proposed a national action for 
May, 1971, whereby efforts will be made to c·lose down Washington, 
D. C., by the use of militant tactics. The NPAC plans national 
demonstrations in April, 1971, which may verywell undermine the 
impact of the NCAW-RR action. 
DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 
1/12/71 
_,J JS ,:.,g}.m_" 
4-E 
~ 
NW 38608 Docld:32989£.JB Page 378 
