-·• .. ----
~. t ,. ... •• 
.. 
·~r : - ~:.", .. .... 
Legal Counsel to Adams Memo 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
With regard to Part I relating to legal authorities, they stated 
)
they were amenable to the Bureau furnishing them whatever documents they 
have retrieved up to this time which have been recovered pursuant to their 
request of 3-19-75 and that no additional detailed review need be conducted 
until they review the aforementioned documents. At the end of their review 
they will make any additional specific requests concerning this part of their 
request. They also asked that in our response we furnish them copies of documents 
listed on a three-page paper prepared by the staff of the Senate Select Committee, 
a copy of which is attached. , 
Staff Director Miller requested that the Bureau expedite their 
response to the Senate Select Committee's request as the first me~l~g of...t.hat 
S<?m.inttt.e.~ ... !!3~.£~91!!.~~~¼R.L~~!!m~J?J,a~ ... ~4..!i,..,an.d he felt strongly that they 
must have material that showed progress in their study of the FBI prior to that 
time. Mr. Miller requested that, if necessary, the request be responded to in 
) 
a piecemeal basis and that the complete response does not necessarily have to 
be made at one time. 
It is suggested that we make available to this Committee as soon 
as possible those documents which we have furnished the General A,.ccoµ:,ntj,p.g 
Office (GAO) which-also fall within the 3-19-75 request of the se·nate Select 
Committee. In this regard staff members have advised they are in contact with 
GAO auditors concerning the FBI. 
By way of observations it is obvious that the staff members of 
the Committee are well versed in Bureau policy and procedures. To this point 
they have been cooperative and we should insure that we give a timely response 
to their various requests. 
RECOMMENDATIONS: 
( 1) That the Intelligence Division advise whether modification 
of the Senate Select Committee's request concerning legal authorities for 
investigations and the modification of the table of organization of the Intellige ce 
Division are acceptable and, if so, expeditiously prepare the necessary respo se 
to the Senate Select Committee. f'-t•'~c, J 
1.'t,3[P· 
'1 l>IP 
- 2 -c 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989fi28 Page 191 
RECOMMENDATIONS 
CONTINUED - ~ 
