. .. · 
• 
POLYGRAPH 
(Item 7, pgs 65-67) 
In regard to tlie CIA notes· concerning the subject 
of the lending· of Arabic linguists to the 'FBI, the following 
is noted: 
The FBI's linguistic capacity is limited to those 
foreign languages in which translators can be fully utilized 
on a: full-time ·basis. Wheri we ·need translations of foreign 
language material beyond our normal translation capacity, 
we ·turn to the ·governmental linguistic community for 
ass·istance.' Such hel'p has been obtained in the past from 
such agencies· as the Library of Congress, Voice of America, 
Foreign Service Institute, Defense Language Institute, 
CIA, NSA, Bureau of Indian Affairs, U.S. Information 
Agency and Smithsonian Institution. On occasions., we 
have ·also turned to private citizens for help in very 
unique situations involving exotic or rare languages. 
The massacre of the Israeli athletes in Munich 
at the 1972 Summer Olympics and other Arab terrorist 
acts fomented a situation involving the national security 
of the United States. The FBI needed immediate assistance 
in the Arabic language field. A program was immediately 
instituted to hire our own Arabic translators and, in the 
interim period, CIA lent to our Washington Field Office the 
necessary Arabic translators to fulfill our responsib.ilities. 
The opening of the People 1·s Republic of Chlna 
Liaison Office in Washington also created a need in the 
Washington Field Office for Chinese translators with 
special talents. Two such translators were borrowed from 
CIA and one of them became an FBI employee for a short 
time following his retirement from CIA. 
All arrangements for the loan of Arabic and Chinese 
linguists from CIA were ·effected by the Intelligence Division and 
the Washington Field Office through.. their liaison with CIA, and 
the FB.I Laboratory was not directly involved. 
In summary, the CIA notes are accurate. It is 
not believed, however, that the ·FBI would incur any 
emb:arrassment or damages as a result of this interagency 
cooperation. 
- 6 -
l NW 38608 Docld:32989626 11 
