•. I 
' 
SECRET/SENSITIVE 
for an airstrike on Cuba which would have destroyed the six re,ai~g 
combat planes that were available to Castro; second, the order -c-hat 
there be no air cover for the invading brigade. The result wa·s that 
the invading force_ was chopped up \vhile it ·was still in the water; the 
ships carrying the armored vehicles v.1ere sunk, as were the supply 
ships, and the troops were left abandoned on the shore. The remnant 
of the Cuban Air Force \Vas entirely adequate to demolish the invasion 
fleet. 
Hunt concedes that he was bitter about the decisions made by President 
Kennedy, but he primarily blames Arthur Schlesinger, Adlai Stevenson 
and Robert Kennedy for advising the President to follow the course he 
chose. He particularly feels that the G.1::ans had been recruited ·with 
certain promises and that those promises were ·withdrawn at the last 
minute. Hunt says, in fact, that the decision not to make the airstrike 
and not to provide air cover was made after the invasion fleet had arrived 
at the point of no return, i.e. , when radio communication to the invasion 
fleet had already terminated for security reasons. 
After the Bay of Pigs disaster, Hunt \vorked with Allen Dulles until early 
1962 at which time, Dulles was repiaced as DCI. In January 1962, Hunt 
3 
wa~ assigned to the Domestic Operations Division of the Deputy Directorate 
for Plans. He was involved in handling proprietaries based in the United 
States, which have their impact abroad. His immediate superior was 
Stanley Gaines, who was either Chief of Operations or Executive Officer 
of the Domestic Operations Division and Tracy Barnes, who was Division 
Chief of DOD (Barnes is a cousin by marriage to Vice President 
R ockef ell er. ) 
The Rroprietaries which Hunt was engaged in managing were{sontinental 2/J­
Presil whic~repared news and radio lz..rc.,ladcasts for foreign use; · 
iu,fAUied-Pacif~Publishing Companyl'of Bomb'i!P which was engaged in 
lpublishing [textbooks for Indian sch'tro13; the Rome Daily America3J, cz.t 
cover o~'t~ion; and Fodor' s Travel Guides, a proprietary which Hunt 
questions as to whether it had any use. (Fodor' s had been set up in 
1946 as a cover operation but served no apparent use during the years 
Hunt was with DOD. 
SECRBT/SE~1S ITI YE 
328 Page 4 
I , 
