i I 
I 
' ; 
Possibly this latter was the strongest criticism 
we had since we did not feel CIA with its resources and 
overseas contacts was performing one of its prime functions 
in the intelligence field; that is, identifying foroign 
illegals who arc en route to the United States. During our 
briefing of General Dool~ttle 9 s group, we described the 
Bureau's collection of intellig0nce information for the 
interested Governm~nt agencies as a major operation. Our 
discharge of our intelligence operation concerning the 
Communist Party and Soviet and Satellite diplomats was 
explained in detail to the satisfaction of all personnel 
attending the briefing. 
General Doolittle asked for recommendations as to 
.:· what could be done to improve CIA so the Bureau would get 
better service. rt· was suggested that corrective action be 
taken on the matters which had been criticized constructively; 
CIA should establish adequate coverage (although not 
specifically noted, this obviously regarded advance notice 
'!' 
of foreign intelligence personnel coming to the United States); 
and finally CIA should transmit information developed in an 
Prior to submitting the report to.the President, 
General Doolittle expressed a desire to see Mr. Hoover 9 whom 
he regarded as the outstanding intelligence authority in the 
worldo The.General visited the Director on October 5, 1954, 
during which visit CIA's operations were discussed and 
generally.the points of the previous meeting were reiterated. 
General Doolittle felt the ideal solution would be to wipe out 
·CIA entirely and start all over again, but since this was 
impractical his committee would point out certain weaknesses 
and make certain recommendations and suggestions to the 
President for the correction of these weaknesses. 
. ·we do not have the contents of General Doolittle's 
report • and there is nothing to indicate an execu t'i ve order 
was issued from it which in any way delineated the respective 
jurisdiction of the _Bureau or of CIA. 
g. The· Joint.Study Group on Foreign Intelligence Activities 
of the United states Government 
Captioned report was prepared by the Study Group . 
and issued 12/15/60. The ~roup·was under the chairmanship of 
- 41 -
/ 
