• 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence 
where abuses would be the subject of interviews, the agencies would be 
given prior notice of the identities of the witnesses and of the subject 
matter of the interview, plus an opportunity to consult with the witness 
prior to the interview. Mr. Buchen also asked that the Committee be 
requested to provide a letter in each instance identifying the alleged abuse 
as the subject of the interview and indicating Committee approval of 
that inquiry. The objective of such a requirement would be to clearly 
identify those interviews characterized as "abuses" interviews which would 
require the absence of an agency representative during the actual interview. 
I was also asked to contact Schwarz to insure that he would not 
present to the Committee his counterproposal during the negular committee 
meeting on Wednesday, May 7, 1975. The purpose of such a request was 
to avoid the Committee adopting a final proposal regarding interviews 
prior to the Executive having an opportunity to express its- position. 
On the morning of May 7, 197 5, we spoke with Schwarz, requested 
him to refrain from offering his counterproposals to the Committee for 
approval, and in response to his request explained to him that the reason 
was that the proposals were untler discussion and it was necessary for all 
agencies in the intelligence community to be involved in the determination 
whether the alternative procedures would be acceptable. Mr. Schwarz 
agreed to refrain from offering his counterproposals to the Committee today. 
At approximately 10:25 a. m. on May 7th, I called Wilderotter 
and asked what the progress of his preparation of the propos.ea letter was . 
He told me that there would be no letter addressed to the Committee because 
the White House did not desire to escalate this matter and go over the head 
of the Committee counsel. I told him th~ was extremely concerned at 
the inaction which has resulted thus far iri/.FBI being in an indefensible 
position in regard to interviews of former employees. I explained to 
him that the Committee has not advised us of the interviews that have been 
conducted and we have learned of them only by calls from the witness es . 
I told him that the interviews are still continuing because at the meeting 
on May 6, 1975, we expressly requested the Committee counsel to dis­
continue the interviews temporarily until guidelines could be established 
and the Committee/ exm:essly refused to do so. cotins-e1 
I told Wilderotter that this morning I received a call from 
John P. Mohr, former Assistant to the Director, who has broad knowledge 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 313'600 Docld:32989532 97 
