NW 
I 
. . . e 
' t 
I :. - t i::o~~,ti>~ <;o'-'~e,e. 
• set.1~ 1 "~u, "~"'"I;, . . 
tpJ1'"' . ' 
The tradng of Waterg·ate funds by Legal Attache, J\'1exico City; 
through estabµ,_shzd ~J.xi~!!nJ>3.1:!s}}JK,~JE.,:,ces, is ~nother example of the ..... 
capabilities developed by our L0gal Attache system . ' 
.. , 
2. Attempt to accomplish FBI responsibilHies with fo1•eign 
• ramifications by having other Embassy personnel handle FBI work. This 
option, while removing· FBI personnel from foreign embassies, would require 
an increase in State Department personnel to assume a wort load, based 
on August 31, 1973, figures, of 4,283 FBI cases in the 20 FBI posts abroad, 
including 734 in Mexico, 527 in Hong Kong, 498 in C~anada and 401 : .. 
in Great Britain. EA'I)enses involved in the returning of all F~I personnel 
and equipment in these 20 offices would be con_siderable and wovld be 
doubled by similar e::i-..'l)enses to assign additional State Department personnel 
abroad to handle the work formerly handled by FBI personnel. 
More important, such a change would result° in the FBI being 
1•epresented abroad by personnel with no eis.vperience in law enforcement 
and no knowledge of the internal policies and regulations of the FBI. It 
··would also result in a person outside the Bureau, not under FBI control, 
becoming intimately acquainted with -nu.i,ierous sensitive matte:i.•s and thereby 
. opening the gate to leaks or other embarrassing situations from u security 
• point of view. It is not believed that Fo1,eign Service officers wh.o differ 
greatly in background, experience and training from law enforcement officers 
_.· could effectively represent the FBI with foreign law enforcement and security 
.. ·agencies, 
3. Have FBI interests abroad handled by the Drug Enforcement 
Agency, ImIPlgration and Naturalization Service,. U.S. ·customs Service, 
U. S .. Secret Service or other Federal law enforcement agencies which currently 
maintain liaison offices abroad. None of these agencies have the broad scope 
of investigative jurisdiction which the FBI is required to shoulder. Their 
, standards, policies, methods of operations, investigative techniques and 
• calibre of personnel differ greatly from that of the Bureau. Some of these 
agencies are actually operational abroad. No matter hew well intentioned such 
a representative might be on behalf of the FBI, it is not felt that he would 
have the necessary experience and/or knowledge of Bureau operations to 
successfully function as a representative of the FBI,' • It is, therefore, not 
: . believed th~t this option would be advantag·eous . 
• 
-5-
:88608 
., 
. . 
.\ 
