L 
t ~ 
'<!J,, '} 
or,.' 
,, 
,, 
I' 
i 
. ' 
- l'-1- - \ 
I 
\ 
l 1 
2. The types of gambling prevalent in the San 
Francisco Division are primarily wagering on horse races 
and sporting events. In addition, small numbers betting 
'with a weekly drawing take place usually in the Spanish­
speaking communities. There are also legal and ill:=gal 
card games operating usually in low-income commercial 
neighborhoods. Gambling in the division is conducted by 
individual operators who are independent of each other, 
except for layoff purposes with respect to bookmaking and 
there are no indications of hoodlum control over any of 
these activities. 
3. Concerning the extent of gambling in this 
division: bookmakers ECKSTEIN and LEAHY, named in Paraqraph 
1 above, operate in the following manner. Both ai.t= ln 
daily contact with their accounts located in the Bay area 
which include other bookmakers for layoff purposes, split 
bookmakers, and numerous individual bettors. 
Bets are placed with these operations generally 
at locations to which the general public has access, such 
as bars, restaurants, coffee shops, a~d other small shops. 
The "action" received at these business locations are in 
"' turn called in to a phone spot operated by a bookmaker who 
• has a gambling relationship with the operator of the 
business. 
ECKSTEIN normally operates with six employees, 
including two phone men, a bookkeeper, a pay & collect man, 
and two runners. In addition, he utilizes several split 
bookmakers as employees. The principal bookmakers and 
split bookmakers~involved in the ECKSTEIN bookmaking 
operations are THEODORE CHALMIS, ALBERT DiGERONIMO, ELBERT 
HEDRICK, MANNY PRONGOS, and ALBERT CP...RLSON. ECKSTEIN Is 
monthly handle based on informant data, evidence seized by 
the San Francisco Police Department during recent book.~aking 
raids, and interviews of bettors is estimated to be approxi­
mately $50,000 for horse bets. His sports "action" varies 
. with the season of the year and bettor interests in particu­
lar sporting even ts; hm·mver, ECKSTEIN' s handle for sports 
action is estimated to be $40,000 per month. 
NW 38tiiOB Docld:32989fi33 Page 126 
