14-00000 
f • - ••••• 
~ .. ,., .. ~l~ 
-6-
seve~.al other times during his stay in Mexico City and 
had; ;contact with other known. Soviet intelligence officers 
_while visiting. this kind of information is a basic 
corft,ribution to -the Station's continuing eqorts to 
identify and assess certain Soviets for possible 
recruitment or defection. 
6. At Headquarters, the Soviet Bloc Division uses 
LIEMPTY·photographs, particularly photographs of Soviet 
Embassy officials,·for identification purposes in con­
nectlon with defector cases. The LIEMPI'Y material also 
keeps the Station's .Soviet section up-to-date on which 
Soviet officers have been in the Embassy, which ones have 
been nwny; who has used which car; who has been in contact 
with whom; and other similar information useful in the 
conduct of Soviet operations, 
Problems: 
l. A security problem has u~v~loped involving 
Raymohd If. GEREND~. According to GERENDE, his wife wants 
a divor~~, appareri.tly based mainly on incompatability of 
personali-ties. The problem basically is that both want 
custody of the children and this has sparked a dispute 
that ·has· become more b~tter nnd violent daily. In addition; 
the monetary settlement ts in dispute. The problem is 
compounded by the fact that GERENDE's wife knows in.some 
considerable detail of GERENDE's activities on beha;f of 
the Agency. Thus, if the case does go to court, it could 
lead to the surfacing of GERENDE's Agency employment and 
_possi b:fe c·ompromise of· LILYRIC, LI CALLA and LI ENTRAP. 
Even if the case does not go to court, GERENDE's wife could 
expose him as an Agency employee. Since lnte 1969, Mexico 
City Station has been in touch with both GERENDE and his 
wife on this problem, and every effort is being made by 
the Station to ·have both parties settle the divorce out of 
court, and to protect GERENDE's cover and that of the 
project. After weighing all factors, it has been decided 
that continued employment of GERENDE is not an acceptable 
rtsk, and the decision has been reached to terminate him 
by t:te end Qf FY 1971. GERENDE will be paid a termination 
bonus of ~10,000 for 15 years service, about $1,250 more 
than the $8,750 his contract calls for, in order to ensure 
that the termination is amicable and thereby preserve 
i 
·I 
' 
