1-00000 
1. 
,1-,.- .. r: ... ~,~-.... 
u--:..;J 
PROJECT L~EMPTY 
R'EQUEST Jo'OR RENEWAL 
, 
CURRENT OBJECTIVES 
A. The overall objective of' Project LIEMPTY, now in its tenth· • 
year of existence, !& to col~ect operational information on the 
FJSTE.:'~L installation, its personnel and visitors, as well as ·­
relate1 targets or opportunity through Htationary/mohile photo­
graphic and physical surveillance mechanisms. CorQllary 
objectives which are to be fulfilled through use of the LIEMPTY 
installations, me~banisms and.personnel are as follow: 
I 
I 
1. To provide detailed operational information pertaining 
to the daily movements and activities of the FJSTML 
personnel, particularly those individuals of 1nt~lJig~nce 
interest, as well as information on the FJSTEAL physical 
plant and visitors to the_premises. 
2. To collect operatioual information on persons associated 
with FJSTEAL personnel and on individuals known or suspected 
to have connections with the FJSTEAL intelligencu services 
or other hostile groups which a~e inimical to the interests 
of LNFORT. 
3. To provide operationai' ;upport, counter surveillance 
and/or other protective services to WOFIRM person_nel and 
operations, as may be leviect upon the Station or as may be 
deemed necessary. 
I 
I B. The above objectives are to be fulfilled through continued 
maintenance and exploitation of the LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA 
basehouses, the LIENTRAP mobile unit, and the servi~es of long­
time contract agent, Raymond H. GERENDE. These objectives are 
in consonance with operational directives and Headquarters 
requirements as received by Station Mexico City. 
c. Throughout the Proj'lct year under review, Project LIEMPTY 
continued to contribute directly and significantly to the fulfil­
lm~nt of Station and Headquarters' requests and requir.ements for 
coverage of various targets fa:ling within the above cited frame­
work. During thr, project year Project LIHlllTY provided nearly 
all of the operational photogr&phs and physical surveillance 
reports used in Mexico City St&tion's operations targeted against 
the FJSTEAL installation and personnel. Specific exampleR of the 
LIEMPTY Project's pro·gress and contributions will be found in 
Section 3 below (LFFECTIVENESS), 
