14-00000 
\ 
\ 
I 
. 
SECRET 
third natibnal contacts of the Soviets, 
from which we must select and develop 
the access agents so vital to our oper­
ntio~s against the Soviet human target. 
LIEM.PTY also provides us with a much 
- clearer picture of the inn<'r relation­
ships- and activity patterns within the 
Soviet mission itself, which in turn 
facilitates effective targeting. Tbe 
CE value of a LIEMPTY typ<' project as 
a monitor of real ~nd potential agent 
coilta.cts is of course obvious. It is 
important to note that LIEMPTY is not, 
as might be the case in st~tions of 
le~scr overall cnpnbility, a simple 
case of photo~raphy (or observation) 
·for the record. Rat her it is an import­
ant facet of n concerted high priority 
effort to ·get nt and recruit individual 
Soviets." 
~- Station reporting hns been in a ~imilar vein. 
Information produced is larg<'ly for operational purposes and 
we often lack detail n~ to specific utility in a given situ­
ation, although we can produce stati~tics on numbers of photo­
gra:phs produced ·and numbers of pages of surveillance notes. 
It is clear thit the FDi is nn interested customer and they 
haye r<'ceived from LIEMPTY n ~rent many reports on American 
callers nt the Soviet Embassy, and valuabll" support to double 
agent operations. 
c. During a convt>rsntion on 8 December 1967, the 
officer who heads the station's SB section told the branch 
that- LIEMPTY is basic and essential to all of his branch's 
ppk-rntional planning, that he "grabs the LIE.llPTY material 
first thing in the morning" and studies it for leads, evidence 
of which Soviet officers havt' tieen in the Etnbassy ana which 
ones have been away, who has used which car, who has be-en talk­
ing to whom or going out of the building with whom, etc. etc. 
• New additions to the Embassy staff can be tabbed as KGB or r 
GRU by their associates, tht>ir activity patterns and the cnrs 
they drive. (The 1.s. nien ~u-e often away from the Elllbassy, 
while the legitimate FSO's tend to spend more time in their 
t,ffices, The KGB, GRU nnd regular diplomatic groups seldom 
,cross lines but stay within tht>ir own tight groups.) When 
SECRET 
' • 
