14-00000 
;_·:r:· .. :- .- ~-- '. :;~ 
. .•• ·1 
:.) '.:•• '•;:. (. ' ... : ;~ 
-5-
c. Walter Joseph Mackem, separated from 
CIA on 31 October 1973. 
6. Mr. Muldoon contacted Agency employee (E. James o]' 
McTighe)on 22 May 1974. Mr. Muldoon told Mr. McTighe 
that he was nominal Vice President of a Washington-based 
firm called "Security Consultants International." He presented 
Mr. McTighe with a report containing the essential data he 
possessed concerning WER BELL and other members of FOA whom 
he had met on 17 and 20 May 1974 in Washington, D.C. According 
to Mr. Muldoon, WER BELL had hopes of establishing gaming 
casinos, hotel and other tourist facilities in Abaco catering 
to the U. S. tourist crowd. As a consequence of some run-in 
with Prime Minister Findling of the Bahamas, however, WER BELL 
is apparently persona non grata in the Bahamas; hence his 
ambitions appeared to be contingent on Abacan independence. 
Mr. Muldoon reported that at least on two occasions WER BELL 
made a concerted effort to involve persons formerly affiliated 
with the Agency in the activities of the FOA in support of 
its independence. On several occasions, WER BELL introduced 
Mr. Muldoon and Mr~3@ousso~ as active Agency officials, implying 
that either the Agency-or the United States Government supported 
the aims of the FOA. WER BELL also proposed to Messrs. Muldoon 
and@ousso§) in separate conversations that they conduct a study, 
involving a0-\risit to Abaco, to determine the feasibility of 
Abaco's independence in political and economic terms. The 
study was to include interviews with citizens of Abaco prior 
to an alleged "plebiscite" on independence to take place in 
Abaco on 28 June 1974-03 In default of the collaboration of 
either Muldoon orQloussos) WER BELL hired Mr. Walter Joseph 0 ~ 
Mackem, ~ former Agency friend of both Muldoon and@oussos)J 
According to WER BELL's file, Mackem later in 1974 contacted 
the Agency in an attempt to get an official policy on the 
activities of the FOA. Mackem was informed that the case 
comes under FBI jurisdiction, that this Agency has no rifficial 
involvement, and that all information we had on the matter had 
been made available to the FBI. He was advised at that time 
to report his contacts and any information he had to the FBI. 
o3 . 
7. On 24 March 19 7 5, Mr. (:Joseph P. HayesJ assigned to 
SE/PCH, reported that during the week of 9 March 1975, he 
talked with Mr. Wesley Dyckman. Mr. Dyckman is a former Agency 
employee employed by the Drug Enforcement Agency. According 
to Dyckman, former Agency employee Walter Mackem was employed 
in the Washington area:as a private investigator. He is also 
involved with a paramilitary activity funded by some unnamed 
British source, The activity, which Dyckman referred to as 
