14-00000 
; 
I 
E. Exam1nat1on of Other Aspect• of NOSENKO's Biography 
1. KGB Awards an1 Ranks 
a. A..,ards 
At various ti.mes since contocting CIA in 1962, NOSE21KO 
described a series of awarcs and decorations which he received 
over the years for his performance of duties in the Second Chief 
Directorate (Pages JB-321). lie clair.1ed to have rccei'l."ed the 
Order of Lenin, the Order of the Rt.?d Star, ~nd the Order of the 
Red Banner; he said he received a special co!M!endation from 
KGB Chairman SEROV for his role in the ~UR~I recruitr.ient and 
the same award in 195!:J for his recruitment of all of the Ameri·· 
can or British touris.ts recruited that year by the KGB (three 
British and three .t.merican homosexuals). NOSENKO told of a 
number of other cor.vr,er.da~ions which he received-~almost one a 
year--for his •general good work.• In October 1966 NOSENKO 
said that he never received any awards for his KGB operational 
performar.ce, only a medal for satisfactcry completion of 10 
years of KGB service and a Red Army anniversary medal. 
b. Ranks 
NOSENKO's descriptions of his various ra~k promotions fol­
low a similar but more complicated pattern (Pages 322-326). 
He has given t~o separate sets of circumstances for his.first 
promotion, from junior lieutenant to lieutenant. According to 
the first of these, the one NOSENKO adhered to durin; 1964 and 
1965, he was pro~oted to che rank of lieutenant while serving 
in the Far East with the naval Gnu at the beginning of 1951. 
NOSE~KO explained ~hat the required time in grade is sometimes 
cut in half f.)r officers serv1ng at this undesirable post, and 
that this is why he was promoted after or,ly six months of 
active duty. In 1966 NCSE!~KO uid for the first tirr,e that he 
did ~ot enter on active duty until M.3rch 1951 and that his 
promotion to lieutenant was in mid-1952, while stationed in 
Sovetsk, on the Bal tic. In all his accounts, t,OSENKO has said 
that he entered the KGB with the ~ank of lieutenant as this 
had been hi& rank ir. the r.aval GRU. • 
During his first meetings with CIA in Geneva during 1962 
NOSENKO claimed then to be a KGB major and said that he had 
already completed the necessary time in grade for a lieutenant 
colonelcy. NOSE~Ka gave an apparently accurate description 
of the structure of his salary as a major ~so much for rank, 
so much for longevity, etc.) and pointed out that he ~as fill­
ing a position (Chief of Secti~n) normally held by a lieutenant 
colonel. On contacting CIA again in 1964, NOSENKO claimed the 
rank of lieutenant colonel. He supported this claim with the 
TOY authorization iss~~a for the Cl:iEREPA!~OV search,•~_which 
·• See Part VIII.D.2. for a discussion of the likelihood that 
NOSENKO served i.D the naval GRU. • 
•• See Part VIII.B.7.c. for an analysis of th~ CHEREPANOV 
case. 
TOP SECRET 
! 
I 
I 
f 
' 
.. 
1-, 
