14-00000 
,,. 530 
CONTINUATION OF 
Ot!IPATCH 
I SE~T i l IIMMA-21845 
I 
On 5 J~mc 1963 Doug!J.s J. FEINGL,ASS, Staff Agent, arrived ln 
Mexico to replace Howard G. S..\F,\R,\NO. the Srntio:i translator for Russian 
lanf;l•a~e conver:;ations appearing on LIENVOY and LIFE,\T lines. S,\f,"ARANO 
depanc.:J PCS on lS June·thus frc-:-ing an h1si9c slot for use by an operations 
officer. FEINGLAss· usefulness ,o ,he Station is h:rndlcapped by his Inability 
to transcribe the Spanish portion of th~ reel::; from the Sovie~ coverage. This, 
despite Headquarters assurance that he coul.J do these transcrlp:ions. Howcve1, 
he has .settled into outside living 1..--v,H.li~lons with ;1 minimum of difficulty. 
For the pr~sent, a monitor from tr1~ UENVOY ·wp center is transcrlblngd1e 
Spanish porrlon ofdle above take. There is a Station backlog of Sov·let tapes 
numbering about 50 w:1ich accuilrnhlted during the period when FEINGLASS 
was crying unsucce.:isfully co transcril>c the Spanish. The backlog ls being 
retaint!d uni:il Orville HQ_RSFALL arrives. In addition to the Russian trans­
cr\)tions, FEINGLASS also dips the ,ranscripts for indiviuual dossiern thus 
relieving the Slation Case Officer for Savlet operations of a clerical task. 
After the arrival of HORSFALL. the Mexico s~ation will review requirements 
for oui:sidc translators and make rccommc11d..1tlons for future use of 
FEL'\JGLASS. 
In early June to support the AMROD operntion, the Statiou requested 
full transcripts of the CLtt>an E111b.:issy lines. In adJitlon, Thomas G. 
URQU_l-u\ RT (ps) while on temporary duty in Mexico was given acces::; to the 
LIENVOY tap center co review the traffic on o current basis, 
4. Exploitation of LIE;-.;VOY informat 1011, 
Coverage of the Cuban; Czech, and Soviet Embassies provided 
details of their personnel, their contacts, travel and ocher useful CE data, 
In most all cases of official travel, LI ENVOY gavt! che Stat ion advance 
informutlon when reservations wert! made. Confirmation of the travel is, 
of course, obta inect through the LlFlR E pro jcct, 
The tr~ffic Is reviewed for English speaking pe1·sons viho might 
be U. s. citizens making contact wich Soviet or Soviet Satellite Embassies for 
politlc;:il or other reasons. On 20 l\l..1y 1963 an English spea:,cr illentifying 
himse_lf as Albert Kennedy called the _Soviet E,nbassy and requested political 
asylum for himself, his wife and seven childrei1. Subsequent investigation 
revealed th;H he was a-lso a protection ca sic: at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico. 
Appropriate U.S. agencies were .:2dvised of Subject's contact with the Soviet 
Embassy, 
5. Liaison. 
During this reporting p0riod ,here were no meetings between the 
Chief ofS~ation KU!3ARK and LITE~SOH; however, regular co11tact was 
maintained with LIELEGANT and LIEHGO. 
6, Security, 
There were no security L'li:.-ld~nts within the proj~ct during this 
mc;m:h. A:, repo.:-tcd in MEXI-5170. 26 June 1963, the rrue name of a 
KUBA RK case officer was revealed co the Culxm Embassy by a culler who 
refu.sed to idenrify himself. From li1e crauscript it apr:eared that the Cuban 
Ern!.:as3y was nae inwres;:ed in making comact with the caller who claimed to 
have details of KUBARK operations in ~,tcxico. 
7. Techi, ica I. 
