1
'[;°04-10213-10209] 
' . ' 
• ., 
... 
[ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 L-~t 
DDO IXSTRCCTION 
NO. 50-10 
DOI 50-10 
OPERA TIO~S-CEXER. U. 
4 September 19i3 
RESTRICTIO.XS O.X OPER.\.110.XAL,l'SE OF CERTAL~ 
CATEGORIES OF L'\'D1\"IDU,\LS 
Rescission: CSI 50-10, 13 July 19i0 
L CENERAL 
L E!rmmtal in the conduct of clandestine operatioru is the use of human 
_!&ents to accomplish the missions of the Operations Dirc:ctorate. lo gen­
eral. it Is ODO poUcy to select ageo~ assets "ith primary regud to the 
agents' abilities, target access, and security, and with few restrictions u 
to their origins, professions or status as me:nben of p.uticuw groups. The 
basic rule is that any consenting adult ouy be used by the Operations 
Directorate. There are, howe\·er, certain ~'W:ti\·e c:itt.'gories of individuals 
or grou~ whose operational use by the Operatioru Directorate is prohibited 
« lD some way restricted for reasons DOt necessarily related to security 
cmwderatioos. 
b. These prohibitions or restrictfom stem from one of the follo"ing: 
(1) The Agency has been directed by U.S. Governmental authority to 
1estric:t or avoid the operational use of a particular category of iD­
clMduals. 
(2) The Agency has entered into a specw restricti\·e agreement "ith an 
orgaoiutioo, government, corporation, or offici.al responsible for a 
category of iodividua!s. 
(3) The Director or the Deputy Director for Operations has imposed 
restrictions on the operational use of a certain category of individuals 
due to the extreme rifk or sensitivity of such exploitation. 
2. PURPOSE 
The purpose of this instruction Is to set forth the prohibitioru and policy 
restrictions ( as distinguished from security rntrictions) which currently per• 
taiD to the operational .. ~ of ,·arious categories of indi\iduals, together "ith 
the special ap;,roval procedures to be follO"·ed in certain cases. Where ap­
propriate. reference has been made to anothl'I' publication which pro\ides 
more dewled guidance than has been attem;;,ted in this instruction. The 
special appro\·al procedures set forth in this instruction do not supenede or 
alter iD any way the requirements for co,-at approvals contained in DOI 
aAd DOI·F 10-5. 
1 
SE900' 
...... · .· ... -: ... 
j 
i 
• I 
I ! 
: . 
I 
I 
. 
I 
• I 
i 
