14-00000 
..JU.Jk WH iW 
.. rt loM antonlo echot:~O con Iva ldocrs ·•n 111orcha rrnr-••---------1'1¥&11111 
.;a. 
iHIEtm:rxm·sT.Ymrr. ass,wum 
. W., are going to nanate separately the labor accomplished by \he Section of 
International Relations 1n tbs 1nterna11.onal student assubliea, tor 1\ resul\a 
ot great importance. Tbe IEB bas- aent Delerationa to three great student 
eeaembllesa IV cw (Congreso -1atfnoamer1cario de Estudiantes), m c~ca. (Con­
greso de Eotudiantoa Unberaitatioe de Centro America) and l CII (Conterenc1a 
Intemac1onal De Estud1.antes). A Delegation m also sent to travel througb 
• several countries ot AMca- (SenQGSl, Chana, len::,a, Bgipto, Manuecos, Hicer1A, 
Ali;ella, and)'1nes) in order to establleb contacts with tbe Student Unions ot 
A.trica in preparation tor the cm. 
a..~ -IV Cone;reao X.tinoamericano de latudiantes (IY CLAE) 
Tbs Iil.E sent a Delegation to the IV CI.Al -the most iJnport.al-.t ktinAaerican 
atuJmt asso:wly- compos11d b71 w.13 Feniandez Rocha, luis Boza Domlnr;ue:a, 
Joa4uin Peres, Jose I. Rodrisues LoC1billo, Antonio Be Abella, and Edua't'do Munis • 
. The report on the labor accomplished by this Delei;ation in the IV CUE -a 
Delec..-ation from the BEU of Cuba was present at it wo- bas been already pre­
sented. But we will only list the tollow:1.ng resolutions which vere taken in 
the assembly due to our "1.gorous ac~ion. 
Condemn the exeeutions of students in Cuba. 
Demand freedom for Alberto lluller a.id the other imprisoned stucfents. 
Proclaim tho 27th._ or November day or duf'l tor Latin Allon.can students, 1n 
memory of the Cuban students that haw been executed. 
Ask the Co1aifiion da Estudioa e Inronncion (RIC), organisa of tbe Intel'\­
natlonal Student Conterence, to perform an investigation on the situation 
of Cuban students. 
b-. Congreso de Estudiaates Urd.versitarios Do Centro America (Ill CKtr.4) 
Tho DRE sent a delei;ation t~ this. ass01Abl:,, held 1n Sa.'l Jos~ CosMI. Rica, 
lad. by Ro~li• Helu and composed by delet,!tes .ol tbe mE in Costa Rica. 'l'h8 
celel!ra U:on of the III <mJCA did not tinally take place because the Unions· 
controlled by Coarmun18ts asked that the Cuban Revolution be given a vote ot 
confidence. llexico, • Costa Rica, Ouatemala, and Honduras, opposed thl.s petition. 
At this critical situation, tho de-.nocratic delegation retired, tinish!ng thus 
the .A.ssembl1 and lsutg the Commu.nlits unable to reach their objeotivee 
o-. Conterenci& Internaciona1 de Estudlantes (X CIB) • · 
In the X CII just held at· Quebec, Can.ado., athe DRE Deleration obtained the 
greatest succoss ever in the assistaDSe to a student asse!!bly'. This Delegation 
was composed bya Jose I. Rodriguez Lombillo, Rafael Trei:iol.s, Joaquill Perea, 
Lourdes Casal.a, Rogelio Bel'a, and Eduardo Muniz. Their assistance at t.he assem­
bly' turned out. to be a great success owing .to the et.forts of' the Delegation~ 
The aasembly''corulemned, witb only one vote of opposition 1'rolll India, the executions 
and 1mprisonments ot Cuban students and the suspension or the pu'bllcation ot . 
the newspapers of the University- b 7 th~ Totalitarian~ .. 
Copies of this resaiution will be sent to aD.Student tfnions. ot the world, 
to the United Nations, and to the govel'mllent of Hdel Castro. The report on 
the X CIE 11111 soon be delivered. • 
d-. The Delegati:n sent by the IRE to Atrlca 
On the last days of May, 1962, the lRE sent a delegation to Africa composed 
l!Y Jose I. Rodriguez Lombillo, Raul Oonzalea SJ.Aon, and Lourdes Casals. Thq 
traveled through these countries, Senegal, Nit;eria, lmlya, Ghana, Egypt, lb,.. 
rrueeoa, Tunea, and Argella •. They established ·contacta with the leaders ot 
Student Unions and distributed among tbea extensive informations or1 tbe a~tual 
aituation ot Cuban Students, translated to English and Preich. The leaders 
. ' 
