14-00000 
I 
' .. ·:'.:.:::-1 
Top Secret 
(SEVENTH lJEPARTrlEUT-- January 1962-January 1964) 
Comment: NOSENI~O has never provided a satisfactory 
explanation for his retention of the docuMent 
no~ for bringing it to Geneva. According to 
an earlier KGB defector, the· bearer of a 
temporary duty authorization is held strictly 
accountable for the document which has to be 
turned in with the financial voucher. Nhat-
ever NOSENKO's purpose, the effect of presenting 
the document to CIA was to corroborate his 
statements about CHEREPANOV and substantiate 
his claim that he was a KGB lieutenant colonel. 
NOSENKO was not a lieutenant colonel (see p.350). 
lvhen he eventually said in 1966 that he was 
only a captain, NOSENKO was challenged to 
explain how he came to possess an official KGB 
document signed by General GRIBANOV and 
identifying him as a lieutenant coloriel. 
NOSENIW asserted that it came about "bi mistake". 
Return to Geneva (January-February 1964) 
NOSENKO was detailed a second time to perform security 
escort duties with the Soviet delegation to the Disarmament 
Conference, and he returned to Geneva in January 1964 where 
he resumed contact with CIA and announced his intention to 
defect. He brought with him a considerable number of hand-
·written notes to which he referred when.describing to CIA 
officers KGB.operations of which he claimed he learned at 
KGB Headquarters during_l964 and 1963. His· delegation 
security duties. were not onero'!,ls .. He visited the Geneva _ 
Legal Residency daily and met with CIA almost as frequently 
while awaiting approval of his defection and exfiltration 
from Switzerland, tentatively scheduled for some three 
weeks later .. A little more than a week after his arrival, 
however, NOSENKO declared that he had to defect at once,· 
because he had received cabled instructions to return to the 
USSR immediately. On 4 February 1964 NOSENKO was taken from 
Switzerla"nd to Germany, and on 12 February he was brought 
to the United States. 
·00G1587 
316 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
