14-00000 
L 
i I 
l 
·1 
I I i 
i ,, 
I 
.... -- 't 
·' 
·-
17 July 1972 
»M>IWiDlM FOR: Chiei", Covert Action Staff 
AT'l'iM'ION: >:r. Jim Anthony 
BEFERERCE: 
Completion of Training Report for QJmiOim/1, 
Training Program "SHAW" 
Memo for Director of Training, FrOlll Chief, 
Covert Action Statt, dated 23 Mey 1972; 
Subject: "Covert Training !"or "1lPHom:/1" 
1. QRPHom:/1 was trained covertly in Nev York :f'rom 22 June to 
14 July 1972. ~ere were sixteen sessions for a tot.al of eighty-seven 
training hours. 
2. 1hia vas a happy reunio:i of trainee end instructor. Less than 
tvo years ago, HiOUE V8.$ given three days of reports training (Please 
see Completion of Training Report dated 19 October 1970). Just as then, 
PHONE was totally engrossed in every training session :f'ran the moment 
of his arrival to the moment of his departure. Remel:lbering that the 
instructor does not eat lunch, PlIO~m brought a sandwich with him dailY' 
end took this lunch while listening to the instructcr. !bus, every 
minute of every day was made to count. 
3. 1he on]¥ time lost vas three hours for JBMINDM-1 end on tbe 
several phone calls he had to make daily to check for calls to his cover 
ottice, tl:len follow up with calls to those persons who bad called bis 
ottice and bad lei't messages to be called back. At the most, these calls 
took ball' an hour. On some days, they took rar less. 
4. Bia cover organization work took up a considerable portion, 
everyday, of his free t:I.Jlle vi.th the result that he could not do any-
casing to speak of for subsequent preparation of commo plans for exercises. 
For exemple, told early on to pl"Cpare two dead drop commo plans, be 
vas n-:>t able to cOl!le up with anything till the last week -- end then 
vith only one written one and one that he reved,wed orally. All a result 
he had to be given time during the training day to write reports of 
hia countersurvelllance exercises and one of bis agent developmental 
exercises. Af'ter one such exercise, asked if he wished to take time 
out during the training day to write hia report he said: "No, tonight 
I will make time to write it." And be did. And it vas a good report. 
i , ! 
IT l 
i I 
