14-00000 
".~lf \ii#iit; .· . 
:-.:--·:::.::;..::::~::~ 
··ii:::~~}:(} • 
Top Secret 
{AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962J 
and for the first time claimed case officer responsibilities 
against American targets other than ABIDIAN. He related how, 
at his meeting with KLYPIN and KOVSHUK on entering the section 
in January 1960, KOVSHUK suggested that NOSENKO assume super­
visory responsibility for the service attaches while KOVSHUK 
supervised operations against the civilian diplomatic staff 
of the Embassy. NOSENKO stated "supervising" meant that the 
case officers for the service attaches referred their ques­
tions to him, not to KOVSHUK. These included case officers 
GAVRILENKO, responsible for Air Attaches, KURILENKO, for. 
Army Attaches, and DEMKIN, for enlisted personnel of all 
services. "While he was getting acquainted with the section 
on DRANOV's retirement", NOSENKO himself took case officer 
responsibility for the Naval Attache personnelo This res­
ponsibility was subsequently assumed by DRANOV's former 
assistant, BELOGLAZOV. NOSENKO could not initially recall 
how lon~ he super~ised service attache operations; he later 
said "several months" and finally "five or six months". 
Nejther could NOSENKO recall what other pressing duty or 
duties caused him to be relieved of this function. He said 
this resulted from KOVSHUK's proposal that supervision of 
the service attaches be assumed by ALESHIN who was Deputy 
Chief -of the Second Directorate's American Departm~nt and 
coordinator for S~cond Directorate operations against 
military intelligence- officers of all nationalities. 
Supervisor of Service Attache Operations: 
• • ·_ Summary and Conclusion 
Because of the tardiness of NOSENKO's claim to have been 
respon~ible for operatio~s against service attaches and 
because he_was not able, when challenged, to substantiate 
his claims.by providd;rig any details of KGB activities against 
these targets~ it ~s concluded that this ~spect of his 
claimed· KGB service·, is a fiction o • • 
GGGi-484 222 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
