14-00000 
i 
I I 
I 
1· 
r 
•• Pint~ wbo has. been thereabout 10 years. Be is a dynaaic 
young aan• •ho.has. lead the villagers to rc~Ud their .village 
and churcb to develop their land and organize a cooperative 
and saall credit faciliti~s. The village ,1.s only 1,200 
people t,ut they raised by tbemselvea $1,000 to buy mat_erials 
and-then built a training center capable of housing, feedi:ng 
and training 60 men at a time in rural cooperati.ves and rural 
development. One of the1r·1deas ·1s to select bright looking 
leaders and potential· leaders from rural • areas, • first· in . 
Panaaa and later, hopefully, ·from other nearby· countries 
tor visits of a few days in which.they hope.to brain-wash 
the■ of Communist type propaganda they iaay have he:ird • and ' 
show them what can actually be done so tbey·can·take the 
good word with them to their own communities. This is in 
addition to the regular formal course. of 4 months for 
aelected young potential leaders from rural collllllunities in 
Pana■a and all over Latin America. 
3. Another leading light in the program is Father 
Steele who was thrown out of Dominica by TrUjillo for 
organizing cooperativ.es •~cl .. ~s -a_ recognized authority _on . 
the subject. Father Steele .uses Veraguas as a home base 
but travels to Chile, Colombia and other countries conducting 
abort training courses on the ground. 'lbere are some Dutch 
·priest& ou the staff whom Bishop McGrath personally recruited. 
htber Vasquez Pinto bas sent about 10.to 15 local-boys.to 
the Antlgonisb School in Nova--SCotia and-they are- back for 
cbat7. llr. Lodge describes tbe group as a.highly· motivated 
and ener~Atic group and Father Vasquez Pinto as a yoWlg and 
ettectlv6 Panamanian priest who is a good operator.·- Mr. Lodge 
baa two men from Harvard University there. to study the • 
prograa and assist in any way·tbey can. ·The- Peace·Corps bas 
M people in the Central ·Provinces of Panama; about 30.o:t 
.- tbea ln Veraguas Province. Tbey cooperate with the· center, 
.• • in tact the two Harvard men are interviewing each. of -the . 
-: Peace Cerps volunteers about their work •. · ·Mr. Lodge, said they 
:. are coming up with some good in:tormat:~!'n allcl ideas which o:tber­
• wise would be lost as the.re .is a gooa. deal of. experienc~ 
- among tbe Peace Corps kids but they don't know to recognize 
• its slg!!ificance or bow to or.gan:tze !-t :l~ti, UB8able form. 
! 
l I I 
I 
• 
• 
f 
• 
• 
(• ~ 
. i:-.. • 
