14-00000 
i I 
t 
L 
Direct Psychological Assessment 
of 
ORPHONE/1 
The psychological evaluation consisted of an extended inter­
view and the JBMINIMUM tesc. His intelligence as measured by the 
JBKINIMUM is within the Bright Normal range by U.S. standards. 
The test scores were not as high as would be expected in compari­
son to his behavior and life style. The discrepancy could be due 
to the fact that he suffers from inferiority feelings and is 
working overtime to compensate. He gets considerable satisfaction 
and mileage out of his authorship; however, it takes a greac deal 
of his energy in order to discipline himself enough to write a 
book. His talents are much more in the field of journalism. 
Mentally alert and very perceptive, he is aware of what is happening 
arotmd him. These same traits would serve him well as an access 
agent. However, his reporting may reflect some distortions because 
his memory is not strong, and he tends to remember those events • 
that are of interest tu him. He naturally has good manual­
manipulative skills, plus a practical bent tha __ •hould enable him 
to easily and effectively learn and carry out tradecraft techniques. 
Emotionally, Subject is fickle. "Out-of-sight - out of 
mind," describes the ·way he relates to others. The reason for 
this is that one of his primary needs is to be accepted and 
liked. Most of his life has been spent seeking acceptance, and 
because he is emotionally dependent he rapidly and intensely 
becomes involved. If separated from someone with whom he is 
involved, he has difficulty maincaining loyalty, and begins to 
look for another way to satisfy his needs. 
An important fact which his case officer should remember is 
that he is not motivated by an ideology, but rather by the person 
who represents a particular ideology. His relationship with his 
case officer is of prime importance. To ensure his loyalty to 
the organization and consistent performance, he will need intense 
handling. The problem is that he may balk since he resists 
authority. He has the tendency to think that he knows it all, 
as witnessed by bis never completing a degree. 
I '·''l 
,J l 
f. 
I 
! 
I 
1: ,: 
'• It 
I• 
ii 
II 
ii 
.i 
i 
I 
1, 
ii 
" 
i 
-, i • . ·:-· ': ~ 
i .. 
