14-00000 
--
SECRET/-
-6-. 
4. It ls the Station's conclusion that the money and case officer tlme 
Clo-pended on thfs -st..--gment of the LIE~·lPTY project Is worthwhlle aod 
should be contlnued ln vlew of the quality anJ quantity of operational 
lnformat Ion produced. 
C. • Simon D. CLACKETT Segment (dlscussed ln relation· to project 
objectives) : • 
l. "To coilect operptlonal lnfotmatlon and to Identify operational leads 
penalnlng to the LIMERICK target and Station targets.of opportunity." 
Durlng this project year the i..IJERSEY surveillance team under the 
direction of CLACKEIT began comrlb1..1tlng to the Station's support 
efforts through pretext lnvestlg-,ulons and physical surveUlancc8, Some 
c.xamplcs of the team's work are listed below: 
a. Rafael TISCHLER Guzman (201-64372) ls a Guatemalan 
Communlst w):tlch the team had under surveillance from 
November 1959 to Aprll 1960. The survclllance, together 
wlth lnformatlon acquired from other sources, eventually 
resulted ln an:·wisuccessful recruitment attempt on TISCHLER. 
b, Pericles FRANCO Ornes (201-64546) - FRANOO Is a 
Dvmlnlcan of lntercst to the Srotlon. The LIJERSEY team 
devoted porclons of flve mo11lhs, January to M,1y 1960, collecting 
lnformatlon on subject through physical survclllance. 
c._ Jose Mc1rfa "Chema" LOPEZ Valdlzon (201- ) was the 
subject of a pttyslcal surveillance durlng M.1y and June 1960. 
LOPEZ Wdl:i iaLer lit>pone<l irolll I..-kAk-v iit.roi.igii the cffons 
of LITEMP0-2. 
d. CLACKETT and the LIJERSEY team performed numerous 
pretext lnvestlgatlons on Station targets cf opportunlty and on 
three separate occasions during the project year served as 
a countcr-survellJance escort for Station officers In other 
operatlons. 
2. CLACKETT, just prior to his resignation in August 1960, spent 
about five weeks giving tradecraft and operational skills tralnlng to 
LITEA-1. Although not specifically covered by the project objectives, 
thls abllity on CLACKETf's pan is considered a slgnificanc con­
tribution to the Station's support effons. 
SECRET ,Qlillitm 
