14-00000 
\ 
I 
Chnngeaa 
1. The LIENTRAP mobile unit, consisting of LIEIIPTY-1O 
and LIEIIPX'Y-11, 18 being remov·ed from Project LIEMPl'Y .and 
placed under Project Ll~CE, which support~ a unilateral 
physical aurveillan~e team •. Tbe purpose of this change la 
to lncrense the alze of the LIEKBRACB team ln order to meet 
a growing deund f.or operational surveillance support from 
the various Sta•tion operating sections. The tranefe.1' will 
become effective at the beginning of FY i971 and both \ 
FY 1971 project budgets have been adjusted to cover financial 
-aspects of the change. 1 
2. Raymond ff. GERENDE waa removed AS the LIEllPTY 
principal agent in early December 1969 owing to a security 
problem (nee Problems, paragraph 1). He was replaced on 
9 December l9iffl'by8ruce H. FERNALD, a career agent oper­
ating :qpder c·over aB a retired i111111i1t1"ant. The change ha111 
caused-some delay in the receipt of photographs because 
FERNALlfie unnble to meet LIEMPI'Y agents aa frequently ae 
GER.ENDE bnd met them, but operational effectiveness is not 
significantly reduced by this delay. The key issue is that 
~ecurity nnd reliability of the principal agent bave improved 
considerably. 
AccompUsbme_nte: 
1. Project LIEKPTY baa provided continuous daily 
photographic and vieual coverage (Monday through Saturday) 
of the front entrAnce and rear areoe of t_he Soviet Embassy 
in Mexico City. All Bo~iet personnel and their visitors 
entering or. leaving the Embassy have been photogrnphed. ,' In 
addition, visual 11urveUlnnce reports wel'e prepared whert 
appropriate. Theee photographs and reports have contributed 
essential operational mupport to tbe Station's Soviet oper­
ntiona program. 
2. Recently, LIEMPTY photographs were exclusively used 
to produce an updRted ~ugbook on Soviet officials in Mexico. 
The book has been loaned to the FBI, AF/OSI and the 902nd 
Military Intelligence Group tor operational pae in debriefing 
- their agents engaged in dangle operations and double agent 
operations ag3inst the Soviet services in Mexico City. One 
902nd controlled agent waa identified from an LIEMPTY photo­
graph taken when the ag~nt tried to contact the Soviets at 
