14-00000 
Internal. Intelligence Division 
Spec1el.1zes 1n exposing and eontrol.11ng inside thefts that mey 
range from employee pili'ersse, th..""Ough embezzlement of thousands ot 
dollars, to highly valuable industrial secrets. 
Central Clearing Division . 
Assists personnel and. securi:t;y directors to screen quickly 
the backgrounds of present and ~tent1al employees through the 
J!le.Ssive tiles ot The Wacken.l1Ut orporation. 
Retail Store Protection Division 
Increases net prot'1.ts by reducing inventor;y Bbortages through 
the control of internal end externa.l losses vitb security programs 
designed to meet the client's spec1.f'ic needs. 
Training Services Division 
Provides specialized tra1n1ng programs for security, t1re 
fighting, investigative and other personnel at business organiza­
tions end professional. groups. 
Industrial Security Di.vision 
Provides the essential. secur1 ty • services that are required by 
all companies seeking or 2MmdJ1ng government classified contracts,; 
assists manege-ment 1n disaster and emergency pJann1ng. 
Fire and Safet:y Division 
Su;ppllea ambulanee services, f'1rst aid crews, Wackenhut f'1re• 
men tully trained in the technical. f'ield of industrial and mum.­
cipal fire fighting ·e.nc1 equipment, and safety surveys, systems, 
end educational programs. 
- Guard Forc:-es 1>1.vision 
Sel.ects, investigates, trains and supervises the unif'ormed 
and pla1n~otbes guards who protect 10u:r operations; also provides 
unU'ormed receptionists and guardettes; makes t>b1'Bical property 
surveys to determille aecur1t:, requirements and establishes security 
systems and controls. 
4. Mi-. Wackenhut van ts to expand abroad, 1n view of his 
successful venture into Puerto Bico. However, be has no det1n1.te 
plans as of the present and see.med to be seeking lf'!om_ cµ covert d,... '1: 
sponsorshi'ID for entry into areas ot interest to us. He is pre- . 
pared to :f'urnish personnel biJD.self@r to permit integration of a,'1. 
Agency nominee~ 
5. It 1a not e;pparent to me that there is any significant 
market for Wackenhut's services 1n foreign countries, except 
possibly em::>JJg American businesses with physical pl.ants overseas. 
The nature ot these services, I would presume, would make rather 
ditticult acquisition or the necessary occupational permits 1n 
many countries. i'he potential tor clandestine 1ntell.1gence act1• 
,rities would be too !Obvious to host governments, and the emphasis 
