; :~:~=~~;~1~:✓f 
driver was, whether he was in the employ of the local KGB, 1 .·~ 
J. 
l 
I . . ' 
I ........ -:.-::-----:. -
or other details. ! 1 
In accordance with the operational plan, t~e local KGB 
officer told DURGI enroutc to the city that all the hotels 
in Kiev were full at the moment because of various confer­
ences, but that Inturist had arr~ngcd for him to stax for 
about a day in a private apartment in the c0nter of town; 
he would be ~oved to a hotel as soon as possible. When the 
ear arrived at the apartment building on Kresl,ehatik Ulitsa 
in Kiev, NOSESKO, KOZLOV, V.S. PETTTEXKO, a local KGD officer, 
and (fnu) P.ASTYKAITE_ a woman houscku·pc·r, were waitinv, for 
them. NOSE~1{0 could not remember how or whether he intro­
duced himself to OURGI. The recn1 i tmvnt conversation, he 
said, was handled by "KOZLOV-J~OSF.l;Kl)," but l\OSE~KO had for­
gotten by 1965 who said what: "I Jon' t rnl!'embcr what I 
talked about and I don't remember what KOZLOV tnltcd about. 
Many thin~s were discussed. Jt started with how he liked 
his stay jn ;tl1c Soviet Union... Then we slor;ly proceeded 
to say how unfortunate it wai; that infornation had been re­
ceived about his conduct in Moscow. We told hi~ that his 
homosexual activities were kno·.rn, that this was punishable 
undc,r Soviet law according to article so-and-so of the 
criminal code, etc., that he was not a diplomat, had no 
diplomatic immunity, that he could be ta1,en to court ac­
cording· to the Soviet lnw... Well, he was scared, confused, 
upset, and felt uncomfortable. Then we slowly proceeded to 
say that all that could be smoothed out, but, you understand, 
the basis was prepared for the man to say: 'All right, I 
agree to help.' ... We showed him the pictures. He was 
embarrassed of course--he was naked. Then we prepared the 
basis: 'You hive a noble task. You teach; you have stu­
dents; the students might become future specialists on 
Russia or might work as diplomats, etc., but 1:,any of these 
students could be used by intelligence. They might be sent 
somewhere with special tasks. Maybe you will tell us who 
among the students is preparing for government service, 
how they are distributed, etc.' ... During the first conver­
sation everything was made completely clear... lie was not 
at all willing to help or work for Soviet Intelligence. He 
was told that he must understand that in this case 'helping 
Soviet Intelligence' was a very broad term. I remember that 
I told him: 'Underst!rnd, nobody is going to ask you that 
you help our friends over there, or me, if I s 11ould be there, 
or that you do anything bad or conduct any kind of subver~ 
sive activities, that you organize explosions or murder.' 
After the Soviet Union, he was supposed to go to Italy, 
to visit the Russicum of the Vatican, and here KOZLOV 
grabbed the subject and began to ask questions about this 
school. He told us a bit about the Hussicum and we asked 
him to write about it and he wrote down some names of the 
professors who teach Russian subjects ... " According to 
NOSENKO, the discussion lasted about five hours; at its end, 
BURG! signed a short statement that he agreed "to assist 
the organs of Soviet Intelligence." NOSENKO first said that 
it was he who took this statement from BURGI but later said 
he could not remember whether he or KOZLOV did this. BURG! 
was then taken to a hotel. 
' i 
i 
i l 
.1 
1 
' • 
.:A. 
. ·1·· 
'·· 
• <!'· 
..... 
.-: ;~ . 
