14-00000 
-:_,, 
10,. 
YEFREMOV becau•e they were too vell JtnCNn is inco:npatible ,),'it.'1 
hia other reporting to the effect that neither took part in an 
operation between 1959 and early 1962. 
In furtber reference to HOSENKO'• chime to having been 
the case officer in these variou• opentions, J-.e has been ·e.1Qable 
to recount in any detail KCB •tnff procedures involved. in these 
operations, such a• name-tracing, coordinating with other coM­
ponents, obtaining approvals for action, etc. Finally, of his 
alleged 54 months of service in tJ-.e American Tourist Section, 
NOSENlCO's described activity against foreigners accounts for_ 
only about three months, if the bulk of his tirae was spent with 
recruiting or handling Soviet-citizen agent&, he night be ex-
pected to rell!embcr something about aoine of them. He can barely 
remember names (and only a few), haa given contused accounts of 
their recruitment, reoe.rabers nothing about any of their spe-
cif.le operations or activities for the JCGB, and knew no per-
sonality background data o~ any of them. 
I 
I 
Even if it were ass·.:.med that NOSCU'.O was a case officer of ) 
the American Tourist Section, his claim to the p-:isition of Deputy\ 
Chief cannot be substantiated. He hi.r:tself could r.ot explain 
his appointr.ient to the job. He did not kl\ow about the Cik· ! 
•1eg~l travel• op,Jr~tions comprcm.ised to the KCB in 1958 and 
1959 when he was allegedly in , supervisory capacity. r,OSENKO 
knev nothing about the documenta on such operations which BLAKE 
gave the KGB and which can be presun.ed to have been of l~e ut-
most interest to the American To.u-iat Section, amc~g all KGB 
Headquarters blementa. These documefita offered r,aterial that 
could have proven valuable to the preparation of. ~OSENKO's own 
paper on Western tourist operations, they were used in the genu-
ine KGB paper written by the Tourist Department and passed to 
CIA by GOLITSYN. As with his status as a case officer in the 
l,Jqerican 'l'ourist Section, NOSENKO the Deputy Chief could not 
describe how data on tourists was received, general and spe-
cific plans laid, events discussed, decisions made, and !Jiads 
channeled. 
' The foregoing paragraphs suggest the conclusion that NOSENKO 
as not a senior case officer or the Deputy Chief of the Ameri-
an Tourist Section. While the methods of the Tourist Depart­
ment ar~ not independently known in detail, it is c-:>nceivable 
that what NOS~KO did on behalf of the KGB (not necessarily the 
American Tourist Section) could have been acconplished by a 
·•••• ---- princip_~ agent. These conclusions do not cast doubt about 
the facts presented by NOSE~KO on the KCB investigations in the 
OSWALD case but merely rule out the possibility of ~OSEN"l<O's 
having been involved with this case in any way prior to the 
assassination of President Kennedy. 
.. 
\ 
.; 
------
~·" 
\ ........ -~,.,,,,.~ ~ 
