14-00000 
- s -
In llddlllon thertt arr larllc- JURE organii:ation• in Caracas, Vcne&uc-la 
and Dallas, Tt-xas. There are according to AMUANG-1 a total 
of thirty delegations in l.atln Amc-ric'a, the U. & A. and t:ur•:>pe. 
He cited as an e_xa·mple the delc-gation in S...n FrAncisco which had 
rttcently purchased a tyr ewriter through the collection of green 
etampa. He added that Rogelio Cisneros h.ad travelled to San 
Francisco some ti"me ~go to communicate with that group :md to 
tighten its organizational activities. 
i. AJ.i:BANG'-1 Asks About ARTlME and the Activities 
in Central America 
AMBANG-1 raised the qupstion of Manuel ARTJME's 
acJivities in Central America and particularly in Nicaragua. He 
stated that any association with Somo:r.a woulrl not help in creating 
the mistique and political coloration necessarr to inspire revolution 
and resistance from the non-Communists elements in Cuba. Whereas, 
J had expected AMBANG-1 to go into a long hara.ngue as to the 
positive damage that ARTIME's actions with Somoza could cause, 
he left the matter at about this point. I agreed that the Somo:r.as did not 
have a liberal political reputation throughout Latin America, but 
added that whatever Cubans cru ld do from that or any vantage point 
against Communism in Cuba would in my Eistimation be helpful, • -
while I am sure AMBANG-1 did not agree with me, he did·not say 
so, In respect to' AR TIME and Miro Cardona, whose name entered 
into the conversation later, AMBANG-1 took a fairly objective view. 
He stated that Miro h;,.d arrived in San Juan and that hf' wished him 
the beat ail he figured he had suffered enough. Insofar as ARTIME 
waa concernc.-d I gathered that AMBANG..J. might feel that the assoc.i­
ation with Somoza would not do ARTJME any good in a post-Castro 
Cuba. As AMBANCi-1 is convinced that a government after Castro 
must be of a progressive liberal stripe, ARTIME was not doing 
himself any good by identifying himself with the Somozaa, 
J. A List of Cuban Diplomats 
As AMBANG-1 had uked for a list of Cuban Diplo­
mats abroad while wpowere in Paris, I adviat'd him that auch a list 
had been prepared and we would make it available to him. In thia 
connection he asked if we could include the addr~••e• of each of the 
Cuban installation•. Speaking of diplomats, AM BANG-:1 wanted to 
