14-00000 
I 
high evaluati~n plncrd on Mr. Piccolo's performance. His 
current COS has l':-pl•dully commended him on his hnnJling 
of a complex ~urrcnl case lnvolvinR liaison in ~hich 
Mr. Piccolo has demonstrated an unusual srasp of Jctuil, 
excellent jud~~~nt, poise under pressur~. und extraordinary 
stamina. The--t~u!; stated that Mr. Piccolo is already 
performing ~ell ubuvo tho GS-13 level. 
3. Several supervisors have commented on Mr. Piccolo's 
quiet unassumin1- pcrso11ality which belies the intensity 
with which he approaches his work. Underlying the quiet 
manner it has ~ren noted thnt he is tou~h-mindeJ nnd 
a~gressive in his ugent handling and ex~loitation and is 
highly experienced und skilled Jn the basic crnft of the. 
intelligence business. Ile is 1:lngulsticnlly talented and 
can function in both the Spanish and Portuguese languuscs. 
lie htis had the b-fts:h:· Agency operations course·s including 
some in technical operations. fie is. also an intelligent 
_supervisor with n cupubillty for lighting fires under his 
charges when-necessary. tie is highly respected and 
appreciated by all his colleagues and thou,h ho maintains 
a low-profile h~ moves easily in hi• offic1nl cover circles. 
4. Mr. Pic~olo has already proven hls ability to 
perform at the next highest grndo. Most supervisors have 
emphasized his·rotential for assuming ever incrensing 
responsibilities. fie has realized this potcnti:11 with 
each succeedinl> assignment and particul:uly in his cur-rent 
one. fie fits both the general and specific cri teri11 for 
promotion. H~ has shown himself in possession of the 
requisite qualities of reliability, seriousness of purpose, 
imagination, anJ dedication. lie has person111ly applied the 
specifics of his profession in a successful manner and 
has demonstrated his ability to supervise and inspire others in 
their _application as well. 
S. Mr. Piccolo's reque~t for a one-year extension of 
his current tour has been approved. At the culmination of 
that period an arproprlatc assignment will be arranged for 
him conunensurate with the Agency's needs, his desir!'s and 
the continued furtheranc~ of his career. 
• 2 -
