14-00000 
S E C R E T/-Wf{i► 
- 6 -
CLACKETT, that an intensive c!fort was made to train the team member a and to 
place them under the:auperviaion 0£ 11 lull ti~e team leader. As mentioned above, 
CLACKETT has. done·ai1 excellent Job during the past !cw months in getting the 
team ready !or future operational auignmenta. 
2. The Station plane, dui;ing tho coming year, to increase the 
--~.G~ of U1.!:_LUERSEY team_ by at least two agents and one car, Thia would 
then give a total LIJERSEY complement of aix agents and- three radio car a. The 
Station will continue to take all necessary precautions not to rush the development 
o{ the team nor to give it _assignments which are too complicated and too difficult. 
It is anticipated that the team will begin some surveillance work within the next 
month on targets connected with plans for an expanded Communist Party pene­
tration program. 
IV. PERFORl-,L-\NCE OF PRINCIPAL AGENTS IN TERMS OF PRODUCTION, 
SECURITY fu'l\jD COVER, r I I •/ ~, f ,,.,,. ' 
A. Oliver G. SCANTLING - As should be expected from a well Lr<1.ined 
and motivated ai;_ent, SCANTLING •s production during the period under review was 
excellent. His p-roduction is in the category ol operational information rather than 
p,ositive intellii;encti and is based on leads and investigations given him by the 
Station, He never fails to do a thorough and detailed Job on all assignments 
given to him, ~~ is an W1Usually valuabledf.f"inci_p~_ agent.:' Thero have been no 
security problems or developments during the past year in connection with 
SCANTLING's assignments. Likewise, his cover is very good and places him 
in a position to maintain his work for KUBARK for many years to come. 
B. Raymond H. GERENDE - Since GERENDE's tharriage in December 
1958, his performance has improved to a marked degree, He has become one 
of the Station's most dependable agents in terms 0£ promptness for meetings, 
completing operational assignments as rapidly as possible and in doing any task, 
regardless 0£ how menial it may be. Ins?far as the Station and GERENDE know, 
his -:over with LISTERL.~E•s firm has held up very well, ln fact, GERENDE 
recently was able to negotiate a sales contract with a customer having a very 
large sales capacity for the proJuct manufactured by LISTERINE'e firm. Thia, 
of course, endears GERENDE to LISTERINE in addition to contrib\.!ting to 
GERENDE's cover employment. The only significant security incident pertaining, 
in part, to GERENDE was in connection with LIENTRAP (please see HMMA-13951, 
16 October 1959, for details). 
C. Simon D. CLACKETT - CLACKETT's performance has definitely 
measured up to the standards expected by the Station. He has proved that he 
is conscientious, dependable and very quick in grasping the details of clandestine 
activities. He will undoubtedly continue to improve hie personal performance as 
5 E C R E T,l,ailm 5 mp 
