14-00000 
.'I . r •• 
-· 
• I..VNIINUAIIVl'O vr 
DISPAYCh .S E C•.R E T • HMMA-34792 
16-2. • • 
. beca~se LI.\NCHOR cannot properly be run from@uatemalaJ • 
0f tINLUC~ wi 11 describe to Identity-1 the problems which 
• tte has had in developing LI ANCHOR and, in asking Identi ty-1 
to take over control of LIANCHOR, will suggest that 
Identity-1 use the LIANCHOR name and established publica­
tion outlets to broaden his prest".:Je. in Latin America 
without any thought of trying to o:.irn fees .0>l ~INLUC:K} will 
also suggest that Identity-l re,ta:a Identities 6 and 9 to 
help !111 out the service, ~ut th~t he gradually try to 
draw in personal writer friends oi definite leftist fame 
and persuade them to contribute to LIANCHOR purely,for 
the reward of increased prestige. Finally'~( (.!:,INLUCKJ wi 11 
offer to continue to contribute m~teri-1 from time to 
time from Guatemala which ld6ntity-l, through his good 
standing in the Mexican press, perhaps can publish in 
Mexico. 
(.~~ 
b. If Identity-1 rejects recruitment, the next candi­
date for LIANCHOR chief is IdentHy-10, who has already 
told lIJITl,UCK)that he is prepared to take over LIANCHOR 
on a pro c0\.ionary basis to see whether i,,t will enhance his 
reputatioJ. The Station feels that Identity-lo would be 
easier to recruit than Identity-1. However, Identity-10 
is not too well known in Mexico and is totally unknown 
abroad. One of Identity-lO's virtues is the
0
fact that he 
never formally quit the Communist Party and has done nothing 
to irritate the Party. As economic and ·general reporter for 
"EXCELSIOR" he offers placement potential. If Identity-1 
•~ does accept recruitment, the Station still .intends to try 
to recruit Identity-10 as a singleton under Project LIANCHOR, 
possibly steering Identity-lo to Identity-1 and the LIANCHOR 
press service after due consideration. The Station is also 
interested in the possibility of recruiting Identity-10 in 
order t.o send him to the. World Youth 'Festival at. Sofia, . 
since it is believed b~IQ:,INLUCK) that Identity-1 still bas· 
access to some worthwhile contacts in Central American 
young Communist circles. ../ 
,-,· 
of Effectiveness to Determine 
ec 
a. It is estimated that it will not cost over U.S. 
$200 to hire clipping services in Buenos Aires, Montevideo, 
Santiago and Bogota for a three month trial period to test 
whether newspapers which receive LIANCHOR material in those 
cities are publishing the LIANCHOR material. The clipping 
services will be asked to watch for articles with the 
LIANCHOR by-line, the by-lines of LIANCHOR writers and the 
headlines or titles which are assigned by LIANCOOR to the 
ar~icles mailed to tbe newspapers. 
b. If the clipping service tests show that newspapers 
or periodicals in two of the above cited countries are 
publishing LIANCHOR material, Station will continue to. 
pursue the development of a small and responsive leftist 
writer group ns one phase of the LIANCHOR operation. The 
rationale behind this decision is that there is little 
justification in operating a press service, even a cheap 
one, with a readership limited to Mexico, Central America, 
Venezuela and Bolivia. However, if the press service can 
acquire, or has acquired, readership in any two of the 
countries in 16-a above then ~tis felt that the total 
are1t coverage is significant and worth maintaining. 
17. Conversion of LIANCHOR to Temporary Roof Pro
1
ect for 
Singleton Leftist Writer Assets: If as a result of c ipping 
., 
.ki: 
l_l',,f'·f. 
~.;·• 
