14-00000 
.. 
.. 754. 
f -~-\· 
·, ~.,, 
Taken t~~cther, theso facts suggest the possibilities 
that the KGB sent ~OSE~KO to Geneva on ~oth o~casions for 
the purpos~ of contacting CIA, that the KGB wanted the 
opportunity to gauge CtA's reactions to the walk-in in 1962 
and to the defection plans in 19ti4, and that the KGB gut<' d 
NOSESKO after contact was established in both years. 
A fl•rther examination of the operational circumstances 
in Geneva lends credence to these possibilities. During the 
1962 meetings, SOSENKO would frequently ans•er CIA questions 
by saying: ''I will have to think about that tonight," or 
"I will have some time tonight to jot down and prepare a 
good :inswer tor you," or "I don't ~ant to give you an answer 
to that right off--1 am afraid to mislead you." He would 
return to a later meeting with the inforcetion, after having 
visited the Le~al Residency, In 1964 there were other 
exa=ples of what may have been backstage guidance by the 
KGB: 
l 
~~ called for en urgent special meeting to cor­
rect Bo~ething he had said in an earlier ~eetin~. 
Ini tlally 1-0SENKO had nemed ZUJliS instead of KEYSERS 
as the U.S. Embassy code clerk whom he had personally 
approached in 1961. This sce~ed remarkably urgent and 
important to him At the time, and in retrospect this 
case gains special i~portance: It ~as the only time 
he claimed to have had direct contact with a U.S. 
Embassy staff employee during his alleged tour in the 
American Department in 19C0-1961. If he could not 
remember this one name, it might call his entire story 
into question. It is hard to find 9nother explanation; 
had he simply made a careless mistake, with his cus­
tomary indifference to names and dates. !;QSE?-11:0 would 
be unlikely to mull over what he had said a~ the meeting 
nor to bother about correcting a minor misstatement. 
Much less would he feel compelled to call an emergency 
meeting to do so. 
-He came to aeetings with "chance" items picked 
up at the Legal Residency, each of which would require 
quick action and the commitment of assets on the part 
of CJA in Geneva. Also, NOSESKO originally said in 
January 1~64 that he wanted to defect right away, but 
various st~ps taken or planned by his CIA handlers 
kept him in place for a time. Each step, however. was 
quickly negated--usually at the next meeting--b,- some 
information NOSD-"lCO bad p1cked up by chance. 
-He asked, out of context and without any explana­
tion, whether GOLITSYN had told CIA that the President 
of Finland was a Soviet agent, and l1ttr could not 
coherently explAin where be had heard this, why he had 
not told CIA about it in 1962, and why he had asked. 
i 
I 
I 
Jn addition. the Soviet reactions to the defection were 
unprec~dented and contrasted sharply with, for example, the 
Soviets' avoidance of publicity concerning GOLJTSYS's defec-
t ion in 1961. The post-defection act ions by the Soviet I 
Government created publicity ~hich had the superficial eff~ct I 
of underlining ?-.OSENKO's authenticity, establishing him as 
a public figure, confirming that he had a fa.-nily, ·and veri­
fying that his defection was of alaraing consequence. These 
1 
L 
I 
~ 
I • 
