14-00000 
2 
tba pad vblch c:cmtalu tJae no nmallllag carbon •beets (Ro. 2 detached 8DCI 
lnaerted la the back of the pad, No. 3 still bound la the pad.) ?be 11 October 
•••aa• la clearly legible to the naked e7e on carbon Ho. 2. 
4. Of greater conc:ena to LCPIPIT, bovner, were tbe follodag 
ad41tloaal CCllaUlta of Parla Statloa TB0lS regarding tba 11 October •■ -qel 
9rbe rmlope yoa NDt bu evldnce of tamperlgg. tben ... ,1 .. 
~leedlag plaa fiber tears. Plua, additional glue bad been added 
co the upper flap (glue muat bne run and vu atlckiag lulde OD 
tbe letter.)• 
s. Ia the 20 October aeetlng at which hla S/V pad ,..a.a vitlwlr.,.. 
QUJIONY/1 stated that be bad written tba 11 October aeHage on a abeet of glaaa, 
perhaps vitb a pencll that vu too soft. He conceded that there vu aoae iaprlnt 
oa the carboD, but nothing which could be read on the actual message sheet. He 
aald ba wrote the menage at 1100 boun when be vu alone at hia boae ad blll'n8d 
the remalluler of the measage atack lmmedlately. He said be then put tbe meHage 
111 an envelope 1-dlatelJ 1111d sealed lt gently under nother ,beet of paper to 
noid rul»bing lt. He added that be then placed the proper postage ma tbe eave_lope,,; 
placed lt 1D bla pocket, and IIIAiled 1t tvo boura later at the cloaaat aallboz •• 
to him homo. QR.UO~"Y/1 uaerted that ha did not reopen the letter after MAllllg 
IIIMI vaa certalA that b1a wife had not aaen lt. ,. 
6, Pmswmt to LCPIPIT'• exploration of tlala queatlon v1tb QUBOXY/1 
w aeat an informal note to MKTOPAZ via a Paris Station Officer on 20 October 
1965 requesting aaslatance la efforts to determine vbetber QRLBONY/11 • '. 
correspondence vu indead subject to tamperlag. MICYOPA% prepared five "booby-
• crapped" envelopes for our 11Se. Tvo of these vere mailed to tbe LCPIPIT letter 
drop froa two differtnt cities on tbe cootlaent, and the remaining three wra 
paaeed to QRDOMT/1 on 5 Nfleaber for bill to mall from bia homo. _;_ 
7. The five "boody-trapped" envelopes vere picked up at the LCPIPIT 
letter drop over a period of a wek and vare handcarried by a Parla Statloa Officer:.. 
to Frankfurt Oil 18 Novaber for processing by KKTOPAZ. Parla/LCPIPIT uted the • 
oplllloo of KlttA>AZ on the follovlog point111 
• 
a) Vu tlaera evidence of taperlng vlth aor of tbe five einoelopeaT 
b) If so, which avelopea bore evidence of tampering! 
c) Vu lt poaalble to determine from a BtudJ of the cac:beta wbetber 
IUch tamperlag occurred before or after tbe cachats vera applledT 
d) Did aucb tampering appear to bo of a profualooal or of• 
amateur natareT 
e) AA7 otbar Mltl'OPAZ obaervatlou vhlch voald belp LCPIPIT decermlna 
tJae aource of any tamperlq that 111117 bave taken place. 
8. IIIO'OPAZ advt.Hd LCPIPIT on 19 November Tl.a nAR 9240 that there 
wu lo evtdace of tamperlna on tba flve booby-trapped letters.• 
t 
I l 
j 
j 
i 
j 
' • ! 
.1 
.i 
:·:,i ·•.,.._ .. , ,-:<; 
