14-00000 
. ., ... 
Ret:rped from .NI.BA. - 6479 
\ I 
S~: Future Re1iignation froa CIA of David FhilHps 
1. In a recent meeting vith tte. Chief .. oi Station, David Phillips, th\! 
PECTATE case ot"ficer, 1informa.lly a::mounced his intention ot' resigning f:rom 
CIA in the near future. At that ti:::e Phillips requested that Headquarters 
be informed by the Chief' of Station. Toi: decision to resign !,as been made 
informally, in-tJrder for the Station and Headquarters to have as much ad:_ 
vs.nee notice as possible. Actually, Thillips does not expect t-o leave his 
Beirut assigmr-ent for about fom· moaths, or sometime in the month of July. 
Phillips reports that .. the PECT.ATE lr.dl.ding will have been finished and oc­
cupied by PEC'Ltl'E staffers long before that. time. 
2. In the above-mentioned zeeting, and in a Memorandum for the Record 
s1.•bmitted to the' Chief or Station, Phillips has emphasized that his decision 
vao reai-.herl ar..er careful though and has been prcmpted solely by personal. 
conai•ierations. ; Specifically the res sens are: 
- ' 
a. The necessity of .Phillips' retur-u to Iatin America to take 
care of pe~sonal business proble:"!lS, mainly the sale or his new~paper 
in Chile. He has been negotiatiDg for this sale for lllllhy months, 
but be feels that an odVRI1te.5eous agreement llOuld be i!Ilpossible to 
reach by msil from such a distance. 
b. Phillips' desire to inaugurate a bus~ness firm in Cuba. 
3. 'file Chiet' of Station has discussed thia matter with Phillips in 
detail. Fhillips·aas reiterated--uid has requested that Headquarters be oo 
advised--thnt his decision is pure.l.y personal. There is no question of dis­
Gtitiafaction w'lt.h CIA, or of a morn.le :problem·. On the contrary, Phillips 
he.a expressed his regret that circ=stances prompt hi.~ to termioate 'I/bat 
he has c.escribed as a most rewarding association vith CIA. 
4. f,'hillips' plans for leaving the Beirut asstgnment bring up the· 
problem of futu.-e CIA control of ~CTATE. Phillips has submitted to the 
Chief of f;tation his persor.al reco=ndations on this score, which have been 
considered in prepe-ring a separate dispstch. 
24 March 1958 
GHOON 200BY 
Chief of Station 
Bein.it 
I ! 
l 
J 
i 
I 
