1
'[;°04-10121-10140] [ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 [ 
• 
1. Mr. David S. Morales is h~reby recommended for the Intelligence 
Medal of Merit for his twenty-five years of dedicated service with the 
Central Intelligenoe Agency. 
2. Prior to his entrance on duty with the Central Intelligence 
Agency ii March 1951, Mr. Morales served from April 1946 to March 1951 
in the United States Army. 
3. Mr. Morales spent more than twenty years in the field in several 
different installations in the areas of Europe, Latin America and East 
Asia. He held senior level positions engaged in FI, CI, CA and PM opera­
tions. His record includes such items as participation in key roles in 
both of Latin t,m!I,if,,.~1,.9ivision' s two major PM/political action operations 
plus tours as~ase'thief in Paksel Laos (supervised 45 employees); and, 
Regional Officer in Charge,@'~l-2ifranij Vietnam (supervised 60 employees). 
These assignments were carried out in war zones requiring considerable 
personal courage. 
4. Mr. Morales was commended twice by Chiefs of Station while 
assigned to the Cuban operrtion; by the Director of Central Intelligence 
for service in the (£ominidan Republi€} during the crisis; by the King of 
Laos during his assignment in Laos and by the Government of Vietnam for 
his service in that country. 
5. Upon his retirn from Vietnam in 1971-Mr. Morales was assigned to 
FR Division, Ulashingl"on Bas~ where he was targeted on Latin American 2..~ 
(military officers assigned to the Inter-American Defense Board and attending 
the Inter-American Defense CollegiJ This assignment was initiated by Latin 
America Division in an effort·to ge~~at the rich operational potential 
afforded by the presence (}.n the Wasfi1.ngton area] of numerous Latin American. 
officials. Mr. Morales, with his long years of experience in Latin America, 
and his native fluency in Spanish, proved_ ideal for this assignment. He 
developed numerous assets who were later pursued successfully and recruited 
in the field and he made several significant recruitments of his own. 
6. Following the FR assignment Mr. Morales returned to the Latin 
America Division where he comptet~d his final year with CIA. He served TDY 
as Acting Chief of Station, frartiJay) for some mcmths. During t~is 1uW{iod 
"there was more activity and accomplishment flowing out of the~sunc1.onJ 
Station than had been seen in years". This is typical of Mr. Morales' 
resourcefulness, imagination and push to get 1 the job done., The remainder 
of his Agency time was spent on a TDY to(!ariama]and in the Cuban Operations 
Group, where his contribution was also very J.arge. 
0 
RE'fl!.N~N 'fO CiA 
Backgro1,.1nd Use Only 
!Do Not Reprvduca 
E2 IMPDET 
CL BY 059115 
