14-00000 
.... 
.. 
poli.tical influen'c~ ,in t~e co.unty as opposed to the city of Las Vegas 
itself. Maheu is being vociferously defeated by the leading local 
newspaper. The Las Vegas Sun. President and Publisher Herman 
M. Greenspun has just concluded a series in The Sun in which he 
alleges that INTER TEL is in fact a front and instrumentally of 
organized crime--shocking if true, but not wholly impossible. 
The working staff for INTER TEL in Vegas is made up predominantly 
of ex-FBI agents and recentiy retired employees of the Internal 
Revenue Service. Peloquin himself is the former Chief of the 
Justice Department's Crime Strike Force, but little if anything 
has been publicized regarding the principles for controlling elements 
of Resorts International and its other subsidiaries. In January 1969 
Resorts International made a bold yet futile move to seise control 
of Pan American World Airways by purchasing a 9. 7 per cent stock 
interest. Pan Am naturally screamed and rushed to CAB for advice 
and support. The intercession of CAB was effective but it is believed 
that Resorts International did acquire perhaps half the stock that it 
had originally intended to purchase. The index for The Wall Street 
Journal for 1969 lists many references to Resorts International 
., 
including o·ne in October of that year regarding some bad publicity 
Resorts had received as a result of their management of the gambling 
casino on Paradise Island. There should be an abundance of other 
public information available about Resorts, its officers and principle 
investors with CAB, SEC and even the American Stock Exchange 
since it is a public corporation. 
Snagging the Hughes Tool Company contract to investigate 
Robert A. Maheu Associates was certainly opportune and the 
contract is reported. to run upward to a million dollars but the 
company's current role investigating Maheu seems inconsistent 
with its declared purpose unless Maheu himself is suspected of 
having been in touch with or ensnared by the Mafia. 
Local allegations and publicity by The Las Vegas Sun could 
be ignored as irrelevent and as having no bearing on the Maheu-CIA 
relationship. Whether the allegations are evidence, it probably 
would be advisable to read this series of articles carefully. 
There is a current rumor similar in nature to Greenspun' s 
allegations that rec~ntly was indirectly brought to the undersigned's 
attention during the week of May 10th. AD. C. attorney, Bernard 
Fensterwald, 927 15th Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. commented 
to a friend, "It looks like may be the good guys (INTER TEL) are in 
fact the bad guys with the Mafia connections." Fensterwald did not 
-3-
SECRET 
