14-00000 
well•built with little evidence of fat. He always wore a vest. ·He Gpoke fluent 
Spa.niDh and could have been of Polish or Russia& !a:nlly background. HARBIN 
always drank tea. never co!!ce. He sppeared affluent with a pro!esi.orial air 
about him. ; 
'. -t'· . ;,_-:/ .. ~ ,(~\,i{~~ 
Following an initiai:me~ti=.- ITV"'' - 11 ----t .. ~~- .. L - - • ~ 0 • .......... - -· ., - &I a • ...,.., -••-&-.- •~., ,a~ aa.u &W ... ~U• ••_.,.~ 
periodically in New York C:ity. ITKIN alleges that he paused to HARBIN copies 
of the correooondenc~ developed by his law firm, Delson, Levin and Gordon. 
- ',~ ', f ' 
dealing with Indonesia, Burma·, and India. ITiilll left that law firm in mid-1957. 
presun-.ably thereby losing total access. Among the materials ITKIN claims be 
passed to HARBIN before be left the Delson, Levin and Gordon firm was informa­
tion he picked up fr:::=:. !'.=:.:::.: who worlced at the United NatiC\ns for the 
Government of El Salvador. This friend was Luis E. GUTIERREZ (see biographic 
sketch. Attachment A). ITKIN claims that he became very friendly with 
GUTIERREZ, who was studying either at New Yorl{. University or Columbia 
where he prepared a master's thesis on El Salvador's economic position. 
HARBIN, he says, was interested in the topic and ITKIN alleges be furnished 
HARBlN notes of GUTIERREZ' monograph. 
Sometime presumably after mid-year 19S7, HARBIN asked ITKIN if he 
knew anybody else who could do (intelligence) work. ITKIN recalled GUTIERREZ. 
who meanwhile bad moved to;the position as Consul General ol El Salvador in. 
New Orleans, Louisiana. HARBIN•-ITKIN says--accepted the suggestion and 
ITKIN provided a.n introducti~n for HARBIN by letter, which he sent to GUTIERRE2 
in New Orleans. ITKIN asserts t.."iat HARBIN-•according to his .own statement•­
went to New Orleans and made the "new contact". ITKIN cla.ims be la.st saw 
HARBIN ln 1960. 
3. A c·omparison between the key points ol 1TKIN 1 s account as sur.·.marized 
ln the immediately preceding paragraph with the data set out in Attachment A and 
E will show immediate contradictions that tend to destroy any credibility in 
ITKIN's account. particularly with respect to hiu relationship to GUTIERREZ~ .. 
We also point out, solely for your information, that we ha,•e found n9 conflr:ni,a:. , ,,. ',-:, 
tiori in our records of any relationship between this Organization aiid IrJ-u.:f.i;,;d~ri,ng,i·, ,,. 
the period 1954-1960, No traces have been found in our records or ~n'f?,e,i": in. •. ,, 
government thus far of a Philip HARBIN, and there is explicit denial thaf·there was· 
any meeting in Philadelphia in 1954 between ITKIN and the high o!ficials he 
nominates. Finally, there is no substantiation in our files of any of the intelli-
gence product which ITKIN allegedly pa.seed to HARBIN. This case, however, is 
o! such a. nature that we must strive, if possible, to have GUTIERREZ' own 
statement for the record. 
4. We leave to the Stati~ determination of the best m&DDer to approach 
GUTIERREZ. It is our preference that a Station officer, under suitable cover, 
perform the interview, but it may well be that a consular or e:n,bc:i.iiiiy ufficer 
might be the best person to do the job. We. repeat that we are concerned in this 
matter solely with the verifiution or denial of ITKIN's statements, specifically 
the allegatiOD. that he introduced HARBIN to GUTIERRl!:Z in New Orleans and 
that as a consequence GUTIERREZ would be in a position to identify and describe 
HARBIN in a way that would permit us _to locate him if be exists. The request 
for GUTIERREZ' assistance in this matter is in no way predicated upon hostility 
towards ITKIN nor is there any predisposition against his claims iI _indeed .-- •. -. 
evidence is found to back them up. If GUTIERREZ indicates that be is willing to 
provide whatever information. he can. you can assure him that bis information is 
. solely for U.S. Government use and will not be made public by us at any time 
without his expressed consent. Also, it is clear lnat we are prepared to accept 
bis decision to giv.e no assistance in the matter. 
CLAS.Stf"ICATION P'AC.£ h0. 
SECRET /RYBA T E;lco,,nNuro 2 
' 
, ,-,):.. 
_:_;~: t 
' 
i. ,.-
J 
i 
