14-00000 
635. 
Do you have a pre-arranged signal for est~blishing contact 
with So·,ict Intelligence? No. (No reaction) 
Do you h~J~-. a concrete plan to return to the Soviet Union 
sometime ·in the future? No. (Reaction) 
Are you performing a special mission for Soviet Intelligence 
in connection with your defection? No. (Reaction) 
Are you deliberately hiding penetrations made by Soviet 
agents into American Intelligence about which you are 
aware? No. (Reaction) 
Are you witting of other recruit~ents made by Soviet Intcl­
ligence_of American Embassy personnel which occurred after 
RHODES and 'ANDRSY'? No. (No reaction) 
Are you an agent of the KGB or other Soviet Intelligence 
organs? No. (No reaction) 
Was thete any pre-arranged signal included in the letters 
you wrote to your wife (since your oefection)? No. 
(No reaction) 
•series t3: 
Did you defect to the Americans in 1964? Yes. (No reaction) 
Did you defect to the .Americans in Geneva? Yes. (No re­
action) 
Did you defect to the 1'.mericans with the assignment of un­
covering plans of American Intelligence against USSR? No. 
(Reaction) 
• Did you defect to the Americans with the assignment to find 
out more about the structure and ffiethods of operation of 
American Intelligence? No. (Reaction) 
D~d you defect to t~e Americans wit.~ the aim o~ penetrating 
American Intelligence? No. (Reaction) 
Did you defect to the Americans because you were dissatis­
fied with the Soviet system? Yes. (Reaction) 
Did you defect to the Americans with the aim of discredit-
• i ing Soviet officers of the KGB who defected earli-er? No. 
I (No reaction) 
; 
-------!------- Did you defect to the Americans with the aim of giving mis-
i • -rriforniat1on-aoout--soviet~.-agents·'--penetration-of--American 
'. Intelligence? No. (No reaction) 
•series 14: 
Did you hide anything from Altlerican Intelligence about your 
trip to Geneva in 1962? No. (No reaction) 
Did you hide anything from A!nerican Intelligence about your 
trip to Geneva in 1964? No. (No reaction) 
_, 
l I 
i 
' 
I I 
I 
J_ 
