14-00000 
:,_ 
_. s -
BROOKLYN, NEW rau: 
" I 'enclose a copy of a l!!l!!:• •• 
"Allllighty Ood,.our Heavenly Father, we besoech thee to brine a 
riP.'.htoow, and jUBt peace into our wor_ld. Cleanse the heart,s of tho 1!18R 
_ or all nations of potty pravincialis111, of .onvy and or hatrod ar..d endow all 
their loaders with hwrdlity arrl couraco to know and to do thy will. 
And more eepticially we pray for tho pooplo or Russia and thoir leader, 
Josef Stalin, that thoy and lie, beinJ cloansed frau Falee Doctrine, 1110¥ 
be brought to the light ot thy truth and ma.y r,eok peace and understanding 
rather than diaoord and war. Grant to our own nation a deeper csense ot 
responsibility in uning tho power thou hastgivon her, 
11 ... :ind enlighten those we have Ht in auth.ority over w, eo that they 
'ti~"/ honeeti.y try to further thy will. Finally, we rrliy for thy Holy 
Ch•Jrch. Wliorovor aho may bo, that -ehe llllll' be revived by thine indwelling 
epiTit and mode t.ho sure inBtrumont or union for nll mon in our divided 
world. Pardon tho imp1:4•fection 01' thia our _prn,yer 1:nd in all thinga 
th7 will be dono. Through Jesus Chriet our Lord. /inion ■" 
MINOllK, ILLINOIS 
"Please put us d°"m as anoth,;r church :Jith a world viei, and. • •• 
a conc~rn for r~ligioue liberty••• or our Chri~ti8n brethren behind 
political curtaina in 1-;urope and Asia. All good success to you 1n 
•our• campaign to overcome evil with l{ood, to fi?ht the big lie ot 
communis111 with the big truth of uni Volrsal freedo:~, freedom I in Christ 1 , 
which we 1n God-bleeeed i'merica so enjoy today.n 
FRO:•I A CITY COUNCIL OF' CHURCH WOl•:EPI 
"We rejoice in this gesture fr0111 Crusad-, far Freed0111 and join with 
you ira epecial pray1:rs.n 
TU?IICA, MISSISSirPI 
"We think the idea ie a good one, and we s~all join with you, using 
the following prayers 
110 Almighty God, who111 to know aright is, life eternal, vhOl!I to serve 
aright is perfect freedor.i; _grant, we beaeec!l • thee, tho restoration or re• 
ligious freedoM to oppressed peoples everyw!lere, but p;.rticularly to those 
in the subjugated ni..tions or Eastern Europe. uiva t.'um hope, !ill the111 
vith cour8€e, strencthcn their deter:llination until the iron yoke ot 
COMwiism 1a broken b-J the power of Christ, in whose name vo pray. Amen.• I 
