Jou~nal - Office of Legislative Counsel. Page 5 
Friday - 11 February 1977 
. • 19. (Unclassified - LJK~ AJ:;?MINJSTRATIVE DELIVERIES • ••. 
Delivered to Charles Snodgras~,' if~use Appropriations Committee . 
• staff, phone numbers of(S.hief of Station, Panama..)and@hief of 'l 7, /.b-J . 
. Station, Mexico City)ror passage to Representatives_ John J. • 
. Flynt (D. 1 Ga. ) and J. Kenneth Robinson (R. , Va. ) for their 
• use in an upcoming trip to the above locations. • 
. 20. • (Confidential - LJK) LIAISON Met with James Fellenbaum, 
Senat~ Appropriations Committee staff, to discuss the FY78 budget., 
Fellenbaum indicated that the Senate Appropriations Committee • 
.. would have to treat the issue of intelligence-related costs due to 
. the fact that the House Appropl;'iations Committee has shown 
such interest in this matter. I informed him that the House • • . •. 
Appropriations Committee is scheduling a hearing on intelligence-. •·· 
rel~ted costs on 8 March 1977. • • 
Fellenbaum also said that it appears Senator William W. 
Proxmire (D., Wis.) and Senator Clifford P. Ca:se (R., N. J.) 
will join the InteUigence Subcommittee of Senate Appropriations 
Committee. 
21. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Advised Art Kuhl, 
··Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, of the number of Agency 
employees covered by the upcoming foreign service list to be submitted 
to the Senate. The information was suppli~d by Tom Carney; CCS. 
22. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Sp~ke with Paul Daly, FBir 
on the present state of affairs with respect to the House Select Committee • 
. ·on Assassinations. Daly advised that at the reqties'f""8~~~fE': 
• Gonzalez (D.,, Texa_s) to the Attorney General the Committee staffers will 
no longer be provided access to the unclassified material they have been 
reviewing within the Department of Justice. 
Daly is hopeful that Chairman Gonzalez will approve the security 
clearance standards and once this is in motion the first clearances should 
start coming through in about 30 days .. I asked Daly to keep us advised as 
to the progress on the clearances matter to pave the way for our next 
coordinated step within the Executive Branch to seek Chairman Gonzalez's 
and Representative Samuel L. Devine' s (R. , Ohio) agreement on procedures 
for access to classified information. / 8 ', :2 g 
USE ONLY 
