14-00000 
687. 
the last period in which NOSENKO had no supervis0ry responsibility 
to divert his attention tram personal operational duties. 
NOSE:SKO could not remember when he too:C: o\·er rc-sponsibility 
for the Army AttLches, and he named two other KGB officers before 
settling upon BUDYLDIN as the person from whol!l he r£;ceivcd the 
Attaches' tiles. When belittling his earlier res~onsibilities 
for correspondents, he bas said several times that he had heen in 
that job "only abo11t six months." Assuming that NOSE~O entered 
the KGB in the middle of March 1953, this would date Ins transfer 
to work against the Attaches in the fall of that yenr. In dis­
cussing this transfer j ts~lf, however, NOSE?,'KQ has consistent l.>· 
said that it took place in 1954. Asked when in 1954, NOS:::.~KO 
baa variously replied "at tt,e beginning of 1954," January 1954, 
and Mey 1954. IJnder interroi;ation in early 1965, NOSESKO re-
fused to estimate ~hen he took over this responsibility. He has 
always said that he turned over these duties and transferred from 
the U.S. Embassy Section in June 1955, ~hen the Tourist Department 
was established within the Second Chief Directorate. 
NOSENKO has said in different contoxts that as the American 
Department case officer responsible for cperations against the 
U.S. Army Attaches be received and~as responsible for assioilat­
ing the product of a wide variety of eources on the individuals 
who were.: his targets. lie !las mentioned informatl on received from 
the KGB First Chief (I•oreigo Intelligence) Directorate; the 
Archives of the MGB/MVD/KGB; micropi1ones which were mplaced 
about a year before ~iOSL'-KO e1•tered the ,\Merican Depnrtraent •; a 
network of Soviet chauffeurs, cooks, language instructors, nod 
other agents in the E::ibassy who together pirovidtd little useful 
information; permanent and roving surveillance patrols outside 
the Embnssy; fixed observation posts next to, across fro~ and 
near the Embassy; advai-,ce notification of intent to travel by 
the Attaches and their i~J~eraries; and reports from outside Mos­
cow, including surveillance, agent netwnrks, the Militia, and the 
milt tary. The point of collecting and assimilating this infor­
m.at ion, NOSE~lCO said, was to be able to know what ~he Attaches 
were doing in Moscow acd thereby to control their intelligence 
collection ~ctivities. Far less important was the goal of re­
cruiting llili tary Attaches; SOSENKO knew of only se\·eral in­
stances when tbis was att~mpted, and all of these efforts failed. 
The KGB's principal interest in control rather than recruit­
ment has been NOSE.~KO's explanation for knowing little about the 
backgrounds •~d personal lives of bis targets--sucb information, 
be stated, simply was not pertinent to the primary mission of 
•On some occasions NOSEi\'KO bas said that the microphones in the 
Army Attache offices were bis most valuable source of informa­
tion on bis targets of 1954-1955; at other times he has said 
that be knew nothing of these microphones until he reentered the 
U.S. Embassy Section in 1960; and at still other times he claimed 
to have known only of their existence during 1953-1955 but not 
where any were located. 
... 
