14-00000 
Top Secret 
(Summary of Case) 
L0ok foolish, but he was not able to suggest any changes of 
fa~t or presentation which would mak~ them more accurate~ 
Commenting on the use of interrogation reports, NOSENKO said 
0 n 4. March 19 6 5 : "My 1 i f e story is abs o 1 u t e 1 y correct . 
Anything I have signed is absolutely correct, I absolutely 
understand what I am doing when I am signing any paper, 
Thts is an offici~l document, and I fully understand what 
I'm doing when I sign it as being absolutely correct," 
Further questioning was conducted from 26 July until 
14 August 1965 with the participation of P.e_t_r: DERYABIN, a 
fcrmer KGB officer. These interrogations, held in Russian, 
were for the purpose of using DERYABIN's KGB experience to 
obtain a clearer understanding of NOSENKO's claimed personal 
and professional background. 
During the period 19-25 October 1966, NOSENKO was 
questioned for seven days on specific aspects of selected 
topics ranging from his identity to his involvement in and 
knowledge of specific KGB operations. Questioning was in 
both Russian and English. Although the interrogations 
identified topics and time periods in NOSENKO's accou~ts 
which contiined the greatest number of contradictions and 
discrepancies, neither the contradictions nor the discrep­
ancies could be resolved. 
Because of the i~cidence of deranged persons CIA has 
encountered among would-be defectors, the question of 
NOSENKO's mental stability was a matter considered early 
after his defection in Geneva. From his arrival in the 
United. States in 1964 NOSENKO has been under psychiatri~ 
observation. A CIA psychiatrist and a CIA psychologist, 
both with extensive experi~nce with Sbviet Bloc .defectors, 
monitored many of NOSENKO's interrogations. In May 1965 
the psych~logist for three w~eks·questioned NOSENKO on his 
life from birth until 1953, when NOSENKO claimed he joined 
the KGB, in an ittempt to identify psychological factors 
which might underlie NOSENKO's contradictory and inconsistent 
accounts. The psychiatrist has continued his periodic 
observations of NOSENKO to the present time. The psychiatrist 
and the psychologist concluded independently, on the basis 
of their observations, that NOSENKO was mentally stable. 
8 
0001280 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
! 
I 
I i 
I 
1 
