14-00000 
I l 
hls servlcea during the coming year. Thus my foregoing proposal 
arose from a dealre on my part not to terminate an asset o! proved 
capabilltiea without giving the agent In question suitable opportunity 
to become useful once more. 
l. Cl Type Review /OR PHONE Personal Security: Your ineino 
makes out there have been frequent security reviews of QRPHONE's 
aecarlty status, and you question the efilcacy o! our doing still one 
more. On thls let me point out that in making such a security aeaeaa­
ment, we would be doing so in response to a current request by the 
area dlvlslon concerned whose cooperation we need to direct thls 
agent. One hardly needs streBB that such a request probably should 
• be honored in the interests of maintaining good relations even ll lts 
fu.Ulllment means _redundant work. Bot apart from thls, the case 
oUlcer also informs me that the case flle does not contain any general 
summary of the alleged security breaches lnvolvlng ORPHONE and 
their lmpllcations vls-a-vls hls activlties. It ls true however that hls 
security status has been reviewed !or each annual project review and 
that aueuments of hls security status were made following each 
"---tlleged breach, but no up-to-date summary exists. As for our o'llft 
gut feelings on hls personal 11ecurlty, one hazards that he ls still ln 
pretty good shape. I agree wlth you that many of the past charges 
leveled against hlm are of the same Uk as those leveled against other 
le!tlst colleagues(who do not have any Agency association) by their 
rlvals. And as for the structure of hls case officer relationship--
that la, having blm b~dled by a deep cover officer from an adjacent 
coontry--thls would appear to be secure ln the extreme (so much 
eo that one wou.ld advocate that lt be dropped due lts operational 
lnefficlency.) 
4. Location: We tentatively agree that ln all llkellhood Parls 
ahould not be the venue for oar proposed operational undertaking doe 
the location of the Wright clan. Rome. however. might do v1ry well. 
U not Rome, perhaps you or EUR Dlvlslon mlght suggest another 
locale. As !or the qoestlon as to whether or not the Rome station would 
want blm permanently, only tlme and hls own ~peratlc;,nal success could 
determine thls. One hazards that l! ORPHONE were able to make hls 
way wlth some good local le!tlsts and had promls'! of developing some 
klnd of relatlonshlp wlth malnland Chlna representatives, the station 
might come to regard hlm as a capital asset. 
2 . ; .·. 
SECRET 
/ 
I 
J. 
i 
' 
\ . 
. I 
. • .. ;c . , ... -~· .. ,: . ,,_',: 
