. < :• ~: · ~;: 
·-~'.•":·•· •\.':,, 
Ir 
T~p Secret 
lSEVENTH DEPART!1ENT - January 1962-January 1964) 
OS~ALD never received any gGB training or KGB assign­
ments. If any other department of the KGD or the GRU had 
wanted to use OSWALD in any way, it would have had to secure 
permission from the. Seventh Department, .which originally 
opened his case file. In view of osr•1ALD' s apparent rnental 
instability, no Soviet intelligence organization, particu­
larly not the Thirteenth (Assassination and Sabota9e) 
Department, would have considered using him. KGB Head­
quarters did not maintain a control file on him following 
his settlement in Minsk, as it would have done had rn=mALD 
been of any operational interest.· The only KGB record on 
os~·7ALD maintained in .Moscow was an index card giving his 
name and the fact the Seventh Department had originated a 
file concerning him. • 
The KGB maintained no separate file on Marina OS!·7ALD; 
all information about her was kept in OSWALD's file. There 
was no indication in OSNALD's file that the KGB had had any 
interest in Marina either while she was in the Soviet Union 
.. or after she left £:or the United States. • 
Comment: NOSENKO later told CIA on one occasion that he 
"only skimmed the file" and on another that he 
had it in his possession about 20 minutes. In 
O6tob~r 1966 he again said that he read the 
file and that while doing so he saw a picture 
of OSWALD for the first time. NOSENKO added 
that.he never met OSNALD personally. 
NOSENKO's assertion that the KGB First Chief 
Directorate first learned of OSNALD when he 
applied for a re-entry visa in Mexico City in 
September 1963 is probably incorrect. The 
consular file turned over to the U.S. Govern­
me.nt by the Soviet Embassy in Washington 
·after the assassination indicated that the KGB 
First Cnief Directorate would have known of 
OSNALD as early as February 1963 if not earlier. 
That file contained Marina OSWALD's letter of 
FeLruary 1963 and a letter of July 1963 from 
os~·JALD, both of which indicated that OShl'ALD had 
0001579 
303 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
I 
