14-00000 
SECRET 
- 7 -
included GERENDE, who apparently became a specilic target of Soviet 
iay~stigation. ~t ~s unclear. from the report of the Federal Security Police 
ho~ fa-r the ~vieUnvestigation of GE RENDE had proceeded. Nechiporenko 
.. - . \vas.PNG'd from ~exico in March 1971. GERENDE's possible e:,g>osure to 
• the Soviets could have· been through his work on the Olympic Committee as 
a tr~slafo:t or through his v.-ork for the Station; which used him for a wide 
ran~ _.of support tasks against the Soviet and Cuban targets. 
.-B. KDFACTO~7 (wile of GERENDE) 
J~~~-· KDFNCTOR-1 is a Dutch citizen and the former wile of 
;; 
GERENDE. She returned to the Netherlands in July 1970 \\ith her children. 
She had ~erved as a support agent assisting GERENDE. She is believed 
witting, ._in generar terms, of GERENDE"s activities regarding the KDFACTOR 
Project. She was ·terminated on 26 June 1970 and signed both a secrecy 
agreement and quit claim. After termination it became apparent that she 
had considerable hard feelings ·toward both the Agency and GE RENDE over 
financial~problems between her family and GERENDE. While the Station 
was not directly involved in all the financial problems, the Station was 
_involved in .regard to her divorce claims ag-a.inst GERENDE's salary, a 
large -part of which came covertly from the Station. In July 1970 KDF ACTOR-7 
came to the Agency Headquart~ ·and complained about her financial settle­
ment. In September and November-1970 she wrote two letters directly to 
the Agency on the same subject. 1n· late 1970 she also asked a Hague Embassy 
political oUlcer to put her in contact with the Agency; however, she did not 
tell him the nature of her business. In January 1971 the Agency contacted 
KDFACTbR-'i's brother, a U. S. Army civiliaii ,with a ''Top Secret" clearance 
living in Alexandria, Virginia, and was able to resolve the financial mis­
understandings with KDFACTOR-7. In January 1971 the Hague Station 
reported KDF ACTOR had, without Station inf-luen<'e, obtained a job as social 
secretary with the Department of Stafe;·at the Embassy. It is believed that 
this job has probably solved many of lier financial problems and should also 
inhibit her from exposing her past work with the Mexico City Station, as 
such exposure could jeopardize her job. The Embassy in the Hague v,,as 
briefed in general terms on KDFACTOR-7's ba~kground. 
c: KDF ACTOR-1 
KDFACTOR-1 is a Mexican citizen and the brother-in-law 
of GERENDE. He was hired by the Station in 1956 to assist GERENDE in 
processing the photographic take of the KDFACTOR Project (at that time 
the LIPSTICK Project and later the LIEMPTY Project). KDFACTOR-1 
