1
'[;°04-101~1-10188]' 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 
: 
1/pJ 
.• 
• 
I 
,# 
. \-1\ u·tr • A 
JN tRNAL USE uNL y 
Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel 
Monday - 1 May 1978 
Page 6 
HsclJ 
25. (Confidential - MMP) LI.AlSON Called Herb Romerstein, House 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to set up an appointment 
(Tuesday,. 16 May at 1400 hours) to meet with Dave Millbank and Ed Mickolus, 
ORPA/International Issues, on the subject of terrorism and the Fourth 
International. This was set up via Pat Taylor, NFAC/CSS. The meeting. 
will take place in 3F30. 
Herb indicated that the Committee would probably hold hearings on 
terrorism in late May or early June and said that they would like to start 
off with an open session. I told him that an open session for CIA on the 
subject of terrorism would probably cause us some difficulty and suggested 
the possibility of an open statement, followed by a closed session as a 
middle ground. 
26. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Called Alan Brown, House 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to discuss the issue 
of providing the Committee with codeword cover sheets and the removal 
of the safe and am waiting for Alan to call me back with regard to whether 
or not the Committee wishes to be included in the USG number control 
system which the Office of Security manages. 
27. (,Unclassified - MMP) LIAISON Called Joyce Early, House 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff,. to ask what the House 
recess schedule will be and was told that the House would be in recess from 
1-9 July (Independence recess); from 18 August to 5 September (summer 
recess); and that 6 September would be the ·end of the session. 
✓ 28. (Confidential - MMP) LIA1SON Called Loch Johnson, House 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to respond to his 
question on what the impediment to CIA's destruction of files (mostly 
CI files on U.S. citizens) was. I told him that the House Select Committee 
on Assassinations had strongly urged us not to. 
29. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Called the office of Joe 
DiGeorgio, GAO, International Division, to tell him that the six intelligence 
reports that his people had requested from the@uenos Airej Station would 
be made available to his regional office in Panama/i with one possible 
exception. b-21.l 
JNTERNAL USE ON~Y 
