14-00000 
,fil~li 
,'.,i 
•◄• 
Top Secret 
(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962) 
no further action was taken. [See below for ABIDIAN's 
account of a similar incident, but one which occurred in 
Armenia.] 
NOSENKO did not know the room number of ABIDIAN's office 
in the Embassy or on what floor it was. located, but he could 
have checked, if necessary, with a copy of the Embassy tele­
phone list published monthly, since it contained the office 
room number of each American employee. (The Embassy telephone 
list contained apartment, but not office room numberse] 
ABIDIAN's office was in the "Zone of Security" (i.e., secure 
office areas). NOSENKO said that a report from an agent 
(identity not recalled) indicated that there was a sign on 
ABIDIAN's office door which·said "Security Office". [There· 
was no. such sign.] ·NOSENKO was unable to determine if 
ABIDIAN had a secretary. No dictation was monitored in 
ABIDIAN's office because no KGB microphone was installed 
there,, [In 1964 a microphone, albeit then inoperative, was 
found in.the room occupied in 1960-1961 by ABIDIAN~] NOSENI<O 
recalled no particularly interesting or important information 
. about ABIDIAN obtained from other microphones in the Embassy. 
4 
NOSENKO did not know the location of AnIDIAN's apartment 
in the Embassy.building, nor how it was furnished, since 
"data of this nature was not operationally significant 
unless the target had shown vulnerabilities or was under 
active development". 
Aware that ABIDIAN travelled from the USSR two or three 
times while stationed in Moscow, NOSENKO did not know to 
which countries· he went or the time of year when the trips 
were made.· Such information would have been of interest to 
him as ABIDIAN's case officer since, like LANGELLE's earlier 
trips abroad, ABIDIAN's trips were presumed to.be for· 
operational purposes. However, there was no possibility for 
the KGB to find out where ABIDIAN had gone: even if the 
Embassy Secti·on did· establi·sh· where· ABIDIAN would travel, 
nothing could be done about it because the foreign Legal 
Residencies of the KGB First Chief Directorate "would not 
accept a request for operational action against an American 
diplomat coming from Moscow". 
0_001482 
210 
TS No. 197124 
Top Secret Copy __ _ 
A ¥2 
l 
I 
J 
