., 
.. • 
··-· ·····-------------------------------- ·--
TAX STATUS This is a corporation for profit. It has met 
federal and state tax requirements as follows: 
1) Corporation Federal Income Tax Return 
2) Federal Withholding and Unemployment Taxes 
3) Florida State Unemployment Taxes 
4) Florida Corporation Report and Tax Return 
5) Florida Intangible Property Tax Return 
AGENT IDENTIFICATION: None at this time. 
.\SSESSMENT OF VULNERABILITY: 
1. Maritime Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967 - The cover 
mechanism established by the Ceres Enterprises, Inc. was very 
secure during the period of its operation and remained so 
until the loss of one of its agents who was captured in Cuba. 
This made it necessary to terminate the activities of this 
corporation and transfer its activities to another entity. 
This was accomplished without any unusual events or actual 
public exposure. If any should occur at this late date, the 
damage would be minimal. 
2. Cover Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967 - This corporation 
is currently inactive and will become legally dormant after 
three years. It was placed in this status due to an operational 
flap which could have exposed the corporation. The last active 
tax return was filed at the tax year ending March 31, 1966. 
An additional tax return will be filed for the past tax year 
which will indicate no financial transactions. 
Its assets and activities were transferred to other JMWAVE 
entities. This corporation was established to provide cover 
for a Maritime Branch vessel and status and payroll cover for 
the agents assigned to it. The corporation is inactive and 
will be allowed to remain so. It was placed in this status 
due to a flap wherein an agent was captured in Cuba who had 
knowledge of this vessel and its ownership. There was no 
public exposure in the Miami area. However, because of the 
past incident the corporation should not be used in the future 
under its current name. While in use the corporation served 
very satisfactorily for the purpose for which it was established. 
35 :" 
.._ ..... -~-
' 
3G ! r 
'J7 i 
.. l 
' -------
........ ~- .. 
· l l , 
j •.. 
19 1'·' 
\· -·i 
20 l'l,, 
~lr·.:. 
22:. 
·' . 
~ ·•-·· 
j 23 ;: , 
·- -· 
25' 
