14-00000 
-·: . 
·- ,, EYES ONl y 
e 
up to a very attractive package. Such headliner• 
a■ Niarchua. Onaaaia. Dave McDonald, and Howard 
Hughe■ are hard to come by. Fensterwald further 
referred to Maheu u the type who employed the 
technique of cutting the Government in Just enou.gh 
on his touchy operation• to permit him to bide behind 
their atdrta U he ~re eaught. It la the opinion of 
the lawyer that. unless the Senator can be convinced 
to the contrary, he will proceed with plan• on achedule. 
11. Maheu'• rnoat active account and11 at this tune, almost 
exclusive client 1• Howard Hughes. In the pa■t he did conaiderable 
work for Dave McDonald,. former president of the United Steel 
Workers. So far as tht• office knowa. the Agenc:y ·never had any· · 
intere ■t in either of the•• cllenta. However, lt should be noted that 
the IO Division was granted a Covert Security Approval on 4 .June 
1959 to approach Maheu and advise him of the Agency's tntereat in 
international labor. Maheu claim.a he never became involved in any 
"bugging" operation for either ol theae accounta. 
lZ. It is not believed that Maheu wants or expect• us to front· 
lor him in.the Onasata tap matter. As mentioned previously, to our 
knowledge this was not Agency aponaored. However, tf exploited, 
it would probably eventually lead to exposing our part in the Onas11ia/ 
Niarchus feud. /uJ it ts a ll'l&tter of court record, it could not be 
denied nor buried. Even though the details might be protected by 
a declaration that it involved classified operational information,. it 
w~uld set up a field day for the press and critics of the Agency. 
13. Mr. Maheu ls preaently furnishing cover for a DODS atafl . 
agent in his Washington, D. C., office. In this connection, two of 
Maheu's employees have been cleared and witting. Other clearance 
actions noted were: CSA granted Fl/Plana, Cover Division on. 
30 August 1954 for use under LPlilDDEN; CSA issued to NE Diviaion 
on 7 October 1959 for Maheu's use in the United States and{Jordan) OU 
inasmuch as he may be employed by{the King of Jorda~to handle 
~ordanian)public relations in the United States. 2..1}­
UO 
4 
f wcS OfJLY 
SECRET 
,~I<;.~ 
