14-00000 :, ·: 
II 
i 
i'·. 
m· I 
~,J 
il 
Top Secret 
(FOUNDATIONS OF NOSENKO'S CLAIMS) 
shown to Premier Khrushchev personally. Although still 
active, the agent had lost access to classified documents: 
some months earlier, in i963. NOSENKO characterized the 
lead as the most important single counterintelligence item 
that he acquired during the year and a half he was a CIA 
collaborator at KGB Headquarters in Moscow. 
NOSENKO's Information 
Shortly after returning to Moscow from Geneva in 1962, 
NOSENKO first learned of a KGB agent's successful penetra­
tion of a classified documents vault at an "important 
American military installation" in the Paris area. Because 
the documents included information on strategic targets in 
France as well as in the Soviet Union, he assumed that it 
was a "strategic planning installation". The installation 
had its own airfield and that there. were "procedures for 
~r_i_nging T9p Secret _documents in and for taking them outll. 
There had been six successful entries of the vault~ four 
in 1962 and two in 1963. On each occasion Special Section 
-technicians travelled TDY to Par~s under diplomatic courier 
cover to assist the local KGB case officer in the technical 
detail~ of thd o~eration. Their function was to advise the 
case officer concerning the entry·to the vault and later 
surreptitiously to unwrap and re-seal the documents. The 
case officer, on th~s basis, would give appropriate instruc­
tioris to his igent, and the ti~hnicians pi6bi~ly never m~t 
·the.A~erican.. • 
A1though thi~ was a First Chi~f Directo~ate Operation, 
officers of the Special Section of the Second Chief 
Directorate were used .. The: Special Section was co.mprised 
6f technicians transferred from the KGB Operational-
Tec~nical Directoraie, and usually it handled surreptitious 
entries to Western embassies in Moscow. Among these officers 
were S.A. IONOV, L.A. LEBEDEV, S.D. ILYIN, V.V. SINITSYN, 
V.Z. KARETNIKOV, M.I. PREOBRAZHENSKIY and Fedor FOFANOV. 
IONOV, LEBEDEV and ILYIN took part in this operation, and 
FOFANOV was later involved. 
The specialists were not the ones that carried out the 
oper~tibn. It was carried out by the.case officers of the 
Paris Legal Residency. The specialists just opened and then 
25 
Top Secret 
G0Gi2S6 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 10 
