14-00000 
. ' 
of opportunity. This basehouse also provides photographic 
coverage, concentrated on visitors. {b} LILYRIC which pro­
vides clandestine photographs particularly or visitors •to, 
as well as employees of, the LIMERICK installation, prepares 
weekly reports on LIMERICK employees and their wives, and 
reports on license munbers of sll cars visiting the instal­
lation. (c) LICALLA, which _concentrates on photographic 
coverage or LIMERICK employees and their families, as well 
as providing observation on the srparent positions and Jobs 
or the target employees, and as ~ell as perso1mel changes. 
Additional photographic coverage ls provided by the mobile 
LIEllTRAP vehicle. Principal age:1t Raymond H. GER~WE (p) 
continues to coordinate basehouse activities; prlnclpal 
agent Oliver G. SCANTLING (p) cc:ttlnues to be an independent 
asset used to follow-up and e>-.-ploi t operational information 
on target personnel and .!.nstallatlons, to case various in­
stallations of 'interest, to acq:~ire property, etc. SCANTLU~O 
has managed the surveillance tea-n being trans!'erred to 
LITEMPO in the interim following the resignation of CLACKETT. 
The Station notes that activit~es :it the LICALLA basehouse 
were suspended in Septen:ber 1960 as the result of the ar-
rest of a knowledgeable TSD technician in another area and 
it is not known precisely when lt wlll be possible to re-
sume these operations. The Station believes that the 
GERENDE segment is now operating t:.nder opt tmwn arra.."'lgements 
13.nd SCANTLING will soon be relie\·eJ .from his int"'rlm respon­
si blll ty .for the surveillance. tea.11 being transferred to 
LITEMPO and can concentrate more on his investigative and 
casing activities. It is not pla:med in the coming year to 
expand project activlti~s. 
4. Appropriate Special Staf!' compor.ents concur in rec­
ommending renewal. FI Staff notes the Dl vls.1.on I s assurance 
that the trans.fer of the unilateral surveillance team to 
LITEMPO will not affect its lnde;:enctent status, a.!ld remark.3 
that the current project revie~ presents a clearer plcture 
of the usefulness of the several segments than the previous 
one. 
SECRET 
