i 
! ' i. 
l, 
' I '. . i :. 
J l • i 
I 
Top Secret 
{SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - Janua~y 1962-January 1964) 
comment: (Continued) 
Department was not concerned with foreigners 
visiting relatives in the USSR nor with Soviet 
expatri.ates, both of which were the responsibi­
lity of other KGB elements. NOSENKO acknowledges 
that the KGB knew that @_RAUNS was a former Soviet 06J 01 
citize~(b@_RAUN@' plan to visit relatives in • 
·Leningrad was information2also available to the 
KGB through his ·visa application •Ob ~RAUN~ had 
corresponded for a year before his visit with a 
former girl friend in Leningrad. She spent the 
first week with him in Moscow (during which the 
KGB. recruitment attempt occurred). The existence 
of the girl friend was presumably known to the 
KGB, if not through mail censorship, then from 
surveillance connected with KRUPNOV's planned ap­
proach to @._RAUNij in the hotel. NOSENKO was un-
aware of thel:>e facts. . 
• Ob 
Chie·f--of the ·Atnerican-i::Briti:sh Commonwealth Section: 
·summary and Conclusion 
According· toNOSENKO, he requested transfer to the Seventh 
Department to avoid being named Deputy Chief of the American 
Department over his then-superior, the experienced and highly 
successful KGB officer KOVSHUK. He is adamant that the trans­
fer took place "before [the defection of] GOLITSYN", which he 
asserts occu~d in mid-January 1962. Among his other functions 
in the Seventh Department., he.cites directing five agents 
.whom he brought from the Ame.rican Department. In his initial 
.capacity as Chief of the American Section, NOSENKO claims in­
volvement only in the \!!_.E. JOHNSO~case, his time being spentO~ 
either in "reading in" on his new Job or preparing for his 
initial trip to Geneva. He alleges that he was directed to 
accompany the Soviet delegation to Geneva for an extended 
period, in behalf of another Second Directorate Department, 
over his objections, when he had no deputy to assume his func­
tions in his absence, and on the eve of the tourist season. 
290 
00015Ci 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
ii 
