14-00000 
SEC RE T/411G It 
- s -
and, consequently, has increased bis own operational abilities. 
• 2. : Insofar as future planning ls concerned, SCANTLING will 
continue to devote the· gr.eater portion of bis time to the LITACIT operation. In 
~ddition, -he_ will continue his work against the LIMERICK target, i.e., investi• 
gating LlFEA T and photographic base house leads in connection with the objectives 
of the LIE?\.~PTY and LI.MESA projects. The Station still plans to maintain 
SCANTLING as a,n independent Station auct free from the responsibilities of super• 
vising other agenta and operations. 
3, SCANTLING will probably continue providing administrative 
support to LIEMPTY-3 (now covered under the LlCOOL project), but will not be 
responsible for the operational direction of L-3 , 
B. Raymond H. GERENDE Segment: 
1. During the past year the three photographic base houses have 
been trained in the use of a faster type film (HY-PAN) to facilitate the taking of 
photographs on dark cloudy days, One base, LICALLA, has made tests and recently 
begun makinrt 35mm color slides using the new fast type Ektachrome film. This 
film is now processed in the Mexico Station dark room which heretofore was not 
pos11ible. It is the Station's opinion that a few color photographs of target personnel 
will be useful £or identification purposes, The LICALLA Base has also, during the 
past year, begun taking 16mm motion pictures in color with the expectation that 
Headquarters can eventually provide lip reading analysis of conversations taking 
place in the garden area of the LIMERICK installation, • 
2, Other operational progress has bt:en made in connection with 
relieving GERENDE of responsibility for the LIJERSEY surveillance team. This 
ITOW leaves GERENDE with a sufficient amount of time to supervise all photographic 
base houses, LIENTRAP and the outside photographic lal>oratory, 
3. Future planning in relation to this segment does not call for 
expansion. Rather,. the Station plans to perfect some of the photographic procedures 
now·in use and to experiment with night photography possibilities using the fast 
HY-PAN film with telephoto lens of varying lengths. GERENDE will also concentrate 
on increasing the security and conuuw1ications procedures used with each .base, 
C. Simon D. CLACKET.T Segment: 
1. CLACKETT's assumption of responsibility £or the LlJERSEY 
surveillance team has been a progressive step for the development of an additional , 
and much needed support ascet. Although the LlJERSEY team has been in existence 
£or 11everal years, 1t was only durmg the ~sty ear, wi,th the assignment of 
SEC RE T/19 Grrrr7f?if 
