14-00000 
. "IIDORANI>Ulil FOR 
TIDlOUGB 
.SU&n'CT 
Sf.Cntl. 
19 MAY tSiO 
Assistant Deputy Director for Plans 
: MPS/BG-
Renewal of P~oJect LIEIIPTY 
1. _ WU Division requests renewal of Mexico City Station's 
Operational SUpport Project·, LIEMPl'Y, fo1· $23,635 for Fiscal 
Year 1971 and a $10,498 amendment for FY 1970 to cover termin­
ation payments to a ·former Principal Agent and his wife. Last 
year LIEMPTY was·approved for $38,970. One agent termination 
and the transfer af the cost of a mobile surveillance unit to 
anot·ber projoct are responsible for the reduced FY 1971 request. 
2. 'LIEMPTY supports a visual and photographic surveil­
lance of the Soviet Embassy in M~xico City. It includes a 
Principal Agent, Raymond H. GERENDE (P), and 6 subagents who 
maintain two separate safehouses, ono in front and one in 
the rear.of the Soviet Embassy, from which anyone entering or 
leaving the Embassy can be observed and photographed. The 
vario~s members o~. tbe team handle and service the photographic 
equipment, develop·a:nct Pl".int photographs, keep observation 
repor~~jhand logs, includ,1.ng the arrival and departure of tar­
ge~ persons; and maintain the two safehouses mentioned above. 
3. Thia project does not provide positive intelligence, 
except inciden.tally. It is designed to furnish a running 
account, both photographic and in writing, of all Soviet 
Embassy personnel and their visitors arriving at, or lesving, 
~be Embassy. Photographs taken by LIEMPTY personnel were 
used to produce an updated "mugbook" on Soviet officials in 
Mexico which has been loaned to other U3 security agencies 
for operational use in activities targeted against Soviet 
ser~ices in Mexico City. LIEl!PTY agents also provided infor­
mation which enabled the Station to identify the companions of 
known KGB officials, to identify the habit pattarns of new 
arrivals at the ·soviet Em~assy and provided a wealth of other 
information of ope~ational value concerning Soviet Embassy 
.act.iviUes. • 
4. A security problem, resulting in a Station decision 
to restrict the activities of GERENDE, place him on half pay, 
and replace him with a career agent (a valuable asset who 
