14-00000 
-,3 .. 
: --.. 1~ ''To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK 
pe_r.9orinel and -physical facilities through the use 0£ phetogu.phic base houses. 11 
This continuing objective is carried out by three photographic base houses, • 
LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA. Duri~g the project year, LIMITED produced 
approximately 3600 photographs and LILYRIC about 4500 picturea of individuals 
enterin_g_and leaving the_LiMERICK ·tar.get. Moat of these photographs were 0£ 
non-LIMERICK -individua.Js 0£ which only a small, but significant, percentage 
could be idonti!ied through license plate checks or other types 0£ routine investi• 
- gat-ion. The _J..I.CALLA base produced approximately 4300 photographs during the year. 
Mo·et 0£ the LI.CALLA-photographs were 0£ LIMERICK employees and th"ir families 
and have been of considerable value in·-~intainini; current and accurate listings 
n( LIMF.RICK personnel in fo:!cxico. Tho LICALLA b,uc: has recently begi.n taking 
• motion pic~res o! LIMERICK personnel conversing in the garden area. These 
movies are beini; forwarded to KUTUBE/D for the possible exploitation 0£ lip 
· reading analysis. • The LIMITED base, in addition to its photographic assignment, 
is also used as the radio central !or dispatching the LlEMBRACE surveillance 
team on LIMERICK personnel targets. All bases make routine reports on the daily 
attendance of-LIMERICK employee:1 at the installation which facilitates the .'.::tation'a 
reporting on the a"rrival and departure o! LIMERICK personnel. Also, the bases 
devote time to reporting the personal ~ssociat!ons among the numerous LIMERICK 
employees. Some of•this latter type information is valuable from the standpoint a! 
confirmin~ that LIMERICK intelligence officers have a tendency to associat-, with 
their colleagues, 
Z, "To collect operational information and identify operational 
leads pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." This is a broa.d objective 
and one which is contributed to by the LIENTRAP operation. LIENTRAP is used 
to provide photogJ;"aphic coverage of important Station targets which do not justify 
a more permanent photogral'hic baoe. During the period under review, LIENTRAP 
has been used for the timely coverag,~ of various Central American exile group 
activities, the Con!ederacion de Trabajadoree de la America Latina (CTAL) 
_ ... -headquarters, several counterespionage targets, the LITACIT· and LITABBY 
targets and other one-time operations of intelligence interest. The operational 
information produced by LIENTRA P is us cd by the Station for increasing 
operational knowledge about a tare:et and, when aiJpropriate, has been incorporated 
in separate reports to Headquarters with other information about specific targets, 
3. "To provide oper.ational support to Station operations, i.e. , rent 
hotel rooms and apartments, and con.d-:.ict counter-surveillances. 11 GERENDE, 
because of his area knowledge and operational acumen, ii, used frequently by the 
Station for renting hotel rooms and apartments in fictitious names for use on other 
Station operations, He is also the Station's principal p'rocl:.rer of local Post Office 
boxes for uee as letter drops. Thie objective pertains entirely to the operational 
support of other Station operations and is an invaluable ingredient to the security 
of important Station activities. 
SEC RE T,l:;:t JC 5 R 
