14-00000 
The_R.~packi Plan 
1. The Polish proposal for a Central European 
nuclear-free· zone was introduced at the 2 October 1957 
session of the UN' General _,\ssembly by the Polish Foreign 
Minister. ,,dam Rapacki. Acting as spokesman for the 
Polish Government, he formulat~d the proposal: should 
both East and West Germany agree to a ban on the produc­
tion and storage of nuclear weapons on their territories, 
·Poland would simultaneously introduce an identical t-an on 
her territory. Rapacki did not mention Czechoslovakia, 
but the head of the Czechoslovak UN delegation, speaking 
after Rapacki, supported his proposnl, declaring that his 
country would join the agreement, e~tendinR the ban over 
her territory, too. The East Germans subsequently warclr 
endorsed the proposal. 
2. !bpacki's proposal· had obviously been cleared ar;d 
coordinated with Soviet leaders prior to its introduction. 
Moscow promptly reported the proposnl approvini;:-ly and the 
Soviet press stressed that scch an ngreement would ~e wel­
comed by the peoples of Europe, would facilitate agree~ent 
on disnrmnment and cessation of nuclear tests, and would 
''help improve relations and brinl{ closer together" the two 
-German states. 
3. The proposal was forn:alized in a 9 December 1957 
Polish government memorandum, which was presented by Rapacki 
to the VS, ~·itish, and French ambassadors in Warsaw. The 
then Soviet Premier, Bulganin, promptly endorsed the pro­
posal in a series of letters to bends of govern~ents through­
out;, the world. 
4. In 1958 Rapacki modified his plan, alle~edly to make 
it more palatable to the Western powers. The new version 
of the plan, published in Novemher 1958, called for a two­
stage pro,;:ram, in which: (1) current nuclear stockpiles and 
b?ses would be frozen and production of nuclear weapons would 
be banned in Poland, Czechoslovakia, East and Viest Germ:tny, 
anJ (2) cxistiu~ nuclear stock pi 1<'5 .lnd 1,,·eapons -..ould be 
,--:~,.~ ~~'!"' 
i.. • ';. i.:: i 
'· ! 
