14-0 
L 
SECRET ,', 
E. Close case officer direction has been made 
very difficult.because of the echelons existing 
between QRPHONE/1 and LCPIPIT, coupled with. relative 
infrequency of field case officer meetings. 
F. What contacts he bas within the African 
target, for example, are rendered virtually useless 
because his case officers are unfamiliar on£ timely 
basis with Africa Division requirements and also 
miss valuable operational leads simply because they 
do not recognize them. (This is no fault of the 
case officers because they obviously have little 
opportunity to keep abreast of such requirements.) 
G. The somewhat artificial nature of his trying 
to portray a pro-Mao stance may help him a bit with 
targets similarly inclined but renders him ineffective 
with other political shadings among the left. 
2. With all of the above in mind and without belaboring 
the history of this project, the following recommendation.is 
offered and bas been concurred in informally by CI/SO and 
-Africa Division officers with whom I have talked. 
A. Accepting the fact that QRPHONE/l's operational 
utility in Europe is minimal, I propose LCPIPIT be 
directed to begin·making arrangements for his transfer 
PCS to Africa and, hence, his operational control 
transferred to Africa Division as soon as feasible. 
B. From the point of view of MHCHAOS requirements 
and Africa Division's own requirements, both elements 
Te'It QRPHONE/1 could best be exploited in Tanzania~ 
It is one of the two most active cities in Africa for 
the radical left, it is a hot-bed of both Soviet and 
Chicom shenanigans, and it is politically vital to 
East African stability. 
c. However, because of QRPHONE/l's well-known 
association with two exiled. Tanzanian opposition 
politicians in London and current reports that these 
oppositionists are plotting the overthrow of 
President Nyere (perhaps with Soviet assistance), it 
would be very imprudent for QRPHONE/1 to arrive bag 
and baggage in Dar es Salaam in the near future. 
Nyere and his police might well conclude that QRPHONE 
represents the advance probe of the coup plotters and 
promptly throw him into jail. 
2 
',,,•·"' 
SECRET 
' i 
f 
i 
f 
I 
' , 
} 
I 
-· 
I 
I 
-l .. 
I I 
I 
