14-00000 
TOP SECRE1 
e. Vie~s of Intelligence P~rsonn~l 
1. Statement by DERYARIN 
a. Introduction 
Former KGB officer Peter Sergeyevich OERYABrn has follo,..ed 
closely the entire course of CIA'3 investigation of NOSENKO ar.d 
his information. He took part in the interrogations of NOSE11KO 
in April 1964, January-February 1965, a~d October 1966 as an ob­
server and consultant, and he personally questioned NOSE~"'KO during 
July and August 1965 concerning cert~in aspects of his personal 
past and early KG9 career. On the basis of his direct, personal 
kno#ledge of conditions .,ithin the Soviet Union and of KGli organi­
zation ar.d procedures· prior to hi_s defection iT'\ Fe::iruary 1954, 
_supplemented by continuing study of later informaticin from a 
l. variety of sources, Df.RYABIN is of the opinion that much of ..,hat 
UOSENKO has said abou':. himself nnd the KGB is purP9sefully false 
or distorted. J\lthough DE!-tY;..BI~l has been able to offer a':_!~ita­
. tive co!"'mcnt on many aspects ot tmSE~~KO's story, the follo,ang • 
_ ·section of this paper is limited t.o his rc-:narks concerning :ioSEN-
KO' s entry ir,to the KGB (ther: M'/lJ) and his Conrr,unist Party affili­
ation, both of ;,,•hich fall into the period ·-hen o.::RYABIN .,as active 
as a KGB (then MVD) staff officer. DF.RYABIN personally interro­
gated NOSENKO on these topics in the summer of 1965. Since OER­
YABIN -as a personnel officer of the KGB (then '.·\GB and MVD) in 
Mosco.,, .,ith long exp-erience in Cor.vnunist Party cctivities, at 
the time NOSENKO claims to have entered the American Department 
of the KGB Second Chief Directorate, he is particularly qualified 
to comment on these aspects of NOSENKO's story. 
DERYABIN, as a Soviet Army officer, .,as gracuated in 194$ 
from the higher counterintelligence school of s~ersh (counter­
intelligence .,ith the Soviet Armed Forces). Follo~ing this he 
.rorked in Naval,Smersh in Moscow and in March 1947 began to work 
in the MGB as a case officer in the Central Personnel Directorate. 
Shortly after.ards, when his superior was appointed I)eputy C'nief 
of the Chief Guards Directorate for Personnel, OERYABIN trans­
ferred ~ith him to the Guards Directorate. He served as a Guards 
Directorate personnel officer until Hay 1952, rising through the 
ranks from case officer to the position cf Chief of Section. One 
of his ~espons1bilities .,as the approval of personne.l ior service 
in various units of the.Guards Directorate, and r.e was also in 
charge of supervising personnel and security matters concerning 
one of the Directorate's surveillance sub-sections. 
', 
After requesting a change from personnel to operational 
duties, OERYABIN W-'3s transferred in May 1952 to t'!-,e J..ustro-German 
Department·of the MGB Foreign Intelligence Directorate. Until 
December 1952 he served as the Deputy Chief of a sub-section i~ 
the Counterintelligence Sektcr (desk) of the Austro-German Depart­
ment. He was then appointed Deputy Chief of the Intelligence 
--Sektor of_ the same departmen~. _ '?- position he held until March 
195~. From H.arch until Septerr.';>er 1953, DERYABI~ -,,-a-s the Deputy 
Chief of the sE:ctior, in MGB Headquarters .,hich ,,as responsible 
for the security-of-Soviets stationed in_Austria ~d Germany. 
In September 1953 he .,as transferred to Vienna, .here he became 
Deputy Chief of the section in the MVD Legal Residency respons­
ible for the security of Soviets in Austria. He defected to 
American authorities on 15 February 1954. 
