14-00000 
. -"' • ..... • ... 
Tadeusz, SZULC • 
Born: c. 1926-. 
• Nationality: Pole. Naturalised U.S. citizen 
1955. 
Occupation: Journalist. 
Used to·work for the "Brazil Herald" am now for FRANJE 
·"PftESS'el. Is,. on good terms with the Polish Legation whom • 
he supplies _with information on Brazil. One of the party 
who accompanied Raul FERNANDEZ on his mission to Montevideo. 
He is the son .of Seweryn sz~. • 
Dec, 1947: Re subject's efforts 1;:o fim employment in American press 
sub-source: circles. Mr. HORAN tried to help h.im, due to a letter of 
Harold HORAN of introduction from SZULC's .Wlcle, llohn WILEY, American 
New Yo1ic: • Ambassador in Lisbon, but desisted. on firding that SZULC 
Feb. 1948: 
March 194&1 
Sept ~ 1949 I . 
had been connected with the Rio de Janeiro communist paper 
"Diretrizes". - • 
Further dE!ta:l.ls 0£ subject's ef£orts to fini a job in the 
United States.· He is to work on the Palestine Commission 
0£ the U.N.O. as from middle of February. 
Subject still in New York am writing regular reports on 
U.S. political a££airs am personalities to the Polish 
Legation in Rio de Janeiro. Trying to get a job with 
U.S. Pres.a through the inf'luenoe at Mrs. J. WILEY. 
Subject at present· in New York, married ·fo an American 
• girl 9 an:l working in one of the American News AgenciefJ. 
Since arrival of new Legation (Warsaw) he was in touch 
with the Minister, the Secretary and: the ex-Press A ttache., 
the late Wilcinski. Told by Warsaw Poles in Washington 
that to be useful he cannot have a job•with the Press Dept. 
0£ the Washington Polish Embassy or the Polish Press Bureau 
in New· York •. Using his "Uncle" introduction letters { the 
u.s. Ambassador John Wiley married to Polish born~ Irene 
BARUCH, who is the sister of the first Mrs. SZULC) 1 he 
obt.ained • a job with Americans on orders £rom the Poles. 
Subject is helped financialzy by the Polish Legation in 
Rio de Janeiro. Thanks to introduction letters from the 
WILEYs, SZULO penetrated several circles in New York. He 
ia writing reports to Rio de Janeiro and working with people 
,in New York and is considered- useful £or. £uture tasks. ~;:_ 
tv" .. 
June 1951~ 
June 1951: 
........ 
}'fephew of newly appointed U.S • .Ambassador in PANAMA, he is 
now trying to get a job in Panama as American ·correspon:lent. 
He has a job with U.P. in New York. In Rio de Janeiro in 
1947 /l+B, was fellow traveller and inf ormect- of communia t • 
nucleus on the staff ·0£ the cormnunist newspaper "Diretrizes". 
Also worked f"or iRANCE PRl!!SSE and reported regularly on the 
Polish ooloey in Rio de Janeiro.· 1, 
' 
Visited Rio de Janeiro, from ll.6.51 to 27.6.51 when he 
-returned to New York. Whilst in Rio, he was in touch with 
Ig~cy SACHS to whom he brought information £rom the USA. 
The two are relatives and boyhood friends and subject writes 
personal letters to SACRS containing matters 0£ interest to 
the Polish .Legation. Subject also has useful contacts in 
New York in poli.tical arxl artistic circles, obtained through 
his.Aunt. Is believed to be trying to obtain American 
citizenship through having married an American woman .• 
_/ --2 - •••••••• 
/ 
t;_· .,... 
