14-00000 
.. 
J 
- 8 -
Z. Gener.11 Obsen·atior-.e1 
l beleive AMBANG-1 ia planning to return to ·c·~ba. 
He indicated that he would give lhe matter serious thought to 
e,ren go in, 
1
disguised, a& a legal traveller if that road were 
generally open, i.e., if rather large nwnbera of travell~r• were 
going in via PAA flights. This line seemed a bit out o{ character 
ior A-1, for it seems unrea.liatic and somewhat remind!ul o{ Macaulay's 
references to the state o{ mind that exiles develop. I also detected 
what we consider to be a somewhat unreaUstic appraisal of the Cuban 
aituation in A-l's estimate that Castro has coneiderably less than 
40'Jo of the Cuban people with hir.'l. A-1 may be losing more than a 
little touch with Cuban reality. 
A-1 remains convinced that he is on the right track in 
working for the eventual overthrow of Castro. He is convinced, 
ho-a•ever, th~t two lo three years is all the time left for actually 
destroying the Castro regime, believing that there will be a favorable 
turn in the Cuban economic situation by late 1965. A-1 is likewise 
convinced that Castro cannot add to the improvement of Cuba, to 
the contrary that so long as the principal decisions arc made by 
Castro, the general trend will be confusion arising from a failure 
to concentrate on specific problems until th'ey arc corrr.cted. 
A1'.BANG-l is likewise convinced that the JURE is building 
a political group and general outlook which will_ have an impact on 
Cuba for many years to come. He i& especially concerned with the 
· need to carefully consider rach position of his groip in order to 
cr~ate the lasting impreuion that JURE knows w~ere it ia going 
and that its leadership is composed of men who know how to "run" 
a co.mtry without the false starts, conf.Jsion and chaos identified 
with the Castro regime. 
AMBANG-1 h likewise greatly concerned with the neceulty 
of not creating an impreuion inside Cuba that the JURE will return 
to mete out "Justice, 11 It le essential, A-1 states, to convince the 
generAl populace that the overthrow ol Castro will not result in a 
bloodbath, ratherJhat the •ole aim ii to ·•.ave the, revolution that· 
haa been betrayed. He is anxious that the people Inside Cuba see 
I -· ... 
!' 
