2. Upon my return from Mr. Warner's office, I consulted with 
Mr. James W. Franklin, Chief, Official Cover Branch, CCS, with whom 
I had discussed Mr. Dunn's inquiry in late 1972. I asked Mr. Franklin 
whether he could refresh my memory. This he did. immediately. He 
reminded me that a newspaper article (Tab A) had appeared claiming 
that one of the Watergate 5 had carried a U.S. passport in the name of 
Edward Hamilton. This news pa per article had been seen by Mr. Robert 
Johnson, Deputy Director of the U.S. Passport Office, who had had the 
U.S. Pas sport Office files examined with negative results. Mr. Johnson 
then determined from the FBI that the document involved was not a U.S. 
passport in the name of Edward Hamilton but a tourist card in that name. 
I then remembered that because the information came from the FBI via 
Mr. Johnson, I had not identified the source of my information. I . 
• immediately called Mr. Warner and advised him of the foregoing. 
3. Later in the afternoon of 30 October 1973 Mr. Franklin 
came to my office with a number of documents. They consisted of a form 
memorandum signed by me which was addressed to Mr. Hunt dated 29 June 
1970 (Tab B), a list of names numbering from 1 through 154, representing 
true names (Tab C), and a second listing similarly numbered, representing 
aliases (Tab D). Number 63 on the true name list reads E. Howard Hunt 
and on the alias list, Edward Joseph Hamilton. Mr. Franklin explained .... 
which I had forgotten -- that we had obtained from TSD this list of outstanding 
alias birth certificates issued by TSD in an attempt to recall--if possible- .. 
as many of these documents, or to determine what had happened to them. 
(Most of these alias birth certificates were issued in connection with the 
Bay of Pigs Operation.) The memorandum was never forwarded to Mro Hunt 
because by June 1970, he had been retired for 3 months. This memorandum 
had not been included in Mr. Hunt's cover file but had been kept with the 
working papers pertaining to the action trying to recall as many of the 
outstanding alias birth certificates as possible. As a result, the repeated 
reviews of Mr. Hunt's cover file had not yielded the information that an 
alias birth certificate had been issued to himo 97 of the 154 aliases were • 
not previously recorded in the CCS central index and the indexing after the 
acquisition of the list had been overlooked. The surfacing of these documents 
at this time occurred because in re-discussing Mr. Hunt's possession of an 
international travel document in alias reminded Mr. Franklin of the 1970 CCS 
· exercise of recouping outstanding alias birth certificates. Discussions on the 
same subject in December 1972 simply did not result in the same memory 
association~ 
-2 ... 
I NW £4937 Docld:32357551 Page 3 
