14-00000 
in Frankfurt, West Germany. The alien involved ~as Eduard 
Oun, an Estonian who defected from Estonia through Sweden 
in 1955. 
6. The incident in Frankfurt involved cistrcatment of 
Oun during interrogations directed hy Torpats. The charges 
of_ physical abuse included the striking of Oun with the fist; 
appllca~iori of turpentine arid ointments to various parts of 
the body, the sirubbing of Oun's bbdy with a brush, and forc­
ing Oun to stand in the nude as long as eight days during 
interrogations with only very hrief rest periods. 
7. Torpats was returned to lleadqu·arters anti was brought 
hefore an Employment Review Board for consideration of separa­
tion frofu the Agehcy. The Board's recommendations initially 
were that Torpats be "transferred to an area outside the 
Clandestine Services.'' Torpats appealed the decision, and a 
later recommendation included reduct ion in gn1de from GS-14 
to GS-13. Torpats later received unsatisfact~ry fitness re­
ports and eng .. gcd in various "in house" battles with Agency 
officials concerning his employment. 
8. Torpats was later terminated in accordince with the 
authority granted the DCI under Section l02(CJ of the Nation~l 
Security Act of 1947, as ammendcd, effective 30 January 1961. 
Later in 1961, Torpats filed suit against the DCI contesting 
his dismissal, and the U.S. District Court for the District of 
Columbia granted the government's motion for sur.unary judgment 
against Torpats. Torpats appealed the decision, and the U.S. 
Court of Appeals, in 1962, upheld the lower court's ruling 
that Torpats' termination was legal. 
9. The Office of Security file of Eduard Oun contained 
little information other than interrogation reports dated 1956. 
It was not clear from file information whether Oun entered the 
United States after the Frankfurt incident. The most recent 
document contained in the Oun file was dated 17 September 
1956 and noted that Oun had been psychiatrically examined and 
iound qualified for Ageniy ~ponsorcd immigration to the U.S. 
under Public Law 203. 
2 
SfCHET 
\ 
\ 
• 
