14-00000 
I 
.. : ~ • 
; __ ~· -;~---~~'-·~ "-? 
·-
that Rodigast was under some suspicion. QRPHOXE has • 
been refused entrance at the border by the Swiss 
authorities. Does anyone doubt that in view of the 
groups and individuals he contact~ on his travels he 
has a dossier in each of these countries?• Does anyone 
doubt that in many of these do.;siers the alleged CIA 
connection is recorded? In view of this, isn't. it a fact 
that probably the safest place for him to be contacted 
is London, in spite of Whatcve1· tradecraft he and 
Rodignst may practice? In spite of a rapport and back­
ground knowledge elc::cnts which he undoubtedly benefits . 
from with Rodigast, are these factors worth the extra ' 
handling complications? Doesn't this handling method 
essentially double the cost of the operation? 
12. Wba t were the reasons for the break with "Fair 
Play for Cuba?" the break with Verges? Does QRPHOXE 
have a power base at all among Acerican negroes (SNCC 
doesn't like him and it is recorded in the renewals that 
blacks and revolutionaries sense that he is not "sincere")? 
13. Can't we determine right here at Headquarters 
the degree of interest in the Italian branch in having 
a rather low-level propaganda ope1·ation involving anti­
Soviet propaganda ostensibly emanating from pro-Chicom 
sources? Now that the PRC has decided to go "legit," 
what is our best estimate as to the likelihood that they 
will lose interest in previous and current pro-Cbicom ~ 
fringe groups? 
14. Other than on the above, if we asked QRPH~E 
to become involved in depth with one of the groups he 
is in touch with, wouldn't he have to act "more Royalist 
than the King," and wouldn't he be the first to come 
under susptcion in case action against the group pointed 
to a leak? 
15. If he could not take covert action himself 
through such a group ~o what extent are we now or 
potentially likely to become involved with covert 
action by other grouos against: • 
- anti-Vietnam action 
- African liberation movements 
- New Left ~roups 
- p~o-Chicom groups 
Fedayeen groups 
' .. •, 
• I~-~--•-· .. -
'. •. 
L. 
11 
• i 
i 
! 
l 
·'. 
.) 
.; 
