14-00000 
- SECRET 
NONOFFICIAL COVER REQUEST 
FOR INDIVIDUAL 
-
To Insure the most effective application of nonofficial cover, lt ls 
essential that cover requirements be brought to the at\ention of Central 
Cover Staff. in the earliest stages of planning. As soon as It has been 
determined that an agent ls to be placed under nonofficial cover, either 
In the United States or abroad, a meeting with a representative or 
Central Cover Staff should be arranged. (When outside recruitment of 
an agent !or a nonofficial cover assignment !s contemplated, Central 
Cover Staff !acllities are available to facilitate "clean" recrullments a.-id 
protect the agent against Identification v.ith CIA during the integration 
period.) Imtlal discussions wlll be informal and exploratory and should 
:,;~-•.~,result In the elimination o! unsuitable cover possibilities. Central Cover 
-s~ft', Nonofficial ~over Branch telephone extensions are 5144 and 5122. 
Following the initial discussion, and based upon it, a cover require­
ment memorandum signed.by or !or the operating division chie! should 
be submitted to Central Cover Staff. It ls specifically requested that a 
headquarters case officer other than the agent himself be designated 
to deal. with Central Cover Staff in the development of the desired non­
official cover, including the preparation of the cover requirement mem­
orandum, in order that this development may proceed on a completely 
objective basis. This memorandum may be keyed to the paragraphs 
numbered-below to obviate repetition. 
No commitments wlll be made with any cover organization ·until 
Central Cover Staff has been advised by memorandum that the proposed 
cover and the agent's participation in the operation have been concurred 
in by the field and/or the Chief of Operations, DD/P. Such memoranda 
a,re to be signed by or for the division chief. Each agent proposed !or 
a nonofficial cover assignment is subject also to personal lnter·,lcw by a 
1eslgnee of Chief, Central Cover Staff, !or assessment as to his suit­
ability for the proposed cover. This Interview, when required, will be 
requested by Central Cover Staff. 
At the conclusion of the discussions with the operating divisions and 
discussions between representatives of Central Cover Staff and the cover 
organization, two formal documents ordinarlly wiJI be ·prepared: 
a. The° first, a "Letter ot Cover Instructions" addressed to the agent. 
will be prepared by the Central Cover Staff. It will outline exactly 
the cover story to be employed and will specify what is expected 
of the agent to maintain a proper relationship to the cover fa­
clllty. Each Item in the instructions will be discussed with the 
agent and1or his case officer by the Central Cover Staff case officer, 
after which the agent wlll be required to acknow!edge the receipt 
of these instructions. The branch chief concerned will also be 
SECRET 
