14-00000 
.. 
l· 
AbtUNI STl;lATIVE H."I'ERNAL USE ONLY 
2 January 1974 .• 
~!EMORA.•mUM FOR: J. Wa 1 ton Moore 
THROUGH Head o.f Career Service 
SUBJECT Retirement Planning 
1. Irt order to assist employees in planning for their even­
tual retirement, it is the pract_ice of the Agency to notify each 
employee well in advance of the elate he fs scheduled for retire­
ment. I am, therefore, taking this opportunity to··actv--ise·-you···--·· 
that you are scheduled·to retire on 5 actober 1979. 
Z. ·The prospect of retirement frbm the Agency deserv~i 
seriou~ thought and careful ·planning so that you may make the 
. transition to the next ·phase of life with purpose and confidence. 
··-To assist you in t&is regard, the Agency offers various resources 
. 'which are attuned to the needs of prospective retirees. You 
will, in the near future, be invited by the Retirement Counselor 
fdr your Directorate to an individual p~e-retirement counseling 
session, or more than one if you wish. This phase of retirement 
planning will be :aiJored solely·to your_ own particular situation 
and circumstances and will be within the context of fhe retirement 
system under which -you· will retire. The "individ_µal .counseling 
sessions are intended to ilve you a wide range of information on 
such matters as estimates of your annuity, survivor benefits, 
life and health insurance, Social Security, taxes, relocation 
and movement of household effects and assistance in obtaining 
other e=ployment. In addition, you will be invited to attend a 
Retirement Information· Seminar that will be offered in the 
autw:in of 1974. 
3. Some petsons who wish to retire voluntarily prior to the 
scheduled date and who wish to commence their planning as early 
as possible, prefer to work with their Retirement Counselor well 
before the time he would normally contact them. If you believe 
you would benetit from such an earlier start on your personal 
planning, you are entitled to contact the Retirement Counselor 
~esponsible for your Directorate at the Retirement Affairs Division, 
212 Magazine Building, on telephone extension 3328. 
ADMINISTRATIVE - J-NTERNAL USE OSLY 
