14-00000 
mention The Las Vegas Sun series but claimed that The Miami 
H~rald and The Washington Post were both about to break stories 
linking INTER TEL with organized crime. 
When Maheu hurriedly relinquished his palatial offices 
which occupied one ~hole wing of the Frontier Hotel in Las Vegas, 
according to~l Pe~ie,Jhe took ten or twelve packing crates of 
records with him. In his haste, however, he appeared to over­
look a box of 3 x 5 cards that were cross references to some of 
these records. The INTERTEL investigation, under the guidance 
of {[>e"Js~ and the Hughes Tool Company attorneys, will undertake 
to establish as nearly as possible exactly what Maheu was doing 
with his time and with the Hughes fortune. The Hughes attorneys 
are proceeding on the basis that if Maheu in fact did have a 
"contract for life, 11 as he contends, then the Hughes Tool Company 
was entitled to 100 per cent of his time and "true and faifhful ser-
•• vice."- Atthe-outsetand·without·the records theINTERTEL staff 
hardly knew where to look or to begin since they i;;uspected kiek­
backs, siphoning of money into foreign number·ed bank accounts 
and the purchase of false mining claims, just to name a few. 
Such investigation is costly and tedious but INTERTEL hopes to 
develop and reconstruct Maheu's pattern of activity from the date 
he gave up all of his other clients to work for the Hughes Tool 
Company (Howard Hughes) exclusively. Therefore they will 
thoroughly scrutinize any and all private deals, foreign or domestic, 
looking for concealed assets, evidence of kickbacks or foreign 
numbered bank accounts, etc. Preliminary court action,
03
except 
to accomplish Maheu's removal, has been slow. Mr. (!'easj said 
that the Hughes Tool Company lawyers were in court in Las Vegas 
on April 18-20, 1971 but additional action or proceedings have been 
set down for June 25, 1971 and so it will probably ad infinitum. 
With Hughes resources he can hold out forever but the general 
consensus,js that Maheu is already beginning to feel the financial 
pinch. ~eels~ reported that a recent new business, a consulting 
service opened by Maheu in Las Vegas, had flopped. It would 
appear that Maheu fir st became indirectly associated with Howard 
Hughes in the early 1950 1 s at a time when Hughes was entangled 
in extended Senate hearings with the then Senator Brewster. of 
Maine. Maheu did some subcontract investigative work developing 
material which Mr. Hughes used during these hearings. If it has 
any significance or bearing to any current problems, Mr.(Roberto3 
J. Flynn,) a former Agency employee, could supply all details 
-4-
SECRET 
