14-00000 
'' 
.. . -
( 
SECRET 
3. We then proceeded to the 29 items which we would like to 
see modified but which we could not consider classified. We made 
this clear to Hunt and went through them one by one, discussing our 
concern with each. Hunt contended that most of these items should . 
not be considered sensitive since they had been publicized extensively; 
in some cases confirmed in testimony; and, in the case of other 
items, the principals involved were dead. However, he agreed to 
changes in the items referred to in paragraphs 1, 3, 17, and 32 of 
the CI Staff memorandum of 19 September. These involve the deletions 
of the names of 1l{enry Pleasant~ and Frank Holcomb, both now 
retired under cover; a direct reference to joint operations w~th the 
~-ritlsh -in Hong Kong; against China; and the wording of his reference 
to CIA alias documentation used by the Watergate burglars. The 
language of this last item will be changed so that it no longer leaves· 
the impress ion that the documentation was prepared by the Agency 
for this operation. 
4. When we had finished, Hunt and his lawyers emphasized 
as they had mentioned earlier in the meeting that it might be very 
difficult to get the publisher to agree to changes in the unclassified 
items. Mr. Snyder offered to present all of the items to the publisher 
for change without distinguishing between the classified and unclassi­
fied items. He said he would do this without implying they were all 
classified. I felt it necessary to turn down his offer because of the 
risk of the publisher being unwilling to accept that many changes 
with the result that we would have to go back to him on the three 
classified items, thus presenting a situation similar to our retraction 
of previously demanded deletions in the Marchetti book. I think 
there would be some danger of the publisher using this in his adver-
• tising and through reviewers for publicity purposes. 
5. As we were leaving, Hunt showed me what was described 
as a "comfort letter. 11 This was a letter written by him to the 
publishers on 17 May 1974 at the publisher's request which said 
that in his opinion nothing in the manuscript violated any agreement 
between himself and the CIA, nor would subject him to prosecution 
under the espionage laws. As the meeting was ending,· Hunt expressed 
his hope that no publicity would be given to it and that the Agency 
would not issue any kind of a press release. In view of the Director's 
decision that we shall issue a press release, I took pains to persuade 
Hunt that public acknowledgment of the fact that we had reviewed his 
2 
SECRET 
