14-00000 
A. Fixed Basehouses 
1. LIMITED 
Throughout the past project year the LIM.Il'ED....installations 
provided daily photographic coverage and physical surveil­
lance of the main t~te of the FJSTEAL installation. In 
addition, the LIMITED- base provided for a fixed radio 
dispatching station which was used to support the LIEMBRACB 
sur~~illance team. Due to the stringent security measures 
instituted in \be immediate vicinity of the FJSTEAL instal-
:ia.-tion by local security forces, normal stake-outs by this 
ua~lateral team are precluded. However, with the radio 
dispatching support from the LIMITED radio base, which 
allows the LIEMBRACE team to work fro1n adjacent safe areas, 
secure surveillance coverage of this target can be provided. 
During the 12-month period from 1 November 1966 through 
31 October 1967, the Llb!ITED base provided 1,834 frames of 
operational photographs. ID addition, the LIMITED base 
provided over 2,500 pages o! physical surveillance reports. 
2. LILYRIC 
During the project yea.r under review, the Lll,YRIC installation 
provided extensive photographic and fixed visual surveillance 
of the front of the FJSTEAl installation. The LILYRIC base 
provided the majority of the operational photographs produced 
by the LIEMPTY project. ouring the 12-month period cited 
in the LIMI1'ED section abo\e, the LIL\'RIC base provided 
12,137 operational photographs -and several thousand pages 
of physical surveillance rEPOrts covering the daily move-
ments of all FJSTEAL officErs. 
3. LICALLA 
During the above cited 12-~onth period, the LICALLA instal­
lation provided photograph~C and physical surveillance 
coverage of the back of th~ ~JSTEAL installation and its 
garden and patio area. Tb~S coverage provided 4,917 indi­
vidual photographs as we11.as numerous surveillance and 
observation reports. It siould be noted that the LICALLA 
base allows Station Mexico City to observe the FJSTEAL 
p~rsonnel during their off.duty and recreational hours. 
The LICALLA installation h~S become the most valuable of the 
three, not only hecause of its uniqu~ vantage point but also 
because of the perceptiventss of LIEMPTY-9. His surveil­
lance reports have frequenily given us valuable insight 
·into personal associations among the FJSTEAL personnel and 
have enabled us to introdu~c greater flex!b~lity anrl 
effectiveness into the ent~re LIEMPTY operation. 
