14-00000 
-6-
j' ffil!gj]'l!)j\Rlu\!l u(Q) tllA 
~~@munci Use Only 
t:,,.©@!M~i !Reproduce 
\_ 
"the new land project" sought to establish a tax shelter on 
one of the out-islands of the Caribbean by forcefully taking 
over the island and establishing a government there. Mackem 
is supposedly involved in the paramilitary training of forces 
who would participate in this adventure. According· to Dyckman, 
the paramilitary training supposedly was to take place in 
Georgia, where WER BELL is based. 
8. On 31 August 1974, Mr. faoufdo~ met with Mr. K. Michael 
Absher, who at that time was AC/~/GC, and told him that 
WER BELL was leaving for Athens on 31 ~gust 3 ij sell arms to 
the Greek Government. WER BELL wanted Roussos. to be his 
advisor in this venture and to go to At ens .03 Rousso~ told 
WER BELL that h~~would check with CIA before giving Wiman answer. 
WER BELL asked(B.ousso~ to see if the Agency was in favor of 
:5uch an arms deal or not. Mr. Absher strpngly advised agai_nst 
b3 ~oussosV getting involved in this deal .03 \Roussos) told Mr. Absher 
that he understood and agreed not to get involve'd. foussos)o) 
said that WER BELL would probably call him from Athens and'1ie 
would give WER BELL a final negative reply. 
9. On 22 July 1974, the FBI reported that WER BELL may 
be in possession of a one-line note from former CIA Director, 
William Colby stemming from a chance meeting with the Director 
at an OSS alumni dinner, reading something like "Good to see 
you again." This note was apparently used by WER BELL to 
suggest that he and Mr. Colby were good friends. This infor­
mation was passed on to Mr. Colby on 9 August 1974. 
10. According to reporting from several Stations, WER BELL 
and Arthur L. Smith (a cohort of WER BELL's) were in several 
Central ·American countries during August and early September 
1962. their principal activity appeared to be contacting 
officials of the governments of Guatemala, Nicaragua, and 
El Salvador for the purpose of obtaining recognition of a 
de facto Cuban Government in exile called the "United 
Organization for the Liberation of Cuba." In discussions with 
Nicaraguan Government representatives, WER BELL claimed the 
proposed Cuban Government in exile had the support of 90 
separate Cuban exile organizations and 186,000 Cuban exiles. 
WER BELL offered a representative of the Nicaraguan Government 
$100,000 to obtain that government's recognition of the Cuban 
Government in exile. The group claimed to have its headquarters 
at 1025 Connecticut Avenue, NW, in Washington, D.C. While in 
Guatemala, Smith claimed that the group had a man in the 
Department of State in Washington, D.C., whom they pay $6,000 
per year "to keep them advised." 
