14-00000 
I 
CONFIOE:NTIAL 
Contfnuatfon of Narrative Comments 
In carryfng this heavy workload, Subject demonstrated that he is 
a superfor agent handler. He succeeded fn convcyfng to these 
people a sense of mfsslon and partfcfpatfon which has kept their 
morale and mot1vatlon, and hence thefr production, at a hfgh level, 
He also fnsfsted upon work and securfty dfsclplfne, wfth a result 
that the record of these agents fn prompt and reliable appearance 
for meetings and In respondfng fn wrftfng to requfrements is 
extraordfnarfly ·goo~. • They all have- a clear fdea of what 1s 
expected of them, confidence that performance wfll be rewarded 
and conversely that non-performance wfll not be tolerated. Just 
prfor to hfs departure, Subject successfully termfnated an entfre 
survefllance team of long standing, a measure whfch was decfded 
upon sfmply because the team had been heavfly used for over ffve 
years and from a securfty standpofnt replacement seemed to be fn 
order. lettfng old agents go fs always a delfcate and usually a 
thankless task. It takes ffnesse and bargafnlng skfll. Subject 
showed these and more fn dlvestfng us of the team wfthout a hftch, 
Ourfng his last month fn Lfma, despite the fact that he was 
~urdened with the problems of closing out his household and the 
normal operatfonal and admfnfstratfve cleanup prfor to PCS depar­
ture, Subject made two very s1gnfffcant contrfbut1ons to Statton 
objectfves~ ffrst, he coordinated wfth the Peruvian Government 
the offfcfal but necessarfly discreet vfsft of a senfor BKHERALD 
offfcer. Sfnce the Statfon fs not declared, Subject had to mafn­
tafn his LNGOLO cover throughout, furlher complfcatfng thfs delfcate 
assfgnment, Ourfng the vfsft, he coordfnated frequently wfth the 
head of the Peruvian National lnte111gence Service and with the 
chief- adm1nfstratlve aide of the Pre~fdent of Peru. He also 
partfcfpated directly 1n one meetfng wfth the Presfdent. Thfs 
was of c~urse not the type of assignment which would normally be 
entrusted to a "junior officer", but Subject fs junior only fn 
relative grade, cGrtalnl·y _not l·n maturity, self-assurance or judg­
ment. Then with only three days left fn Lima, Subject led an 
installation team whfch entered a bulJding recently purchased by 
the HPCHEEKs, remafned tor almost 48 hours and made two apparently 
excelleni audio fnstallattons. 
The Statton will ir.tss Subject a grea"t deal. As the ·above 
1ncfdents demonstr&te, when the tough or sensftlve a~sfgnments 
came up, he was the officer we turned to mo~t frequer.t1y, Ht 
never balks, nrgues intonvenience, or seeks the wdy out. He 1s 
cooperative, helpful, and In a low•key way ts alwdys effective. 
Wo hope he will not obJect to ~he term •otd reliable" -- ~e has 
been that Ir. li~a, •nd mor~. • 
.. , r ... ,._If•, .11 
S C C R C T 
