;;;:,~..,,,..,.,..~~ ,.~ ...... ::•'•"'~, 
c. To Jane 1955 (American Departmenl:,) 
Introduction :t · 
Depending up6h; which· date h.;· h.iis given for entering the KGB, 
NOSENKO's first assignment in the U.S. Embassy Section of the 
American Department,. working on American corre.spondents living 
in Mosco·,.., lasted fqr about six to eighteen· r.,ontns. From that 
job, he said, he moved in 1954 to operations against _U.S . .- Mili­
tary Attaches_ .assigned to the Moscow Embassy, remaining in the 
same section until being transferred in June 1955. His activi­
ties, as NOSENKO described them, _.inct pertinent.collateral infor­
mation on his targets while he was in the U.S. Embassy Section 
are reviewed below. • 
2. Operations Against Correspondents 
On the day cf his acceptance into the K:;B, NOSENKO was 
taken directly to the offices of the U.S. Em~assy Section. 
There he met the section chief, V,A. KOZLOV, wno told NOSENKO 
that he wculd take over the work of the departing case officer, 
Captain .\natoliy TORHOZOV, in op:?rations against American cor­
resp_ondents in Moscow. 
a. KGB Files on SHAPIRO, GIU!ORE, SALISRURY and WHITNEY 
When NOSENKO reported for work the following day, accord­
ing to statements made on 8 April 1964, he found d desk in Room 
615, "There wer~ three other guys sitting there. At first I 
was running traces, and at the same time I was reading. the files 
en 3ournalists.,. I think there were sevG~ files in all, and I 
didn't see any other." NOSE?-iKO listed these files as those on 
Henry SHAPIRO, Eddy GILMORE (as well as one en GILHORE's wife 
SEREBRYA.1<0VA and her sister CHERNYSJIEVA), Harrison SJ\LISBURY 
and Thomas WHITNEY.* 
During the 1962 meetings with'CIA, NOSENKO identified 
SHAPIRO as an "old agent of ours." He said that Wl!ITNEY "worked 
for us while he was in Moscow and gave us some material, but he 
refused to work for us when he left the country and would not 
contact us in the United States," GILHORE, NOSENKO said, was an 
., active recruitment target in 1953 and 1954, but NOSENKO did not 
know whether he was recruited. Likewise, he did not know the 
status of SALISBURY as of 1953. 
NOSENKO stressed that the files he was given to read during 
the early period of his KGB service were developn:ental files 
(delo formulyar) rather than the operational files of the agents. 
Tneaevelopmental files were less sensitive, and from them "you 
would never be able to figure out whether he (the subject of 
the file) is an agent or not." NOSENKO explained that,· once a 
person becomes an agent, another file is set up, and these agent 
j·-
t 
! .iJ 
l 
1 .,.-; 
