14-00000 
e 
0 
.... 
........ 
DOO IXSTRUCTIO:-1 
NO. 50-10 
SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
OPER:\ TIOXS-CEXER-'L 
4 September 1973 
Directorate or another agcnc-y: or il an individual or firm will be requested 
to perl'onn an operational task or to dt>\iate from his or its oormal pattern 
of acthity; or if the activity, e\·en though consistcnt ,,ith the indi\idual's 
or firm's nom1al pattern of acti\ity, will take place because requested or 
funded by the Domestic CoUc-ction Di\ision; that C:tsL' will be subject to 
the requirement for approval by the {)eputy Director for Operations.) 
L Publisher,, Producers, Joumalisu, or Employee, of Public lnf()t'fflation 
Atedia (see DOI 240-6) 
( 1) Operational use of publ~hers or producers of public information media 
requires prior appro\·aJ by the Deputy Director for Operations whenenr 
there is danger that such acti\it}' might sen·e in anr war to influence 
U.S. public opinion. Such acti\ities inciude Lut are not limited to the 
-publishing of boob, newspapers, or magazines, the making of fibns, 
the production of n• or radio programs or the issuance in the United 
~_gf_any public opinion influencing informaiion-media: ·The op­
erational use abroad of publishers or producers of public information 
media for non-l'.S. audiences does not require approval b)· the Deputy 
Director for Ope-rations e-.·en thou!di such acti\ities may·have some 
unintended and unsolicited fallout in the United St.lies. 
(2) Appro\-al by the Deputy Dirt'Clor for Ope-rations is also required prior 
to the operational use of joumal:i,sts, newspapt·r, TV, radio, or news 
seivice correspondents or stringers, and employees of news media 
including TV and radio stations, whene\·er the indMdual is a U.S. 
citizen or when the ne,,o medium involved is under U.S. ownership 
or controL 
b. CARE Employee, 
It is DDO policy to a,-oid operational use of employees of the CARE 
organization including indigt'DOUS t>mplorees. Exceptional indi\idual cases 
urrolving priority ope-rational objectives "ill be considered on their merits. 
Prior approval hr the Deputy Dicector for Operations "ill be required 
ID all cases. 
c. Individuals Engagt'd in Public Relations Acthities (see DOI 50-18) 
Indi\iduals engaged in public relations acti\ities which in any way have 
or seek to hne an innuence on public opinions in the l 1nited States are 
considered to be in a separate sensitive category. In view of the peculiar 
aspects of public rl"lations acti,ity, including the special requirements of 
the Foreign Agents Registrati011 Act, appl'O\·al by the Deputy Director 
for Operations is rt-quired prior to the operational use in a public relabom 
capacity of any indhiduaJ v.bo is engaged in public relations activities 
and who is located in or operating into the United States. 
9 
SECRET 
.. --------------- ----- -·· -- --- --
-t 
' I 
