14-00000 
i 
I 
I 
j 
TOP SECREl 
628. 
- NOSENKO, with a few excepticns (notably the co~prcmise of 
PENl<OVSl'.IY and the A.;.'tDIAN visH to the dead drop site), could 
not supply specific or approxi:.,.i.te dates for operational activi­
ties during the period of his sPrvice in the U.S. i:mbassy Section. 
Beyond recourse to the phrase "1960, 1961," he refused to estimate 
the dat~s o~ to associate these activities with the time of the 
year or events in his personal life. 
(iii) Evasion, Improvisatibn~ and Other Defenses 
In the debriefings beiore the interrogations, r:OSENKO avoided 
questicns and topics not of.his own choosing, saying that he would 
give full details •1ater,"·when syste~atic debriefing began. 
When the question or topic came up anew in a later debriefing, 
te would plead fatigue or bor.edom and pro~ose: "This morning 
ve urink: tomorrc,,. we work." Prior to 4 April 1964 he provided 
only accounts of operations selected by himself; it was only 
after< April 1964 that he could be.constrained to reply to de­
tailed questioning on other matters. 
From that point on, other evasive tactics became familiar 
to his interrogators. He would try to c~ange the s~bject or 
to thi!t from the spE~ific event to a generalized account of how 
such things were done in principle. He would claim bad memory 
on grounds that, for exdmpl~, operations against U.S. Embassy 
personnel were hopeless and u.-.eless d-:tyway. lie would dismiss the 
details or the entire operation as unimportant (for exa;nple, the 
microphones in the U.S. Embassy). He would set out reasons for 
his igr.orance of things he admittedly should have known (his own 
•poor perfo111lance,• preoccupacion with other matters, inattention 
to duty, absence fro~ the KGB while on va~ation, lack of time to 
s:iaster details because he was a supervisor). Unable to name or 
talk about KGB indigenous agents working against Americans, in­
clu1ing those in operations under his supervision, NOSENKO 
disparaged the quality of.such agents ("they never reported any­
thing of interest on anyone"); he cited their low educational 
level and their inferior status as servants and eraplo~•ees as 
one reason none of them could give the KGB operationally useful 
information. In fact, the recorJ of man~• indi~ated previous em­
ployment which would demand at: least the equivalent of a college 
degree or certificate from a technical institute. Nur.terous maids 
were former school teachers, one was formerly a chemist. 
When evasion failed, it seemed to the interrogators that 
NOSENKO improvised his answers. Some of these evident improvisa­
tions led him into unacceptable statements or positions. To use 
his response~ to the questioning on Jchn v. ABIDIAN as an example: 
Not knowing about ABIDIAN's car, he said the KGB could not get 
at it. (In fact, the car was held by.Soviet customs for two 
weeks, and later NOSENKO himself spoke about the way the KGB used 
El:nbassy chauffeurs for access to cars.) Not knowing of ABIDIAN's 
trips out of the USSR, he claimed that t~e KGB had no way to 
find out where Embassy officers went when they made trips out of 
the country. . (In fact, AB I DIAN had told his language teacher 
each time and she, as NOSE~KO said, was a KGB agent; al3o, ABIDIAN 
arranged his trips by long-distance phone from Moscow to his des­
tination abroad, and the KGB can cover such calls.) Not knowing 
of ABIDIAN's trip within the USSR, he spoke of a vacation which 
he latter admitted to be false. Ask~d why he did not know personal 
-• 
i 
l 
! 
} 
i 
I 
I 
'. 
