14-0ooOO -
. 
' . j 
l 
t ! 
' 
I 
I. 
I . 
( SECRET /'SENSITIVE ( 
SUBJECT-: Philip Burnett Franklin Agee 
1. NAME OF OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE: Elsie I. Sca1etti 
.2. PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT: · 
I knew Phi 1 during .the entire t·ime he was in 
Branch I at Headquarters, and during hJs tour in 
Mexico. we·came to Mexico PCS at the same time. 
This means I knew him from 1966 until he resigned. 
In Headq~~rters our relationship was limited to 
. business in the office, and th.at .. was ··not Ve;r'f:.1 -
frequent. We sat in different roons. He hano1ed SB 
matters. I did the routing of all Branch 
correspondence which meant I decided ·what he was to 
. see--·th is was anything affecting Soviet/ Sate.11 i te/ 
. Chinese matters. My main areas of responsibility 
were in the support field. Even though we were both 
proce·ss i ng out at the same time, we did not exchange 
stories much. However, since I traveled as a 
"Tourist" and was not therefore al lowed to bring 
anything into Mexico, Phil offered to have some of 
my things packed with his household effects since 
he said he owned hardly anything. One day my husband 
and I took so11e boxes of things over to his apartment 
before work. I do not remember the name of the 
apartment development in Virginia, •:but it was the 
garden type. His apartment was nice~~fairly ne~ 
but sparsely furnished. He helped us~unload the things 
a1,d take them upstairs. Then we parted .. I seem to recal • 
he had some trouble wi ti1 his car that morn i.ng and we 
dropped him off at a repair shop on the ~ay to the 
office. 
.. 
At this time, in \'lashington, Phi 1 was very 
pleasant, was nice to-work wib1. He did not appear 
to be pushy, even thoug;i 1-edid everything he could 
to get the Mexican assignment. At this time, despite 
his family problems, he did not appear to let these 
affect iiis work. At least from my position he seemed 
to get his \-Jork done, not to procrastinate, not to 
take a lot of time off. Fro11 the gossip 1· heard, 
he \AJas separated, and \AJas anxious to get any assignrne.it 
overseas. \'/hen the possibility of this Olympic job 
opened up in Mex i"co he grabbed- it. As I reca] 1~,- ClWK/ 1 
was sympathetic toward i1im also, and was happy to be 
able to help Phi 1 at ti1is particular time .. 
SECRET/SENSITIVE 
. . . 
