! 
I i 
: I 
' 
Top Secret 
!SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964.l 
Comment: (Continued) 
involvement with American tourist agents in 
1958 and 1959, during a period when NOSENKO 
claims to have been Deputy Chief of the Seventh 
Department's American Section. 
Under interrogation NOSENKO did not know 
how, when, or where the BELITSKIY operation 
started, did not know the nature of @ritismlt 
involvement, did not know the operational <re­
tails and contact arrangements BELITSKIY had 
with CIA, did not know BELITSKIY's pattern of 
activity.in Moscow or in Geneva, and did not 
know the alleged objective of the KGB opera-
tion, e.g., the substance of the "disinformation" 
which BELITSKIY was to provide CIA. 
From the foregoing it is concluded that 
NOSENKO did not exercise any supervisory func-
tion in _the BELITSKIY case. • 
Contact with CIA --.- . Q{i . 
.On 5 June 1962 U .s. · Foreign Service Officer @avid MAR~ 
reported to CIA in Geneva that he had been approached by a 
Soviet citizen whom he believed to be Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO, 
a member of the Soviet Disarmament Delegation~ NOSENKO had 
. merely suggested that they get together for a talk on the 
following day.. In late afternoon on 6 June, • NOSENKO told ... 
Db 0,ARK] privately th_at_ 11.e would like to talk to [l_-1Aru"g as soon as. Qt,,. 
•• possible.· He was "not going to pump him for information", but 
"simply wanted to tell him some things!'. A.luncheon meeting 
was arranged for 9 June; al though NOSENO indicated tha_t he 
preferred an· e·arlier date.Ob~~ advised CIA. of:-the appoint­
ment and commented that the approach seemed so unusual that 
it might be an offer of cooperation or defection. 
\jb 
At the 9 June luncheon withl1-1AR~ NOSENKO identified him­
self as a counterintelligence arficer sent to Geneva to ensure 
the security of the Soviet delegation. He knew that TT"-1AR15) had 06 
previously served in Moscow and [erroneously] believed him to 
G' .. 011 t: r::.7 U .Luu 
286 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
