14-00000 
! 
i 1 I 
I I 
.j 
I I 
I 
.. 
THE "VOICE'-' AND RADIO FREE EUROPE 
COMPLEMENT EACH OTHER 
Both A,-e Indispensable 
"W har's rhe J11Terence bcrween rhe Voice of America anJ RaJio Frtt Europe?" "Why 
is ir necessary ro have burh rhe Voice and Radio Free Eur,1pc?" These arc frc-quent questions 
asked of ~cneral Clay anJ rhc: orher leaden of rhe Crusade for Frttdom. 
The Voice ~nd Radio frt:e Europe are borh virally needed if we are to win the 
Cold War. 
They are completely srparare organizations. Each pcrfom1s a distinct fwtction in rhe fisht 
against rhe gigantic Soviet propaganda machine. 
The Voice speaks wirh rhe aurhoriry of rhe U. S. Government. Ir is financed by Govern• 
menr funds. 
Radio Free fa,ropc was scr up by privarc cirizcns. Ir is financed by millions of individual 
conrriburions ro rhe Crusade for Freedom. 
Voice is World Wide 
The Voice is a worldwide ncrwork, broadcasting in 46 languages o,·er n rransmirrers. h 
is rhe only American voice heard in rhe Sovier Union. lrs 120 ind1vidu.1l daily programs of 
news, music, roundtables, cornmrnraries, documentaries, service programs. cte., have a porenrial 
audience of 300,000,000 listeners. , 
Radio Free Europe is much smaller. Ir concenrrares on rhe capti\'e rnunrries behind rhe 
Iron Cunain: Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Rumani.i, Bulgaria anJ Alb.ania. lrs transmit• 
rers are in Western Europe. 
The Voice speaks for the American pwple, spreading the truth ab..>ut democracy, giving a 
rrue picture of. life in the United Srares, and spiking Moscow's lies abour us. Ir repcns in full 
on official American acrs and Jocumenrs, pcescnrs news anJ world dC\·cl.:,pments from our 
point of view. 
Bur Voice is nor limited ro Government pronouncemrnrs; it rcgul.uly reflects American 
opinion as expressed in our press and radio. In a friendly way-with pro~rams of informa­
tion and service-it promores a better understanding of the United States in Europe, in Latin 
America, the Far Easr and the Near Ease. • 
Cruiader Supplement January 1~52 
