14-00000 
SECREl 
F. TAX STATUS This is a profit-making corporation and has met 
Federal and State requirements as follows: 
G. 
1) Corporation Federal Income Tax Returns. 
2) Federal Withholding and Unemployment Taxes. 
3) Florida State Unemployment Tax. 
4) Florida Corporation Report and Tax Return. 
5) Florida Intangible Property Tax Return. 
AGENT IDENTIFICATION: The Corporation was providing status cover 
and payrolling for 10 Cubans as of 31 January 
1967. 
ll. ASSESSMENT OF VULNERABILITY: 
1. Maritime Branch Assessment dated 6 Ma_rch 1967: 
This cover company should be affected little by 
a flap. However, because of the berthing location 
within largely tourist or recreation areas, its 
commercial activity has been noted. 
2. Cover Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967: 
A successor to Ace Cartography Company, Ace Marine 
Survey, Inc., is currently used in connection with 
the leasing of a waterfront berthing site for the 
berthing of M/V SONORA, which is registered under 
this firm. The firm also provides cover and serves 
as well as the vehicle for payrolling the agent crew. 
Ace Marine Survey, Inc.,is engaged in the field of 
marine research, including the study of m~rine life 
as well as the testing of marine eauipment. 
In view of the current limited use of this cover, 
the likelihood of exposure is considerably reduced. 
However, if such an exposure did occur, it is felt 
that the damage to either WOFACT or the officers 
of Ace Marine Survey, Inc., would be of no great 
import. The major likely "injury" that would be 
sustained would be the denial of further use of the 
berthing site and the need for re-naming/re-register­
ing the M/V SONORA. 
In order to add depth and lend further substance 
to the cover story, the officers of a legitimat~ ~<./ 
firm,[_Offshore Navigation Company, New Orleans,] 
Louisiana, which is engaged in marine research and 
off-shore oil exploration activities, have agreed 
to backstop the activities of Ace Marine Survey, Inc. 
and to recognize the latter firm as a client. 
l .. 
2 
3 
5 
l 
