14-00000 
' 
Page Five 
#210 838 
holding the conversations which we were to record. He replied 
that he was interested in any visitors which the Subject might 
receive and any telephone calls which he might make. I suggested 
that possibly a telephone tap might be sui'f'icient under these 
circumstances. Mr. Matt disagreed and still requested a micro­
phone installation to cover the whole house if possible. 
10. In addition to the equipment obtained from TSD, the IlFO 
agents took their own SRR-4 tuneable receiver and the SRR-4 charged 
to the WFO. These receivers would be used in the listening post to 
pick up the radiations from the two SRT-6H transmitters. It was 
suggested to the IlFO agents to borrow the two WFO transceivers to 
be used to comnmnicate during the installation between the listening 
post and the safehouse; however, the agents chose not to use them 
and relied solely on telephonic comrmmications. The "A" and "B" 
batteries picked up at Franconia were to be used in the SRR-4 
receiver so that checks could be made from an automobile to see 
just how far the radiations extended around the transmitters. A 
report on the area covered by the transmitters was requested of 
the DFO agents. 
ll. The first test of the SR!'-6H from the sa:t"ehouse to the 
listening post was a failure. Its 50 milliwatt output, ordinarily 
good for a quarter mile, wasn't suf'ficient to reach the receiver, 
2/lOth 's of a mile sway. Its failure was blamed partly on the • 
distance, partly on the bric-k construction of the listening post, 
and partly on the hilly contours of the·housing development, which 
deflected the 135 megacycle, line-of-sight radiations. 
• 12. When this disheartening news arrived, I immediately 
telephoned Mr. Barrows of TSD and requested a pair of the more 
powerful 150 milliwatt SRT;..7 transmitters. I telephoned Mr. 
Barrows rather than filling out another Form #88 to avoid a 
possible furor within SAS. Mr. Barrows consented to loan two of 
these transmitters with their proper receivers on a hand receipt 
to us, and Stan Iach was dispatched to Franconia to pick them up. 
An ~ppq unity to test it on 28 June 1963 was thwartei!d because 
Mr. !])was having foreign visitors in for cocktails 
tba afternoon. But the equipment was installed and tested the 
next day, Saturday, 29 June, and appeared to work satisfactorily. 
SECRET 
