14-00000 
: i ; ! 
·• .. ~.,. ··: ..... _ 
... ___ ,_,:-
_ Top Secret 
(AUERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962) 
Travel to Cuba (November-December 1960) 
Nhen NOSENKd first mentioned his travel to Cuba (in 
1962, in Geneva), he claimed that he travelled under the 
NIKOLAYEV alias, and he provided colorful details of his 
activities in Havana in surveying the American Embassy 
there for operational possibilities. In subsequent versions 
NOSENKO asserted that he travelled in true name, and that 
his was a routine assignment to accompany a Soviet delegation 
as a security officer. • 
NOSENKO's Information 
In the latter part of 1960, at the same time as he was 
preparing for his intended trip to the United States, a 
special delegation of nickel industry experts from Gosplan, 
the Soviet State Planning Commission, was preparing for 
departure for Cuba. The delegation was a routine one, 
consist~rrg mostly of engineers from various section~ of 
the Soviet Unionc Since there was no one under any sort of 
suspicion, the .Eleventh (Soviet Travellers Abroad) Depart­
ment of the second Chief Directorate decided it was unnec­
.essary to include a security officer. Two days prior to 
the departure qf the group, however, the Central Committee 
of the Communist Party ordered that a Second Chief Direct­
orate officer accompany the group. Because of the short 
time remaining before the delegation's scheduled departure, 
the Eleventh Department protested that it would be impossible 
to find a suitable officer who could get his necessary 
travel documents ready in time. At this point, A.I. KUZNETSOV 
of the Eleventh Department suggested NOSENKO, who had beep 
supposed fo go ·to.the United·States and who.had a valid 
passport (in true name). The Cubans. issued NOSENKO a visa 
immediately as did The Netherlands a transit visa. 
NOSENim' s functions with t~1e delegation were purely of 
a security nature. He flew with the delegation to Cuba in 
October or November and spent about a month and a half 
there. During this time he accompanied the delegation 
G00i524 252 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
I 
I 
I 
I 
