14-00000 
- 3 -
in that city. In addition, AM-BANG-I will attempt to eee and talk 
to Vt:nezuelan Go,·er,nment o{ficiale including President Betancourt. 
Some time after this trip AMBANG-1 intends to visit 
Central America principally Co(;ta Rica and if he. can procure a 
visa, M~xico. The purpose of all his travel is the raising o{ funds, 
the general tightening of his organizatio~ and discussions necessary 
to coordinate their efforts. 
d. Isolation o{ Cuba. 
AMBANG-1 made it exceedingly clear that the 
lifeline to his assets inside Cuba had been se·verely restricted 
when PAA flights were suspended. Nothing could suit AMBANG-1 
more than to have these flights resumed. AMBANG-l's obviously 
great interest in the reswn¢ on of these flights was the most eloquent 
statement yet of his belief .that he has a network, or that he can 
revive a network within Cuba. At least at this stage o{ JURE 
operations, AMBANG-1 does not appear to consider the infiltration 
of manpower as necessary.· 
AMBANG-1 stated that the use o{ flights from Spain and 
Mexico to Cuba was difficult and costly whereas the Miami-Havana 
~un had been most useful in mainta'ining contact within Cuba. It 
was .-6.MBANG-l's opf11ion that the resumption of PAA flights would 
be an operational boom to JURE and that whereas he could see 
Castro .making some. political capital out of the flights, he believed 
that som_e appropriate statement such as "there is no political 
significance but only· a humanitarian and c·ompassionate rcaso~ for 
the reestablishment of this link, " would be sufficient to negate any 
political advantage by Castro. 
e. AMBANG-1 Phasing Out of his Employment 
.AMBANG-1 gave me to believe that he. is closing shop 
and giving up his position with the Corporacion de Renovacion Urba~ • 
y Viviendas where he is employed as an engineer in charge. of ·building 
pre-cast concrete houses. AMBANG-1 stated that d.uring the past 
week Governor Munoz Marin gave final authority !or .. the erection 
of a plant to produce these houses in Puertc> Rica. AMBANG-1 le 
,..,,. 
·' 
