•.-,.c-.:-,.·.•·.'·'" i 
·:,·;·:;·:.:;.•:· 
I 
:I 
I' 
'I 
i I 
! l 
• !·( 
.. ;·:_.:_f\\ \; 
.. :•: ~:::•:·•"·· 
--;> .. ;·~·:: . i l 
llt1 
--.::::.::.:. 
i!#:i1i11 ;:-:t 
:?(//;:_ 
' i I 
,I 
Top Secret 
{AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962) 
NOSENKO said that "many" microphones were installed in 
the chancery building before the Americans occupied it, but 
he did not know how many were installed in all, how many • 
were 1.n any particu·1ar room on KOVSHUK' s list, or where they 
• were located in -specific rooms. He did recall that most of 
the microphones were emplaced in the outside wall, the wall 
nearest Chaykovskiy Street, as most of the offices faced 
this street and microphones emplaced there were less vulner­
able to technical search and discovery. 
According to NOSENKO, there were no fixed microphones in 
America House, the Embassy quarters of enlisted military 
personnele In 1960-1961 there had been a discussion of using 
KGB agents.employed there to emplace temporary audio devices 
for one or two days at a time in the rooms of the Americans, 
as well as in the Embassy garageo These plans were vetoedf 
however, because of the risk of discovery. For· the same 
reason there was no attempt made in this period to emplace 
a device temporarily in Spasso House, the Ambassador's 
residence, or in the apartments of Embassy officers. The 
KGB was afraid that they would be detected and there would 
be a scandal~ • 
Performance Characteristics of the Microphones 
. . . . 
According-to NOSENKO in 1962, the·audibility of the 
microphones inl960-1961 -ranged from very clear to zero, 
but· the microphone system was deteriorating. The KGB could 
do nothing about it because they could not gain access to 
the inside of the Bmbassy. Referring to the.microphone in 
the Minister Counsellor '.s office, NOSENKO said that it was 
becoming increasingly difficult to\.work with its product e 
The microphone was fading, and the recording tape sounded 
as if "somewhere· far away, somewhere in the cellar, someone 
is speaking in a whisper". KUZMIN, the KGB officer respon­
sible for the monitors, ~aid that soon the KGB could recover 
nothing. Of the microphones then (in 1962) in place, about 
twenty no longer were operative. • 
In 1964 NOSENKO referred again to the microphone in the 
Minister Counsellor's officee NOSENKO learned frorn 
DMITRIYEV [Deputy Chief of the English-language Section of 
OTU-Second Special Department] how difficult it was to 
228 
OO(j15co 
Top Secret __ 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
