Comme>nwealth Department in 1957 or the beginning ot 1_958. 
In 1957 or 1959 she was involved in a sexual compromise 
operation against an American professor, which did not 
reach the point of a recruitment approach. Between 1957 
or 1958 .and 1 !H30 she was working against an Amcr.ican tourist 
named Philip NI.ELSEN who was suspected of connection with 
CIA and who was under study for recru i tinent_ by tb~ .. _KGB.• 
KUNGAROVA later married NH:LSEN and tho two :,1,tvcll' 1.ll : II 
England. The K;GB was still internsted in NIELS[~ at tho 
time NOSENKO left the Tourist Dr.partment, but NOSENKO be­
lieved there was no recruitl!lent, ·!,I-rs. NIELSEN died in 1965._ 
Besides those in Inturist, NOStNKO has named several 
other agents whom he recruited or was ~iven while in the 
Tourist Department. These included th·a following: 
-Aleksey A. DMITRIYEV: KGB cryptonym "TOlrlO," a can­
didate mem~er of the Academy of Sciences USSR nnd·a special­
ist on Japan and Thailand. DMITRIYEV speaks Japenese and 
English and w~rkcd at ~he Japanese exhibition in ~oscow. 
NOSENKO did not indicate how. DMITRIYEV was use<! cperationally 
or how he was connected with the American-Canadian-British 
target. 
-(fnu) IVANOV: A lawyer employed by the Institute of 
Foreign Trade in Moscow. NOSENKO did not personally re­
cruit this agent. IVANOV moved to Moscow from the Baltic 
area and his previous handlers there notified the Center, 
suggesting that the agent might be of use in the capital. 
NOSENKO contacted I V.ANOV and later turned him c;,ver to the 
British Commonwealt~ Department of the S~con~ Chief Direc­
torate whic,1, NOSE~KO believed, "planted him in tile British 
Trade Mission or something like that." 
-Marina RYTOVA: KGB cryptonym "KRYMOVA," born about 
1923 or 1924 and educated at the ~ilitary Institute of 
Foreign Languages, a special school which also had Communist 
students from foreign countries. There she studied military 
subjects as well as for~ign langua~cs. She speaks English 
and Greek well. NOSENKO could not r.ecall who recruited her, 
but she was turned over to him by I.A. KONSTA!t."TINOV, a 
Tourist Dep:irtment case officer, in 1956 or 1957. At that 
time she was working as an interpreter at the Russian 
Permanent Exhibit in Moscow and continued in this job until 
about 1960, when she became an instructor ip the Greek 
language school of the lnstitut~ of International,Rilationj. 1 
She reported to NOSENKO any inforriation which she obtained 
on foreign delegates or foreign 'tourists who visited the 
Exhibit in Moscow. As she was often invited by the Ministry 
of Agriculture to interpret during meetings between Soviet 
officials and delegates from America, England,,and Greece, 
she also reported.this information to NOSENKO. RYTOVA 
served several times as an interpreter io,:- KHRUSHCHEV and,· ' 
once participated in a conversation be had.with' Iowa farmer 
GARST. In 1959 or 1960 she was sent. as·interpreter with a. 
small delegation which visited GARST's farm in the United 
States and.was used by the KGB Legal Residency in l'ashington, 
I 
I 
i 
1. 
I 
1 
:i 
J 
