14-00000 
SECRET 
• -1'1.a--: 
20 April 1976_ 
MEMORA!lll>UM IN LIEU OF FITNESS REPORT 
SUBJECT: - Hr. James Walton Moote 
1. .. '.Mr. Moore continued in his assignment as Chief of the DCD Field 
Otfice i-n:Dallas, during the period under review, with responsibility 
tor the superv1sion of the Resident Offices in H.ouston, New Orleans and 
Tulsa and a-Residency _in Austin. His Letter of Instruction re~~ins 
current. 
2, The Dallas Field Office, -under M'r. M~ore 's percep_tive and c-o~pe­
tent direc'tion, produces a sood volume of quality foreign intelligence 
reporting. • ,DCD headquarters officers consider. the Dallas Field Office 
performance to be of high caliber. The office is highly responsive to 
hea4quarters direction, and there is a strong corranitment to quality 
performance. Mr .• - Moore has the Dallas Field O_ffice fitting smoothly into 
the DCD organizational -.framework~ Morale is high and Dallas field personnel, 
boti, professional and -clerical, -feel a sense of- importance in their. 
mission.-: ·'This spirit ar.d pride in their work stems direc·tly from the 
positive tone set by Mr. Moore. 
. '=': ,,_ ' \ 
3. - Mr; Moore has -ext'ended the hand of coope_ration unstintingly 
to the FR Base which. ~s-. in·• an en:bryoni~ ph.ase of deve'lopu:ent. Base· 
officers are enth'usl.ii's't,:i.c about -the cooperation received from the Da.l.las 
office and' the .willingness of Hr. Moore to be of assistance. Cooperation 
between the Dallas office.and FR is amon6 the very best in DCD. In 
addition to the ~ine support supplied to FR, Dallas had made an important 
·contribution, during the- period_ under review, to the cost-analysis program 
of Format. - Support to operations, through the Operations Services Group, 
is excellent· and a good variety of operational leads and operationa! 
reporting is received from the Dallas office. 
4. Mr. Moore is a capable and efficient manager. The Dallas office 
structure presents a compiex nnd difficult management challenge. TI,rough 
his experi~nce and mature judgll!ent, Mr. Mocre has directed the activities 
of the office smoothly and effectively. 
E2 IMPDET CL BY 018877 
. . ---·- .. 
