14-00000 
I • ... 
681. 
via N~val Intelligence Points in Barlin, Rostock, and Sass­
nitz, but then said this vas a lie he told tecausc he felt 
his i:iterrogators wculd not belie·.,e hi:n if r.e had said he 
successfully turned de~:, an ass:gn:nent to these points, 
then closing down, and h~d travelletl directly to Baltiysk. 
(,..s pointed out to N0.5Et.KO, the as'ligrunent to the cold, 
damp Baltic climate of a recent ':'B-sufferer aj?pears unthink­
able, particularly when that person is ft Go·1er~ment Minister's 
son: ha acknowledged this but said, •There were no other 
positions available.•) 
- He could not remr .. "!:.ber the nan!.: of the place he served 
near ~altiysk. He had n~~~d it as Primorsk in 1962 (which 
fitted :1is description of its size and location) but from 
1964 on inJisted it was Sovetsk. There is no such village 
in tte are3, but there is in the region~ well-known city 
by that name lthe forir.er Tilsit) far inland ar.d· far away. 
He did not know (as conter.:porary Soviet r:iaps show) that 
a rail line wc:it to Baltiysk frcm Primorsk. 
- In the Daltiysk area, he clai~cd in 1962, he had 
trained agent teams to be sent behir.d enemy lines in time of 
war. Under interrogation in 1~64 he changed his description 
of his functions, saying he m~rcly ~repared training mater­
ials and delivered supplies, never having direct contact with 
or knowledge of the agent work. His service there was 
limited to about six months, since he said he left there at 
the teginning of 1953. He either had had cne or two leaves 
from there, depending on which telling is accepted: In 1964 
tlOSENKO said that in J>.ugust or Septenber 1952 he was given 
a special leave froo his duties in Sovetsk to travel to Mos­
cow in order to formalize his di~orce from his first wife: 
in April 19,;6 he wrote that he was divorced during his leave 
befo~c going to Sovetsk. • 
- NOSENKO said he returned to Moscow on his own initia­
tive and against th~ wishes of his commanding officer at the 
end of 1952 and began steps to get out of the GRU. He has 
told conflicting storie3 of where t.e stayed and in what 
leave status. It ~as during this c>eriod, he said, that 
his conversation with KOSULOV led him- to shift to the KGB. 
- In ~pril 1966 NOSENKO wrote that he was·prornoted to 
the rank of lieutenant of the Adninistrative Services while 
stationed in Sovetsk. In earlier accounts he said that he 
was pro~oted to the r3nk of lieutenant while stationed in 
the Soviet Far East. 
c. Remar!-:s 
The notes above on NOSENKO's career do not treat most of the 
changes of story, contradictions, corrections, or inaccuracies in 
NOSENY.O's accounts: Variations of dates may be attributable to 
faulty memory, changes in the story might have resulted fro~ his 
own elaborations and exaggerations, and inaccuracies might be 
expl~ined by his inattention or indifference to detail. If all 
the details were to be considered, the story would become even 
1110re confused. 
Certain general aspects stand out, however: 
.• 
. I 
I 
I-
t 
i i 
----'--------1-0P-SEGH~I-. -------
