14-00000 
. .• 
... 
, . 
5. At the time of the Korean War, Morgan accepted an 
appointed position in the Office of Price Stabilization. He headed 
the investigative and compliance unit of OPS and in this position he 
hired a number of Ex-Agents. It was in this job that he reportedly 
ran afoul of the Bureau. Morgan apparently proselyted a great number 
of Bureau Agents at higher salaries than the Bureau made and this 
made Director Hoover furious. A few years later a rumor was 
started that Morgan hoped to replace Hoover; the Director was even 
more furious. I do not know this for a fact, but it has been speculated 
that Morgan is persona non grata with the Bureau. 
• 
6. Morgan continued active work in the Society of Former Agents 
between 195 5 and 1957. In 1957 he ran for the office of National 
President of the Society. He was defeated in his bid for this office 
and was very bitter about his defeat. For the past ten years he has 
not attended more than two or three local meetings, and he does not 
participate in Society activities. It was rumored that Morgan blamed 
his defeat on the Bureau, stating that he was defeated because the 
Bureau had black-listed him. 
7. According to rumor Morgan moves in fairly high circles in 
the District of Columbia. I believe he belongs to the Touchdown Club 
and I also believe he belongs to one of the more exclusive country clubs 
in the area. He drinks, but I have never seen him intoxicated. Other 
than the items mentioned above, I have never heard anything unfavorable 
concerning him. There are a number of people in the Agency who knew 
him and worked with him at the Bureau. I feel certain that{irank Holmes)
0
J 
would know him fairly well, as well as Bill Harvey, Ron MacMillan, 
Herman Horton and Glenn Fields. Lyon L. (Slug) Tyler, who has been 
-z~ @,tilized by Central Cove~for a number of years, formerly worked for 
Morgan in his law firm, but broke away from the firm because of some 
disagreement. Tyler would probably know a great deal concerning 
Morgan's personal habits. It should be remembered, however, that 
because Morgan's law practice is primarily an administrative practice. 
before the FCC, most of his business associates would be in the broad-· 
casting and news business. 
. .-- .. 
• Charles W. Kane 
r ... - ,~ - ~-~ .. 
' ~ '\ ~ 
, ... .J ~· • - .. '9 • 
~-·-') r··~~/ 
. t 
• - - •--= 
