14-00000 
...• ,. ' 
SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved ~ith OEA l'age 6 
and again on 07 January 1976 to resubmit his offer and 
insisted on a '=t-esponse. lie "';is told that his offer 
would be forwarded through the appropriate chai:tn<'ls. 
(Note: Our records sho~ that there was no CIA interest 
in De AR~"S, past or present.) On 13 January 1976 our 
representative in Miaoi was told that the FB1 Miami 
office had been in contact with Subject and "'ished to 
verif)' De ARMAS' claia that he ,,as in contact with our 
DCD Miami office. The FBI also asked ~hether this 
Agency had any objection for further FBI contact with 
Subject. on the "same basis the)' had previously." (Note: 
The type or Ieng.th of FBI contact with De ARNAS .is not 
known. Your office is referred to the FBI for additional 
info·rma tion. ) 
On 04 February 1976 DS\ Caracas received a 
DEA message (I 02406) which requested permission for 
Miami CI Manuel Leonardo De ARK\S to travel to Caracas· 
for a one kilo heroin. buy from a Colombian whom De ARMAS 
had previously met through a nari.l A. BETANCOURT. Per­
mission was given and lle AR.'IAS arrived in Caracas on 11 
February 1976. No raention of drugs was made on this 
trip but according to De ARMAS he was taken to the Cuban 
Emhassy in Caracas on 12 February 1976, where he was 
allgedly approached to work for the Cuban Government 
in an intelligence capacity. De A~'IAS reported these 
events to DEA Caracas on 12.February 1976; he was ad­
vised to return to the U.S. Our representative in 
Caracas was briefed on the De Afu\lAS case by SAIC Duncan 
on 13 febr;.iary 1976. c;r:irar.as Stat:frui:;, was very interested 
in having De ARMAS return to Caracas for use as· a 
possible source on Cuban intelligence acti\·ities, q!!ID 
s wer·•· ta-~ 
A background check was conducted 
on De ARMAS at that tilile and on 20 Feoruarr 1976 the 
FBI representative in Miami repo~ted the following in­
formation: "The .FBI has been avoiding contact with 
De AR.'lAS for the past couple of months ;;ince he was 
assessed as a 'mentally unbalanced fabricator'. De 
AR.'-IAS gave a p·rcss inter\'icw in Miami in early February 
1976 in which he clained an affiliation with virtually 
every U.S. intelligence agency. He sai~ that he had 
worked for CIA and had attended a CIA training school. 
The press ·interview has thus far not been published, 
presum3bly because it is too far fetched. De AR.'IAS 
.. 
