14-00000 
L 
·; 
I ! i 
I i I 
I 
•• 
r··•-,:·' ·r· ' ...... ,)I,. 
, .. H.UHI.. , 
3 -
description, access, hours or availability, the opposition, pros and 
cons as to suitability -- it was all there. He ju.st didn't like to 
write out that u;,on which he could report orally. 
10. In vri';:Lne reports on the two counter-curreilla.nce exercises, 
be clashed those off in jig tine. No pause for thinking, no pause to 
look up at the ceiling or out the window. Just ntrait;ht writing, includ­
ing paragrapbin8. Mind and pen were as one. Same thing for his oral 
anal,ysis before and ai'ter each meeting -- no pause to think, to review, 
to reconstruct, to remember -- just an IBM-type printout. 
ll. The instructor sets dow this reluctance on our hero's part 
to write out certain things, not to do·,mgrade hiJ:I, but to alert desk 
and field officers that i:f they must ha·;e & ccrte:!.n re:,ort by a cert.ain. 
time, and they want it in writing, they must be firm. For exez:xple, 
af'ter the second ceeting in the developir,ental series, the instructor 
said: "I must have that report first thing in the l!lOrning. Do you 
want to take til!le out from this afternoon's training session to do it?" 
And, as already reported nbove, PHO!IE preferred to save the training 
time and he answered "I will make time to write it". In this case, 
time vaa of the essence because ME'. Sweet had to see the report before 
the next meeting. To sum up this item: When PHOrrE feels that an oral 
report is adequate he finds it a little difficult to bring himself to 
f'ind time to make a written report. Told definitely that be must write 
a report and give:i a deadline, he meets the deadline and the report is 
everything it should be. 
12. His reports on his recruitment meetings, Mr. Sweet said, were 
excellent. No Jumpine; to conclusions, no padding, no misinterpretations, 
no omissions. 
13. 1'be surveillance team captain, reading F..om:'s report on his 
actians during the countersurveillance exercises, carvelled at the 
completeness, total. accuracy of description·of the surveillants PHOnE 
bad made, including their ages {but always 1!18.de each man an inch or 
tvo aborter than the actual height -- which PHom: adl!litted he does 
constantly), and the total recall of every move, every street crossing, 
every compass direction. {In the first countersurvei11ance exercise, 
sprung on PHON:a: vithoat a moment's prior notice, he made one of his 
two surveillants. In the second one, with plenty of time to prepare, 
be made all three of them. 'l'hese were two different teams f'rom the 
Bev York Office of Security). Concludine his admiration of PHONE's 
reporting, the surveillance team captain said to the instructor: "You 
should be very proud of him". 
l!J. In both exercises, the surveillance teams criticized the 
rapidity of PHO~•s movements. He walks very- rapidly t'rom place to 
place• then spends time to browse in a book shop. '.lllen off again at 
a high rate of speed to his nert stop. They also criticized his looking 
both va,ys while crossing a one vey street. 1'bey felt it made him appear 
• 
t 
!-. t 
I.· 
t 
I 
i 
l 
i. 
'' I 
I 
I 
I 
I r 
l 
I 
·./ i 
. ",'• 
