14-00000 
! . 
. i .; . 
j- . 
L 
•. 
l 'i O[C elf 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chlef, Covert .Actloo Staff 
SUBJECT: 
REFERENCE: 
ORPHONE 
Your Memorandum, Same Sabject, 
Dated 29 November 1971 
- t. What follows below are some lnltial comments of mlne OD 
the referent memorandum, per your request. We really feel ln 
Branch 3 that for a varlety or reasons, we need more tlme to 
deliberate on ORPHONE's future operatlonal activlty than the 
prevlo11s two weeks. Partly this ls due to extended absence by the 
case offlcer ln charge who has been plagued wlth a recurring 
lllness-•I believe yoa are famlllar wlth thls. It ls also ln part 
attributable to the Sectlon Chief's being new to the posltion and 
having bls tune abaorbed by matters or carrent prlorlty. So lf yoa 
don't mind, we sho11ld llke to address ourselves farther to thls 
subject following the Christmas holldays. At that tlme we shoald 
llke to l'\ltlate some meetings on thls matter both wlth yourself 
and wlth other area components inclading representatlves from 
Cl Staff. 
z. Background: Yoar memo, or course, was trlggered by 
an earller one of mlne whlch proposed that CRPHON'£' become 
operationally engaged ln attempting to establish a black CommW1lst 
cell ln elther Parls or Rome. The purpose or thls woald be twofold-­
namely, to exacerbate relations thereby between the Soviet Unlon 
and mainland Chlna through various low-key covert action widertaklnga, 
and ln the process to farther enhance ORPHONE's own credentials 
as a Maolst activist. This tentative assignment, lt should be noted, 
arose because Branch 3 personnel had become lncreaaingly aware ol 
the posslblllty that ORPHONE's project status mlght be termlnated 
In the not too dlstant future. While lt ls true that In the lmmedlate 
preceding month or ao, we have benefited Crom hls lntelllgence 
reporting, lt ls all too clear that over the past two years, he ha• 
been of dlmlnlshlng utlllty to CA Starr and other area dlvlalona. 1n 
dlscaseing hls futare wlth hls recent case offlcer, Mlss Chatelan, 
her recommendation was that unless something could be fpwid for hlm 
In the near fatare, we should give serloas conslderatlon to termlnatlng 
11 
t . 
I 
l 
' ; 
1 __ ··J -! i 
