14-00000 
[I 
~:'.:'.'.:i,:~::IJ 
',., ... ' 
~,,.,,; 
·_·· ·m <" . .. 
' .. . 
IJ 
. 
'. 
' 
J: 
«·:··.~-
' Ill 
ll 
Top Secret 
(OTHER ASPECTS OF NOSENKO'S KGB CAREER} 
Conclusion 
NOSENKO's claims to having been the recipient of various 
awards for KGD service are inextricably linked with his 
claimed operational successes, his rank, and GRIDAIJOV's 
patronage, on all of which topics he had made virtually 
categoric retractions. 
NOSENKO's Sourcing 
NOSENKO cited four general sources for KGD operations he 
has related, and in all four there have been inconsistencies, 
contradictions, and retractions. Three of these categories, 
each with an -example typifying the difficulty of judging the 
validi ~ of his sourcing, are l?ersonal participatici1; ~E. 
O£JOHNSO~ p. 26W cases learned in the course of Specific 
• D6official duties @_HUBI®, p. 296} , and information obtained 
informally from KGB colleagues (Sgt. Robert Lee JOHNSON, 
p. 24). The fourth category of sourcing relates to the 
notes of KGB operations which he brought to CIA in Geneva 
in 1964 . 
Regarding the notes, NOSENKO said he collected them at 
various opportunities in order to bring them to CIA. He 
kept them in a wa11·safe intheroffice which he occupied as 
Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department. [In this connection, 
NOSENKO admitted that not all offices had such wall safes, 
and not all offices of Deputy Chiefs of Departments, but 
asserted that. his did.] Most of -the notes are in NOSENKO' s 
handwriting~ Those that are J.'.lOt include the·only copy of a 
.typed top secret summary report from one·, of the· Seventh 
Department section chiefs, a similar handwritten report by 
another Seventh Department officer, and a carbon COJ2¥ of a 
KGB document which summarized the recruitMent of an~ustria~/1 
businessman. NOSENim said he- copied the date for the 
remaining notes from such sources as the· "Special File", 
which was held ordinarily by the Seventh Department Chief. 
Accor.ding to NOSENKO, he obtained access to it for various 
349 
Top Secret 
G00f620 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 10 
