14 October 19S8 
MD!CEANDUM FOR1 CIIR 
SUBJB:T1 Developnent of Physical Surveillance AHets in Hexico 
_ .· 1. • _On 8 Oc_tobe~ 1956 a n:eet~ of repret1ent&Uves or SR Division 
&lid-CI Stat! waa held, attended by the Wldorsigned, to discuss m11ans tor 
building.up physical surveillance assets in Moxico. 'Ibe SR and CI repre­
sentatives pointod out that· their current and projected work o."l OOMORNOO 
and their cases requires a considerable strengtheninJ': or physical surveil­
lance assets, and it was the conser.sus that these assets would be used 
far into the future on Soviet targets. It was further agreed that since 
the LIPSTICK operation has encow1tered difficulties 'this year, nev assets 
should be sought. ' 
2 • Various approaches to the probl8111 were diocussed, the Most viable 
ot which were as follOlfS: 
a. Rocruiting of teams or basic elwnents for teams in the Mexican 
colonies of tho southwestern u. s. • 
b. Dispatch of a new case officer to Mexico vith tho sole md 
specific duty of developing and running tho new teams. 
c. A combination of a and b. 
J. Initially, it is believ~d the dispatch of a nf!V case offlcer to 
Jol.axico would be tho most succesotul and give the best imlllediate results, 
for the following reasons1 
' a. Headquarters and Station records contain the names of numerous 
cleared contacts at cont.act.:i who could be c}earod and throuch vhcllll 
introductloru, could be mads tu p:,rscna suitable for survaill.s.nco work. 
Hitherto the so have not bean fully exploited owing t.o U:.e heavy workload 
on Station personnel and the ~paired functioning till recently of 
the LIPSTICK group. Some of these contacts were felt out as recruiters 
ar.d epottors in ;yc!l!"s past but the 111atter vas nev6r pushed since the 
need was not so groat as now. ' 
b. A now cas& officer is needed bac.ause the present Station staff 
i~ still too busy to devote the amount of ti.~e n~sded to build carefully 
and train thoroU&hly the new assets. 
c. The now assets will require the full time dirocUon and 
CO<?rdination of a case officer t1ho has no other responsibilities. In 
this connection, it vould be advi6able to try to select, train am! 
utilize at least twelve ~ew agents as soon as possible. 
