14-00000 
beeri appr"'oac.lied. ·• Certainly this 1s a strange arrangement if • 
it has been allowed to continue. The Hughes Tool Company. 
would do well to drop Morgan completely. As INTERTEL 
attempted to interview him it's doubtful that it would be produc-
tive. Just what Morgan might have to do if served with a subpoena 
is beyond the undersigned's comprehension. It seems reasonable 
to assume that Morgan picked up the Hughes Tool Company account 
through his good friend ;rvfaheu or his intercession. Naturally the 
INTER TEL investigators did not find a folder bearing the name 
Edward P. Morgan but they did find a 3 x 5 card indicating that 
there had been such a file. This prompting of Morgan and his 
approach to the Hughes Tool Company could only have come from 
one source, Maheu himself. Because he is attorney for the Hughes 
Tool Company, Morgan could not have been involved. It may never 
be known just how much Maheu has already told Morgan about his 
CIA relationship. 
. 03 
• - ·On May 10, 1971 Mr.-~eas~ said that Robert A. Maheu .,, 
and .Jack Anderson, the syndicated' columnist, are known to be 
involved together in some oil mix deals. INTER TEL is looking 
into this and all such other similar matters to trace the source 
and disposition of funds. The recent expose by Jack Anderson 
regarding Maheu' s role in the Cuban Revolution was a deliberate 
exposure instigated by Robert A. Maheu using his son Peter as 
an intermediary. 0 }eease•} theory was that Mah~u probably thought 
such publicity would "scare them off." The INTER TEL staff is 
aware of a series of recent contacts and meetings between Peter 
Maheu and Jack Anderson or a member of his staff. 
~, 
Mr. (!>eaie)is prepared to be reasonable in his investiga­
tion insofar as CIA interests are concerned but he cannot be • 
intimidated, cannot ignore logical leads, and will not allow Maheu 
to use the Agency as a shield. He is prepared to discuss any 
reasonable approach. 
In conclusion the undersigned respectfully requests that 
his name not· be connected with any of the information reported 
herein. Mut:h of it was volunteered by an old friend, @.1 PeaseJ <:i3 
in confidence and this confidence must be respected. Whether 
an employment offer is forthcoming is inconsequential. 
John G. Southard 
SECRFT 
