14-00000 
\ \ 
-3-
9. Dircccion FederaJ de Seguridad -.Federal Security Police 
The principal functions of this security unit are to: 
(1) Provide a plain-clothed security detail for the President, 
(2) ma·intain ari extensive telephone tap· activity on both 
the Rightist and Leftist political opposition forces, and 
(3) ·.perform investigations and arrests of primarily political 
offenses. The unit's ·agents are largely poorly trained, 
insecure, .and unreliable. Their professional characteristics 
are best described as being dishonest, cruel, and abusive. 
Tfie position, at this moment, of Manuel RANGEL Escamilla as 
Director General of-DFS is precarious. 
10. Politica 
A Marxist anti-U.S. semi-monthly magazine published in 
Mexico, Politica is printed by Talleres Graflcos de &!exico, 
th~ same shop whi~h prints La Voz de Mexico, In addition to 
the modest revenues derived from a circulation of 15,000 
to 25,000, Politica is financed by the Soviet Embassy, the 
MLN, the PPS, and possibly, the Cuban Embassy. As an 
indication of the Mexican government's assessment of the 
capability of this magazine to influence public opinion, it 
is worthwhile noting that Politica frequently experiences a 
great degree of difficulty tn prlntin~ and circulating itself 
due to the government's repressive efforts. 
11. Movlmiento de Liberacion Nacional (MLN) 
Organized under the influence of the PCM in August 1961, 
the MLN today is dedicated to the furtherance of the mutual 
interests of its adherents who arc found primarily in the 
ranks of the PRI, the PPS, the PCM, the CNC and the UGOCM. 
The MLN's objective ts to gain leftist political represen­
tation in the government by inciting PRI to accept leftists 
into its camp. As a cnnsequence of this objective, the mission 
of MLN is to generate evidence of popular leftist sympathy 
by means of fomenting agitation among the popular, labor, and 
peasant masses. 
12. Confederacion de Trabajadores de la America Latina (CTAL) 
The CTAL has recently been replaced by the CUTAL (Single 
Confederation of Latin American Workers). Until recently, the 
