14-00000 
J • 
• • ... t 
2 
use of women provides us an operational flexibility 
which we would not otherwise have. It is quite 
evident, furthermore, that the local security services 
have not focused on the extent to which we do use 
women. We wotild like to keep it that way as long as 
we possibly can, and it is the undersigned's firm 
belief that statements from Mr. Phillips, obviously 
authentic, will rather quickly bring the women we do 
use under increased scrutiny of hostile intelligence 
services. Further, ·in opening the Pandora's box of 
the use of women and.minorities in the DDO, Mr. Phillips 
may be opening both himself ind the DDO to unjustified 
triticism that we are either exploiting women or not 
hiring enough of them; similarly the minorities. 
c. Page 25: I have known personally for 17 years 
the girl who, although stripped naked by burglars, 
managed to save her mother and father from harm. There 
are others elsewhere in the government and probably 
.outside who are knowledgeable about the incident. The 
girl, now a lovely lady, is about to be dispatched under 
very sensitive cover abroad. Mr. Phillips would do well 
to d~lete reference to her as being an Agency employee. 
d. Page 26: I think it is unwise for Mr. Phillips 
to conjecture on the reason why there are few blacks 
employed in the DDO. His reasoning may be correct, 
but I would venture that not everyone who reads his 
book will believe so, and the Agency may come under 
unfortunate pressure because of it. The specific 
black cited on page 27 as having removed a flag from 
the hands of demonstrators is a personal friend of 
mine. He is under cover. By citing the incident, 
Mr. Phillips removes that cover, for the black re­
trieved the flag as an American citizen, not as a CIA 
officer. In sum, I would suggest the deletion of the 
section involving women and minorities because it 
opens a Pandora's box and because, as written, the 
cover of two highly effective officers is placed in 
jeopardy. 
e. Page 36: The anecdote on page 36 should at 
least be modified. The person referrei_to ~-s the 
undersigned. I am the only Agency and~tate officer 
who owns a Chow dog. All my acquaintances a road 
~-i_ 
