14-00000 
-3-
d. SCANTLING spent slx weeks during July and 
August of this year giving tradecraft and surveillance 
• . tralntng to LIPAILS 5 and 7 from Monterrey. Although 
this ts,ilot a direct contribution to the above objective, lt 
ls considered suCflclently related to mention here, 
4. In addition to his contributions to the above objectives, 
SCANTLING Is used for miscellaneous support requirements from the 
Station. For example, SCANTLING ls now handling LIEM!lROIL-2 and 
' will continue to do so until the return of LJMOTOH-14 In June 1962. Also, 
'. dui=-!flg the past project year, SCANTLING handled the LIRICE surveillance 
_ , tet\m until July 1961 when Simon D. CLACKEIT (ps) returned to Mexico 
• City, SCANTLlNG Is also used to spot and rent safe· houses and apartments 
for other Station operations. 
5. As stat_ed In the prec~edlng Requests for Project Renewal, 
although SCANll....ING'~ LIEMPTY Project objectives can never be completely 
fulfilled, It. Is the Statlon
1
c,i opinion that SCANTLING has made Important and 
valuable contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically and to 
ocher Station activities In ·general.· SCANTLING's production, measured 
agalnst monetary cxpcndlturcs, case officer time and other Intangible factors, 
unquestionably Just lfles his contlnuatlon as an Integral part of Project 
LIEMPTY. 
B. Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed In relatlon to project 
ob Jee~ Ives): 
1. "To collect operational Information pertaining to LIMERICK 
personnel and physical facllltles through use of photographlc base houses." 
Three photogrllphlc bases, LIMITED, LIL YRIC ancJ LICALLA, contribute 
to thls objective. To avoid repetltlor., the Station Is omitting the usual 
descrlptlon of the functions of these three bases and how thev contribute 
to the above objective. There has been 110 change In the coverage as 
descrlbed In the 1960 Request for Project Renewal. 
2 .. "To collect operational information and identify operatlonal 
leads pertalnlng to Station targets cf opportunity." The LIENTRAP 
operation, handled by GERENDE, la st~ll the major contributor to this 
SEC R ET/ 4!@1ilJ&'c-
~ 
