14-00000 
• 
··{ 
i 
I 
' I 
i 
i f I 
J 
i J. 
' 
l 
.! l 
00- B-321/3341.S-72 
During the ,same private conversation, General Oswaldo Lopez Arellano was 
«Juoted as aaving stated that it 11•orild be futile for him to le,1d a coup 
tl'etat unless there was hope of iir;,rovin~ the li''slfare of the ::rasses 11nd 
the general. econOIIIY of the countzy as well; he fil:r.,ly b:?lic·.-c.s it would 
be impossible to accomplish that fllal until a char.ge in must of the above 
conditions were met prior td'any coup d 1ctat in which he \10".wl 'be interested. 
.. 3. Selected Honduran army officers have attended special cour~s at an anty 
facility in Peru since approximutcl.y 1967 . .c\c-:-9rding to an'arm,y officer 
the fflJlllber of candidates sent since early 1972 has not only_ been increased 
but also each has been ordered to 3pecialize in any one cf· the br, •,ches of 
their choice. They previously attended the various courses given at tilat 
facility. • 
4. The an,y gives an outward appcara~cc of being in sympathy with the present 
regime, but in reality not all t!le members sympathize with President Cruz. 
In private conversations some speak of him in a derogatoi-y manner, espec-
ially young officers. • 
'5. A m,"ln who co11ti1111r.s to wir.111 ;i zr:at 1le.il uf power in llom1uras ls Ric~rdo 
Zuni,:?a Au.,,"'Ustinus, Minister of Co•.-,u11mcnt • and Justice, also leader of 1:he 
Nationalist Party. ~uniga 1s ability to continue wielding J>O"ier is due to 
bis being a very clever, 11stute, 'li':!altny man. He always knows exactly 
what he vant:s, and does not hesitate to utilize his personal character­
istics and his wealth in obtaining his objectives. 
6.. 
.., . 
Zuniga's ~resetlt ambition for continue<1 p~er has forced him to feii:n 
being a firm constitutionalist. 'Ih_at ii:;, be is claiming loud and clc."lr 
1:hat cOlllll.ibnents made between ~e govei"lur.cut and political parties must 
not only be respected but must also be adhered to. Zuniga does not claim 
this because he really believes this to be a ooral obligation, or because 
he is a fervent democrat"~· The fl.lild..mcntal re:ison i@ that he knows he is 
the recognized leader of t:he ~ationalist Party, as well as having beco::ie 
influential in the Liberal Party. He believes these parties are the ooes 
sustainiag the present regime of President Jbrnon Ernesto Cruz in power. 
Therefore, he calcu1ates that tnrough these two parties he can protract 
the_ poarer be has today. 
'l'oday relations betwen General O..,raldo Lopez Arellano and Zun_iga are not 
as· cordial as they were previously. However, one nrust not be led to be­
lieve that this situation is UI'.repairable because if Zuniga needed Lo;,ez 
Arellano's help, or vice versa, the former pleasant r ·ntionship would 
be hastily nursed back to life. It is just possib.l,e ·cnat if a coup d'etat 
led by General Oswaldo Lopez .\rcl.lano should take place, and be successful, 
.. Zuniga 110uld make a great effort to settle any differences existing between 
Utem. 'Ibis might not please sone of the army officers who dislike Zuniga 
• due to. bis character and the procedures ui.cd by him to obt.iin power. 
Up.to the present time the Anaed Forces do not appear to be leaning twards 
the "left•. 1'hcy are naturally desirous of improving their way of life. 
The Air Force has recently organized a company whose entire net profits 
wW go to the Air Force for the benefit of its members. General OS11aldo 
Lopez ~llano is invcs1:;ing in ,,arious industries and small private 
industries. lie has very recently est.:iblii.hed a company called Empacadora 
de Carnes (meat· packin~ firm) whose net profits will be for himself alone. 
!ho Armed Forces hold General 0..-waldo Lopez ~rellano in the highest 
esteem. This knowlcuge is ba54!4 on his observations and personal contact 
with.officers and enlisted men. 
- end -
£ 2'000£'? CL BY OOi622 
- -
? 
1 
NO ~l~SEM ACROAD 
. ; 
j 
l f I 
i 
' 
