"iiiw I 
I l 
i i. 
i 
I 
! l 
··--····" 
:...:·-.:..t. ... ~. 
Top Secret 
(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964) 
audio surveillance operation against the Embassy in Moscow. 
Among foreign agents of the KGB NOSENKO identified Canadian 
Ambassador WATKINS ~seep. 23 ) and described a British Ad­
miralty employee (William VASSALL, see p .. 30 ) . He talked 
freely of his activities in Geneva, including his association 
with KGB officers there, his visits to the KGB residency 
and his security duties with respect to the Soviet delega­
tion.· NOSENKO seemed to CIA to be what he claimed: a KGB 
officer with personal knowledge of important and sensitive 
KGB operations. He described his education, his service in 
the Naval GRU, his entry into the KGB and the general func­
tions and operating techniques of the various components of 
the Second Chief Directorate in which he had served, along 
with the approximate dates of his service. 
Ultimately the only restriction which NOSENKO placed on 
his cooperation with CIA was his re~usal to permit communica­
tion with him in the Soviet Union. He was willing to meet 
with CIA representatives during future trips outside the 
Soviet Union, which he estimated would occur about once every other 
year~ - He said he would not consider defecting except in cir­
cumstances in which his personal security was endangered, 
citing as reasons his devotion to his wife and chi.ldren (and 
fear of KGB reprisal against them if he fled), his· widowed 
mother's dependence on him, and his love of Russia: _and the 
···.Russian people.; 
NOSENKO promised to contact CIA and arrangements were 
.made for him to do so, when he came to the West again. 
Meanwhile, .he expressed the intention.to do everything within 
limits.imposed by concern for his own security to obtain in'."" 
formation which he was·informed·was of interest to CIA. 
· · - Dl 
Attempted Recruitment of.~rst BRAUND 
Immediately after returning to Moscow ·from Geneva, NOSENKO 
claimed h.e personally was involved in the attempt to recruit 
American tourist ([RAUN~ 
Db 
288 
00011: r.9 du 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
-
