. i 
Top Secret 
(AMERICAN:CMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962) 
All Soviet employees of the Embassy who entered the 
restricted areas, "the seventh through the tenth floors", 
were carefully questioned because of the special KGB interest 
in these offices. [The secure area barred to unescorted 
local employees is comprised O'f the eighth through tenth 
floors~] • 
NOSENKO personally placed some reports by KGB agents in 
the Embassy security file, while he was custodian, None of 
the information was of interest or important or useful 
enough for him to remember, and he recalled none of the KGB 
agent sources. [In another context NOSENKO cited an instance 
in which an unrecalled KGB agent had reported .(erroneously] 
that ABIDIAN's office had a sign on the door reading "Security 
Office".] 
Nothing could be recovered from the Embassy classified 
trash, which was always burned at an unrecalled location by 
a non-commissioned officer or .Marine guard accompanied by 
an officer. [At the Moscow Emb~ssy the Marine guard detailed 
for the purpose has always burned the classified trash alone. 
NOSENKO may be unwittingly referring to a U,S. military 
security procedure requiring a commissioned officer to witness 
and to certify.; the destruction of classified documents. If 
NOSENKO is aware of·any such procedure, he has never indicated 
-it in any context.J • 
In 1960-1961, when NOSENKO was Deputy Chief, he either 
knew the location of all offices and personnel within.the 
Embassy or he could obtain them from the monthly Embassy 
telephone lists which the KGB received regularly from agents. 
The lists gave office numbers. [The Embassy telephone lists 
contain names, apartment numbers and telephone numbers, but 
omits office room numbers.]: 
In 1960 a "metalli~ chamber" ~(acoustical roo~) arrived 
at the Embassy for President Eisenhower's use and for secret 
conversations. None of the technical specifications of the 
room were known, nor was its location. An unrecalled source 
reported only that meetings were held in the room, which was 
in the restricted area. 
224 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
