14-00000 
S March 1958 
E}.'1BASSY OF THE UNION OF 
SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS 
AIDE MEMOIRE 
According to precisely established data, on March 2, 1958, at 
4:05 hours Moscow time, an American military jet aircraft, having 
appeared from the direction of the Sea of Japan, violated the state 
l::order of the Soviet Union in the area of the settlement of Velikaya 
Kema and penetrated into the airspace of the Soviet Union, remain­
ing over its territory for a considerable period of time. Thereafter, 
the aircraft left in the direction of the Sea of Japan in the area south 
of the Olga Bay. 
The information on this violation has been carefully checked 
and there is no doubt as to its authenticity. The military representa­
tives of the United States, who in this case acted possibly without the 
knowledge of the Government of the United States, will perhaps deny 
the said violation, as has happened in the past. However, such a 
denial cannot eli1ninate the fact of violation itself. In any case, the 
Soviet side would have no interest in commenting on this incident if 
it had not actually taken place. 
A the. present time, when ne.gotiations are being conducted 
on the holding of a summit meeting which could contribute to an iln­
provement of relat1.ons and to strengthening trust between states, 
the '-'.iolation of the Soviet border by an American military aircraft 
n-:ay be evaluated as an attempt to undermine the efforts aimed at. 
convening such a meeting and to aggravate the international situation. 
From the messages of the President of the USA and' his con­
versations with the Soviet Am.bassador, as well as from statements 
by other government officials· of the USA, it is known to the Soviet 
Government that the Government of the USA desires a rapprochement 
between our governments and irn.provement in the relations between 
them. There can hardly be any doubt that such facts of violation of 
the borders of the USSR can have only one rcsult--that of hindering 
this cause and upsetting Soviet-American relations. 
