A. Introduction 
The biography of NOSENKO is built largely_ upon'his a,m..a.tate­
ments·to CIA, but certain portions of it have been substantiated 
(as well as contradicted) by other Soviet sources. ~ven first 
below is the NOSENKO autobiogtaphy for-Ehe period preceeding his 
entry into the +fQB,.then follows a Sur.JDary of his statements 
, about his non-professional life since becoming a KGB officer, and 
·lfinally there is preaented a review of what other sources have 
said on ~hese subjects .. A separate section of this paper, Part v, 
discusses NOSENKO's career in the KGB. 
B. NOSENKO's Pre-KGB Autobiography 
~lthough several other sources have since NOSENKO's defec­
tion furnished fragmentary information concerni:ig NOSENKO's ~arly· 
personal history, NOSENKO himself has,·-0f course, been the prin­
cipal source on this topic. Ha volunteered information during 
the 1962 meetings, during debriefings in early 1964, and under 
interrogation in April 1964, in 1965, and in 1966.· These vari­
ous accollnt;s are arranged in separate columns in the following 
table, and they are organized chronologically frc~ NOSE~KO's 
birth to his alleged entry into the KG3. The first column in 
the table c'j:)ntains statenents which NOSEUKO made during the June 
1962 meetings in Geneva; these were taken from th~ transcriots 
of the meetings and, for the most part, are in NOSENKO's own 
words. The column hec1ded "1964," derived from the April 1964 
interrogation, reflects a. number of changes in his story before 
and during that interrogation. Most of the information given 
in the "1965" column was taken from discussions with NOSENKO, 
mainly on his early years, by a CIA psychol0gist in May of that 
year; however, material from the February 1965 interrogation 
and from DERYABIN' s interrogation in J'..!ly and August has also 
been included when it was not covered in the psychologist's ques­
tioning and when NOSENKO signed protocols certifying his state­
ments to be correct. The "April 1966" column is comprised of 
remarks by NOSENKO in a signed autobiography submitted to CIA 
at that time. The final colwnn presents the results of the 
October 1966 interrogation as they pertain to NOSENKO's early 
life. From column to column appear inconsistencies and contra­
dictions with regard to dates and locat.j.ons furnished by NOSENKO, 
although in 1964, again in 1965, and most rec::ently in October 
1966 NOSENKO has said that he was "now" telling the truth. The 
table shows where he has admitted having previously lied about 
certain events and where he seems to have forgotten his earlier 
statements to CIA about the occurrence of other events affecting 
his life. 
This tabulation of NOSENKO's autobiography concludes in 
Part V.A., in which are quoted the various dates and circum­
stances concerning his entry into the KGB which NOSENKO has 
given in 1962, 1964, 1965, and 1966. 
'l 
' 
