1 000 
746. 
3. Schooling 
a. lr.troduction t 
There is relatively little reliable collateral ir.formation i 
concerning NOSE:lXO' s schooling up until 1950. Other than ,mat j 
he himself has reported, available information consists of over~i 
press releases -pertainir.g to the Minister NOS~o• s career (and_ _ 
giving his location at various times) and comments by one KGB 
officer and one defector. ~OS~KO's 0""11 account, together with t 
references to these other sources, is swr.marized below. 
With.the exception of minor variations in dates, attribut­
able to rna'llOry, NOSENKO•s story of his earl1 years until the 
• beginning of World War II. ·•hen he had just completed the sixth 
grade in Mo:;cow, has been generally consistent in its various 
tellings. Moreover, his accounts of havin~ studied in Lenin­
grad and Moscow agree with lnforn,ation concerning the positions 
and moveir.e:-,ts of the elder t.OSESi<O during t~ese years. In con- • 
trast, the pericd i:rrnediately following, during which NOS~Y.O 
allegecly received his early training in naval matters is char­
acterized with frequent changes of story, contradictions, and 
admitted falsehood. 
b. Discussion 
In 1964 and 1965 ~OSEHKO recalled that he enrolled in the 
Moscow special naval school in the summer of 1941, iim:ediately 
after the Germans attacked the Soviet Union, and was evacu~Led 
with the entire school from ~~scow to Kuybyshev in September 
to begin studies in the seventh grade. (An article in the Sov­
iet >.r~y newspaper Krasnaya Zvezda (Red Star) on 14 Je..~uary 1967 
confirmed that seven special naval schools were established in 
the Soviet Union in April 1940. Or.e of these was in Moscov. 
However, t.o be eligible for ad:niss1on, one had_ to have completed: 
the seventh grade. The article did not indicate that the ~oscow' 
school was evacu3tt:ei.) In April 1966, NOSEN"r-0 remembered that 
1
1 
he did not; go to 1'uybyshev at this time but rather had been 
evacuated ~o €helyabinsk with his mother and entered the seventh 
grade of a regular 5cr.ool. 
In keeping with his respective accounts, NOSENKO said in 
1964 atd 1965 that he ret1.1rned from Kuybyshev ir. the su.'Tr.ler of 
1942 and secured acimiss1on to the Leningrad Naval Preparatory 
School, alcng with which he was evacuated ty train to Eaku in 
the fall of thdt year. In April 1966, after inserting the year 
spent at Chelyabinsk with his mother, NOS~KO moved all ever.ts 
up a year and wrote in his autobiography that he enter&d the 
Kuybyshev school in the fall of 1942 rather than the fall of 
1941. NCSENKO also wrote at this time that he transferred to 
the Leningrad preparatory sc!lool and travelled to Baku in the 
fall of 1943, not 1942.• 
* Describing the reasons for his transfer to the Leningrad Naval 
Preparatory School, !IOS~KO explained that the Moscow special 
naval school was eva-:uated further to Achinsk in Siberia and 
that this was farther from hem~ than he wished to go. n-.e 
Red Star article r.ienticned abo,.-e said that the special naval 
schools were all closed in 1943, however. The special school 
apparently therefore was not transferred further to Achin£k, 
but was shut do~n. 
TOP SECRET 
