14-00000 
a photograp~ic surveillance and in initial preparation for a !uture LINIMENT type 
activity. SCANTLING has performed investigations 0£ numerous other Station 
targets 0£ opportunity which, depending on their significance, have been reported 
in separate_ correspo~d~_ace • 
.3. "To exploit operational leads through recruitments, Jebrie!lngs 
and surveillances. 11 This objective was included in the LlEMPTY project because 
SCANTLING is use4 to follow up LIFEA T leads and leads obtained from the LIEMPTY 
·photographic bases. During the· past year SCANTLING has investigated a quantity o£ 
leads obtained from th., above sources. Tho information resulting from these in­
ve•tiE:,ation11 lw.s enabled the Station tn maintain current data on the various !irms 
used by the LiilERICK target and in one instance, Octavio VIDALES (Z0l- ), 
caused the Station to make a recruitment pitch in an effort to carry out a technical 
penetration .:,£ the LIMERICK target. Although VIDALES was not recruited, ~e 
Station anticipates lhat SCANTLING wiJ1 some day be successful in just this type o£ 
activity. SCANTLING is the Station's principal source for the follow-up 0£ LIFEAT/ 
LIMERICK and LIEMPTY i,hotoi;raphic base house leads as they pertain to the 
primary target. 
4. Not covered by a speci!ic project objective but, nevertheless, o£ 
significant importance to the Station are S~"lTLING 's contributions to the overall 
Station support efforts. In addition to the extensive training given to CLACKETT, 
SCANTLING also prepared a detailed and sophisticated radio dispatch procedure for 
use by the LIEMBRACE surveillance team. He devioed a superior method £or 
numbering streets which enables the radio surveillance team to specify a location 
without reference to street names and areas. The entire radio dispatch code, when 
used properly, practically defies identification as the conversations o£ a clandestine 
surveillance team. From the standpoint o£ Station security, SCANTLING conducted 
an investigation o£ LIVESTOCK-Z based on two leads which were 30 years old and 
reported significant in!ormation which contributed to the Station's final decision 
to terminate LIVESTOCK-2. SCANTLING 's other support activities consist of renting 
hote! rooms and apartments in fictitious names, supportirg operations such as 
LICOOL- lZ by performing sentry duty and by servin~ as a capable and responsihle 
cutout between the Station and agents from other geographic&]. areas. 
5. Although SCANTLING's LIEMPTY objectives ca.n never be completely 
£ul£illed, it is the Station's opinion that SCANTLING' has made important and valuable 
contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives speciiically and to other Station 
activities in general. SCANTLING 's production, me:uured against monetary. 
expenditures, case officer time and other intangible· £actors, unquestionably Justifies 
his continuation as an integral part 0£ Project LIEMPTY. 
B. Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project 
objectives): 
S E C RE T/ 6 ii& $.loi, 
