14-00000 
! 
I 
-:·•-::::'<:-<i·:•:.:::•cJ!! 
I 
.I 
I 
{ 
. 
.1. 
··•-·-au 
-··-mt 
-ll · 
.. If 
·•\,t:; 
If 
•... ··•·· 
Top Secret 
(PRE-KGB BIOGRAPHY) 
At the end of April 1952 NOSENKO left Sovetskaya Gavan' 
on leave, arriving in Moscow on 28 April. [Note earlier 
versions in which he was transferred because of illness, 
and that he was permitted to return to Moscow because of 
his father's birthdayo] While on leave he became ill with 
tuberculosis anti spent almost two months in May and June. 
1952 in a sanitorium near Moscow. 
During the month of July 1952 NOSENKO was ordered to 
the Naval Intelligence Point of the Fourth (Baltic) Fleet 
in Sovetsk, in Kaliningradskaya Oblast (at the head of the 
Bay of Gdansk}. Sovetsk was a small village located on 
the spit of land between Kaliningrad and Baltiysk. [The 
only Sovetsk in Kaliningradskaya Oblast is located many 
miles inland from Kaliningrad, in the opposite direction 
from Baltiysk. When NOSENKO was shown their locations on 
contemporary Soviet maps, he insisted that he was correct, 
although Primorsk, where NOSENKO had said in 1962 that he 
was assigned while in the Baltic·, is located on a ;spit of 
land between·Kaliningrad and Baltiysk.] NOSENKO remained 
in l!Sovetsk"-but a short time, and he returned to Moscow 
at the end of 1~52 _to seek another assignment. Before 
his departure he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant 
of the Adrninis~rative Service. [In previous versions he 
claimed to have become eligible for promotion and was 
promoted while in the Far East, after less then a year's 
service.] • 
On 1 January 1953 NOSENKO and his parents were guests at 
the KOBULOV dacha. NOSENKO indicated his dissatisfaction 
with his RU assignment and KOBULOV promised to find him a 
place in the KGB. • 
From the middle of Janua~y to the middle of Mar.ch 1953 
NOSENKO was under treatment at the sanitorium near Moscow 
where he had been·hospitalized in 1952, and there he became 
acquainted with his second wife, Lyudmila Yulianovna 
KOZHEVNIKOVA. [NOSENKO's earlier accounts either omitted 
reference to this period of hospitalization, or indicated 
that it was of considerably shorter duration.]° 
57 
TS No. 197124 
Top Secret Copy J 0 
