14-00000 
I 
SECRET 
team members and wWi more practice \\ill probably develop 
into a c:z;.able and dependable drtver, LIJE.i<SEY-8 has 
recently a:ihown a comm~dable amount of tntrtatlve where hts 
OU1er siru.1~ton is concerned, H~ has otxained a job as a 
commtsc1oa salesman tor UN....iERWOOD typewrticrs and, 
according to GERE.1''DE, ts maktng a subaanrtal amount of "ptn" 
money. P.owever, as ln the case of LIJERSEY-4, LIJI.:RSEY-8 
ta at best an asset of only ltmtted value. LIJERSEY-8 also 
rec.elves a salary of $1,000.00 (~ per mooth. 
LJJERSEY-13 does not know LJJERSEYS-4 and 8 and vtce versa. 
LijF.RSEY·l3 1.s bener dressed th.an the o~,er two tc..1.m members 
and can pass as a better educated and more soclaj.ly .f.!~ible , .-- __ 
. · tndtv1dual. He speaks falrly,,,.good ·English;' He perform'& pret~ 
tnvesttgatlo?J asslgn.menii; wtth facUlry and imag!nntton and ls 
adept at maxtng up cover stortes. In brief, he makes a good 
lmpreaaka on the people be lntervtews. He ls not a good 
driver and ts too nervoca to develop into aie. Hls snlary la 
$1,000.00 (MN) per month. 
(3) C.Orr.muntcations - GERENDE has dnUy contact arrange­
ments wU.'l t.h~ three LIJERSEYS. Pre.arr~ meeting places 
are uaed on designated days of each wc~l::: and the LIJERSEYS are 
instructed to go to each meeting. They have standing lnstructtons 
to comtnue going to thelr meeting sttca for two weeks; lf they 
have not been contaeted during that period ct tlme, they can 
dlBconttnue thetr oommuntcatlons plan and await contact by 
CEREND£ or another appropriately selected agent et Lt-ielr 
respecdYe heme.. Nona of tl1e LIJERSEYS have home telephones; 
hence, tt La imposslble to arrange any type of communlcatlona 
using this means. GERENDE ls currently In the process of 
setting up new and rr.ore complete communicadooa arrangements 
w11h the three UJERSEYS. 
(4) Securiry - Insofar as knowledge of other operations, 
peraoanel inaassas ls concerned, the LIJ ERSEYS appear to have 
the best security of any of the operattons handled by GERENDE. 
New communicntions plans wlth t?:e LJJERSEYS w ill do much 
toward mcreaslng security and ability to meet conttngencles. 
CERENDE will be instructed to gtve refresher training to all 
three LJJERSEYS In operational aecurtty, CO'ler and communlcatlons. 
The major danger existtng with the LIJ E.RSEY team, and wtth any 
sur,elllance team, ls the posslbUliy of compromise and arrest 
by oue of the local pollce agencies. Should thla happen, GERENDE 
and his other operatloa.s would be placed ln c:onslderaWe danger. 
SECRET 
