14-00000 
SECRET 
askl?d to Indicate that nothing In the "Letter of Cover Instructtons" 
conltlcls with lnstruct·ons given the agent by the opertlng dl-
nsion. ! . 
>. When thl' cove~ facility Is a legitimate organization rat er than ' 
an Agency-controlle<i mechanism, a "Letter of Understanding" 
•,1,·,th the cover ·ori;aniw.tion is prepared by Contract Personnel Di­
vision. It Is the "contract" with the cover organization. 
'.'he "LcttC'r or Understandmg" and the "Letter of Cover Instructions" 
I be submlttcd to the operating division for comments and concur­
c~ brfore presentation, respectively, to the cover organization and 
I he ai;!'nt for signature. Sanitized copies, In duplicate, or both the 
ttl:r of Cover Instructions" and tnc "Letter or Understanding" will 
rurn,:;!Jcd the opnating dlvL~ion-one copy or each for headquarters 
•n:wn and one for tra~m1ttal to and retention by the field station 
its guidance and reference by the -agent as required. 
NONOFFICIAL COVER REQUEST 
::.t:XEHAL tNFOJUIATION 
I. 1'1;,:udonym of agc-nt to be covered and any pseudonyms, cryp­
ton~·rns or alla.scs used previously. Has Central Cover Staff been 
ll·q•.a·sto::d to develop nonofficial cover for this agent before? If 
:,o, under what pseudonym, cryptonym or alias? 
!. Cur~•cnt employment status and contemplated ·Agency status 
urvJ•:r <:(lvcr if dilkrent from current status, I.e., Staff Employee, 
l:itatr A~cnt, Contract Employee, Contract Agent, Career Agent, 
etc.; /i~cncy salary rangt, kinds and amounts of allowances to 
wh!th agr:nt will be entitled during his assignment under non­
fJ!hcial cover. 
Is thr a1;rcnt now con:;idercd by the Agency's Medical, Psychiatric, 
A';.51:$.!irnt:nt and Evaluations Staffs to be fit [or overseas duty? 
Ct:rrmt an~ -or previous n_onofficial or official covers employed by 
the a;;enl, mcludmg foreign and domestic, formal or informal 
r.o·,cr stories, with a statement as to the extent of backstopping 
m carh c~·. Unbackstoppc-d, informal cover stories used for 
domt-sUc disgul.!.c of CIA sta!Y employment arc spcclflcally rc-
q uested. • 
Date of availability or agent to a."JSume the Cl)Ver. 
l'rr,1,<,:,td date or de1,arture_ ror overseas post. It must be recog­
tll7.<:d.that rnvcr nt-cr:ssltatmg the development of a new facility 
f'.·t·quently requires several wc1:ks ror the necessary clearances of 
t1:i: proprJscd cover facility's committing officials. Additional 
wer:ks or. negotiation, company training, etc., often are necessary. 
SECRET 
~ ..::I 4!f¥,'Fpi; 44..%:-:G'f."'..-.fi?ilffl&<,W..,1 §W¥ (&4 
r. 
Q 
.-41Pii¥fiitiat 
.... 
\ 
} 
SECRET 
7. Project cryptonym under which agent will be cnrrll'd. If thf'rl' 
Is no approved project In the com·entional• form. thl' ba.51c nuthor­
ity should be cited and a statt·ment given that funds arc available 
to support any financial commitments made lo the cover organi­
zation. 
B. BIOGRAPHIC INFOR)L.\TION 
1. Date and place or birth, sex, race, religion, current cltl.zen:ihlp 
status·. previous citizenship (s), marital status, chlidrcn. p·,cS<'nt 
and last previous residence addresses. 
2. Number and relationship or adult dcpcrnlents to accompany 
agent on his foreign assignmC'nt, together with current rc:,1cl<-nrc 
and a statement as to avallabllity or bioisraphlcal Information on 
each. Number and relationship of minors who arc to accompany. 
3. Education (college transcripts may be rrquired where ai:udcmlc 
cover desired). 
4. Business or professional experience Including salary rani;cs in 
previous positions. 
5. Outside interests, hobbles. etc., whl:h might provide basis !or 
cover development. 
6. Objcc~lvc personality evaluation. 
7. Agent's personal financial status in general terms, including ap• 
proximate amount of loans and debts outstanding. 
8. Previous foreign residence-generally dis::t.:sscd. 
9. Language abilities with particular reference to language (11) In· 
d1gcnous to the area or assignment. If English 1s not agent's 
native language, state the degree or pr•Jficicncy in English. 
C. SECURITY CO!'l:SIDERATIO:".S 
-1. ·How long has the agent been employed by CIA? Security_ ap­
proval number, date issued, and purpose for which· granted. Any 
derogatory information developed by Investigation. 
2. Is agent to know specifically of CIA Interest, only of U.S. Govern• 
mcnt interest, or neither? 
3. How frequently has agent entcrcd CIA headquarters Installations 
or field installations substantially identified as ClA? 
4. Cite any identification of agent's CIA connection to other than 
CIA stafI personnel. Include rclatl'les, friends, neighbors. Clt.e 
any known or suspected forelgn Intelligence Interest In oi;::cnt 
at any time and any known Incidents or circumstances which 
may have tended to compromi:;e his cover S<'CUrity. Docs the 
agent or spouse have relatives or close friends In or near U1r 
area or assignment? Arc thry presumed witting or unwlttiniz 
of his U.S. Government connection? 
SECRET. 
