\ 
\ 
LIONION PROJECT RENEWAL 
A.. Current Objectives: This Project is a t_echnical, currently . 
primarily photographic, surveillance operation against the Cuban 
Embassy and· Consulate ·in' llexico City. Its original objectives, 
still ctirrent, lncludeJurnishing photographic coverage during 
daylight hours of the _Embassy and Consula tc entrances; furnishing 
a- control point for. dis.patching physical ..surveillance teams 
against persons associated.with the target; and furnishing 
a listening post (LP) in readiness to monitor and record 
~technical audio penetrations of the target. Two new cbjectives 
added during ttie Project year include assisting Stat ion llexico 
City to build ~P individual dos~iers on target offictals; and 
affording an observation post for Station activities involving 
direct contact with the tar~et. These new objectives are in 
consonance with Priority A, Objective 1 of the current Related 
Mission Dirccti~c for Station Mexico City. 
D. C~nnges: There have been no chingcs in personnel and none 
are conter.platcd durini; the coming _year, Headquarters is 
assuming the task of develop.1.ng some of the film exposed 
under this Project. LIONION,;_l's pay was increased $40 per 
month effective 15 March 1965. 
C. intelligence Production: The Project is not designed to 
produce disscminable information. It produced thousands of 
excellerit photographs during the year which were shared with 
Headquarters and Station JMWAVE. Information on the comings 
and goings of target personnel and visitors to the target have 
been incorporated into many Station files, principally. the 
dossier files. No pi·ecis·e statistics are available, but at 
least 100 expbsures are made daily during target working hours. 
D. Effectiveness:· The Project is considered highly successful 
·and essential by the Sta.t:bn. In addition to the exceqent photo­
graphic cove1·age provided, LIONION-1, the Principal Agent, has 
develope~ into a first-class asset fo~ other operatio11al duties. 
The Project Basehouse was essential to mounting and monitoring 
the Station's attempt at recruitment and subsequent harassment 
oi a sensiti~e target ereplqyee. The Case Officer in charge of 
the attel!!pt sat with LIOXION-1 for S€·vcral -..·eeks observing the 
• movement pattern of t_he target employee. LIONION-1 manned one 
of th·e radio dispatch posts used to control the physical 
surveillance of the target employee while near the Basehouse. 
