14-00000 
SECRET 
WIFE'S ATTinJDE TOWARD JKLANCE: Q/l's wife is not witting of his 
JKLANCE affiliation., She was allowed to believe that he was 
working indirectly for the Ch.ines~. She ce·rtainly is aware 
of the past JKLANCE accusations which have been leveled at 
Q/1, but as far as Q/1 can determine (and this is not a subject 
on which he can come right out·and ask a direct question) she 
continues to accept the Chinese'story. It should be added 
that Mrs. Q/1 is Bri Usb a~d. is· the holder of some rather 
typical "left" anti_.JKLANCE attitudes. It should also be noted 
that the relationship between the two is fraught with a variety 
of problems thereby adding to the complexity of the situation. 
Certainly the whole subject of Q/l's activities is one which 
Mrs. Q/1 views with misgivings and which is simply not discussed 
lest it lead to acrimony. Mention should also be made that 
Mrs. Q/1 seems to accept as legitimate the small amount of 
money- received from Q/l's cover and to regard this as a genuine 
stringer relationship. 
RESPONSE TO CASE OFFICER HANDLING: QRPHm~E/1 bas a very pleasant 
personality and responds well to Case Officer handling. He is 
a most willing asset requiring no special handling care -- other 
than the normal professionalism expected in the handling of a 
sensitive asset such as Q/1. 
WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT INSTRUCTIONS OR GUIDASCE: Q/1 is willing to 
accept guidance and criticism -- provided it isoonstructive. 
If anything, be may sometimes be too willing. His willingness 
occasionally exceeds his sense of security and it then falls 
to his handler to bear in mind security and/or operational 
considerations which may affect his pursuit of a given target. 
However, this should not be over dramatized. 
RESPONSIVENESS:· Q/1 is most responsive to requirements levied upon 
him. In this connection it should be recalled that his ability 
to respond fully is usually restricted by the nature of his 
relationshipwltb bis informants; i.e., since he is only eliciting 
the information from unwitting informants be is rarely able to 
press for all the desired details . 
.JKLANCE CONTROL: Q/1 is dependent upon a JKLANCE salary 
signed recruitment documents and a security pledge. 
to add that Q/11s not a handling problem and there 
been any instance in which either be or bis handler 
occasion to allude to these control factors. 
and 
We 
has 
bas 
be bas 
hasten 
never 
bad 
PERSONAL Sll::URITY: Q/1.bas a good sense of personal security and bis 
handler makes an effort to build upon this at every opportunity. 
As cited above, Q/l's enthusiasm sometimes leads to his failure 
to consider all aspects and implications of a given situation. 
-3-
SECRET 
-· ,· .,.,,~- ...... ~ ....... _ ... =--
t 
i 
. : 
'i . f 
.: I 
.. 
'' 
, • • 
. .,. 
