14-00000 
SECRET 
2 
people as well as ·a proficiency in Spanish which has enabled him 
to d~l readily and effectively With a heterogeneous Nnge of 
cor,tacts. 
His performance:can 01lly_be ~escribed as outstanding. -He 
has provided a completely professional response to a cost diffi• 
cult and varied challenge. He has mounted an organization and 
provided a me~hanism fully up to the tasks- confronting it and 
the high-level requirements levied upon it._ With the advantages 
affvrded by.hindsight, I suggest that the success wich has been 
achieved speaks for itself. 
It is pertlnent to _mention that the Rated Offic~r invariably 
places business aheed of pleasure and personal interests. He 
work.S long and irregular hours and is .continuously available in 
time of need. He has evidenced the highest degree 6~ cooperation 
with representatives of State, DOD, Legal l\ttacht1, AID (in the 
Public Safety sector) and all other members of the Country Team. 
His quiet dnd professional approach inspires their confidence, 
and on innumerable occasions he has proven thz.t he is an excellent 
team player who genuinely wants to be of assistance to all members 
of the official convnunity. The harmonious., close relations among 
all the intelligence components of the Country Tea.~ are due in 
great part to the tactful, skillful and thoughtful leadership of 
the Station Chief. 
There is probably little need for me to coJT«nent upon the • 
Rated Officer's technical achievements at this post. Under his 
guidance, specialized security agencies of the Do.-:u1ucan 
Government have been brought to a state of high readiness. 
Penetration of subversive groups has r~ched impressive µropor­
tions. Subversive_ document seizures have been ablmdant. Counter­
espionage work has been impressively successful. 
no 
The CAS Station ChiP.f is in/sense a narrow technician or 
specialist. He keeps his eye on the broad picture, understands 
what he secs there and intelligently relates it to his own 1o10rk. 
He is L-naginative in his approach and does not hesitate to 
suggest innovations of various kinds. To mention ~nly one of 
these, it lo8S as a result of his initiative that "electoral 
pc:,lice" appeared upon the scene during the Presiden~ial election 
campaign in mid-1966 with a salutary cal.J:ling effect upon the 
potential for political violence at the moment. 
SECRET 
