14-00000 
........ \ . ' 
•. !-
Conoidering that this small r.:roup .of pampored exiles 
is preaching revolution even here and with a full stomach, 
1 t may be. useful to point out a few facts, . _These _are facts 
whi~h are well known in the Miniotry in The llar,ue but for 
some reason never mnde it to the Netherlands pres □• 
The great majority of the refugees.are not even 
Chilean _nationals. They arc nativeD of Bolivia, Brazil, and 
Urueua:y; • They came to Chile as a reoul t of i ller 1.al and 
revolutionary activities in which they had been involved in 
theso South and Middle "American countries, the ultimate 
consequences of which they did not wish to suffer. 
They felt at home· in Allende's Chile because Allende 
showed sympathy for their situation. His first action as 
president, after his inauguration in November 1970, was to 
declare amnecty for all those who "were members of terrorist 
underground or~anizations," those who duri"C the last months 
of. hia predecessor•j re~ime had been chareod with bank 
robbery, the armed robbery of self-service storen, the theft 
of weapons from military aroenals, kidnappine, and attempted murder, • • 
The fact that some of those revol11tionaries received 
Ch.llcan diplomatic status was due to Allende'::. policy of 
granting residence perciits to thi~ type of rcvolutlonari~a. 
These refugees with a hig~ school or higher level education 
seemed to have no adjustment problems in Chile. As a result 
they soon found their way to important key positions in the 
eovernment. ·! • 
The fugitives didn't suffer any sleepleos nights in 
Chile either, because they felt protected by a militant 
!,1arxist army, armed ,to the teeth, SomP. 10,000 revoluti:>nariea, 
from all points of the compass, were at their disposal. 
Definition 
In the Berner Tafeblatt, a Swiss newspaper which 
is known for not exaggera 1r.g, Dr, r,:arlo Puelma, fr')m the 
University of Frei burg,' wrote the followlne 1 "The concept 
of rolitical refugee is only of limited value when applied 
to Chile. ~hatever one's attitude toward the military J~nta 
