1
'[;°04-10106-10188] 
• .. i 
•• [ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 [ . . - . 
SUBJECT: Sam Jaffe 
., 
.,, 
1. Sam Jaffe
1
s·relationship wittt the Agency predates his assignment 
to Moscow as an ABC ·correspondent. During the period 1958-60 while in New 
York Jaffe was a confidential infonnant of the FBI on his Soviet contacts 
in New York. In addition,. he had· several meetings with the New York office 
of CIA's Domestic Contact Division~ While in Moscow with ABC Jaffe felt he· 
- was the subject of ·a recruitment attempt by the "KGB in 1962. He recounted 
his story to the Regional Securi-ty Officer- at the American Embassy in Moscow,. 
copies of w~ich went to both CIA and F~I. Jaffe covered the Gary Powers' 
trial for ABC and flew on the same plan~ from ~ew York to Mosco~ with the 
Barbara Powers' party.· Prior to that trip he was briefed by a CIA psychologist 
on ways to observe Powers !s behavior and demeanor. Jaffe was never 
11
ordered
11 
•• 
to cover the Powers' trial,. but simply acted as an enterprising newspaperman • .•. 
befriending ·Barbara Powers while her party was enrout~ and in the Soviet Union. 
. 2: During the 1 atter part of his· time in Moscow Jaffe was in ·contact 
with a KGB officer,. Kuvkov,. and this relationship.is a matter of record.with 
the FBI. There is some evidence that Jaffe was given preferential treatment 
by the Soviet authorities. Some western pressmen felt that tlaffe,. as. an 
aggressive newspaperman, was giving a little to get a story. Jaffe has 
given his version of his dealings with the KGB in a lengthy 1969 interview 
with the FBI. • • 
3. ·The defector Nosenko provided infonnation on J_affe1 s relationship 
to the KGB in 1964. However as time went on, further debriefings of Nosenko 
indicated that Nosenko was.not as sure about Jaffe's relationship as he had 
been originally. By 1968 Nosenko was positive only that Kuvkov had been in _.·· . 
. touch with Jaffe, but.Nosenko was not certain that Jaffe was a· paid and. 
witting agent of the KGB. . . • · • .. . . 
-.. . . 
• 4. • During Jaffe's tour in ·Hong Kong,. and subsequently in Washfn~on, . •• 
he was in to~ch ·with CIA officers. He provided good information on a Chinese2-1 
news o-fficia_]J~d he was· helpful to the Agency in reporting on a [£.ana ian]l I · •• 
organization, he Committee of New China Pol ic~ All l'§fficia]l contact with 
ila ffe ended in 971. Cf~ _ • • . 2% . -· · • 
5. Central to Jaffe's charges about CIA, which he has made public mans, 
times,. is Jaffe's belief that the CIA passed derogatory information about 
him to his employers. Attached is a 24 November 1975 letter from Mr. Colby 
to Jaffe which states categorically that no information in the CIA files had 
ever been pa~sed outside of official channels. In addition to this letter • 
Jaffe has been reassured on this point verbally on at least four other 
occasions ... The CIA is positive that Jaffe
1
s recall from Hong Kong in 1968 
