SECRET \ 
\ 
- 9 -
.. _ There *'1s one indication that the Sovle~s were ~eeking 
_-,. out tjle~-LIMITED .photo· basehouse and may have had suspicions. concerning 
LlEM:PTY.:.6. This was a report by KDADAGE-10 that in mld-1966 Stanislav 
Sergeyevich Silnikov (201-27li03'), a Soviet Embassy gu~rd, asked KDADAGE-
10 to report on his neighbors near the Soviet Embassy. Silnikov expressed 
interest: in all the occupants of the new apartment building which houses the 
KPABSiNTHE photo basehouse,. but did not mention the KDADSINTHE base­
house ke.epers by-name •. Silnikov did name specific persons he was inter­
est~d in and _thes·e included LIEMPTY-6. KDADAGE-10, of unknown • 
reliability, said he did not b>ive Silnlkov any information, 'but added that, 
between himseU ~d the Station, he suspected LIEMPTY-6 and had heard 
it rumored he worked for the Americans. In 1966 Headquarters already 
assumed the soviets were aware of the LIMITED basehouse because it was 
used for radio direction of the LIENTRAP mobile surveillance. In any' case, 
too Soviets apparently took no action prior to the closing of the LIMITED 
·b..1.sehouse· and the relocation of LIEMPTY-6 in May 1968. It is believecl 
this incident has no implications tll:lt would threaten the security of current 
KDFACTOR assets. 
5._ Current KDFACTOR Security Practices: 
The two photo base-houses, KDLITERAL and KDABSINTHE 
remain compartmE'nted, as they-h.1.,·t:' been throughout the history of the 
Project. The Station case offfcer responsible for the project meets weekly 
with Ki:>F ACTOR-2, responsible for the KDLITERAI:. basehouse, and with 
KDF ACTOR-5, responsible for tl~l' KDABSIN~HE ba~ehouse. In these 
meetings he picks up the product, pro,·ides new supplies, pays salaries 
and handles miscellaneous administrative matters. These arc car meetings 
usually held in early morning or at night anC: the pickup points are changed 
regularly. _Mee-Ung tinie is kept to a minimum and meetings are pre­
scheduled whenever possible. The photographic product is processed in 
the Station, thus inci:easing the se<'urity and timeliness of its handling 
over the past practice of having KDF ACTOR-1 process it in his office 
darkroon1. The case officer only nieets with KDFACTOR-2 and KDFACTOR-5; 
however, in·emergencies other wit\iug family members of either basehouse 
c.u1 be contacted and met. In case the present sites or personnel are com­
promised, the Station has rented another apartment in the building housing 
the KDABSINTHE basehouse and has installed inembers of the KDCALVERT 
Project as residents. This new apartment offers as good a vantage point 
SECRET 
