14-00000 
• 
Top Secret 
(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - ca. 1953-June 1955) 
Information was also received according to NOSENKO from the 
network of Soviet chauffeurs, cooks, language instructors,· 
and.other agents in the Embassy; permanent and roving 
surveillance patrols outside the Embassy; fixed observation 
posts next to, across from and near the Embassy; advance 
notification of intent to travel by the attaches and their 
itineraries; and reports from outside Moscow, including 
surveillance, agent networks, the Militia, and the military. 
The point of collecting and assimilating this information, 
NOSENKO said, was to be able to know what the military 
attaches were doing in Moscow and thereby to control their 
intelligence collection activities. Far less important was 
the goal .of recruiting military attaches; NOSENKO knew of 
only a.few instances ·when this was attempted, and all of 
these efforts allegedly failed. 
The KGB's principal interest in control rather thari 
recrui tmerit has been NOSE!lKO' s explanation for knowing . little 
about the backgrounds and personal lives of his targets--such 
information, he .stated, s.:i,.mply was not pertinent to the 
pri~ary mission of .control. H~ has also used this expiana­
tion to support.his assertion.that there were no recruitments 
of American military per$onnel during this period. • • 
Comment: NciSENKO's· assertion -that the KGB's mission was 
to control rather than.to recruit American 
0001352 
rnili tary • attach~s •. is _ contradicted by the 
.emphasis KGB tradition and doctrine place on 
conducting operations against the United 
-States, the~ '':ma.:i,.n e11enty", .in the KGB..-parlance, 
in this· case American o·fficials with access to 
classified information, who. were residing ·in 
:. ••••• the·· soviet Union. 
In the USSR, especially in the. early 1950·• s 
prio·r to the U..;2 reconnaissance, the Service 
Attache travel program was the primary means 
by which the U.S. Armed Forces acquired intelli­
gence information on the Soviet Union's 
military-industrial complex. The prevention 
• or inhibition of this collection activity fell 
consequently to KGB components concerned with 
the security of military-industrial installations, 
82 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
I 
I 
I 
