14-00000 
SECRET: 
.. .tltt. QRPJIClf:r can be vined as eesentallJ 
3. !cYaobl lty and baa e,rprc-tJeed a willingness to 
poa•~flere ar&, bowever, quallflcatlou on thia. J!e 
IIOY••small cbil~D and an unwitting, anti-US, white, 
•ae1ab wife, wbo would onlJ be willing to leave her 
&aeland if the overt Job to vblcb QRPBCIO was goi.Ag 
... clearly a atep apward la bis career. 
4. llendllng. The method by whle!I QIPB(J(E bas bffD 
•••died, I.e. aalnly through Rodigaat (although t~re 
haa bfton direct La>IPIT contact reaently), la un­
nesaarily cwabera01De and not suited to the close consal­
tation needed to e,rplo,-. QRPH(l(F'& fut'lft dil"t'ctions. 
Bavln1 bffn de eland to the Bri ttah &nlces the moat 
secure place to meet QRPHORB is in the UK and be abould 
be baadlecl directly by an IDIPIT officer. 
8. Becurl!f • QBPBORZ eaDDot escape t~ r•cord 
of allegatlounat he ia Agenc1-connect•d. "l'bat be can 
do, bowver, ta face-up to tben chorgee, clu,Uenge tbea 
and deny them. Tbere may thua always be saee element 
of eaepicion attactMtd to bla, but, as ti• pamse■ with­
out definite proof of such a ~ction~ its inpact _oa 
bia activities may be ainiaized and be aay·be able to 
eaigap in effective •ork -1-pite of it. 
e. 8ub-11pnta. It was felt that QRPBaq my 
possibly have a flair for re·c:rat ting and bandling aub­
agenta. It was ~Ueved that tbta should be e:,rplored 
and that he should be glven relevant training, baaed 1a 
••• Yorlt. Thia would also provide the opportunity for 
Headquarters exploration with bl• of bis future develop­ment. 
?. l'llture PoCU19. What QRPIICIO:'a own thoughts eight 
be on bis 1110st natural col.lJ'Se of develol)llent are not 
~lear. Re aay have an inclination toward African 
Liberation Movements-the aubject of his moet- rec£nt 
■aJor writing-but it could be questioned whetMr on 
tbis or on anti-tedayeen work, there is sufficient 
Agency interest to merit such focus. He bas no aigulti­
nnt base in the Allertcan black community (rat~r the 
eontrary) wbicb would aake bia of inbreet to othen on 
this baaia. Bia overt political orientation 1a deacribed 
I 
1• •• 
SECRET! 
.c. --
l I I 
I 
1 l 
I 
