14-00000 
I, ' . -. 
.... .. ) 
PROJECT OUTLINE 
• 1. Identification ,-, ' 
• Mexico City, Mexico. Support for singleton ·contract agent 
operating into right-wing political milieu in Mexico for 
intelligence purposes with some covert action by-product. 
Objectives 
a. Objective The objective of this project is to provide 
support for a u.s. contract agent who has access to a wide variety 
of right-wing political elements and organizations in Mexico. 
b. Conduct of Project The contract agent, LIHUFF/1, was born 
in Mexico and has had a long history of business experience in 
Latin America,· as well as, over the past fifteen years,, in Mexico. 
At the present time, he is Executive Director of U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce of Mexico City, which gives him a great deal of mobility 
in both American and Mexican business circles. Generally, it is 
from the Mexican business community that the financing and support 
for right-wing political mo~emcnts, organizations, and institutions 
eminate. Given the general trend of recent Mexican- regimes, as 
.. well as the. present one, toward more governmental regulation and 
manipulation of the economic life of the country, the Mexican 
businessmen continue to support right-wing political movements or 
ostensibly non-irofit civic, research, and other types of organiza-
,,,,•' 
i 
I l. 
I ' 
.!·•i 
,, 
·i 
!-
,· 
. I 
j 
i f 
l 
I 
-• tions used by them as front instrumentalities for expounding 
their philosophy and taking action in the politico-economic fields. 
LIHUFF/1 has natural access through his present position and past 
extensive experience in the business community here. Over·tbe 
years, as a matter of fact, hs numerous associations with these . , 
elements have earned Mm their trust and respect. In addition,cJ:Pl ! f '1.-:· 
the past four years he has funded Lie. Agustin NAVARRO Vasquez Lllfl:FF J2) L 
organization, consisting primarily of Instituto de Investiga.ciones ; -L-
Sociales y Economicos, A.C. (IISE), "Espejo" (a magazine on , .. :~:·. 
politico-economic affairs), and Movirniento Universitario de f ;~:·••. 
Renovadora Orientacion (MURO, a student organization). Also, he. f ·1 
has handled LICHANT/1 who has a history of, and numerous associa-. 
tions in, the Mexican right-wing political arena. These and many i. 
other contacts of this type will provide the basis for his reports ·1· • 
on this particular segment of the political spectrum in Mexico. t •. f 
c. Targets Right-wing political elements an·d organizations • f' 
in Mexico. This would include not only Lie. NAVARRO, IISE, "Espejo,,~ 
and MURO, but Hugo SALINAS Price, Jorge. SIEGRIST Clamont and numerous ,· 
others of political significance on the Mexican scene. In connection 
with LICHM-l"'T/l's present ' 
,'.',,,t·f 'r1~l, ;1 
..• 
