14-00000 
j 
I. 
. ....... 
-pr 
U.R. REPORTS 
A PRUS SERVI CE FROM 
MOVIMIEHTO UNIOAD REVOLUCIOHARIA (U.R.) 
SOVIET "FISHING" BASE IN HAVANA 
OFFIC.E, 
10 S.IE. 9 St. 
MAILI_NG ADDREU 
Bo• l940 
Miami, fl~•lda 
PHONE, 
37l - BOll 
UNIDAD RE.VO LUCI ONARIA (UR) has learned from its underground sour -
ccs in Cuba the following infcrmation: 
The Russians are co.nstructing doe ks, \-zarehouses, freezers, dry -­
<locks, buildings with cq~~unication equipment and other necessary i~s­
tallations for the oper.a~ton of a fishing fleet in the east coast of -
the port. of- Havana, accoraing. to the Cuban-Soviet agreement of S_eptel!l-
be r , .. 1962 • \ 
These constructions :are directed and supervised by Soviet techni­
cians with the collaboration of Cuban "slav• work". The Soviet Union 
f".Jrni shes all the nece_ssary equipment and m~ chinery, in addition to -­the above mentioned super,·ision and ·technical assistance; Cuba offers 
the labor as well as the bas.ic construction materials. 
It was stipulated that the Soviet Uni<m and Cuba would share in -equal frts this fishing terminal which original cost was $12 million •·pssos' but now it has come up to $JO millions and
0 
is expected to be -finished by the beginning of 1900. • 
However, it has.been learned that due to the large sum owed by -the Castro-Communist regime to the Soviet .Vnion, the Russians have de­cided th~t these facilities will be for thtir exclusive use once they are concluded. 
All the fish caught will be taken to this terminal, processed and exported to the ~oviet Union and turope in Hussian vessels, without -~ny profit for Cuba, nor the Cuban fishing vessels will be allowed to use snid installations. . 
, 
This area of the east coast of tre pott of Havana will be closed .:is soon as installations are finished ana only Soviet personnel will­have access to that zone. 
This absolute control of the Soviets in the same port of Havana­
h~s le1 many tothink that said installati9ns will not only serve for -
operating Soviet trawlers - which activitjes in espionage) infiltraticn 
c,.:: subversive and terrorist agents are well known - but tnat it might hide military constructions, submrine pet)s, and other installations -thnt could threaten the security of the Eem1sphere. 
UNIDAD HcVOLUCiuNARIA (UH) 
