i 
l 
l 
l 
l 
l 
I 
I 
:1 
l i 
I 
. j 
J 
f f 
' 
C6NTINUATION OF 
.... DISPATCH • S E"C RE T HMMA-34792· .I 
press group. Of nine persons w~o belonged to the group 
as of 15 January, three subsequently dropped out because 
of differences of opinion which developed at group meet­
ings. In addi t.ion~i (i.INLUCK) lenriaed that persons hie bad 
selected partly because of their leftist records (Iden­
tities 3, 4, 7 and 8) had:long aince ceased bei~g ~eftists 
and were prone to submit manuscripts with texts politically 
harmful to the image of LIA.NCHOR, Confused political 
thinking and poor writing t·esultcd in re,jection of over 
20 manuscripta during February-AtJril by lLINLUCl9 all!d the 
case officer. Rejection of manu8cript~lin turn angered 
and insulted some of the writers. 
b. Th~ personalities and c~Rracter,of some of the 
writers have presented problems to (LINL'bcJ in dirEicting 
and developing the LIANCHOR group intora productive unit. 
Idep.tities 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 bad 'l;o be goaded continually 
by !LINLUCK\to turn in manuscripts on assigned themes. 
Botho\Ident~ty-3 and Identity-7 turned out to be emotional 
extremists, suffering at times from deep melancholy and 
at other times from inexplainable rages which were re­
flected in their writings. As of this writing the Station 
feels that the only reliable members of the group are 
Identities 6 and 9, who should be kept as members of the 
group as long as LIANCHOR is run as a group cooperative 
press service. The unreliable but brilliant and versatile 
poet/writer/lexicographer Identity~5 should be continued 
as a contact of LJANCHOR for occasional emergency use 
providedU,INLUCK's replacement can obtain any cooperation 
from Identity-5.'°\ In summary the LIANCHOR group composed 
of Identities 3, 4~ 5, 7 and 8 has proved ineffective and. 
not too productive and the ineffective membeLs should be 
replaced. ( • 0 
10. Effectiveness of P/A6,INLUC~: .~ - oJ 
a. The list of articles and teatures by (INLUCK) 
under Separate Cover Attachment "B" is by no means the 
measure of the agent's writing and production capability . 
After the agent dusted off and mailed out several of his 
old article series in December 1968 the case officer 
instructe~ 1(i.INLUClg to reduce his production in ratio to 
the manuscripts of other LIANCHOR writers which were 
mailed out. The case officer was concerned that LIANCHOR 
would appeard\fo potent~l client newspapers to be primarily 
a vehicle forl!,INLUCK's lengthy political essayei in con­
trast to the statement· n the LIANCHOR prospectus that 
LIANCHOR was a press service combining articles on cultural, 
educational, ~conomic and social as well as political topics 
by many writers. During the agent's two final months of 
service he has been given authorization to write as much 
as he can on the Vietnam issue and other topics for the 
purpose of buildi~g up his name in Guatemala before he 
returns there to enter politics. ,a I 
b. While production of articles was not(bINLUCK'sj 
weak point, his sel~ction and handling of the LIANCHOR 
press service writers appears to have been weak. He has 
been too long on the fringes of the foreign exile group 
in Mexico and his contacts among leftists in Mexico are 
.no longer significant. In addition, the agent appears to 
have gone the way of many former Latin American Communists 
in that his theoretical solution to some of the political, 
economic Rod social problems of Latin America can no longer 
be termed leftist.· 
MT1 
le; r 
~:r,· ~-, 
::i 
o.l o•I 
::::/ n;'·; 
- 1.1.i· i 
a;..:; 
' o! 
:c,, 
~if 
~' 
