14-00000 
• 
.. 1. The organization or the DCI/DDCI's office is currently under study . 
2. The Audit Staff is remoyed fror.1 the DD/S area and placed under 
the Inspector General. 
3. 
5. 
6. 
1. 
8. 
9. 
IC. 
11. 
12. 
The Comp~rolle::.· i::; remo..,·e..:. from the DD/3 area, given greatly 
expan"etl resf:onsibil~Ue~, an-.1 will report directly to the DCI/ 
DDCI's office. 
The General Counsel's office is removed from under the DD/S, 
will ·resume responsibility for Congressional relations, and will 
report directly to the DCI/DDCI's office. 
The Office of Operations is disbanded. Contact ·Division to DD/P 
as nucleus for Domestic Division. Foreign Documents Division 
to be combined with OCR Library. Foreign Broadcast Information 
Division to be independent unit reporting directly to DD/I. 
Position of Assistant DD/P for Covert Action abolished. 
. , 
Assistant DD/P for Paramilitary and Air Support Operations created. 
c'entral Support Staff under DD/P created. This will draw together 
such support as personnel, logistics and budget and will also take 
over technical support from those operating units of TSD which 
remain in the DD/P, e.g., secret writing, audio operations, etc. 
The Central Support Staff will also absorb the present Operational 
Services Staff and certain other activities. 
A Special Task Force is created for such operations of a magnitude 
that transcencls the capabilities of one division. 
The International Organizations Division and Covert Action Staff 
are comb.ined, putting together our largest activities in this field. 
A Domestic Division is created. This will absorb as its nucleus 
Contact Division of CO from the DD/I, the Commercial Staff, the 
Air Proprietary Branch from DPD, ultimately the management of 
CAT from the DD/S, and those aspects of cover which involve 
contacts with the U.S. business community. 
A Deputy Director for Research is created. This organization will 
take over the Office of Scientific Intelligence from the DD/I, Special 
Projects --~·_::.Y.. DPD, all research and development from TSD, and 
other resE.arch and developmen~ activities currently located in various 
units of the Agency such as the Office of Communications, NPIC, etc. 
s0ET 
