14-00000 
Tho f;('\'erru::cnt purchasing orgnniz11Uon buys morchnr:diRo from rorr-111n cornpnnioa, 
but fnilr. to inform CUFLET of.tho rlnto on which tho cargo is to be loaded. All 
atto~pts to establish this nro to no avail, Then one day the buying agency 
' '4-:. 
Eerves last-r-unuto notice that the mcrchandice will be rGady for loading. 
CUFI..ET t.'lkes pain!' to find n vepsel in time but, moro often than not, its hasty 
efforts aro in vain. In the moantimo, tho seller abroad grovs impatient, as ha 
has long fulfilled his part or the deal and MUot cont.inue to pay warohouso coats 
because or a delay that is no fault or his. 
This happens all the time, to the extent th11t. uny foreign firms retuoo to 
deal with such an undependable cuatomor as the Cuban government, or, toroaeei114f 
tho dsmaf:ies they 11181' come to t,hem hocnuoe of such inefficiency they imposo the 
harshest eolling terms. 
The unrest and chaos that I havo deccribed io not peculiar to the merchant 
fleet, I do not know many details about this because I have been out at sea most 
of the timo since I first heard of it, but r undoratand that the Cuban Nnvy WIUJ 
also in such turmoil that practically all its officers were discharged early ;;;his 
fall. It is BAid that soma or tho dicmiceod naval orricoro wore a,signed to the 
merchant n:arine, and my man clnd I knov a tow instances, It is even tnie that . . . 
Army officers with no naval experience are being appointed to high naval· poei• 
tions, Hovover, it is most likely that many or the purged of'.Cicers will have 
been shot or imprisoned". Such is.the Cub& of today. 
Lastly, we wish to emphasize that our decision to ecek asylum in the United 
States, has been made of our own freo will, !.'o have been pressured into this decj 
·sion by no one. Our consciences no longer permit us to serve the cause of a Com 
nn.mist Cuba. Like hundreds or Cuhans before us, we who love Cuba deeply cannot 
longer endl.lre the tyranny vi th vhich ohd is afflicted. 
We appreciate with all our heart the help received from 1.INIDAD R'·'\Q.U::IN.\RIA 
aJld ve also wish to thank the gentlemen or the Press a6sembled here, for the at­
tention given us, 
Francisco Cobas. 
~ami, .30 de !>iciembre di:' 1965. 
