14-00000 
eliminated ns a part of a 
for the four-nation are~. 
plan also en l led for •·a Ir 
and Warsaw Pact countries 
system.-
general disarmament acreement 
The revised version or the 
and ground control' with NATO 
pnrticlpatlng_in the control 
5. Polish leaders have since 1~57 pressed for a formal 
agre_ement on the Rapacki plan. Shortly after the opening 
of the Geneva disarmament conference in March Hlti2, the 
.Polish delegation submitted a memorandum urging creation 
of a nuclear-fret. zone in Centra 1 Europe. The memora-~· 
basically follows the lines of the form~r proposals of the 
Ra'packi plan. The Soviet de 1 c~at 1011 t.s ct1rrcnt ly urging 
that the Geneva disarmament conference take up the question 
of nuclear-free zones in various areas of the world. 
G. Since the Rapacki plan was introduced, it has had 
strong support from Afoscow. The Soviets have even urged 
extendiHg the zone to include Oaltlc and Balkan couatrlP.s. 
Soviet leaders undoubtedly view the proposal as n moans of 
eliminating German powe1· in Central Europe--one of Moscow's 
major foreign policy objectives. 
7. The US strongly opposes the Rapacki plan, viewing 
it as a Bloc device to neutralize Germany, to deepen and 
everi perpetuate the divi:,don of Germany, and to secure 
de facto recognition of East Germany. Implementation of the 
proposal would also be mill tar lly d lsadvanta[!eous to the 
West. US military power in Europe would be diminished with­
out a concurrcut decrease of Soviet strength. It would 
weaken NATO, 
8. The West German government is also vigorously op-, 
pos'ed to the Rapacki plan and all such ''disengagement•· plans 
in .Central Europe for the same reasons. Bonu also considers 
such proposals as sinister and subtly 111timidatory to the 
West Germans, who do not choose to be dealt·with as if they 
were inert objects, and who detect in such schemes a creation 
of conditions for their eventual communlzatlon. 
9. Public endorsement of the Rapacki plan by the Mexican 
president would mark the first such specific approval by a 
government leader outside the Soviet OJoc. His endorzement 
would be widely propagandized by the Poles and the Soviets 
and' could set a prc-cndent f0r them to secure such approval 
hy ~ther nonbloc lenders, 
~~-:·-•:-',. ,., 
