14-00000 
CONFIDENTIAL i • I'. 
Page 3: Although it has been publicly surfaced that 
Mr. ·William F. Buckley had worked for CIA in the past, 
the author on this page now ties him in with Howard Hunt 
and Mexico City and further as an American contract agent. 
The best interests of the Agency are not served nor for that 
matter the interests of Mr. Buckley and Mr. Hunt are not 
served by such revelations. 
Page 4-6: The SSU believes it js totally unwise to 
have the mission and organization of the Mexico City Station 
outlined as explicitly as contained in these pages. 
Page 5-6: The above observation is further complicated 
by the author's remarks regarding operations levi~d against 
the Cuban Embassy in Mexico. 
Page 8: The SSU further challenges the information.set 
forth on this page regarding the biographic details of 
Mr. Winston Scott's assignments in Cuba, (Londoij)., Eur Division 
and Mexico City. . r~-, 
Page 15: The undersigned does not believe the content 
of the information set forth regarding the Agency's procedures 
associated with the purchasing of scotch liquor. He is implying 
things which may perhaps have been unique to that station but 
certainly has not been a worldwide practice. Mr. Phillips' 
. anecdote about the prospects of the Agency printing counterfeit 
tax stamps and the details involved in such planning, even 
though perhaps presented in jest would not be viewed as such 
in the eyes of many individuals in the United States today. 
Page 16: Because Philip Agee has revealed the secret of 
the camera operation in his book.,is it necessary for Mr. Phillips 
to repeat and in effect collaborate what a diseffected employee 
·of the Agency is purporting? From a friendly alumnus of the 
Agency, this serves as a verification of Agee's statements and 
provides a violation of sources and methods of this organization. 
Page 18-19: Pursuing the aspect of sources and methods., 
the SSU questions the author's anecdote regarding the identif­
ication and employment techniques of the material "WJ\y me". 
It would seem that in so far as any chem.ical or technical 
devices of this nature used by the Organization should not be 
surfaced in a book such as this. 
3 
CONFIDENTIAL 
