14-00000 
The attention of the Government of the USA is invited to 
the fact that in the present situation the violation of the airspace of 
the lJSSR by an American military aircraft takes on a particularly 
dangerous character since, as has been repeatedly reported, Ameri­
can. military planes make flights around the clock over many countries 
of the world carrying thermonuclear bombs. The Government of the 
USA cannot fail to be aware of what genuinely catastrophic consequences 
• for the cause of peace will ensue when an American plane with such a 
load will find itself shot down. 
The attention of the Government of the USA has already been 
previously directed to cases of viola.tion of the state boundaries of 
the Soviet Union by American military aircraft. However, as proven 
by the case cited, the authorities of the USA have not taken the necessary 
r:le;;._sures to prevent such violations. 
It is absolutely obvious that it is the duty of the governments of 
the l:SSR and the USA to do everything possible to prevent any acts 
capable of complicating the situation and the relations between the 
Soviet Union and the USA. 
The Soviet Government cannot but protest against the violations 
of So-.,iet frontiers by an American military aircraft and it expects that 
the Government of the United States will punish severely those guilty 
of the violation of the airspace of the USSR which has taken place and 
faa: it \vill take steps to prevent such violations .in the future. 
Taking into account the present situation, where a summit con­
fere:::'."!.ce is being prepared, and also the spirit and purpose of the nego­
tiations being conducted between our governments, the Soviet Government 
W0'..1ld not like to make this matter public or subject it to discussion in 
the l:N. 
The hope is expressed that this matter will be settled satisfac­
to!·ily between the governrn.ents of the USSR and the USA and that there 
\Vi.li be no need for the Soviet Government to resort to other means for 
: ts settlement. 
( I::i tiallecl by M. Menshikov) Washington, March 5, 1958 
