14-00000 
' t ·,,,,,. 
I 
I 
l 
---r 
Carlos Moore. I have ao address for bi■. Be is aa Afro-Cubaa boJ 
whoa I first l!Mtt la !le• York. Be is iD Paris aad you Dieht ba able to reacla 
him through Presence Africaine. Be n,1••adlJ was writing a book about Cuba 
Be was very much involved with Kobert Williams,with Malcola X, be is 
extremely young but very active in ID■dJ - - - . He is of Jaaaicaa 
origin. There is a Jamaican minority in eastern Cuba, ia Caaaguey and 
Oriente Province. That's bow you get names like Moore, etc. Bis father and 
brother live la Ke• York, bis ■otbefs still in Cuba. Be went back to Cuba 
after the Bay of Pigs, and went to school there. Re becaae verJ disillusioaed. 
Be left, claiming that there was racial discriaiaatioa and so forth ia Cuba. 
IJ~, ~ .......i.:. -. 
ft Be weat to Cairo. Be aauged to get out, and be weat oa a Yugoslav ship, 
I 
Be suppos~dly bas written aa article for Presence Africaiae which is 
violeatly counter-revolutioaary. Be claims there is ao revolutioa. 
Bis position, is relatively .;,,~-.,,.e. . It's not terribly justified. 
But what I tbiDk is, that here is a case of Black Natiou.lis• ia the States 
beiag transported to Cuba. What he claims is that the oaly Cubaa revolutioa 
that reuias to be aade that would be valid would be a black revolutioa. 
and that reall,y the populatioa of Cuba is overwbel■iagly black/or of Africa■ 
desceat_,and that this bas beea a plot that bas goae oa for generatiou 
evea aow •1th Fidel Castro, particularly Dorticos, be claims, the white 
leadership bas bee• able to perpetuate itself regardless of the political 
tbiag. Tbis is bis theme. Be is iaterestia1 but extreaelJ wild aad eaotioaal. 
I tbiDk it's a case where the iatoxicatioa of Harle• aever weat oft. Aayway 
be aigbt be worth talkiag to. 
'Ille Coagresa for Cultural Freedo■ people were goiag to try to pt la 
touch with bia but they werea't aay too coavinced that bis thesis was 
correct. I doa't tbiDk so. Be claim. of course that I aa coapletely bliaded 
by aJ pro-Castro sppatbies.He claiaed that Williams ,ras veTy waJaappJ for 
racial reasons ia Cuba. I thought that Willia.as was siaply uahappy, Be 
coulda't speak Spaaisb. He was uader pressures fro■ tbe America■ Comauaists 
a■d Soveit Comauaists that dida't like hia, the old Cuban COlllluaists, 
~bicb waa ON of the reasoas for bis wbole~bearted tura towards Pekiac. 
Tllat was the oaly -~Y oqt~--; .. , AIUI be waated to coae back to;,\lle States. --:~/: ... : 
:.-...... .. :, 
. -"'·•· 
.. _.:· 
1 
J 
