,011 .. 
.... ,..,, 
COJ.ITINUATION Of 
DISPATCH ,,. 
,, 
(..1-•.·.- :.:.· • 
SECJlET ::nmA - 34598 
'I 
1Jma1nent teruinatioa eas given by the fact that she was givea 
less duties :is the aontbs passed, until at the very end she 
did little nore than put in her tiiae. uitb the si,:ectre of 
unemployment loo?J1ing 0Ver the horizon, LITAltlL-7 was relucta.at 
to take any risk th.at might have comproBisea n~r s1cua,lou at 
LIRING. At sta.ke was a sizable term.inatio~ payment whicb the 
PBRUMIDlers vere obligated to pay her according to loc~l 
eaplQyment regulatioDJJ, Obviously, she vould do nothing to 
jeopardize tl.s paym,ent, which amounted to approzi.m.a.tely 
$6,000 (U.S.). A further deter.-ent to her collaboration wiUa 
the Station, even after her release by LiaI~G OD 31 Id.arch, 
was the LIRIMG arrange!llE!nt to make the tenrlnation payment iD 
three increments, the last to be made at the end of April 1968. 
In view of this latest develoi:,eent in this operation, the 
Station has terminated the weekly meetings betweesi the Stat1oa 
Case Officer and LITAJo:L-7. 
1. Introduction: During tbe period covered by this 
report, LITA)(IL-7 was met and debriefed on a weekly basis. 
Ber information was very limited and usually dealt with intental 
activities of a routine nature in LIKING. ~ poi_nted o':1t above, 
aer tsu ,·~ w .&BV.cz:-;. Lt1uJ.a1.1N.1 u.:,.a.~ .1.& um &.&..a. ..,....., 1,,uc:r -... .. •vu .. ~ 
administrative duties. Consequently, she lost access to 
virtually everything that may have been of interest to the 
Station. The Station asked her to brinit out the ·bo.:lk of 
addresses ud telephone numbers which she had compiled over 
the years, but she refused for fear that it would be missed 
c:uT1ng tbe afternoon vben she was not on auty. The Station 
then asked that she be~in to copy the contents of the book a 
fev pages each day. She agreed, but before she began thir: 
process tbe book disappeared, and all efforts to find it failed. 
tille ~ben began to coap11e a new book oi addresses and telepQQQO 
DUJDbera, which she intended to bring out, but ooe of thv LiaIBG 
officers asked for it on the day &be was tired. •ID the end, 
the sum total of LITA.lfiL-7 LIRISG information during the fl.rat 
t.breo months of 1968 was the identification of several 
photograpi:ui of LIRINu employees, the teutalive ideutiiicatiua 
of offices and rooms in LIRING (~entative because she had 
DOt been in the second floor area since 1561, thus much of 
tbe identification vas from memory), and :finally, LITAlUL-7 
confirmed telephone numbers ass1gned to sp,ecific.LIRING 
personnel a.ad furnished telephone nwabers of indJ.viduals aad 
- coapanies servicing LIKING maintenance requirements (dry 
cleaners, pbaraacy, t:,pe,rri tt<r repairmen, . etc.). LITAHIL-7' 
volunteered to provide additional information oa·LIRING to tl!e 
station prOYided it was within her capability, and after sbe 
received ber final severance ~ayaent from LIRIMG. 
2. Fia&nce: LITAMIL-7 received DO salary and ao tendaa­
-·tloa bonUB from tbe Station. 
' 3. Security: SiDCe all contact with LITAJliL-7 was 
aaintalned through LITAMIL-3, LlTAllIL-7 does aotlbave a Statloa 
telephone DUMber. She does not know tbe true n._ of an, of 
tbe Statioa Case Officers who bandied her. All meetings with 
lter were held in her home, tbus no aafebousea we~• used, and 
llbo was newer seen with Caae Officers in public.I Sbe had DO 
telephone, so no contacts were made with her bJ-pboae.' Froa. 
tbe security point of view, u,.e LITAIUL-7 operation enjoyed 
a long life, January 1961 tbroul(b Hucb 1968. TWng .intc, • 
account her fear and apprehension, plus tbe fa.ctltbat sbe 
aaintaiaed good relations witb LITUIL-3, this record is all 
tbe aore reearkable. From the intelligence point of view, it 
la unfortunate that ber production' wa,s so un1=¥. 
[ 
f.· 
53a 
,. I 
