14-00000 
• 
707. 
the section's operations, to supervise tn part_itular opera­
tional activity against Am~rican diplomatic personnel assigned 
to the U.S. f.mbassy. SOSESKO had been spec1ftcally instructed 
by GRIBANOV and American Department Chief KL\'PI~i to concentrate 
his efforts on the supervision of operations against the 
most important American recruitment target, the code clerks 
at the Embassy, with the aim of revitalizing these acti-
vities and making recruitments. (SOSC~!{O S3id there had 
been none since the early 1950
1
s.) According to the agreed­
upon division of labor; NOSENKO also assumed cese officer 
responsibility ror Joh:, .,BIDIAS. tht" El:abass~· SN'urity offi­
cer (identified by .sl"'SO"KO .1s a CI.-1 .,ffic:er. buc actually a 
CIA coo?tee). A~d1tionally, he was responsible for maintaining 
the s~ction's file on factors pertaining to the physical 
security of the Embassy ~nd for receiving aod disse~ioating 
materials fro~ the mi~~ophones conceal~d in ~arious U.S. 
E2bassy offices. The~e were functions held, SOSENKO said, 
by his predecessor DAKHVALOV and were turned over by NOSE~ 
at the end of 1961 to his s~ccessor GRYAZ~OV: Apart from 
these duties, which apparently'were routinely assumed by 
the Deputy Chief, NOSt°!'iKO supervised, during the early part 
of 1960 (as SOSENKO first said in 1965), :the work of the 
officers rcRponsillh, t.:>r operations agalost•- t 1,e Amorican 
"1'1n()d t'ol'CtH4 Atlachoe 111 Mu~coif; ln Octobe-r' l!JGG, SOSJ-:t-:KO 
reported that he was personally responsible-during this 
period for the operatio1al activity against Naval and Marine 
officers in the Naval Attache's office. 
d. Knowledgcabllity as Deputy ~nd Acttn~ Chief 
As deputy to KOVSHUK, NOSESKO said, he was aware of 
all the operations being conducted by the section during 
this two-year period; by his own state~ent, nothing was 
kept from him. There were in these twc-, years a total of 
over three ciontl.s when KOVSHUK was ill or on leave, and at 
these times NOSENKO ~as acting chief of the section. In 
the latter capacity, NOSENKO was responsible for supervising 
the administrative work and operational activity of the en­
ti.l'esection and, in particular, assumed KOVSHUK's work in 
directing operations against diplomatic pe_rsonnel assigned to 
the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. Therefore, per-::inent to his 
claias are the facts presented in the following paragraphs . 
NOSENKO could not remember any operational decisions 
that he made as acting chief, or any specific or unusual 
occurrences during these times. In answer to a question, 
NOSE.\"KO said that the only specific responsibility of KO\"SHUK's 
which be handled in the Chief's absence was reporting to the 
Chief of the First Department about all correspondence going 
out of the U.S. Embassy Section. 
NOSENKO did not meet any of KOVSHl.HC's agents during his 
absences. He could not re:nember any of KOVSHUK's agents, 
except GLAZu:1ov (whom NOSESKO said in ;.pril 1964 was his own 
agent and later said was "KOVSHUK's and FEDYA.:HN's'") and 
the Americau corrt:spondcnt .STEVENS (about whom NOSE?."KO had 
reported in connection with his responsibilities in 1953-55). 
NOSE.!'-1{0 also said that in 1960 KC\'SHUX recruited PREISFRE!,1iD, 
although earlier he had reported that he (SOSESKO) had dooe 
this. (Regardless of who .•the· recruiter might ho,·e been, 
KOVSHUK attended NOSENKO's meetings with PREISFREL~D.) 
,-:
----
' 
~~. 
! 
i 
... 
