14-00000 
\ 
.. 
, 
i 
I 
l 
i· I 
l 
• o_ j' 
I 
I 
i . ·-i 
l 
-~ -
On Tuesday, July 4th, bis publisher appointed him baby sitter for the 
publisher's teen age son and there vent any hope of getting en:, casing 
done that day. At least one time, be mentioned that he did not go 
to bed till tvo that morning and aa he had le.f't. the afternoon before, 
he had stated t.bat he had ineetings starting at I'our .. t.birty that afternoon. 
Vith all that, he nevertheless was f'ully alert and attentive every minute 
ot every training session. 
6. In hia developmental recruitment series of exercises, hia 
instructor played the role of operations officer -- and a real dUlr.b­
dumb he was. In such circumstances, PHO?.& had to do all t.be thinking, 
all. the planning, all t.be casing for meeting sites, all the analyzing, 
all the preparing and pointing for the recruitment. It was pure joy 
to watch this man, u"'ter each meeting and again before t.be next one, 
go to work on t.be problem. He knev where he was, knew where he wanted 
to go, knew bow to get there. When Mr. Rod Sweet, during the critique 
at the end of the series of exercises said: "He did a beautiful job," 
mom: bad earned that accolade all by himself'. The instructor's only 
contribution bad been in the teaching of the subject or Agent Acquisition. 
7. At th:f.s point, the instructor wishes to execute a lov bCN in 
tbe direction of Mr. Sweet: He played his agent role excellently well 
and made the exercise a meaningrul one for HiONE. The three trips to 
Bev York by Mr. Sweet must have been very taxing, particularly in view 
of h1s immediately upcoming TDY trip, but they were efforts well spent. 
8. Bo man, or course, is perfect. Each has an Achilles heel, a 
weakness, or an all-too-human trait, at the very least. 0ul" PHONE bas 
hia. He has a very quick mind. He knows it. And knowing it, be relies 
on it, counts on it. 'lhis, in turn, leads to a small failure in sell"­
discipline. For example, told to write out his plan for the recruit?:!ent 
pitch, be came in with six words (maybe not that many) scratched on a 
3 by 5 leat' torn out of his pocket notebook. He then proceeded, :f'rO?!l 
these few words, to run of'f' bis plan without a single pause for an 
uh, hm, er, etc. It was as though he was reading a definition from a 
dictionary, so smoothly did bis mind end thoughts run. He prepares 
everything ~~ mind, it appears, and does not like to write out 
that which he feels he should not have to write out. While it is great 
to have so facile a mnd, a bit of discipline, to write out in f'ull. 
so important an act e.s a recuritment pitch, eight one day save grief 
vben an error would have been spotted had the entire plan been written 
out then looked over tor possible tle.ws. 
9. 1\lis small fl.aw, the instructor feels, accounts in coruiiderable 
measure for P:iO!ZE's failure to bring in a written dead drop plan till 
the last days or the program. PHONE fel~ be could just as easll,Y report 
orel.ly. In tact, the other dead drop (he ht!.d been asked to do tvo) 
OD which be reported orally, be discussed as tbo\J8h the paper was in 
front of him and be was reading from it. Nothing was missing -- area 
SECRET 
. ' 
. . 
.. . .. ' ~ '..; 
... ,: •:.~ ... ;-I'.: 
'. ' 
