14- 00 
I 
.r 
' l 
• t 
. •.• 
------•·--r---·----..--·----------------
SECRET 
-3-
.Cubans. LOGINOV denied this, saying that the staff 
of Suc~s.os could not be put by any stretch of the 
imaginatipil into th<: category of "Co~unists." He. 
then p,oint-bla~k asked the unlersigned whether he 
be.:!,onged to the organization mentioned in the 
ar.Ucle. The uilqarsigned laughinifly answered that . 
if such trashy publications as Sucesos were believed 
by anyone ."of course he belo11~ed to that organization." 
LOGINOV laughed and made a few more noises about how 
Suces.os .obtained the undersigned's name. Tl:e latter • 
replied that his name was probably selected at 
·random from stolen pages of the E)nbassy directory 
or other such document. ·He added that if LOG I NOV 
t,ad wanted his phone number he would have been glad 
to have given it to him 1·ather than see it appear 
in Sucesos. 
e. The discussion the undcrsi~ncd had with 
LOGINOV in Guadalajara about· the >:Gn was apparently: 
not forgotten· by the Sgviet, for the latter pulled' 
out of his purse a copy of the stamp commemorating : 
sorne KGB anniversary that the .undersigned had . 
mentioned to him~· The undersigned has no idea <1f­
the. reasons for this gesture. One o:r the topics . , 
which seems to embarrass LOGINOV the most is the 
number of visas he si~ns at the Soviet Embassy. i. 
Whe11ever LOGINOV gets a little too pointed in his ;: 
provocations·, ·tlie _undo;lrsigned raises. thi.s .subject, 
wlth LO(i.HiOV invariably giving a little laugh and 
no. answer. : · 
i • 
'""!·· -·-·• 
. . f. LQ~ISOV. indicated . that he was. aware that 
the undersigned had met with Jiri SVESTKA at the· 
time of the Soviet intervention. in· CZechoslovakia. , 
aRd asked for his.opinion of SVESTKA. The undersigned' 
made ho bones about the fact that.he had a long lunch 
with the Czech. He said he had found him to b~ ~•m\lY, 
qe la izqulerda, 0 adding that unforttin)1tely SVESTKA i 
belonged to the very small minority of his cou_ntry i 
which ha·d welcomed Soviet· intervention. The under-' .. 
signed predicted that the Soviets would have con.;. 
siderable trouble with Czechoslovakia and pointed 
out that tbis serious error had tarnished the causo: 
SECRET 
. , 
.. 
I 
