14-00000 
SECRET 
5. Has agent any past connection with or has his intelllgence status--- -­
been identified to OSS, SSU,_CIG, G-2, A-2, CIC, ONI or any for-
eign intelligence, pollce or security service? Is any such con-
nect ion known outside ClA and the service involved? 
6. Any other factors, such as family problems, which might have 
bearing upon the personal security of the agent or his ability to 
live his cover. 
7. Has agent ever gh·en CIA, Miss Violet Pitts, or "2430 E Street" 
or olher polcntlally compromising reference for credit or other 
purposes? I! so, where and approximately when? Cite any other 
Instances or employm<:ni of cover for credit or other purposes 
not already cited above. Include specifically use or Ager,cy­
provldcd cover units or facllltles. 
~- After the currently proposed tour, do present plans for this agent 
cont-cmplatc (a) continuation In a nonofficial cover status; (b) 
transfer to an offic1al cover status; (c) assignment to headquar­
ter.s or (d) krmlnation? It must be recognized that protection 
of c<:rtaln nonofficial cover facilities precludes early assignment 
to a more compromising ct-ver status after completion of the non­
official cm·er tour. 
9. H this request is ,for interim cover, what are foreseeable plans 
ror eventual, more· p~rmanent cover? 
10. Identity, relationship, degtee of knowledgeabillty, and address or 
person designated to Chi!!!, Benefits llild Counseling Branch, 
Ofllce or Pr:rsonnel ~or contact In the event or an emergency situ­
ation involving ag~nt, as prescribed by HR 20-46. 
11 Government or Ag<?ncy-afflllated beneficial plans in which agent 
part1c1pates IWAEPA, GEHA, Federal Employees Group Llfe In­
surance, Associatl0n Benefit Plan, etc.) and other personal ln• 
suranre held, togetlwr with Identity and location of beneficiaries 
and whether or nut each beneficiary ls witting of agent's CIA 
affiliation. , • _,· 
12. A~cnl's Selective St·r.ice, military or naval reserve statl\S, lnclud­
ini; current unit attachment. 
13. Clcar:mce status o: agent, spouse, and other adult dependents 
\I.ho will accompany agent oversf,'as. Are spouse and a~ult de­
pendents knowledi;table of agent's CIA connection? Hts Oovem­
mmt connection? Has agent been polygraphed? 
). OPERATIO:SAL IXFORi\lATIO:S 
1. Type of Operation 
The gcneml type of operation involved, Le., CA, FI, COMMO, 
Lcri::L5tics, etc., and the expected duration of assignment. The 
sensitivity of the op< ~atlon should be lndlcated-e.g., observation, 
sy0tting and reporting only; case officer for established agents; 
SECRET 
.. ) 
SECRET 
recruitment of new agents; penetration operation-and a stat~­
ment should be included as to the Identities or any lndi,·iduals 
and organizations, ln the U.S. or abroad (other than CIA ~tall 
personnel, cover facility officials. and I.hose Hstcd· umlcr 2 ! C) 
(4) above), who arc or will be made witting or agmt's CIA or 
U.S. Government affiliation whll<: he ls under this nonomcial cover. 
2. Location 
The city in which the agent ls to reside should be llpecU1rnily 
stated and alternates In order of preference should be gl·,c:1 
3. Indicate localities out.side of a.gent's pcrmanent- lcx:at!on w:1ich 
agent should be free to visit and state the frequency and cluratirm 
of such visits. Also it ls important to know whether or not tht 
tlme and Intervals of such meetings wlll be detcrmlntd by the 
agent or dictall.:d by infiucncC's or circum:.t.ances beyond hL\ con­
trol. 
4. Special groups agent should be a~le to contact 
It ls sometimes possibl•~ to relate a cover to a particular t:roup 
in the opcratior.al area, I.e .. social, cultural, polltical, commNclal. 
If this is considered an important factor In the cover, I.his aspect 
of the requirement should be explained in detail. 
5. Approximate annual income which agent must be able tn at• 
tribute to the cover organization. Sound cover, of course, re­
quires overt (cover) explanation for a reasonable appro:umnt,on 
of the sum actually to be available to the agent through Ai;ency 
salary and allowances. However. a professional lnklil~cncc 
agent's qualifications frequently cannot plausibly command an 
ostensible Income from commercial or other lay ~uurrcq nrarly 
approa::hini; his Agency incom,:. Firm understanding :;huuld ~ 
had relative to the ai;ent's li,in~ within his cover Income. Hrscr• 
vation or a portion of his Agency rcmu:1natlon may be rc-qulr'.'d. 
A less desirable alternative ls the provision or addlt1onal co\'er 
for income. 
6. Estimate of the minimum number of hours per week which the 
agent must devote to operational duties. 
7. Communication:> ~~'.:lnn.-:ls desired 
In rare Instances it may be possible to set up SW means or com­
munication through the cover facility. If this L, dcsirrd. the 
justification and frequency of such commur.lcatlon !nciHlles 
should be indicated. 
8. Cover Suggestions 
Any specific cover suggestion or preferences expressed elthcr 
by the agent or the operating divL51on emphasizing the a.gcnt·s 
special suitability to the cover suggested and. 'or the spl'l.'lal l\d· 
vant.ages of U1e cover vis-a-vis the target. 
SECRET 
-
I 
\ 
I 
