14-00000 
.I 
683. 
3. Entry into the Y.CB 
a. Eligibility 
The previous section disc~sscd ~os~,KO's e!igi~ility for 
admission to the r.aval GRU and conclu!<?a with the re:r,ark that, 
on the basis of what tiOSE!iKO has tc~d CIA about his earlier 
life, he could not have been ac=epted for service in Naval 
Intelligencl':. A:::corr.ing to infor!"..Hio:, available to CIA fro:n 
several knowledgeable sources, the i-GR has r.~re stringent entry 
requirements than any other Soviet 6rganization, The candidat~•s 
family background, personal condu=t- and Party or Komsomol rec­
ord must be irr.pecci'lblc. t,OSE~:Ko ...-culd have , ... ~.erican Intelli­
gence beli(;VC that in his case the KGS--speci fically the offi-
cers respon~ible for sigfii:ig their nalllCs to t~e a?proval--accepted 
a person whose rccorJ sho.,:ed (a3 notec..i on pages 679-680 above) 
desertion frc:i: tr.c armed forces, self-in~licte·c·wound in wartime, 
drur,"kenncss, venereal Jisease, pr~vious .. ,arri.age tc.• tfie daugnter 
oT a stute cnr.1:..nal, aoao-rca~~r.:rc. i1.:c6rd"1.n"cluu1:13. f_a_il~;-e_-C,:C­
a coat::;e 1:i Ma_,c-ism-Leninism-;- and a prior. rcjec.tioll.J>uhe KGB 
itsell. H.e cnly thanqEr-s1nee· the ca::-ner·reJecEion had bee::, 
a~ing to NOSENKO, two years of ~ndistinguished military ser-
vice in t.he Ka val GRU. - • ----------
Moreover, during this naval duty :lOSENY.O saia r.e had con­
tracted tuberculosis, for which he ~as still under t=eatment 
at the tir..e he entered the State Se.::'.lrity Service. NOSENKO has 
indicated ~n separate occasions ttat his illness was a matter 
of record with the Gnu, antl that the reason he did not have to 
take a physical examination for entry into the KGB WdS the avail­
ability of GRU records. According to CERYrEIN, however, KGB 
regulations at that time would ha·,e precluded adrnission to KGB 
ranks if there was a recent history of tuberculosis even though 
already arrested. 
b. Date of Entry 
NOSENKO has given a variety of dates for his entry on duty 
with the KGB and has provided several reasons for his changes of 
story (Pages at-89). During his first :r.eeting with CIA, when 
NOSEUKO gave a brief personal an~ pro:e3sional autobiography, he 
said that he had joined tr.e KGB i~ February or March 1953. In 
1964, ho·.teve.:-, first \o.'hile st.ill attached to the Soviet Disarma­
ment Delegation and later when reviewing and signing a bio-
graphic history prepared by CIA on the ~asis of his own account, 
NOSENKO set this date back a :,ear, to early 1952. During the 
interrogations of April 1964, after naming sc·,eral other dates, 
NOSENKO returned to the original one, .!4.arch 1953, and has remained 
vith this version since that time. SOSESKO has given two aif­
ferent reasons for this change of dates (which, he said in Octo-
ber 1966, was conscious deception). In the April 1964 interrogations, 
he explained that he had failed his examination in Me.rxism-Leninism 
at the Institute of International Affairs, which forced hira to 
take all hi~ exar.is over again and cclayed his career: This was 
•unpleasant,• NOSENKO said, and he was attempting to conceal it 
from CIA. In the October 1956 interrogations, NOSENKO gave a new 
and different reason. He described h~~ he had been rejected for 
employment by 5tate Security while at the Institute and was trying 
to cover up for this because he thought CIA would not believe 
that he had first been reject~d and then, later, accepted by the KGB. 
NOSEUKO' s change of story tock place in 1964 while still in the 
relatively relaxed circumstances of an operational meeting in 
Geneva; he came back to his original account only during the 
April 1964 interrogations. NOSENKO's explanations of why he re­
vised the story have been inconsistent and have forced him into 
I •• 
t 
f 
t 
l 
! 
I 
