14-00000 
Top Secret 
(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT -January 1962-Januar:y 1964) 
Comment: {Continued) 
tourists during this period must be examined 
in light~of the foregoing facts. Since NOSENKO 
claims to have held key KGB positions from 
which vantage he asserts he was particularly 
wel•l informed abc~mt KGB operations against 
American tourists, it is appropriate to hold 
him closely accountable for his statements.-
NOSENKO's claimed assignment to the Seventh Department.~ 
first as Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section 
and then as a Deputy and then First Deputy Chief of the 
entire Department, extended from January 1962 until his de­
fection in Geneva in January 1964. By the time NOSENKO re­
turned to the Seventh Department for this assignment, the 
KGB reorganization of 1959 had been completed, and according 
to NOSENKO, the Department was divested of all of its former 
functions unrelated to tourists. A newly-created Service 
(sluzhba), NOSENKO explained, asswned responsibility for 
foreign religious figures, emigres visiting the Soviet Union, 
and persons
0
travelling to the USSR to visit relatives. The 
Seventh Departme;nt' s form_er responsibilities for operations 
against foreign seamen, commercial delegations, and so forth 
were similarly transferred elsewhere. 
In addition to performing supervisory and administrative 
duties, NOSENKO asserted that in this period he personally 
was involved with KGB operations launched against six Ameri­
can tourists and participated in investigations of Lee Harvey 
OSWALD and of a disaffected-KGB colleague from the American 
Embassy Section, AeNe CHEREPANOV. In this period, also, he 
travelled on two occasions to. '.Geneva on miss-ions unrelated to 
his Seventh Department. duties~ 
Because of the senior position NOSENKO said he occupied 
during his period of service in the Seventh Department, NOSENKO 
claimed full awareness of all significant KGB operations 
against American tourists. 
OQU15J5 264 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
