I i 
i 
I 
r i 
r I 
I 
11 ·i) 
1: 
i: 
11 
Ii 
1: 
H 
l! 
!! ·, 
n p 
i 
~ . 
d Ji ,1 
·H 
·~ 
.{ 
••.. f • 
CU\!J0111'1CATION ·,. 
SECRET UFGA-4322 
l'.ncH.cotocl thnt tho rctiromont·wu□ Gchodulod to to.Im placeut the 
ond of Soptombar 1962. At tho end of tha luncheon sc□oiou nr­
ro.n()ononto ·woro raado for JiENTONS to talto f,1aj . \fat linfjton on n -
tom· of Opa Loclm. Ba sod on tlliG tou1· ncldi tiona 1 discuoaions 
,;:-1ro to I;e hold ,·Ii th Moj. \'la tling,ton particula1·ly in rec;nrd to 
the dovelopraont of procodmies fol.' referral of aaents to ACS! 
f:a•om the- 'Dpa Loe ka flow. 
4. OPA LOCIU\.. Maj. Watlington and JENTONS subsequently 
wont out to the intorro{Ja tion center n t Opa Loci.ta. Here they 
had an interview with C61. Kail, 'the tenor of which was, on the 
l)!lrt of I,laj. Watlington, to assure himself that the ACS! repre:_ 
Gentative, Frnncasi, was having adequate access to operational 
leads. Col. !fail said that operational loads .. ere shared ac-
.. cording to theil· abilities between tho IWBARK representative and 
tho., ACS! man. However, there were occasional difficulties in 
assuring that the men best qualified received the body in question. 
In addition, he said KUBAlli{ occasionally pulled a man out of the 
Center without his completing the full treatment which precluded 
the ACSI representative's getting his hands on someone who might 
ba well 1ualified for their operations. Maj. Watlin,gton believed 
that assurance that tlw ACS! representative got a f~ir deal 
@i~ht be achieved through a more complete briefing of Col. 
Trudencio Ulibarri, who is in charge of the preliminary screening 
Go tl1a t he would more fully understand ,,hat was needed. JENTONS 
said that this would be a very good idea, but that it would be 
bettor if it were a dual briefing with a ICUBARK representative 
being present as r,ell. !,Iaj. Watlin(jton said that he •.:,ould aGk 
his headqunt·ters for permission to have such a briefing given. 
Col. l{ail e,,pressed his opinion that the nssic;nment of JENTONS 
to formal liaison with the ACS! ropresonta tives ,·,ould do r,mch to 
elir,iinate present difficulties and all present echoed this pious 
thou(Iht. 
5. AGREEf.lENT. When JENTONS turned !.1aj. Watlington over to 
Lt. Col. ◊-iuses after the meeting at Opa Lock.a, the two ACSI 
iteprescntatives said fhat they believed that, for the time being, 
it gould be better td~coatinue the system as at present, pending 
JEHTONS' permanent o:·rrivul at the beainninr; of July 1962. Ji.a. Lt. 
Col. Cauoeo is obviously skeptical about the ~utcome, this was 
u~reed to usu stopgap measure. 
END OF DISPATCH 
·: i " 
·-
//- -:J-~/~ 
~~;_. 
:,, 
