14-00000 
2. CHA.'JGES 
A. O~erational Since the institution of the changes described 
in the previous renewal request, it has not been found neces­
sary or desirable to make further maJor chan 6es. T~e following 
minor changes in operational technique have bcon made in an 
effort to obtain continued improvement in the finished product: 
1. LIImPTY-9's proven effectiveness as an ·observer (see 
paragraph 3 A (3) below) h3S enabled us to institute a 
syEttem ·of special,.coverage on specific F,JST&\L personnel 
. of interest, or special co\erage of specific time pe~iods. 
of interest. The purpose :Is to permit the Station to gain 
greater insights into.the activities and personal ass0~iations 
of certnin individunls, or in overall activities during a 
_cf'.!rtain time period. No cto.nge in LIEMPTY-9 's overall 
working hours has been madE; rather, flexibility has been 
introduced. 
2. Flexibility has also b~eu introduced into the handling 
of LIENTRAP, which is now \!forking more closoly with the 
LIEMBR.\Cr; te:un in order to· take greater advantage of targets 
of opportunity. To this ond, LIEMBRACE-1 has been placed 
in direct contact with LIE~'TRAP, relieving Raymond H. GERh'NDE 
of th.ts responsibility and permitting GERENDE to devote time 
to MHRAVEL activity (see sub-paragraph (3) below). 
3. Jr. September and October 1967 GERENJ>E was employed by 
the Mexican MRRATIL committee. This position gavo Him direct 
access to FJST&\L and other delegations of int~rest, and 
"supplemented the Station's !!HRAVEL progra11i. It is expected 
that GEREND~ will obtain AIBIUVEL employment.a~ain in 1968. 
D. Financial - LIE.\!PTY-4 and .11 were granted salary increases 
effective l July 1967. Memora~da of·oral Commitment were for­
warded to Headquarters in HMMA-32584 and HMMA-32585, 20 July 
1967. There was no change in the salaries of the remaining 
LIEMPTY agents. 
C. Personnel.- None. 
3. EFFECTIVF.NESS 
Throughout the period under review, each operational component 
of P.roject LIEMPTY contributed actively and concretely to the 
• fulfillment of tbe operational tasks levied on ·station Mexico 
City. High-lights of the accomplishments and the.achievements 
of each component are cited below: 
