14-00000· 
II: 
··'•··Ill 
~~ • • 
~., 
.. : -~, 
.. ,·. ;\:··.:lij\ 
•• :.:·': 
.... ·. . 
... · .. ·,··1 •. :···· · .• 
.. ,. <:·.·· . 
Top Secret 
(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964) 
of his social status or his personal access to important 
information, is of interest, because of his ability to 
travel to regions of the USSR which are of interest to 
American Intelligence. 
"American Intelligence tourist agents suspect as KGB 
agents Soviet citizens wi10 too openly express anti­
government sentiments, who volunteer information about 
friends or relatives who work in secret establishments, 
who accept an invitation for a clandestine meeting but 
display an awareness of security principles, wao quickly 
request aid or assistance in defecting, or who have a· 
good knowledge of foreign languages." 
.Citing the increase iri foreign tourists in the Soviet 
Union from 35,000 in 1959 to over 50,000 in 1960, the docu­
ment instructs a KGB First Chief Directorate Legal Residen-· 
cy abroad 
"to-utilize all.its resources to expose among American 
tourists persons suspected of belonging to the enemy in­
telligence or counterintelligence organs." 
Promising its· assistance, KGB Headquarters instructs the 
·Legal Residency 
l'to inform KGB. Headquarters of foreigners temporarfly · • 
visiting the USSR who are of operational interest in the. 
work against the main enemy [the U.S.]. With this aim, 
the Legal Residency should intensify its work against local 
services which are using tourism to· conduct intelligen·ce 
work in the. USSR; determine ti1e role played by anti-
Soviet emigre organizations with respect to tourism; .ex­
ploit tourist firms which organize tours in the USSR, 
• with the· aim of obtaining 'information regarding· the firms 
being exploited by· hostile· intelligence• services; and •• 
telegraph-timely and necessary information to KGB Head-
quarters regarding tourists believed to be of operational 
interest, including the individual's surname, name; pat­
ronymic, date of birth, profe~sion, date to arrive in the 
USSR, means of travel, itinerary, description of group 
with whom tourist travelling, and any other pertinent 
information available to the Legal Residency about the 
0001601 
329 
TS No. 197124 
Top Secret Copy 10 
