14-00000 
\ SECr. 
. 4, It;deemed neces~ary by trA, the Employee may be re-
1mburaed or ad.,·anced funds for operational expenses. Such amount.• 
must be advanced or re11111'ursement made In accordance wlt.-h CIA rer­
ulatlons, which re·,t,ulre a r,u-1J·account.1ng of the amount.a expe-nded 
bi the -Eillploye.e·.,\ Thereror-e, the Employee will be required t.o ac­
count fully (or_ an·.:,. such funds advanced or ·reimbursed ln accord­
·an~e wlth ClA i~jijlatlona. 
ARTICLE I II. verseas A 11 owancea and Trans o"rtat I on Ex en sea. 
When specifically authorized by the 6, the expenses o trave 
and transportat1Qn or the Employee, ,.h.ls Immediate family, house­
hold goods aud effect.a, fncludlng personally owned automobile and 
otb~~ allowances, wlllbe pald the Employee in accordance with the 
Foreign Service Act of 19'46 and regulations lssu.ed thereunder by 
ihe Department or State. When authorized by the Aff$.O, the Employee 
shall be pald a qul\rters allowance, coat of 11•-lng allowance, or 
special foreign living allowance in accordance with t.he Foreign 
·Service Act.otl946 and regulations issued thereunder. The amount. 
or quarters ·and:-·cost or· l1 vlng allowances and the special forelfn 
living allowance ls set forth in Bureau of the Budget Circular 
.A-8, which 1s amended periodically "to r.eflect adjustments in price 
indexes. Therefore, such allowances will be aubJect. to ~hange, 
and the amounts paid will vary accordinr to Budget Circular A-8. 
ARTICLE IV~ Annual and Sick Leave. The Employee shall be 
p·e:rmltted annual lea.ve, sick leave, and leave nr absence in ac­
cordance with Title IX, Part Dor the Foreign Service Act or 1946. 
Und.er such A(:t, the Employee may be ,ranted not to exceed sixty 
calendar days annual leave or absence with pay in each year. An­
nual leave which t.he Employ~e may recjlv~ and which ls not Uded 
in any one year shall be ~c~~mulated for ~ucceedlng years until 
it. tit.ala 180 days, $1~k-leave wlth pay may be granted to the 
Employee at the rate ot flfteen calendar days each calendar year 
and may be accumulated for eucceedinB years until it tot.ala 120 
days. 
1. If the Employee la transferred from another Govern­
ment. Agency to this position, any annual·or sick leave standing 
t.o hie credit in such Agency, may be transferred, lf appropriate, 
in accordance with E. O. 9837, 27 March 1947, issued pursuant to 
Section 9~5 of the P'oreign Service Act of 1946, 
ARTICLE V, Return to the United States, The Employee shall 
be ordered tot.he United States on leave of absence or permanent 
change or station upon completion of two years continuous service 
abroad or AB ao~n aa possible there~fter. 
