-- !_ !. -- - -- - -
-"'------ --. ---=- -----;c-.-. • - -,....;:: ,-
- - - -~-.:: 
continue to._pr~vide in this area ls vital and basic co the mounting of any 
operations_·-agalnst the Yugosla,v, target. 
• • ... ~ 
LJFEATiSoviet/Double.i\~entf LIFEAT support has provided needed sup­
porting information ln backlog Stat lon double agent opcrat lons. In thls a reel 
the success of ~rie operation ls obviously dependent upon the veracity of the 
a~nt. tI~-EA T provides informat-ion which enables the interested case , 
offtc¢r to determine the veracity·ofdte agent involved. LIFEAT _also prov_li:les 
a needed check upon the activltles of the double agent. 
LIFEA T /Spanl~h R~publlcan: LlFEA T coverage c;f Spanls:1 Republican exlles 
ln Mexico City have enabled the Station to monitor· the actlvltles of the various 
groupings of the exlles, lncludlng the projected attempt on the life of the 
senior ODAClD official ln Mexico. LlFEAT has covered personalities of exlle . 
!.actions both lnvolvec. in planning thls attempt and those opposed to it .. Coverage 
of targets in this area also enables che Station to keep abreast of the plans and 
activities ofd1e 'larlous groups whlcll make up the Spanls~ Republican exile 
community In Mexico City. ' 
LIFEAT/Cl-CE Coverage: LIFEAT leads In this area are exploited in the;re­
portlng of travel of important Communists, particularly to Cuba and Iron ;:"'. 
Curra in countries, and the travel of U.S. citizens, especially Communists and 
Leftists, to Cuba. Through cove~age of the ,\merican Communist Group ln 
Mexico (ACGM) LIFEAT has provlded-ODENVY wlth an increasing amount of 
information on the leftist activities of relatives and friends of the ACGM who 
reside In the U.S. One of the noteable items ln this regard is providlng data 
on the overt and covert efforts of the blackllsted "Hollywood Ten" to regain thelr 
former st~.tus in cti.e U.S. fllrn lndustry. 
Finally, ancl certainly not of least lmportance, Station secu.rity has beenenhanced 
through LlFEAT perlodlc coverage cf former Stat ion assets, like LIVESTOCK- I 
and LIVESTOCK-2, who could be a danger to rarrlcular Ststlon operatlo:is or 
personnel. Monitoring of certain terminated agents is considered especially 
valuable where these agents were involved in the more sensitive operafr:ms. 
H. Conclusion 
It is the opinion of the Mexico City Station that the support provided other Station 
operations, the CI/CE lnformatlon and leads, and the ability of the unilateral 
LI.PEAT operation to cover sensitive targets without revealing Station interest 
