14-00000 
MEMORANDUM FOR: 
THRCUOH 
SUBJF.CT 
REFERENCE 
·-- --· --- - - .,. __ -- -------·--- -- ---- --- -- - ·-•-""!: . ·-
SECRET 
tWh•n nllod lnl 
26 Kay 196,7 
Chlef of Stot1ou. Moalco Clt7 
Notlflcatlon ol Designation as a Participant In the Organization 
Retirement and Disability System 
Book Dispatch 5098 dated 12 August 1085 
1. You have been found to be qualified as a pnrtlclpnnt In the Organization Rt•tlrement 
and Dlsablllty System and have been so d~slgnntf'd efTecth·e 7 May 1967 
2. Although such designation under present statutes L'I viewed farnrably by most persons, 
the regulation governing this retirement .system gives the Individual the right t.J appeal such 
a determination If he deems the- designation adverse to his best Interests. In order that this 
technical requirement may be satisfied, you arc hereby notified ot your right to appeal. An 
appeal with reasons therefore must be received In Headquarters within 00 days of the date ol 
this memorandum or acceptance of designation wlll be assumed. Any questl011s that you may 
have In connection with your designation that cannot be answered by referring to referenced 
Book Dispatch sho1:1ld be forwarded to Headquarters. 
3. We believe that the benefits of .the Organizallon Retlremmt System are superior to the 
benefits o! the Civil Service Retirement System. Howev.er, there are a few situations In which 
an employee at the time of retfrement may have so r1any yrars o! srrvlce (almost 37) that he 
v;ould receive. a hlghi-r annuity under the Civil Service System. Because ot this. the policy 
-· ·decision has been made that a participant In the Organlzatlun System who would rccetve a 
higher annul'ty under the Civil Service System may, not later thun one year prior to his retire­
ment, apply to be removed from our system and transfrrred to the Civil Service System. Thus, 
you should not anticipate this contlngrncy as a factor In deciding whether you rrgurd your 
designation as a participant adverse to your best Interests. 
SECRET 
/Jc/~/~ 
R!CHARD B. EGAN 
1 ..................... 
--­\--'!'~.,..!_ 
