14-00000 
,. 
z. president and that bis aan, I..8Jr'ro lfora, would be one ot 
the vice-presidents. (A cable on this subject waa sent 
to Headquarters from Paris.) 
g. AllLASH-1 was requested to check with Flzzolo 
regard1ng the precautiollB being taken to prevent sabotage 
ot the loc5iu,tives being sbipped from Fran~e to Cuba; 
specifically. bow carefully do they check the placement 
ot the seals, are they special seals or regular load 
seals, are there going to be any additional checks once 
the locomotives reach Cuba, will tbey drain the oil and 
lubricants from the factory to the port, and do they run 
the locomotives under their own power or are they towed. 
Am.ASH-I agreed to attempt to develop answers to the above 
requirements and pass the information to his contact in 
the Paris Station. AUI,ASB-1 also agreed to attempt to find 
out and pass to the Parle Station through UNSNAFU-9 the 
names of the CUban techs training at La Rochelle. 
b. In a general discussion regarding the persons vitb 
vhom AHLASB-1 had been in contact either personally or 
through letters, AHi.ASH-I mentioned Alfredo Portela. 
AIILASB-1 stated be had received a letter from Portela and 
had in turn written to Portela. He considers Portela a 
friend which was the only reason for writing to him. 
1. AHLASB-1 was debriefed on CUban Intelligence 
Service personnel. A cable on this subject was sent from 
Paris to Headquarters. 
j. A cable wae sent from Paris to Headquarters 
aac19at1ng WAVE send a &/1' letter to AKTRUNK-10 stating: 
"Bate tranquilo. Carlos regreaa pronto.~ 
k. AIILASB-1 was uked for infol'lllation on tbe tol­
lOlriag peJ'SODS: 
(1) Samuel Gonzalez Rodriguez-Planes. AXLASB-1 
reports be la a member of the Aaeijeiras group and 
is a good and brave 1118D. 
(2) Antonio Lusson y Batlle, Chief of Operations 
of the General Staff ot tbe Occidental Army. 
AIILASB-1 reports Lfasaon 111 an ind1tpendent and rare 
type individual wbo keeps to himself and doesn't 
involve blmself in political matter■. AKLASB-1 has 
beard nothing bad about uaason. 
I 
. .. 
tJ -1· .... .. . 
