14-00000 
. ' 
Pll>r'O 5ED STA ffl1 £?ff 
,-
tne Na t1ona..\ CoDlld t.t.ee tor A F'roo F.urope 1 s an organ:h.at.ion ot 
privAto Alllerlun c1 t.1.Zl'!nl:l llhoso JJUZ,lOno 1s t.o encourago the sprelld 
ot t:niodom behind t.ho Iron curtain in F.uropo. It. ls II me:iberahip 
corporation, chartered und.ir tho lavu ot tho St.ate ot Nov fork. 
In spreading tho doct.rino of troedoin and comb41t.ting Soviot 
total! t&rlaniam, tho O>mmi t.teo operates radio etaUons -vhloh pioNC 
tho Iron 0.irtainJ in closiJ cooperaUon vi.th the French autnoriUea 
and the Unlvor:xtt.y 9t Strasbourg, it operates a.n educaUonal oontnt 
at. Strasbourg tor young ioon and "NOl!len lll!lo have eocaped tro:a bollind 
the Iron CUrt&inJ 1 t attempt.a by othor 111eMs than radio to e&rr7 
mescar,es or hope and of tho pooc..lhlllty or nentu.al l1b41rat1on to 
tho nations If.deb are now enslavodJ 1t. conducts etudiea ot tho lava, 
cuat.011111 and cultures ot tbeso nations au they ex1etod prior tQ 
Soviot oocupAUonJ and·it, doawaonts the changes vhl.oh have beon 
1.arpoaed b;r the Soviet so that it tho time cahould come 1dlen the 
~plo rise against. their conquerors, they ma;y mon easil7 eat.ab­
-liah cont.imd t.7 111 th thoir past.. 
In all ot thia wonc the Oolllliit.teo drawa in!ol'lllat.ion and &JUPport. 
tram maDJ" 110uroea - from thoso vllo have eeoapod and wno 11Ust ra11&1n 
anonymous tor tear of roprieale on their !81111.llee at home, tron thoao 
in thia country- Vho v13h to work volllnt.arily ror the cauae of freedom 
abroad, trom the America:i people at. large, and trom goYernDent Di:GD• 
d.es llhic:h, in the American t.raditJ.on, give all posdblo aid to 
private d.tisans engaged in a worthwhile publio cause. 
Fund raising tor the 0:lmw.t.t.ee h done by a eubllii::liar,y, the 
Crusade tor Freccm vr.ich, in the courso ot raising 1110noy, aloo 
helps to keep before the American people and poople throughout the 
world the need tor spreadinP, tho idea ot troedoll. for exmit;>le, the 
Freedom Bell, vllich now ri.n,ts :reeularly over the city or Berlin, vaa 
t.be gltt ot sixteen million Acericane who contributed t.o the Crusade 
tor Freedol:i. All in all, aigruaturea and voluntary donationa Iron 
more tban twenty-five million AmeriCCUla have CCMIIS to the Crusade tor 
Freedom to date. Oeneroua contributions have al.co been made ·to t.he 
Commit.tee by private foundat.ions1 and at the request. ot Oonrrnont 
agencies, ce~n apeoit1c research and other project.a have been 
undcruktm L'Jd carried on vi th t.be aed.s~oe ol twida provided b7 
the departln8nta or a,enoiea ooncerned. 
l Board of Dinctora consict.ing ot prolli.Mnt Anerican a1 t.1.Mna 
tl'OII all walks ol lite pua upon t.ba pollc:iaa and oaperviee Uao 
I 
