14-00000 
2 
4. It should not be forgotten that a person tried both to 
rent e.J)d buy Li.mesa properties earlier in the year after ve 
OVlled them. So far as ve know, a check on this person was not_ 
productive ot auspicious data, but the question arioea as to how 
th_oroueb the_ inveatig11tion vas. Poaaibly the name the man gave 
vlien making inquiries vu false, meaning that in effect the ~ght 
person has never been investigated at all. Knoving that the 
targets have in the past shovn some interest in the LI.mesa build­
ings, it 1-s not beyond the realJD ot reason that this man was sent 
by them. The story he gave tor vishing to rent the house--becauae 
1 t vas hMdy and close to o. certain school--is identical vi th the 
story used by the Station to cover rental of LI.calla al.meat next 
door, 
5, Even granting that the true ownership of U..nesa has not 
been discovered by the targets, they have various recourses through which 
to establ1Bh the identity Md activity of the occupants thereof. '.the 
tolloving possibilities suggest them~elves: 
a. Enter into litig11tion vith Li.mesa owner over e."'(act 
boundaries or other pretext, demanding property be 
sur,eyed. On court order, IJ.mesa could be ine-r:>ected 
thoroughly. • 
b, Undermine target aide of Limeaa valls, leading to 
possible condemnation ot property by local government 
or necessity various repairs, etc. 
c. Sabotage of electricity (causing fire) or water or 
sewage, necessitating entry into Limesa of outside per­
sons, who could be 1nt'iltered by target agents. 
d, Ramming by vehicle, vith :similar results, police, 
firemen, etc. • 
e. Complaint to medic~i authorities on tilth, ret'Use! etc., 
leading to i!lapection by health 11uthorities. 
f. Various ::>ther approo.ches m.ight be discussed, 
6. One general recOOL-nendatlon can be made: sensitive material 
should be used and kept in a. crypt, and a good one, rather than in 
the relatively insecure special room nov planned as the operationa1 
room. 
7, Beyond this, every effort should be mnde to see to it that 
the operators have good cover. The idea of clotl:ing thC!!I in local 
clothing is excellent and shovs rip)lt thinldns in that dir.:<!tion. 
.. .-r,. 
r 
