14-M000, 
!.,·.· 
·,s··· 
.,.,., 
(e) lnfor:nation from other Sources 
lnfor::iation available to CIA ind.icates that the Attac?les of· 
the three u.s. military ser1ices represented in. Moscow sharec 
a single cryptogra?hic center as of 1960 and 1961 and that, 
except for overlapping assign::1ents during periods of turnover, 
there was normally only one military cqde·clerk assigned to the 
Embassy at any partic·.1lar time. This military coce cleric was 
responsible for encipheri~g and deciphering the traffic of all 
three military services. In practice, at least one other m-e~-
t.er of the Attache staff in Moscow has held a c.ryptographic 
clearance and has been trained and has perforraea the fu~ction 
of back-up for the military code clerk during periods of the 
latter's absence from the Moscow Emb~ssy or inability to per-
form his f~nctions for other reasons. 
STORSBERG was the only military code clerk assigned to the 
Moscow Embassy from February 1960, when his predecessor, Everett 
HOBSON, was reassigned, until Septe;nber 1961, when his successor, 
Mathew ZUJCS, arrived. STORSBERG himself arrived in Moscow.in 
January 1960 and departed in Nove!llber 1961. 
During the period of STORSBERG's tour in Moscow, back-up 
cryptographic duties were performed by the Military Cormr.unica­
tions Officer, CW0-2 HURLEY~ HURLEY performed these duties on 
a number of occasions, including the night of the approach to 
STORSBERG, and he could be loosely termed a code ·clerk.* J..ddi­
tionall}', he performed repair work 011 t!"le cryptographic machines 
and directed certain other sensitive activities at the E:!'.bassy. 
HURLEY'S tour in Moscow began shortly befcrc STORSBERG's, in 
December 1959, and he served there until June or July 1962. 
The only other person performing official functions in the 
military code roo~ during the 1960-1961 period was James KEYSERS, 
who arrived in Moscow on 22 December 1960 and was assigned to 
the office of the Air Force Medical Officer. As a concurrent 
,. secondary assignment, KEYSERS worked as a clerk-typist in th'! 
office of the Air Attache. From February until mid-April 1961, 
as a collateral duty, KEYSERS worked in the joint military code 
room where he was in training to serve as back-up cryptographer. 
He was relieved of this duty in April 1961 for reasons of low 
• Although NOSENKO has distinguished between STOPSBERG's func­
tion as "military code clerk• and HURLEY'S duties as •mili­
tary code machine mechanic,• he said on one occasion that 
he considered both to be within the general category of 
•military code clerks.• NOSENKO reported that there was no 
KGB operation against HURLEY. 
:_-.,.. 
