I] 
I] 
ll 
••• -., 
I , 
I 
ll 
Top Secret 
(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - June 1955-January 1960) 
homosexuals. VOLI<OV helped NOSENKO the following year to 
recruit a homosexual acquaintance, Aleksey (patronymic not 
recalled) YEFREMOV. The two agents subsequently worked 
as a team against foreigners under NOSENKO's direction; in 
addition to specific targets, they had the general assign­
ment of associating with foreign visitors in Moscow for the 
purpose of spotting possible homosexuals. NOSENKO described 
on 12 June 1962 his use of these agents: 
"Although I am a chief of section there I 
have all sorts of agents. I have a good agent 
apparatus. I have beautiful girls, whom I can 
use as I like. I have homosexuals, in particu­
lar, one special pair. I am afraid they are 
known to both you and the British ... I permitted 
this pair to work [without specific assignments] 
on their own. I give them money and tell them 
to go look around, but only Americans. Look for 
American pederasts. They call me at night: 
'Yuriy Ivanovich. There is a mister so-and-so 
here.' I say: 'Nell, let him [do what he 
wants]. We'll-talk about it tomorrowc' So the 
next day they go·· to a special hotel room. Ne 
make photographs. Then we think about what he 
represents. Is he worth it? Then, as Chief, I 
recommend that he be recruited or not--depending,\ 
on his position, ·what he can give, what he can 
tell. If he can give something, I say: 'Well, 
let's have a go [igrat] .' After this, I speak 
to these boys: 'Well, go with him again. Do 
whatever is wanted.' All this is observed by 
the KGB. The [hotel] administrator enters. 
'What are you doing?' The administrator calls 
the Militia. An akt is drawn up. •~ell, you 
are a foreigner. ·This is not our business. -Ne 
don't know what to do.with you.' Then the Chief 
arrives and a conversation ensues: 'Listen, 
what shall we do? Pederasty is punishable by 
three to five years and now, on the basis of 
recent legislation, by up to eight. Understand, 
if your friends find out that you are a pederatt-­
and how can they help but find out' ... " 
111 
Top Secret 
(11"'\r,1 
uuv ae1 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 10 
