14-00000 
. I 
-.4 -
torn with the thought of leaving thia project which ht' believo 
will be most successful, :and which would as11ure hie livelihood, 
but he knows that he must devote himst"lf to the fight against 
Castro. It i11 obvious :to rrie that AMliANG-1 will within the next 
two months phase out of this employment to devote full time to 
the liberation o{ Cuba~ 
,1 
f. A JURE Radio Link 
AMDANG-1 asked me HI would be able to assist 
him in the establishment of a San Juan-Caracas-Miami radio link. 
He explained that the JURE has spent a great deal of money on 
telephonic communications between these points and were most 
anxious to set up a me;ans of radio communication in order to 
economize. I guess that AMBANG-1 could tell from my reaction 
that I was not too syinpathetic to his reque-1H for be withdrew it 
almost as soon as he had made it. He went on to say that this 
was a problem which they could overcome and I presume that he 
will seek to establish such ra.dio commWlications without our 
assistance. 
g. Aerial Maps of Cuba 
AMBANG-1 informed me that thl' JURE membership 
had brought out of Cuba an entire series o! maps showing key roads, 
bridges, inciustrial plants, et al, which they had copied by the Aero 
Service Corporation in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. AMBANG-1 
stated that they had received most ·o{ these· photos from the Aero 
Service Corporation but that the 101 were still missing. He gave 
me the numbers o! those missing and asked if we could procure them. 
I have since informed AMBANG-1 that it would pP.rhaps be best it 
he could, or his organization, do this· instead but that we would 
pay the travel o! one o! hh men, should this prove necessary.· 
Attached, hereto, is a copy of the missing photos in question. 
h. JURE Organization and Strength 
AMBANG-1 le-formed me that the membt"rship of the 
JURE in San Juan was now 'at about 500 members and,.that each 
of these individuals makes a weekly contributionto the organization. 
--•• ... i 
