14-00000 
Top Secret 
(FOUNDATIONS OF NOSENKO'S CLAIMS) 
The Product tl NOSENKO's Debriefing 
' Positive Intelligence Information 
At his first meeting with CIA in 1962 NOSENKO asserted 
that he was acquainted with Ministers of the Soviet Govern­
ment, who were friends of his father, and he heard what 
was said in their circles. His debriefing and interroga­
tions did not bear out his assertion that he was infor~ed 
of the attitudes and aims of the Soviet leaders. His 
responses to questions about the viability of the then 
Soviet Government, for example, were couched in vague and 
general terms and did not reflect any specific knowledge. 
From his debriefing it emerged that NOSENKO had spent his 
entire adult life either as a student or as a state security 
official, and he stressed that since the early 1950's he 
had had few interests and "no real contacts" outside of the 
KGB itself. Questioned on a wide range of topics, including 
various aspects of nuclear weaponry, missiles, ele~tronics, 
communications,· unconventional· weapons, military industry, 
military units and equipment, and research and development, 
NOSENKO repeatedly said that he had no knowledge of such 
matters and_ that his responses reflected only personal 
opinions. Because of his two assignments to Geneva with 
the Soviet Delegation to the Disarmament Conference, questions 
were put to NOSENKO about Soviet underground testing, Soviet 
~fforts in the fields of chemical and biological warfare, 
Soviet disarmament aims and Soviet views of the corresponding 
aititudes and intentions of the United Sta~es. Becaued 
his assignments to the Soviet Disarmament Delegation were 
for cover purposes onl~, N6SENto disclaimed any ipecial 
knowledge. He explained that he took no part in the 
substantive work of the Delegation nor did he have any 
connection in the USSR with officials or organizations 
concerned with arms control or disarmament policies. 
NOSENKO's failure to provide any useful positive 
intelligence information was not unique, although previous 
KGB defectors did not have NOSENKO's claimed access, either 
on the basis of his family ties or on the basis of his KGB 
counterintelligence position within the Soviet Union. KGB 
21 
Top Secret 
00012s2 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 10 
