140_0~~::i,""'\:;:/tt:;g;;::::··'··': .,. ·:'.: :c:.· :·:': 
··{ 
.. ,_· ....... :.: ... ... . 
; 
I 
I 
.; 
l 
I . ., 
Top Secret 
(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962) 
Amount,~, and Value of Audio Surveillance Production 
In 1962 while citing examples of the kind of information 
the KGB obtained from monitoring, NOSENKO referred only to 
the offices of the Mini~ter Counsellor and of the service 
attaches .. According to NOSENKO, Counsellor FREERS dictated 
Top Secret and Secret cables. If the content justified, 
GRIBANOV was informed and he notified the KGB Chairman 
immediately. F:REERS also dictated fitness reports on Embassy 
personnel from which the KGB learned of various American 
officers' personal weaknesses. With respect to the service 
attaches, NOSENKO said that the KGB learned from microphones 
where they intended to travel, and what they wanted to find 
out, 
In 1964 NOSENKO provided some additional details. He 
said that audio reception was good from the military code 
room, but th~t the occupants rarely spoke, When one of them 
• was monitored, the monitor report w~s sent immediately to 
the Eighth Directorate which was concerned with ciphers. 
Nothing was o~tained from the State Department code room and 
teletype room because of the interferen6e f~om the noise of 
the teletype machines. The microphones in the apartments 
produced rarely anything of interest. An exception was 
advance information obtained of a social affair, for which 
the _English-language Section of the OTU Second Special 
Department would be asked to pay particular attention. There 
was a microphone with good reception in GLEYSTEEN's (a 
political officer) office, but no secret information was 
obtaineda Similarly, the conversations were overheard in 
·the Agricultural Attache ofifice, but nothing significant 
was-obtained except "something" which made the _KGB suspect 
HORBALY was connected with American Intelligence. 
In a protocol signed on 26 October 1965 NOSENKO summarized 
his knowledge of the value of the information obtained by 
the KGB via microphones in the Embassy: 
230 
00015C2 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
