14-00000 
\ 
WIFE'S ATTiruDE roWARD JKLANCE:. Q/l's wife i~ not witting of bis 
JKLANCE affiliation. She· was allowed to belfeve that he was 
working indirectly for the Cbine~e. _Sbe·certainly is aware 
of the past JKL.~NCE accus:itions whiqh have been 1.evel.eJ at-. 
Q/1, but as iasr as '-Ill can determint, (arid tr1is is not a'.subject 
on which he can come right out and ask a direct question) she 
continues to accept the Chinese story . ·u- 'should be added. 
that Mrs. Q/1 is British· and is· the ·holder of· s·ome rather 
typical "left" anti-JKLANCE attitudes.· It shc:,uld.-"lso be noted 
that the relationship between 'the two is fraught with a ~fariety 
of problems thereby adding to the complexity of the si tuati•on. 
Certainly the whole subject of Q/l's activities is one_wbicb 
llrs. Q/1 views wltb misgivings and wbicb is simply not discussed 
lest· it lead to. acrimony. Mention should also be ·made that 
Mrs. Q/1 seems to.accept as legitimate the small amount of 
aoney received from Q/l's cover and to regard thls as a genuine 
stringer relationship. • 
RESPONSE TO CASE OFFICER HANDLING: QRPHONE/1 has a very pleasant 
personality and responds well to Case Officer handling. He is 
a most willing asset requiring no special handling care -- other 
than the normal professionalism expected in the handling of a 
sensitive asset such as Q/1. 
WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT INSTRUCTIONS OR GUIDASCE: Q/1 is willing to 
accept guidance and criticism -- prov~ded it ismnstructive. 
If anything, he may sometimes be too willing. His willingness 
occasionally exceeds his sense of security and it then falls 
to his handler to bear in mind security and/or operational 
considerations which may affect his pursuit of a given target. 
However, this should not be over dramatized. 
RESPONSIVENESS: Q/1 is most responsive to requirements levied upon 
bim. In this connection it should be recalled that his ability 
to respond fully is usually restricted by the nature of bis 
relationship with his informants; i.e., since be is only eliciting 
the information from unwitting informants he is rarely able to 
press for all the desired detMils. 
JKLANCE CONTROL: Q/1 is dependent upon a JKLANCE salary 
signed recruitment documents and a security pledge. 
to add that Q/1 is not a handling problem and there 
been any instance in which either he or bis handler 
occasion to allude to these control factors. 
and 
We 
has 
has 
be has 
hasten 
never 
bad 
PERSONAL SECURITY': Q/1 bas a good sense of personal security and his 
handler makes an effort to build upon this at every opportunity. 
As cited above, Q/l's enthusiasm sometimes leads to bis failure 
to consider all aspects and iaplications of a given situation. 
-3-
-· 
' ' i I 
I 
l 
f t 
' I 
I· 
I· 
' I 
I 
I ' 
: 
i , 
t. 
,: 
