14-00000 
Page . 44: Al though (camp iiary )has unfortunately been 
identified as a CIA factiity, is it necessary for the author· 
to reinforce media articles regarding this establishment by 
spelling out the cover background and other "chapter and 
verse" items regarding this facility. I believe comments 
regarding firearms tiaining, counterterrorism training .should 
be avoided. 
Chapter 8 
Page 7: The author's remarks concerning CIA support 
to the Elbrick kidnapping again is a violation of sources 
and methods, and should be deleted. 
Pages 13-21: It is understandable but regrettable that 
the author continues to single out sensitive issues; i.e~, 
assassination and in this instance CIA involvement in Chile. 
The information contained in these pages are volatile and 
should not be included in such a commercial venture. Any 
such information is liable for quotations out of context 
warping or reinforcing the involvement that the Agency did 
have in the political activities of Chile. 
• Page 25: For the first time the SSU was made aware of 
the daugh,ter of a CIA officer who was stripped naked and held. 
with a knife at her throat by political assassins. If this 
is in fact a true statement, I question the value of such in· 
inclusion in this text particularly in light of the terrorism 
problems that this Agency and other elements of the U.S. 
Government are experiencing around the world. 
Page 27: The statement the author makes with regard to 
promotion to GS-17 is not correct. 
Page 31: I believe that Office of Communications should 
be consulted on the entire section relating to communications, 
communications personnel and the Office of Communications, 
howevet, the SSU raises the question concerning the inclusion 
of teletype decoding speeds on this particular page. 
Chapter 10 
Note: Chapter 10 continues in the same vein as all of the 
other chapters. It further reinforces the earlier remarks that 
the more one tries to explain and clarify a point the more 
confusing it becomes. The remarks contained in pages 23 and 
24 regarding Chile are illustrative of this. 
5 
. coNFIDENTii\.L 
