14-00000 
:1 
J 
J 
• l 
m1 
1.11 
II 
11 
··· · DI 
Top Secret 
(FOUNDATIONS OF NOSENKO'S CLAIMS) 
If the defections of [former KGB officers] PETROV, 
RASTVOROV and DERYABIN passed without evoking any 
particular thoughts, the defection to the United 
States of GOLITSYN, whom I had heard of as an 
intelligent person and a capable officer, undoubtedly 
caused ·me to ,think very deeply. Because to act thus, 
it is necessaiy to have not only boldness and 
decisiveness, but also great strength of will. And 
already I put to myself the question, will I be able 
to act thus in view of the dissatisfactions and 
disillusionments which had accumulated inside of me? 
Being in Geneva in 1962, not long before my 
departure I myself of my own desire entered into 
contact with you. The reason for this was the loss 
of money received by me for operational expenses. 
I would have been unable to accumulate such a sum 
of money before my departure and there was nobody 
to bdrrow from. To tell the truth about the loss 
~f the money would have meant that it would be· 
necessary to explain where and in what circumstances 
it had been lost. This would have risked expulsion 
from the KGB and a serious reprimand from the Party. 
Not to tell the truth, t-0 think up some sdrt of a 
story--they ~ouldn't believe, and worst of all, they 
might thin~ that I had appiopriated the money, that· 
is, stolen it. And this would be for me the worst 
of all and I would, of course, in such event have 
t o 1 d t h.e truth . 
To tell the truth, it was only after my return 
home from Geneva in 1962 that I gradually, not 
immediately, began full to realize all·the seriousness 
of my contact with you and its full meaning. And 
although I did not gfve you any promises or assurances 
about dur continued contact in the future, I under­
stood that you sooner or later would set yourself 
the task of continuing our contact. And here it was 
that weighing up all the reasons and causes which I 
have indicated above that in 1962 I took for myself 
the decision to leave the USSR at the first opportunity 
and that I started to work towards being sent on a 
trip abroad. 
17 
Top Secret 
0001288 
'TS No. 197124 
Copy 10 
