i4-00000 
i· 
;.. 
;_;·. 
735. 
plac~ in the summer of 1962, a fact he recalled distinctly be­
cause he wore no overcoat. It was only when confronted with 
official U.S. records that NOSENKO agreed in early l96S that 
the apprcach was in January and recalled that it was made 
1.rr.Dediately a!tor NOS£NKO returned to the Tourist Department.• 
NOSENKO said that when JOH.~SON first arrived in Moscow 
there was consideration of recruiting him, but that there Yas 
a decision against this as he was of little intelligence value. 
Then JOHNSON mailed insulting letters which were picked up 
through postal intecept. About the SA!ll~ tir.le thcre·were indi­
cations of homosexuality. Then the operation ~as mounted 
against him. This implies a very tight time schedule. JOHNSON 
arrived in Moscow on 31 December 196lr NOSEHKO said he reported 
for duty as Section Chief on l January l!#62r JOlWSON reported 
his first co~tact with NOSENKO'a hOC!losexual agent VOLKOV the 
evening of 4 January; and the approach by NOSE~1<0 was on 5 Janu­
ary.-· 
Although NOSENKO irnpl!ed in 1962 that his homosexual agents 
VOLKOV ~nd YEFREMOV w~re the ones who originally determined 
,(!OHNSON':s)hcmosexuality, he said in 1954 onJ,y that there were 
• signs." NOSE~KO did not know what these indications were or 
where they carne from. JOHNSON reported that he first met the 
agent VOLKOV on the evening of 4 January when the latter sat 
down at his restaurant table; on this sallle occasion VOLKOV in­
vite_d JOHNSON to his hotel room the 1·.axt Jay. The fact that 
VOLKOV joined JOHNSON uninvited and set hi~ up for the approach 
without leaving t.he table suggests that there had, in fact, 
been signs of his hoI!IOscxuality beforehand and ~hat operational 
plans had been laid by this ti.me. 
. • 
NOSENKO has described the cautio~ taken in oth~r homosexual 
entrapment cases and has named several which were called off 
because o! a risk of sc.ir,dal. It is, therefore, 'l.!nusual that 
the KGB would take this risk merely to force JOHNSON, an 
American and a. Baptist minister, to stop writing insulting let­
ters and articles. 
NOSE."fKO did not know why he became involved in this opera­
tion the 1 day after he reported for duty in the senior position 
of Section Chief. He said only that BOBKOV, a Deputy Chief of 
the S~cond Chief Directorate, told him to do it. During his 
talks with JOHNSON, ~OSE~KO introduced himself to JOH.~SON as 
•Georgiy Ivanovich NIKOLAYEV,· (rendered by JO~son as NIKOLOV) 
the •chief of Police.• 
(ii) The BARGHOORN Provocation-Arr~st 
The arrest of Professor BARGHOORH (Pages 304-309) took 
place at the end of October 1963, at the time NOSENKO said he 
was First Deputy Chief of the Tourist Cepartm.ent. NOSENKO has 
I How NOSE~K01 s self-stated and confirmed participation in a' 
Tourist Department operation on 5 January 1962 carries 
implications for his account of ABIDIAN's visit to the 
PENKOVSKIY Qt)ad drop is oiscussed above . 
10? SECRET 
f ... 
l 
' ·' 
