14-00000 
\ 
I I 
C. 
PROJmr W1'LIIIB 
CBYPl'Olm( r..:mlPff 
PAR'l I 
• 1.: ·-·Area ot OperattOQa 
The general area ot operatlona v1ll be Mexico an4 the specitio area vtll l»e 
Mexico, J>.1"., Mexico. 
2. ~ae 
The purpose ot tbia proJect la to-:Jil'9'114e a mechanism tor the development of 
operational. infoniation in support ot other Station operations. Thia :purpose le 
in a,neonance vi th the Related Mission Di rec ti ve for Mexico. 
J. Background 
As the reviewing authorities v1ll be aware, this proJect inclu4ea several 
operatioila vbich were formerly carried under Pro Jee ts LIPUrICJC and LIJERSEI. 
Partially as a result of the June 1958 LIPSTICJC caapl'Olllise, when three surveillance 
team members were n.pprilheuded and 1>la.ced1n custody by the Mexican Police, and 
J.Miti~y as a meaua tor the orderl.y administration or assets, thia nev proJect 
ia aulmil tted. 
. • , I 
There tollova belov a background sketch ot the aeparate support aaaets, acl.u41ng 
·details concerniDs-. personnel vbich will be diacuased l.ater in the outline, vhich the 
BtatJ.on p~se• for i11cl.usion in Lil!MP'l'Y: • 
LDaTKD - The t.IMlTED Base is l.ocated in such a posi tton acroBS the street 
frQII the LIMERICK installation tbnt photograph■ can easily be made or persons enter­
ing and leaving the LIMERICK main gate. These photograph■ are later developed and 
printed _by Li»IPrY-4, then returned to the LlMI'l'ED operator for the proper aimotat1ona. 
Atter receipt· ot the photographs by the Station, the Case Officer revteva them for 
LIMESA leads, nev],.y arrived LIMERICK personnel, local and other nationals of poeaible 
operationa.l int~at and PBPRIME citisena vho have viaited LIMZBICJC. 
KIJBARK ovna the prop~y housing the LIMITED Base, having purchased it in m14-
1955; bovever, the ostenaib1e ovner ia LDIOUSIRE, to vhm UDIP'l'Y-6 pays his rent 
each month through LDfOOSIBB• a bank. 
LIMrTED, vith LIENPTI-6 as base house operator, baa ber.i operating 1br nearly 
three years and baa .not yet been involved in a CCllll)romiaing aecuri ty ai tuation. Prior 
to April l.955, vben Headquarters authorized the purchase of the LIMITED Base, the 
Sta.tton rented the Base and used LIPS'l'ICX-7 (l.ater LIMESTOBB-6 in LD'EA'.l' ProJect 
aod nov terminate4) as the operator. Thia arrangement vaa in ettect for about tvo 
years, 
( .. ~- -~--.. ·-~ -~ .. 
"· ... 
.:_; (, 
