Lecumberri. • The-judge is CRUZ Mellado. These charges have 
not. been pressed Since thoy were originally made on 13 November 
--~?69 .by LIEMPTY~l9. Tb~ ·ruling on these charges, shoul~ the 
case come to trial, must· be ~ade by three judges of the 2a Corte 
Penal composed of the .4th, 5th, and 6th Juzgados Penale&. The 
judge of the 6° Juzgado is Lie. QUIRAZCO, an alumnus of 
• GSRiiNl>-E,'-s lawyer, Jorge Ilario MAGALLON. Together· they have, 
on two occ·as=i~s, been to .speak to Judge CRUZ ?ilellado who 
agreed not m:issue an ·arrost w·arrant ard who has, finally, 
called for a 'bearing on 16 March (subsequently poatpolied) at 
10:00. MAGALLON bas given GER.ENDE assurances tbat tbe charges 
are likely to be dismissed. ·-
b. Fraud -- this charge was made by LIEMPTY-19 and her 
lawyer on 11 ~cember 1969, the day after Ghll.J::NDE left tbe 
Villa Obregon jail after having s·pent a weoJc there for 
disobeying a court order. (The court orde1· ·bad consisteJ of 
an unfounded request to have GERENDE expelled from his house 
and to have LIE.\IPTY-19 reinstated there with her father, as 
the temporary custodian of the children. GER.ENDE refused them 
admissbn under those terms, hence disobeying tho Villa Obregon 
judge·•s order, so the judge's secretary arbitrarily ordered, 
on the spot, a 10-day detention. Subsequently, tb~j.ldge, 
LUCAS del ARffiAL, was forced to lift the detention after seven 
days and disi:iiss himself from the case and divorce proceedings 
as incompeten~. The judge-bas had to face charges of 
collusion from and with the lawyers of both parties, i.e. 
Magallon and Jurado; The charge of fraud rests at llesa 31a 
of the Procuraduria del Distrito Federal. The Public Ministry 
Agent in charge of that table is Jorge GUTIERREZ Cruz. 
LIEMPTY-19 claims that the money lent to her and GERENDE for 
building the house at Ladera #39 was actually loaned to buy 
tho house and that GERENDE, knowing they were married unoer 
-- the separate property marriage clause tad wrongfully placed 
.·.,the property in his name only, thereby committing fraud. 
Actually, the land was boug~t by GERENDE before Christmas 1965 
in a complicated transaction involving three other partners: 
Robert Bancroft WHITLHOUSE, John (Dick) RENNA, and James 
Walter HURLEY, and each of the partners placed the property 
in thoir respective names with the complete knowledge of th~ir 
spouses •. hater the land was subdivided and after nineteen 
months the deeds were issued. LIEMPTY-19 supervised and prooded 
the notary who·made the transaction and she was perfectly aware 
that the pr~p~rty was in GKR.ENDE's name. In August 1967 when 
construction of the house began, LIEHP~Y-19 1 s father's money 
was used which be bad deposited in Mextco for the purpose. 
Since January 1969, according to tho terms of the loan 
agre~meut, GERENDE bas been paying it off and bas receipts from 
LIEl!PTY-19 to sbo~ for it. 
GERENDE has presented both the land deed ( "escri tura ") 
pre-dating the construction of the house and the r-e~eipts 
