14-00000 
...... 
I 
L 
5. Substance: You noted that ORPHONE' ••• "cannot jast 
almply show up and start a leftlst nuclel ••• II Why not? Others 
have. He ls a well-known leftlst ln lntellectual clrclea in E'arope 
and baa wrltten ir.aDy artlclea ln pralse of Mao. Thls ahould do 
for a start. A• for what he mlgbt have to oUer local leftlsta ... 
money, energy and ldeaa wlll do. A great deal of money. of coarse, 
l• unneeded, bat aome la. We can ■ apply lt. A• for ldea• and 
energy, be baa both. Concerning the ''b,dlt-in jealoasy, anlmoslty, 
etc. 11 whlch such actlon would llkely engender on the part of local 
rlflll leftlsts, thl• may or may not occur. But ls this such a calamlty 
lf lt should occur? Are not leftl•t• aaaally flghting among themaelves 
anyway? In any ca••• we have nothing to loae by trylng to aalvage 
thl• agent. What we have to lose by not trying l• an agent aHet of 
proved worth. 
6. Credential•: You say ln effect that ORPHONE' has not 
been known as an actlvlst but only aa an lntellectaaL (Frankly, the 
dlatinctlon la not very lmportant ln my mlnd.) Be that as lt may, he 
baa W1'ltten many articles on leftlst subjects and baa talked to 
lnnamerable leftl1t1 around Europe over the years. True, he baa 
not been involved in aucb actlons as street demonstrations. bat we 
would not llke hlm to be so personally involved in the future in any 
ca••• What we woald want hlm to do ls to wrlte pamphlets, lnformally 
recralt aasoclatee to hla group and provlde a llttle money to the group 
aa ml1ht 'be requlred for varlo119 undertaklnga. A1lde from the 
organizing and funding, actually tbla ls not very dlHerent from what 
he baa 'been doing--escept that lt wlll be in one place for a change. 
7, Book Dlspatch ·sate: Yo11 may be very correct ln aaying 
that ahopplng him around to European stations by book dlapatch la a 
poor way to sollclt aaefal tasks for ORPHONE'. Bat again, I took•·._ 
my lead from C /EUR /CA who made a request along these lines. 
Certainly sending book dlspatchea wouldn't hart any. U &pence la 
wllling at some future tlme to vlslt various fleld stations and to 
attempt selling CRPHONE' 1s servlces personally, we would be happy 
to have hlm do so. We, of coarse, don't know when be wlll be 
a.allable to do ao, and tlme ls paHing. 
8. Concluding Comment: I really feel that we shoald relate 
to yoa ln some detall the aucceaa whlcb Andy NeH once had wltb the 
klnd of undertaking whlch we have proposed for ORPHONE. n may 
Interest you. On the other hand, lt may be perfectly poaalble that 
the 1ltuatlon whlch Andy Neas once manlpalated ls not appllcable to 
.f : ':i • .. : ~ .. • . ... .. , ~.; .. ~ 
~ .lw j• 
f" -~~· ~•• _ ... r, - •• 
