14-00000 
I I 
I 
I I 
I 
~ 
2 
resolved before being ta.ken up with Q, and tl'ms he has a sa:ie"hat ros7 
vi~w of the operation. "ibe satisfaction of accoc:i?li~hment (l.e., bein?, 
able to produce u~ef'J.l a.'1s-.rer;;. to our questions) is surely a factor 
in his present attitu~e. 
Though li,~ht-sidnned, ·with a voice and accent which would be 
considered accept!\ble in e.ny r'::.Piti.l·L society, Q is extremely sensitive 
to the fact that he is a :;egro. He has not said or su;gested any suc!l 
t.hing to nodigast, but this is so obvious a fact:ir in his correspondence 
(even discounting the extent to which the corres;:,ondence is part or 
his conscious cover} th.at it !>eems to Rodigasr. that it must be a factor 
in his life. Ch the other hand, hodigast has k:no-,:n a."iother 1:egro who 
was a close friend of Q (and now one o! his ca.jo:::- enenies, as a result 
of the Paris forged letter incident and contributing events} who was 
so sensitive about race that he makes Qin retrospect seex:i like an 
Uncle 'i'O!!l. 
Still, Rcxligast does not believe Q could be handled by sonfc:one 
who is not genuin~ly a "ni: ger lover", i.e. , -.;ho evuld not c.:>nvey 
a convincing iziage of a pers.)n for wr.om a colo!' difference was not a 
barrier (Q would surely detect the false "pal"}. Q has mentioned anti­
Uegro prejudice as a reason for his refusal to coo~rate with OD,:1:-','Y . 
oificers who talked to him while he was in Ne-,.. Yori<. In fact, Q dea!.s., 
with his present case officer as e po:..sible 1.;.· not a true irier.d; • 
they share an inter~st a.'ld involve.:ient in writil.g, J::nglish literature, 
living ha~pily abroad, etc.; Rcxligast has tried to read Dante in the 
original and Q has done so; .rtociigast would like to ..,.Tite a novel and 
Q has published one; R.odigast doesn 1 t know much about the post-logical 
positivists who interest •~ but probably gives a convincing iopression 
that he would like to kno·,1 about them, and just ::dght be capable of 
understandin::- them. i-lhat all the foregoin-. :::ieans is that in Q we have 
an accomplished pers·.m, an:1 it is a u..;eful tactic to treat him if 
not as a superior than at the very least as an eQutl. 
There rec.sins the po3sibility that opport'.mistic rf:!asons a~ 
priJilary: Q joined the ortanizatio:i a--:r.l stayed 'l>"ith us b,;:cause he could 
not do as well in any other job, could in iact get no job (because of;.~ 
his backgrowxl, his alien ;:;tat.us abroad, etc} • .2.odigast does not exclude 
this, although he feels that whatever the original motivation, it has 
been strengthened and perhaps converted into sooething more worth;y. 
But even if his pri.:nary .:JOtivation reaains material, the history or the 
project over it.s i'irst nine months suggest it is a viable one. 
C. Q has lived in the 1mderground for so oa.ny years without 
breaking that it is likely he will be able to continue to do so. He thinks 
fast, handles himseli t:ell in matters presenting .;;ecurity problems. 
He is not fully trained for clandestine activity. ?,.c,cii;ast 1 s long 
meetings with hilll always include advice on one or :;ore speci1"ic aspect.s 
or clandestine work, which when added yp may be taken to repr,.,sent a 
short, course, but that is all. The la~ of trai.-lin; ha.s led Q to do or 
sa7 things which Rodigast would not have wished hi;n to do or say, and 
whenever possible t:~is has been brought to Q is attention, and he seems 
responsive to such instr.:.ction. • 
Rodigast would not recamnend tlv!.t Q be ~ven a training course, 
but this would not preclude more fomal. sessions vi.th Rodigast during 
which Rodigast could give more ccmplete instruction en various phases 
of clandestine work. 
h :r r ,, 
q , 
