14-00000 
• 
·with other mcmbi.•rs of the Panel have striven to devise a f,;rrnula to· 
give management a clear, concise picture of what we intend t•.J do and 
what we arc dcii-ng and have done to make those intentions reality. 
4. 1'.1r. ~.1ILER has maiuL.:iincd conra..:t with a number of key 
foreign intelligence officials with whon1 he has worked oversea11. His 
home has been available to them during their visits to the United States. 
s. While being able to adjust his OWII think;ng v.l.:;;.: ;~nd all 
required _by a given situation, Mr, MILER has strong pcraonal con­
victions ·on operational matters and rloes not hesitate to advance hi11 
opinions or to push for his recommended solutions. 
6. Mr, MILER i3 currently directing an office which inclucles 
in its complement one GS-16 and ~ GS-15s, He i3 also renpor.siblc 
f th cl I f.:~-11 i· • • ff" 'fh or e career eve opmcnt o - 1110rri JUn10r case o Jeers. c 
• above is in aclcl.ition to the normal supervision of _the remaining group 
staff. In performing these functions, he is cost-conscious and ccono­
n1izes in the expei1diture of government funds and the valuable time o( 
senior officers. 
7. Mr. MILER woulcl be the first to admit that many problems 
ren1ain for hi,n in his current assignn1cnt. He woulcl also readily ack­
nowledge that he has n<,t yet been able to clearly define each of these 
problems or to provide the perfect solution for every one whi<.:h has 
been ii;olatecl, Progress, however, is being made every clay ancl Mr. 
MILER clearly clemc,nstratcs that his promotion to cs:16 i.•1 1969 was 
· dcse.rved and that it wili not be the !,1st which he will merit. This is 
an officer of high professional integrity and dedication. He is a self­
startcr, hc works ancl thinks realistically. He speaks his mincl when 
he has· something to say - including critical things, yet rdains a good 
scnsr. for t.he craftsman's side of the Cl job. He is not aclept just at 
.. identifying problems, he finds the solution. 
2 (' :-t· ~ ,...._ .. 
~~~~H.: 1 
#~~,- ....... Raymoi1d G, llr:lcc.l 
Deputy Chief 
Counter Intdligcncc Staff 
-. 
