14-00000 
'. ·• ~,0 regar_ding thfs part of Maheu's life. It was ~yn~who informed 
the undersigned some months ago that when Maheu secured 
employment with the former public administration in the 195O's 
his sponsor was Senator Margaret Chase Smith. 
Some time in the early 1960' s Maheu closed his D. C. 
office, picked up Hughes as· a sole client and moved to Los Angeles. 
The undersigned is aware of this because he was in touch with 
him during the period. 1962-1964. SimulH,_neously the undersigned 
was working out the details of a(nonofficill coverjarrangement 
with the Aircraft Division of the'1!ughes Tool Company in Culver 
City, California. Mr. Rhea Hopper, Vice President ih Charge 
of the Aircraft Division was the principle cleared witting official. 
It"is doubtful that details of this arrangement ever reached 
Mr. Hughes himself but because of Maheu's significant role 
he was cut in as a pickup for insurance. The undersigned did 
this himself. The investigative staff .of INTER TEL will not.be 
in this Maheu investigation alone. Already they have turned 
certain significant information- over to the Internal Revenue Service. 
Mr. William A. Kolar, retired Director of the IRS Intelligence 
Division, is part of the INTER TEL staff on the scene in Vegas. 
The name of Edward P. Morgan, a former FBI agent 
and prominent D. C. attorney, was mentioned by Mr. (!=>ease~O.J 
It seems that at some undisclosed date Morgan was engaged by 
the Hughes Tool Company. This would have no particular 
significance except for two things. (1) Morgan is one of Mabeu 1s 
closest friends and business associates. (They bad their heads 
together in 1963 in a deal under which they anc;l othe_r investors 
were trying to gain control of a large Los Anjeles radio station 
that had its license rescinded by FCC). (2) (!>e7ls~ said that 
Morgan is still in the wings making noises to certain unnamed 
Hughes Tool Company officials to the effect that they had better 
take it easy on Maheu because -of the past involvement with CIA 
in covert operations. Mr. (!>e~s«:)did not say exactly where he 
got pis information and of course being uninformed was unable 
to appreciate its significant. It is not known whether Morgan 
still represents the Hughes Tool Company in any capacity but 
0"301 Pease)lisclosed privately to the undersigned that for past 
services Morgan had been paid almost a million dollars. 
INTER TEL has studied several approaches to Morgan through 
ex-FBI channels to discuss this veiled threat but he has not 
-5-
SECRET 
