14-00000 
\ 
showing up to date payment of the loan at the "Mesa a1a·." 
No further acti~n.has been taken by LJEMPl'Y-19 or hor lawyer 
on- ihi~ niatte_r b'ut tb~- charge has not finally been settled and 
is s'till .pending~ The charge is, of course, unfounded and is 
awaiting the proper "lubrication" in order to be filed away • 
. c~. Negi~·ct ~ this charge wa11 made by LIEl!PTY-19 in 
December ·1969 at the 7° Juzgado Mixto de Paz claiming that 
GERENDE had abandoned LIEMPTY-19 and the children to the.ir fate 
and that they were utterly destitute. Gh'RENDE was not 
notified of.this charge and on 9 February after attending a 
hearing at, the Villa Obr~gon Juzgado (see below), once out on 
the sidewalk, Judicial police ~gents detained GER~IDE, took 
him to tho 'Procuraduria and fran there to Lecumberri. This 
process involve~ being finger-printed and mugged. The 
following day GERE:NDE was out on a 2,000 pesos bond and three 
days later, 13 February, the justice of the peace (a woman) 
f_ormally set GERENDE free for lac~ of evidence. GERENDE and 
Magallon went back on 5 March to pick up the bond money and 
see if Jurado had appealed but he had not and, apparently, 
that matter is closed. 
6. On 14 November 1969, one day after LJEMPTY-19 disappeared 
from home·takin~ the ~hildron with her, GER.ENDE brought charges 
against her lor minor lesions and showed. medical proof thereof. 
The hearing ot 9 February after which G~l~DE was detained, was 
called by Villa Obregon judge Bonfilio SEGURA. GER.ENDE reiterated 
the charge, LIE!IPTY-19 doniad it, the judge ruled against her, 
ordered her to prison but since tho injuries were minor, it does 
not require privation of liberty and she must only go and sign-in 
once a week. 
7. LIEMPTY-19 is at present teaching school at the &iron 
Academy on Caleri.Street in San Ange! Inn. The two older children 
are goiQg to s~hool there. During the lntter part of November, all 
December and half of January, the children did not attend any 
school. •_On three occasions GERE.liDE has beE"n to the school at 13:30 
to try to speak to LIAMPTY-19 and see tho ~hildren. LIEMPTY-19 
has objected to this and the meetings tnve been short and fruitless 
except Ior GER.ENDE learning that they are still staying at the Dutch 
Ambassador's. GERENDE's last visit tbo:re was on 3 March (Tuesday). 
8. After the Villa Obrogon judge dismissed himself from the 
divorce proceedings, according to standard procedure, the case 
went to Coyoacan and Xochimilco respectively where the judges, 
in turn, excused themselves from the case and it has finally come 
tQ reside at the 1st Juzgado Civil in the D.F. The judge is Olda 
CORREA (woman) and bas t-he reputation of being tough and pretty 
straight. Sioco LIEMPTY-19 has not given an address where divorce 
suit papers can bP. served her, the suit has not yet been initiated 
on GERENDE's pu.1·t. LJEYPTY-19, on the othermnd, has not bad 
