14-00000 
D00 L~STRUCTIOS 
NO. 50-10 
SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIO~S-CE:\'ER.\L 
4 September 19i3 
e. Empwyeu of U.S Prioate Detcdice lnustigatice Agencia 
D00 policy prohibits the oix-r.1tional use either in the United Sbtes 
or O\'erseas of the employeC'S of any U.S.-owncd or -controlled private 
detective investigative agency. This pol;cy does not apply to operational 
use of employees of organizations which are engaged strictly in commercial 
or credit investigations. 
e. E.XTRA-ACE~CY co:-:cURRE.'-:CE REQUIRED 
L Emplo!JeU of Other U.S. Cocernmenl Agcnciei 
Approval for the operational use of staff or contract (including foreign) 
employees of other U.S. Co,·cnunent agencies will be i:ranted only in 
cases where the employee's parent agmc:y in Washington has been notified 
of and has appro,·ed of the intendt:d operational use in accordance with 
the provisions of DOI 10-5. 
b. DDO Agenu or Asseti in the United State, 
In accordance \\ith the agreement existing between the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation and this Agency, the restrictions listed below apply to 
the operational activity of the Operations Directorate conducted in the 
United Stat.es. Coordination with the FBI of appropri.lte infonnation on 
ODO operational acti\ities in the United States is the responsibility of 
the Chief, Liaison Croup, Opcratio.is Staff. 
(l) All in\-estigations by this Agency of foreign officials in the United 
States require the prior concurrence of the FBI. In this context, the 
term -anvestigation• means systematic and <lirect inquiries or pro­
cedures (such as physic:al or technical sur\"eillimces or neighborhood 
mquiries) aimed at de\·cloping information concerning an indi\idual"s 
activities or background; ·in,·estigation· does not include the ac­
ceptance or the dC\·elopment of information through social contacts 
or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging their 
cover functiom. , 
(2) Any approach in the United States by a ODO element for recruit­
ment of any foreign official or of any ,;sitor from a Communist country 
requires the prior conCWTeDCe of the FBL 
(3) Any planned meeting in the lJnitcd States for ~ent and social 
de\-elopmeot between a ODO element and a foreign official of known 
or presumed interest to the FBI or h<'tween a ODO element and an 
official or \isitor from a Communist country requires that prior noti­
fication be provided to the FBI. 
C
\\'benever domestic ODO operations invol\"e matters pertaining to 
the national security of the United States, appropriate identification 
of persons engaged in the operations in the United States will be 
0 
SECRET 
, 
. . 
) 
) 
I 
t 
! 
I ' I 
l 
