14-00000 
¾', 
{,~ -'•' 
--
--
P. C. Redlich, M.D. 
·made arrangements that will assure tickets for ell via Liexico, Prega 
• or Madrid. 
Three of the scientists that have elr"eedy accepted to come to 
• the Symposium. visited the Institute this year. One of them was Dr. 
Vledi.a:ir D. Nsbylitsyn, Vice-Director of the Institute of Psychology 
from Moscow, who stayed ·two months with us. He helped ua to create 
a typology laboratory in our Psychology Department. At the same time, 
he off'ered a course on typology variables according to Teplov and 
himself. 
He works principally studying personality. Hie conception is 
primarily based in the hWllttn brain properties that were discovered 
~7 Pavlov end later on uere developed by Teplov and hie collaborators. 
De Nebyli_tsyn, as well .. es other .in-v:estigatore, have developed 
some scientific methods on the investigation of such properties of. 
the nervous- system-end their studies nowadays can very well be': . ,·. 
correlated with certain personality dimensions. It has been thus 
proven by some investigators abroad end today, in Cuba, we need to 
be~in developing __ such scientific methods. • 
We also had Dr. E. Roy John, from the New York Medical College, 
uho spent a month here. Pollowing is a brief resume of his activities 
at the Institute. 
In the mornings,. D:r •. John gave .a le_cture on physiology of 
learning, having, memory: as a basic theme, explained every possible 
way, psychological, physiological, biochemical· and anatomically. The 
. l'ecture was discussed by those attending, end experimental solutiona 
were proposed tor various problems not yet resolved. The ten. book 
used ill this course vas written by Dr. John himself' and vill be out 
of print by now. • 
Ia the afternoon~, tour different experiments were carried 
out. ·The first one· on e~oked potentials in humans, correlations of 
same. taclng luminous stimulations of different colors. Influence of 
expectancy aituationa. '1'8e second experiment ~as on learning, 
oboe:rving cats with alimentary reflex. ·The third one was in influ­
ence of specific and'unspecific structures of the Central Nervous 
System t'D learning. Stimulations of-.. different specific structures 
and of reticular watching the importance of the facilitation of this 
mechanism. The fourth experiment wee e study with microelectrodea 
of ne111"onal eetivity ch~::g~3 durir.g the l~Hruing etege in cronlc 
. auimals. • 
Both Dr. Hebyliteyn and Dr. John dicta~ed ·very interesting 
· · • - ->.--:,if t1JI:~J1:\}_ . ~ .,; 
,. 
~ . . 
::· .. 
