14-00000 
1/j1J 
CONFIDENiIAL • ,-:: 
1 4 JUN 1976 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, External Activities Branch, SSD 
SUBJECT Manuscript by David ~hillips 
1. The follo~ing passages are a compilation of 
observations made.by the SSU regarding Mr. Phillips' 
manuscrip't. The comments are by no means a total list 
of reservations concerning the submitted chapters but 
those noted from the perspective of the SSU. 
2. In. general the undersigned· felt somewhat enlight-
ened but rather uncomfprtable in reading the submitted 
manuscript. This uneasy feeling appears to be based upon 
two impressions. Throughout the text, there is an obvious 
effort on the part of Mr. Phillips to "set the record straight" 
with-regard to events, techniques and activities involving the 
CIA. Regrettably, as is often the case when one attempts 
to clarify and present the real facts, there is a possibility 
of further compounding a confused and ambiguous circumstance. 
Because of the various ramifications of the activities of the 
Agency, the SSU gained the feeling that more was lost rather 
than won in Mr. Phillips' efforts .. The second disarming im­
pression is that because an individual has proved to be an 
effective and successful CIA operations officer, there is no 
clear-cut assurance that he can achieve the same success as an 
author. • The SSU was continually pained·by Mr. Phillips' efforts 
to employ certain techniques often seen in spy fictions. The 
problem with author Phillips is that he is not writing fiction 
and has been identified as a former CIA employee with over 
25 years in intelligence service. Although Mr. Phillips 
labored to introduce some humor into his manuscript, some of· 
his anecdotes appear to be in bad taste. 
3. The following comments are codified to complement 
those parts of the manuscript reviewed in this reading. 
Epilogue 
Page 6: Although Mr. Phillips makes a considerable effort 
to conceal the true identity of "Abe", there is a question 
as to whethei; 11-~l1e fact that two cables were sent from Head­
quarters t? {ghile) in May 1973 ~ ~nd if this manuscript is the 
~1roper vehicle to surface su_ch 1nfor:mation. r---·•-·-··-·---···---~ 
' •CONFIDENTIAL .l 
,,,. ri ,~11"n£T CL ;rr.C!,."?1.1:lC...1 ~---G6.. , l 
·• I ---·•-···---• 
