'.' 
NOSENKO's propos~l to work for the KGB nmong homosexuals. 
VOLKOV helped NOSEf.clCO the following year to ·rccruU a h020- • 
sexual acquaintance, Aleksey (patronyl!llt: not recalled} • • 
YEFREMOV. The two agents subc::equcntly vmrkcd as a team 
against foreigners under NOSf.:~lCO's.diro,·Uon; in addition 
to specific targets, they had·the genornl assignment of 
associating with foreign visitorH in Mo:4cow foi· the pur­
pose of spotting possible ho:.osexuals. NOSENKO described 
on 12 June 1962 his use of these agent H: "Although I am 
a chief of sec~ion there I have all sorts of. agents. I 
have a good agent apparatus. I have bcn11tlful girls, 
beautiful girls, whom I can use as I like--nnything you 
want. I have homosexuals, pederasts, and, in particular, I 
have one special pair. I am afraid they nrr known to both 
you and the British. I p~rmitted this pair to work in . 
general [without specific assignments!. l send them.out to. 
look on th~ir own. I give them money and tell them to go 
out. 'Stroll about. Herc are· theater tickets. • Look around, 
but only Americans. Look for American redcrnsts.' They are 
L" couple, that is, they love each other, They are able to 
do anything desired, either active or p~ssive, anything. 
They call me at ·night: 'Yuriy Ivanovich. There is a mister 
so-anci-so here. He wants to go to bed with us.'' I say: 
·'.Well, let him. . We' 11 talk about it tomorrow. ' So the next 
day they go to a special hotel room. Wo make photographs. 
Then we think about what he represents. Is he worth it? 
Then, as Chief, I recommend that he be r~cruited or not-­
depending on his position, ~hat he can give, what he can 
tell. If ho can give something, I say: 'Well, let's have 
a go f igrat' 1- After this, I speak to these boys: 'Well, 
go to ocowith him again, one or both of you, as you wish. 
-Do whatever is wanted. ' All this is sel)n [ observed by the 
KGB). The [hotel] administrator enters. 'What are you 
doing?' The administrator calls the Militia. An akt is 
drawn up. 'Well, you are a foreigner. This is noiour 
business. We don• t know what to do with vou. ' Then the 
Chief arrives: 'What's up. Aha, I Rec.•· Well, then a con­
versation begins: 'Listen, what shall wo do? Pederasty is 
punishable by three to five years and now, on the basis of 
,recent legislation, by up to eight. Understand, if your 
friends find o~t that you are a pederast--a~d how can they 
help but find out? ... " 
When NOSENKO moved from the Tourist Department to the 
Second Chief Directorate's Aoerican Department in January 
1960, he took VOLKOV and YEFREMOV with him. They were 
·never used against targets in the U.S. Emba·ssy; but, NOS~1CO •• 
said, the Tourist Department ·•used to call me on homosexual 
prospects." VOLKOV and YEFRDIOV continued as active KGB 
agents until some time in 1960 or 1961, after which they 
could not be used further since they had become too well 
known, and NOSENKO finally retired their files to KGB 
archives in 1962 or 1963.. The last operation in which these 
two agents participated wa~-'..during JantJ~ry 1962 .• 
' ., 
. ~, ~- . . ,-- .. 
• . ~· • --,:,,i. 
:./~ .... 
:J·. 
