14-00000 
/ 
. ,. . 
press release 
A PRESS SEliYICI! rAOM 
MOVIMIEHTO UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA (U.R.) 
o,,acE, 
10 S.E. 9 St. 
MAIL INC ADDRUS 
Bo■ :tUO 
Mla111I, FlarlH 
PHON11!1 
J7J. IOU 
FOR I:U:DTI\TE Ri-'LEl\f:E 
DEFECTrrm CUB'U! SEAMFN EXPLAnl 'THEIR DECirJON HF.flE. 
Skipper, three officers .loft C:ut,,m freighter in Japan. Cuban 
logistical support of Viot Rol111 <ionouncad. Crewen roluctant 
to tran:iport war llll.ltarials to North Viet. Rolo of Castro's . 
Embaosy in.Tokyo. Cuban Reda withhold ship 1a itinerary to d~ 
coivo the Japanese. [,pying on bonrd. Bureaucratic chaos re­
sults in da~ago to Cuba•a· rorG1P,n ~uppliea. 
A Cubnn okip;:ior who loft hio ship in Jar,nn Doc. 26 oonfirmcd . t0tl11:, in ltlarni that -
Cnotro'a logioticnl support of Viet !Jam R'ldo.was t.ho rrnf.n.roacon for hia defection. 
In o proco conforonce hold at the Bisc11yne Room of tho llotol Hc,Ulictor, Francisco. 
Cobao, tho defecting captain of tho Cubcin froitthtnr 11Aracolio Iglooias", told newa­
mn why_ho and three or hio fellow officers decided to seek ae:,lum in tho United -­
Stateo. 
Tho prooo conference was arranged by IDIIDW REV0LU:I0NARii\, a M1,l.lmi-based Cuban -
group whom Cobas approached upon his an-ival from Japnn. Cobao eaid that he had -
aoked tho U.R. to help him get in touch with the prooo so that he and his shipmates 
could donOU111:o Cubo.n maneuyere to help the Viet Cong. 
J?uring thll conference, Cob~s was flanked by Antonio Ariao, :~rio P~rez and Humberto 
Ferndl'ldoz, tho t~ee other defecting officero of the 11Aracelio Ie].eoias 11 • Cobas, -
introduced by U.R. Secrotaey General l-brio Seig11c, spoke for tho group. fn1d Co­
b,s that hi, and his ohipmatos had refused tonm tho rinks or tranoporting war mte­
ridc to tlorth Viet Nam, pa'rt1cularly since they wero convinced that euch tram:por­
Vition waa wrong; Cobac added that all Cuban vc:1Gol11 have been orr:lered to talce mil 
itttry cupplieo to North Viet tlam from other Asian Communict porto, and that the Cq!z 
an Embilooy in Tokyo serves as coordinator for all nuch shipments. 
J?c,fcrring to his f9rmer t1hip, Capt. Cobas explained that the Embae.ey had ordered.__ 
the 11/,rncelio Iglesias" to sa!J. to a Hor.th Koronn port and to await further instru,g 
tions there. The Cuban diplomats withheld the :ihip 1s itinerary and declared that -
tho 11Aracel1o" would return-· U\ the Japane.oe port or Yahata before proceeding to -
North Viot Nam. By pretending that tt:e ship would come back to Japan, they hoped -
to deceive tho crew and i:eat1ow-e tho Japanese ac to tho cargo and thll use to which -
tho ohip was beirig put. Tho truth wan, however, that, while in llorth Kore11;, the -
"Aracolio." was to receive orders to load a cargo of var supplies and sail directJ.¥ 
from thore to llorth Viet :Nam. 
According to Cobii.s, this ,could not be done in the end because the Tokyo Embaosy vaa 
warned at the last moment that the North Korean port of ChiMl.lmpo vao .. blocked by -
ice. The 11Aracelio 11 vo.s now. ordered to pick up another military ohipoent at Shan-­
ghai and take it to tlorth Viet Uam. It was then that Cob4s and his shipmates dec-
ided to walk out. : 
Cobas went on to explain that logistical EUPJXlrt to the North Vietmmoso was one ot 
the two taeks aesignod to the new Cuban envoy in Tokyo, a fBMt1cally loyal Commu-
