14-00000 
. ' 
IRN ns,1 
N .!~ 1973 
P~9,? l 
,, -- SECRET 
3. that. excludfng what he t,>ld us (See OIT~ILS), he has never 
received 1110ney or been frnohed fn tht sale. ourchase, or 
Sl!!Ugglfng_of drugs. • 
4. t.~at. excluding wtlat he told us (See CIT.\ILS}, he has never 
been asked to partfctpate fn the fll~al drug traffic. 
DETAILS: • 
cw-fng the pre-test discussfM. Slbject stated that he personally 
has sued 111arfJuana on three or ft1ur occasions and-he has sntffed 
cocaine on approxf111Btely five occasfons fn tM oast ten years. Sli>­
Ject asserted that' on. each occasfM. he was attending socf al gathertngs 
·w1t:t ~O!'IE friends and he felt sochlly Ct)q'elled to indulge fn 
order to please the other partfc1pai,ts. He estfnated that he kncws 
ap;'.lro~1111tely thirty-five people w"lo ta! cocafne or marfjuana. Sli>ject 
userted tfut hfs last uH of cocaine was last ronth when he vfstted 
WOllJAL. SGSWIRl supported Stbject's claim t.,_at his personal use of 
drugs ha not been 1110re extensive. 
i:lurfng the pre-test discussfm. Slbject asserted that he wns not 
acquafated wfth anyone who hP lnew for certain was involved fn drug 
traffldting. Subject dfd list the following tom wl'l<?n asked ff he 
knew reyone who he "suspected" was 1"volved fn trafficking drugs: 
.IDENS 0, E, F, G, H and I. Slbject asserted t.>iat hh suspicions 
were based on rumor and these people have never tslked to him about 
. tll~al drugs. After recording reactions to the- test questfon, uAre 
you cmcsalfng the fdentity of anyone who you krta'f ts fnvolvod fn the 
sale or smuggling of drugs?" (Ans. ?.o), Subject acknowledged that '1fs 
concem for the question was due to the fact t.'1at he rrore than rmrely 
NSUSflectedd IDEN D was involved and he was "90S certain." 
t\iTfng the pre-test discussion. Slbject stated t..,at in 1954 or 
1955,. -"fle 1n Kr-lSTONE, he and a friend sold a non-dangerous drug to 
a bl,O'er who believed ft to be cocaf~. Slbject asserted that he made 
$25.0Q fron thfs transaction. Also. wri1le 1n K.'tSTO,'iE at the S•lffl!I 
SECRET 
