14-00000 
..... 
_,.., . 
- 5 -
Yet it was far enotl,3h a..io.y from the United HP.tions buildinc to lessen 
the chances tha.t Fnmra himsell' and his putative diplomat te.rget would 
be spotted by :."'riends or acquaintances. His choice for the next ?ieeting 
vas at an impressively ne."Jed new restaurant near the Lincoln Center 
'tor the PerforminB Arts on the West Side of tm,n. This rest ... urant we.a 
loce.ted in the sai'esite COl!:plex. He ,.-as thus able vary smoothly to 
invite his ~ent to the iia.fesite tr0111 the restaurant tor the recruiting 
pitch. 
20. He did very well in executing tvo recoz,iit1on meetin.3s and 
tvo brush passes. lie had no time to write his o-..-n commo exercises 
(as stated, he vas able to write up only one det>.d drop commo plan) 
so he was given coillClO pl.ans written up by another trainee. To give him 
variety, he was alternately the higher and the lower echelon., alternately 
accepted and made the hand-oi'f. • 
21. In operational and intel reports, he did very veil. He very 
successi'ull,y separated the operational i'rom the intel ini'o and the 
source caments from the positive intelligence. 
22. Instructor's Obse;--vation: PHO.'IE 1a a proud man, both as an 
individual and as an operator. While he was very discreet about it, 
very circUC1Spect, he did, nevertheless, let the instructor know that 
be has, on occasion been handled vith so?:1ething less then pure eenius. 
11118, like the previous item., is noted not to down-grade PHONE, but to 
alert both desk and rield officers that this man, being very sure, 
positive, definite and strong, hopes to be handled in a manner that 
would have those same words apply. 
23. In sum: A very good J:1811. 
24. In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the training., 
ve vou1d appreciate a detailed evalue.tion report in July 1973 :f'rom the 
field station. 'l'bis report should indicate the extent to which the 
training has made the trainee a JDOre useful and effective asset and 
should evaluate the performance in each area of tradecrat't in which 
training was conducted; negative as veil as positive comments are 
solicited. 1be field station's report should also include the trainee's 
ovn comments. Please ask the i"ield station to sllJ8 the report WQIJ)UJ/ 
QJll'rf.ONE/1/SHJ:d. l\>On receipt of the report at Headquarters., please . 
f'orvard a copy to the undersigned. 
1m mE DIREC'l'OR OF TRAI?IING: 
Originated by: 
Aristides G. Lazarus 
SfGRET 
a,u.~ 
CALE3 L. BATrE'll 
J:£/OS/ ALT/TR 
'-.' 
