-.~:;:r.:, .. ~ 
··.:t;i 
-- :?·.-;. ·-: 
[Summing.up)· •. "To be perfe~tly .. fr.ank; I would_ -· 
assUD?e that ... some· of our ioodus operand:,.,· some of our 
tar 6ets, so~e of the resu1Ts;7ina al! of ·our pers?nal 
weaknesses were comprozised. This is not a very de­
finite answer; however, it ·is the best estimate I cao 
make." 
In its general introduction, the USIB da:na:go report -.. 
states: ."Al though there has been no· observable indication 
that the Soviets have acted in ,ny canner to the detriment­
of the Unite.~ States basedupon information considered pos;. 
sibly.compromised, it mus,: be concluded that due to the ox­
tensive period of penetration, ·the c•1mulatlvc_ effect has 
resulted i11 serious damage to the United States. --,.The 
Soviets havu gained considerable knowledge as to the effective­
ness of United States operations within_ the,Sovict Union, 
particularly the military attache collection prograu. 
Soviet knowledge of U.S. ecphasis upon cer~ain intelligence 
collcctton areas has made it possible fQr them tci identify 
priority intelli~ence and probable Soviet targets and thereby 
permitted them to implement specific count~ractions. The 
Soviets over the years must have amasse~ considerable infor­
mation concerning the personal habits, problems, attitudes 
And waaknesses of personnel assigned to tile Embassy which 
can be used by them for purposes of exploitation at a~y 
time of their choosing in the future." 
The following extract from the USIB d&J11age report con­
cerns the declining value of the production from the micro­
phones in 1962 and 1963.• 
"The security practices and procedures appear to 
have followed a pattern from April 1953 to May 1960, at 
which time the first plastic room was installed.. . A 
chango occurred in the work habits in that the ~ore 
senior State Department officers utilized the plastic 
room for sensitive discussions and dictation. The 
room could accollll1\odate only a ~imited portion of the 
Embassy classified discussions and accordingly, a number 
of classified discussions were held outside this secure 
area. In the April 1953-~ay 1960 period it was an ac­
cepted practice for the Ambassador and the Deputy 
Chief of Mission to discuss openly in their offices 
routine classified operations of the Embassy and to 
dictate classified documents and telegrams .••. In Sep­
tember 1962, the second acoustic room was erected for 
the typing section for the handling of sensitive classi­
fied material. From December 1963 to date it was indi­
cated that no classified telegrams hav~ been dictated 
i; 
,, 
.. , .. 
. . .' 
,''._ -.~• :.-,, ' ,• 
