14-00000 
t 
i i 
I 
• i 
. .-·, .... -... 
\~tfl.,. . • f ,, . J 
ARTICLE X. Cont.lnuanc~· or ·Pay and Allqw11nces. If th~ Em-
;:-1,.,re,. !~ 1':'!e:■ '!:•~e,:l.l:;; i:!• t,., be absent in a st.at.us or "Missinlf", 
•Mlssin·g in Action•~ ·• Interned in a Neutral Country•, "Captured 
by an Enernyn, •Beleaguered", or "Beseiged", he sh11ll for the per­
iod he .is determined to be in any such st.at.us be entitled to re­
ceiv~ 4r t.o have credited to his account. the same pay ~nd allow­
ances to which h~ was entitled at th~ beginning of such period or 
absen~e. Continuance of pay and: allowance~ as ~pecified abov~ 
shall ~e as prescribed ln the Missing Persons Act of 1942 r50 
u.s.c.A. App 1001-1015, 7 Ma7C11-·t942J. 
ARTitLE XI, General. The Employee shall comply with the 
following provisions, and violation thereof by the Employee shall 
be deemed a breach of this contract.. 
1. In participating in the progrb.ms·and activities or 
any private organization, the Employee shall make it clear that 
the Department. or St.ate has no· o!'flcial connect.ion with such· or­
ganizet.1-on and t.hat. lt does not sponsor or sanction the viewpoint.a 
which he may exptesa, In g~neral, his ~elations with private or­
ganizations shall be governed by applicable Foreign Service Re-gu-
lat.ions. • • 
2, Heit.her the Employee nor the member~ or his family 
shall act as correspondents for American or foreign newspapers, 
press syndicates,. or associations unle-es special authorization has 
been obtained in advance from the 11:is'.a. He shall not write for 
publ1caiion any ar,icle or other manuscript. on political or con­
troversial subJect.s. Articles or manuscripts on nonp~l~t.ical or 
noncontroversial subjects shall be submitted to the Atrst) for re­
view and approval prior to their submission to a publisher. 
3. Neither the Employee nor members of his family shall 
correspond privately on personnel or other official matters with 
members of Congress, or officers in th~ D~part.ment. of St.ate, CIA, 
or other Oovernment.al·agencies. 
4, Members of the Employee's family shall not be employed 
in the came Foreign Service offlce except during grave emergencies 
or when special authorization has been obtained in advance of em­
ployment. froni both the Department. of St.ate and· CIA. 
5. Before contracting marriage with a person of foreign 
nationality, the Employee shall request. and obtaln permission 
f1·om the appropriate officials in both the Department. of St.ate and 
CIA. Any such ~arriaie with an alien without. obtaining advance 
permission shall be deemed a breach of this contract. and shall 
result in termination of seriice with the Government.. 
