14-00000 
I 
SECRET 
would be tf GER£NDE were arre&ted b-J one of the local police agencies 
and interrogated tn detail. Also, th:! 5ta:lon rr.\JJ:it forever be aware lhat 
the lnc-il police 1t::;'-11clcs are certslnly capable. for only a few dollars, of 
selling blformation concemlng KUli.'.RK to the Soviets and/or Satellites. 
d. Rt.'COmmendatlons - It would be WlWlse to consider tenntnating 
GERI::NDE titnce he ts a hl&h)y rornpecac agent and since ht.a termtnatton 
wouhl not eltmtnate the !net that he knows a great deal about the Station's 
support operations. He has been rerr.tnded several ttmes, and the Case 
Officer will conttnue to remlDd htm, tl-.at hls tradecraft pro!esstonalism 
must Improve and stay ahead of the mcreaslng t>OpMsclcatlon ot the local 
police agcnctes and oppoatiton services operatlng ln M~xtco • 
.... _,. •• It ta the--,-optnton of the 'Statidn 'that C£R.ENDE should continue 
to be u,;~-d ln aoout the same rnannt:r tt>...at he tB predentJy bet..16 u.::ed. lt 
would be advlsaLle, however, to s~r!l(e hlm_tro~ the tl'-() LlF.~'t. ~, 
tunctt'Bni';6'e~"1aicufrent1y balM!lti?lF~ RNINGa-& the ·oiban tx11,$,:,-•' 
taps. ThlB ts suggested noc only because of the possible future securlly 
ramlftc.1ttons, but aloo bccal.18e GEK£NDE does not have time to nm 
properly hlJJ suppon mechanlsm and to monitor tnps seven days a week. 
To provtdc for a struatton whereby one of the local police 
agencies becomes aware of GEHENlJE 'a illegal actlvlttes and assuming 
that etthcr GERENDE or the Statton le:lrns of this before th~ local police 
agency CA.n take posltlve aat.on, tt ts lmperativc that a warning system 
of commW1lcattona be establlahed to !tlcUltate GERENDE's removal 
from Mcxtco. Arrar.~emems sud1 as those used for Wilfred O. CLOWER 
could be set up or local arrangements could be made wtth ODUNlT or 
ODOATH for a more expedtrtous exit from Mexico. The Case Offtcer 
will develop this plan in detail. 
4. OPERATIONS 
a. Limited 
(1) Target - Stattoaary photographic survP-lllance of persaas 
entering and ,eav1ng the LL'vtERlCK tnstallatton. • 
(2) Personnel • LIPSTICK-14 ts the agent tn charge of the 
LIMII t.D Base. Aq:ordlng to GEREN DE, LIPSilCK-14 ta 
consctemtous, seairtry minded, speaks no F.ngllsh, and on 
occaatoo ts a bit aver confident. He performs hts operattonal 
duttes competently and with dtscretton. In addttton to hts 
photographic duttea, be ls also used OC('aslonally u a one-man 
SECRET 
