14-00000 
- 2 -
of this prqject, but that seems unlikely from the Headquarters 
,_ revie\\· of tcrn1inated agents witting of present KDF ACTOR 
operatfrmal activities. A SovJet h1vesu·gation of property owner­
s}up aro~nd the Soviet Embassy and their awareness that the 
So\'.iJ•t E'mbassy was under photographic surveillance in the past 
could- result in a Soviet invel:itigation of the activities a,nd contacts 
of KDABBEY~l, the ownet. of an apartment building and four 
houses close to the Soviet Embassy. It is doubtful that KDABBEY-l's 
a·ct.i\·ities, which do not inter-relate with the activities of the 
KDFACTOR agents, would In any way expose the KDFACTOR 
Project operational activities. 
2. A brief history of the KDF ACTOR Project: 
The KDFACTOR Project ltad its origins in the LLJERSEY 
and LIPSTICK Projects,· both active in the mid-1950's. In 1958, after 
the arrest of two LIPSTICK surveillance team members, It was decided 
to break off the more sensitive, uncompromised LIPSTICK assets manning 
and ~upporting two bas~housc-s for photo surveillance o! the Soviet Embassy. 
These assets wei•e conso.U¢!ted with one photo base house against the Soviet 
Embassy and one ·su·rveillance tcain from the LLJERSEY Project into a new 
project-(LIEMPTY), which was approved on 16 January 1959. The LIEMPTY 
Project,· renamed the KDF ACTOR Project in 1971, consisted of three photo 
·basehouses, two_vie,\ing:lhc front o! the Soviet Embassy (LThIITED and 
LIL YRIC) an~ one viewing the rear garden of the Soviet Embassy (LICALLA), 
_plus a mobile surveillance team (LIENTRAP) tied closely with the LThtITED 
basehouse., which was the radio control point for dispatch of the LIBNTRAP. 
. In 1959 the LIENTRAP surveillance vehicle and two team 
members were arrested at the scene of a Cuban demonstration in Mexico 
City, A Station review of the security implications of this incident stated 
that it did not materially aliect the· security of the project nor expose any 
o! the LIEMPTY basehouse operations. (Note: As the basehouse operations 
were compartmented, the only exposure possible from this incident would 
have been of the LIMITED basehouse, which is no longer in existence. ) 
The LIEMPTY Project operated substantially as above until 
the Warren Commission report was published in late 1964. In this publica­
tion was a picture of a person entering the Soviet Embassy taken from the 
LIMITED basehouse. The LIMITED photo basehouse was closed in Sept­
eq1ber 1964, and all pho~ographic surveillanc~ was suspended as a security 
precaution. In January 1965 the- LIMITED basehouse was relorated, and 
SECRET 
I 
