14- 000 
CONTltlUAT!ON OF 
DIS?ATCH 8 E C R f. T UFAA-18·\5 
d. During tho siddle and lato 1950s, Roberto 
bnd been a sales.man for tho Burroughs flour c~pany 
and had st~yed clear of th~ political picture in CUM, 
e. Duri nr: the !3ll.Jlle per lod, Hector had been n 
student in the Un:iversity of Havana, under Raul ROA, 
ia.nd. na!:I taken ~!'.rt in oo:!le revolutionary activities. 
Ho hllo been r..rrested and ·benten by the Batista po.lico 
for his a.nti-goverruaent actions and hiR fnther hnd 
sent hilil .into exile in tho US. 
f .. When Castro ca.me into po\'.:Cr, the fnthor ·ua.s 
a potential •var criminal" for his illicit deali~s. 
AHMUG-1, gho gns in tho police force tn the initial 
stnges of tbs revolution, states that be deleted an 
. inctiminating page .from t-he father's dOGsier (sho"t:Ting 
_he pll,id off the police to run his bolita operation) 
and thus saved bw :from ·prosecution. 
g. Al::ib-UG-1 continued to ba close to the family, 
especially with Ro~rto, ''trhom i sao every day and 
J'.an nround uith_." Roberto nover entertained the 
revolution. As late as 1962-63, "We used to talk 
qt,ite openly and i'rankly. He 't78.S aluays against tb0 
revolution and the coiil:Rlunists. Ile 'f70rked in the 
Ministry of Industry because his brother got him the 
job, but he had only one idea in his head: to get out 
of Cuba and come to the US. Ho tr.1s even plotting to 
get out by boat. He had a US visa for a:nny years n.nd 
had visitec.l here i!!.any tirnes." 
h. When A!B!UG-1 dP.f~cted, he lost contact with 
Roberto. But• nbou t two weeks ar_:-o a ne 1 ghbor from 
Regla came to raami on the Freedom Flights. (COl\fMOIT: 
This undoubtedly refers to Cubnn refug·eo Segunc.lo 
CASCUDO Gonzalez. Referonce forwarded the Al!OT 
debriefing of CASCUOO on Roberto.) \Vhen A?JMTJG-1 
asked about Rooorto, the neighbor ('.mid that he under­
stood that Rooorto, ''was assignc<l in a foreign 
Emba.say." The refugee could not sa:,r what country 
Roberto was 1n. 
1. This ne'i:19 prOI!lpts AMMUG-1 to comment: "Thia 
would be a most interesting person to talk to. I 
don't think that he has changed his original way of 
thinking. I believe he took the job to get out of 
Cuba, and because of the-influence of his brother 
Hector. I know he will talk to me and thero is no 
telling what this man is capable of doing 1·r someone 
approached him." 
j. Roberto is (or was) married to: 
Zulei:ia {lnu) 
DPOB: c. 1934 in Cuba 
Tbcy had two c_hildren and the wife was eve1r1 
more anti-C1stro than Roberto. 
k. i~ctor, the other brother, was a rabid revolutionary 
when .ii.?AMUG-1 last saw him i.n c. 63-64. He had joimicl 
the Cnstro bandwagon at the outset due to his revol1jtionary 
nctivities during the Batista era and his closent3SS to 
Raul RCA. In c. 1960-6_1-62, Hector was closely nli1~ned 
--·· --- - --- ----CLASSIFICATION 
USE PREVIOUS EDITION. 
S E C n E T 
r--· 
L x-1 CONTINUED 
1 FACE: NO. 
i 
I 
2 
