14-.Doooo 
! . 
i 
I 
I 
J. 4 .• 
r I I 
SECRET 
3 -
"A. That sbe be released from the atipialation in 
ber secrecy ai;reemont ,rbica prohibits her from revealing 
ber or her husband's affiliation with Lie A.,:cr.c:;-, in 
order that she mny substautiate ber uusband's salary to 
be awarded support payment froa ber husband. 
''B. If her first request cannot be fullfilled, 
that sbe be awarded a higher wnount of support from tne . .NCE. 
Agency. 
"C, If neither of the above two can be fullfilled, 
that she be sent the AgenL7 check (in present amount; 
either at the address mentioned above or in care of the 
Embassy of tho Netharland8 in Mexico City, which is 
accepting mail for her." 
In addition to the above~ Xrs. GEREMDE stated she feelD 
she must permanently leave Mexico City because of threats 
made on her life by her.hwsband, and that she cannot neet 
her l\g~ncyEcontact in Mexico City as specified in bor 
tuniination, to receive t~e monthly payments from him. 
Ure. CillRENDE bas been given the phone number of the ;.gency 
:r-cuT' •·. Duty Officer and her local phone number .and 
Addroos, where she is temporarily residing, was obtained. 
Sbe was advised She would be contacted within tbe near 
future with 110 answer to ber requests. 
5. Upon receipt of tne above information, Mexico City 
Station was notified by able of tne,.sltuation and, their_ 
com.roonte wero requosted .. Tbe Station, on 10 July, rec~­
sendod that Headquarters bold Hrs. GERENlJE to. ber secre~y 
agreement, not grant her any increase beyond the amount 
llgroed upon in hor teminatioo, and proposed tnat she be 
r1,1von her termination payment in one lump eum or that 
-~checks ·.l)o aailed to ber aonthly. • 
·6. Headquarters, 1D agreement with the Station's 
position on tbe case, attempted to telephone ber witbout 
success on· 13 July 1970. Tba t saae afternoon at 1400 
boure, l!lre. GBB.ENDE-'s brotber, a naturalized U.S. citizen 
• wbQ rosidea in Alexandria, Virginia, and works at . Fort 
Dolvoir, called the. Of!L~ ...f Secu1·1ty, using tbe ric.3ber 
supplied to Ill's. GKi~7(DB, and infonaed tho sec~rity 
official that since Jilrs. GEBENDX bad not received any 
response, she expects to bear from JKLANCE by letter 10 
care of the,Metberlaods Ellbaasy, Mexico City. 
S_ECRET 
, r 
