14-00000 
.. ,, .... 
of her father's intention to come to Washington to make 
inquiry at the Russian Embassy in regard to his visit to 
Russia. Subject's father wished Subject to accompany him 
but she indicated that as a government employee she did 
not want to go there. 
ob 4. Mrs. TARASOFF says that her oldest sister, Mrs. 
@herry COMELLA' knows of her CIA employment and the necessity 
not to divulge~this information. Subject stated that her 
father and mother know only that she is a government employee. 
They are not interested in the Agency or Department where 
she or her husband is employed. Subject also advised that 
although her landlady and Sears Roebuck Department Store know 
her as CIA she is not aware that anyone else knows. 
5. Mr. O'Neal asked what could be done about this 
situation. Mr;-. Means s~id that Subject's husband is in_ 
,..Mexico under ~ight stateJcover but had previously been J.~ 
U?ackstopped f1rmly as a contract employee of the Department?c 
of State, Escort Branch, Division of Language Services:} He 
said he would f~~ up this backstop so that in the event of _ 
inquiry at that @vision of Stat~ it wq,uld be confirmed that?-:' 
he is in Mexico on an assign~~nt. Mr.l!_oodward]stated that ~5 
he would provide a U.S. ArmyjTranslation Unit]cover for sc 
Mrs. TARASOFF retroactive to'ner entrance on duty. !rbe. 
tinde~sijned stated that he would conduct expedite credit 
checks- on the~·-Subject and ner husband to ascertijin whether or 
not·· they ·nad ·been recorded as Agency employees. 
6. It was agreed among the conferees that since the 
father of Subject was unwitting of-Subject's CIA employment 
he would not be specially briefed on what to answer in the 
event that the question was asked in connection with his 
VISA application. It was agreed that not knowing the specific 
Department of Government he would have to consult his daughter 
and then she could give the cover which had been prepareg for 
her. The undersigned pointed out the possibility that ~ubject's • 
father might know of·Subjects employment but it was agreed 
that in view of his age and background it was very improbable 
and that it would be better not to brief him specifically 
on Subjects employment but to let the question be handled 
naturally. 
-
SECRET 
