14-00000 
'-
I 
- I -
.L-
SECRET 
3. Mr. DeBov., a lavyer., 1s an Administrative Assistant to the Mayor of 
Chicago as veil as a long time., if casual., -:-.ontact of Domestic Contacts Service. 
His background includes assigcme:nt to·the Intelligence Division of the Chicago 
police and cooperation vitb CIA in the course of·a tri:r to A:f'rica in 1961. 
Ki-. DeBov a1so is part ower and in effective contro1 of a very sn::all feature 
s111dicate in Chicago., the Negro Press Internationa1., Inc • ., which distributes 
revritten nevs to Negro nevspapers in the United States on a subscription basis. 
Ji. On 20 June 1966, Mr. DeBov ws approached by representatives of CA Sta.ti' 
and Central Cover Staff., acknovledging CIA connection., and intervieved vith a 
viev to determ1n1ng the feasibility cf using his scr.icc to backstop IIDCiest 
~ts to r;,JfKP/Jrrt/1 for rea1 or ostensib1e contributions of feature stories 
and reporting. (Since the contact vas made to develop information pertinent 
to the present request tor DDP approval., the interview vas conducted on a 
hypothetical basis: QREBOllY/11 s identity vas not revca1ed nor vere any 
commitcients entered into.) This conversation., despite its l.imitation, demonstrated 
clearly that such an arrangement invo1ving Mr. DeBov and his firm \IOu1d be 
practical 1'rom Mr. DeBov's point or viev and veil suited to the needs of the 
QREBONY Pro.:ect. Mr. DeBov gasped the prob1em involved and sugg(?sted various 
means by \o'lU.ch he could plausibly il:lplement a cover arrangement shou1d this 
be our decision. Be vas made ai.-are 01" and understood the incongruity betveen 
his and QREBOHY/1's ostensible IOlltical positions., and stated that this need 
otter DO inpediment to creation of the type of relationship 'Which would be 
invo1ved. T"ne nature of Mr. DeBov's -feature service and its modest size 
cl.early enhance its use:fulncss and appropriateness for our objectives. 
Mr. DeBov, in conclusion., expressed his agreement 1n princip1e to participate 
in this cover support activity shou1d CIA, on further reviev of its needs., 
decide to proceed vith a request tor his cooperation. 
5. In the light of the very :favorable response f'roCI Mr. DeBov and the 
determil:ation., :f'rom revieving the outlines of his ope::.-ation., tbat 1~ \10Uld 
be a uniquely appropriate backstopping for QREBONY/1Jyour approval is 
requested to recontact Hr. DeBov and establish vith h1l:1 su:i.tab1e cover 
2 
i 
' ' \ t i 
f 
i .. f 
I 
,,, 
-1 
.:..~ 
i 
j 
I 
t-·J 
L ·' 
