1'4-00000 
l •• 
,I 
Dr. MIRO said there was no way to determine the accuracy 
of the figures given of pla1c>es, guns, etc. received from the Soviet bloc 
(and ·Italy and Canada); but- ever, il the figures wore exaggerated 100 per 
cent,. they wo~ld s.t¥n·b-e i~,-pressive. 
He add~d t~t Castro is daily becoming stronger m"°ilitarily 
with weapons and with a lai-ge _militia of close to 300,000 being trained 
to uee them while the economy continues to deteriorate. Perhaps only 
half the militia· would be effective. But that is sizeable. Thus,· he said, 
the longer tho delay in positive military action to overthrow Castro, the 
greater will be tho task. ''We must act soon, vigorously and effectively, 
Lo insure victory. Another de-feat would bo disastrous and would make 
Cubans, Latin Americans and others believe Castro to be invincible, 
The~ would come accommodations and even worse, the implanting of 
Castro-backed regimes in the hemisphere. And the U •. S. • would su!fer. 
worst of all, being discredited for defeat and "guilt of interference, 11 
"In t~e UN no nation would stand beside the U, S, " 
6. Proposal that Council go to Cuba wHh Commando Group .and 
Establis.h a Government on Cuban Soil 
Dr, MIRO then declared that he was convinced that Castro 
would never be overthrown by all the propaganda, the sabotage, commando 
raids, guerrilla activities, rupture of diplomatic ·relations and deteriorating 
economy·; and that it was inconceivable to establish a government-in-exile 
for nothing would come of it; that the only solution for defeating the 
Castro regime was for the Revolutionary Council to 6 0 to Cuba and estab­
lish a government ·on Cuban soil, ask recognition by all friendly countries 
and ~ilitary assistance of its prirx:ipal ally, the t.:. S., and that the U.S. 
be ready to intervene immediately with its Forces. "This ·would all have 
t'l take place in a matter of 48 hours, otherwise it would !ail. I recognize 
that this is a bold plan, but boldness is necessary. There will be many 
risks, many may be killed, As for myself, I don't care if I die. I have 
lost all my personal possessions and my son is a prisoner. 11 He reiterated 
that all must be well prepared in advance, there must be no vacillation, 
everything must proceed rapidly. First, a commando raid in. force to 
seize a piece of Cuban territory, preferably near Guantanamo, and imme­
diately the members of the Council go ashore, proclaim a provisional 
government, broadcast by radio to all nations an appeal for reco((nition 
(and cables prepared in advance would also be sent out), request U. S, 
assistance, and the U. S. should furnish such assistance at once in ade­
quate strength to ensure victory. 
3 
\';.· .... ,, 
._:.:w~.i~. 
