14-00000 ,. . . . 
-· l •••· 
• 
SECRET 
DDO NOTICE 
NO. 1-1462 
DON 1-1462 
ORGANIZATION 
29 September 1976 
(7) 
( 8) 
(9) 
Undertake special studies as directed of manage­
ment issues which affect the efficiency or 
effectiveness of Directorate activities. 
Provide staff assistance to the DDO on Directorate, 
Agency, Commtmity and Government evaluation 
requirements, techniques, and regulations pertinent 
thereto. 
Continue to develop production and evaluation 
techniques and values. 
d. Policy and Coordination Staff (PCS) 
The mission of the Policy and Coordination Staff "is to 
serve as the focal point through which the DDO directs 
and controls certain activities of the Directorate 
crossing geographic divisional boundaries. It also will 
assist in formulating and recommending to the DDO policy 
and doctrine on matters with overall applicability to 
the Directorate. The Chief of this Staff will act for 
the DDO and the ADDO if' these officers are unavailable. 
The responsibilities of' this staff will include all 
intelligence-related matters including staff guidance 
on scientific and technical matters and such activities 
as crisis management, international terrorism, narcotics, 
technical operations, and defector operations. Addition­
al]y, the Staff' is the focal point for Directorate coor­
dination with the Intelligence Community Staff, the 
National Intelligence Officers, other components of' the 
Agency, as well as with other agencies of' the Government. 
The Staff' will also be responsible for conducting and 
monitoring liaison with the principal elements of the 
Intelligence Community. It will be responsible for 
ensuring that the operations and activities of' the 
Directorate are in compliance with existing regulations 
and procedures, and for formulation or revision of 
regulations and procedures as may be required. In 
short, this Staff will coordinate the paper flow of the 
Deputy Director for Operations and in so doing serve as 
a central clearing house for the movement of paper from 
the Staff's and Divisions to the Office of the DDO. 'I'his 
Staff also will provide policy focus to issues of' common 
concern affecting Directorate-wide activities. It will 
also provide the support facilities for the DDO's 
special and Senior Staffs. 
3 
SECRET 
