14-00000 
,: •. 
! •. 
.. 
SEC-REJ1SEJl4StTI VE 
( 
In Mexfco when i:r.ur•s ilous·ei·rol1tJ effects arrived 
he 1 et me know; and as I rec a 11 , ,,e brought them over 
to my i1ouse and we unloaded them into our apart-ilent. 
We did not go and pick them _up. In thanks, we 
invited b im over to supper one evening. (Wi 11 ard c. 
CURTIS had given pennission for individual officers 
to have Phi 1 over to dinner if no outsiders were 
present and prio.r permission was obtained.). I think 
I got permission from the OCOS at that time. There 
were on 1 y the three of .us (Phi 1, my husband, • and 
myself--no maid, no other invited._-guests) Ther:e was 
no discussion of office. My husband knew Phi') was with 
BKTRUST and was working on the_ 01 ympi cs in Mexico. 
Conversation was light. During dinner, as I recall, 
we talked about business in Mexico, and he mentioned 
his fathe~ was in the dry-cleaning business, and 
he thought he might be interested in•'oringing in:to 
Mexico some used dry cleaning equipment which is worth 
nothing in the United States, and set up some dry 
cleaning establishments in Mexico .. The -di;'scussion 
was merely in generalities--nothing spectflc as to 
timetable or even if Phil were seriou.s about this. 
About a week later Phil brought his carover and 
my husbahd helped him.work on his car--adj·usting it 
to the altitude. This must have been around September 
1957. 
Shortly thereafter, when Laura B. UTSTINE was 
in Mex i c;.o TOY (she worked in WH/ 1 and a 1 so knew Phi 1 
at Headquarters), Phil had my husband, me, and UTSTINE 
over to his apartment (on lnsurgentes Sur just off the 
Viaduc.to) for dinne,r. Lt wa:s~ iii· hu~ ap.atitmen.t.,, sp.arse1~}4 
furnished. We had an enjoyable evening, very light 
conversation. Talked mostly about Mexico. At this time 
he showed us he had several bedrooms (forget-how many} 
and hopefully his sons would be able to visit him. 
During his tour in Mexico I only saw ·Phi 1 i'n the 
Station occasionally--and then just in passingin the 
halls. Once after I heard about Phil's having kidna~e~ 
his boys, I thought I saw them ( can I t remember \-Jhy I 
thought they were his) in front of the Embassy with a 
maid. I never saw Phil in the Embassy proper nor at 
any Embassy functions ( I was tourist and did not 
circulate in the Embassy). 
During his tou~ in Mexico, Phil remained pleasant 
but was certainl/:'¥0 fi1-1d to talk to .. After Phi 1. 
resigned I saw him once. After John PROBERT arrived 
as COS, I saw Fhil along the side of the Embassy. 
SECRET/SENSITIVE • 
