14-00000 
S E C R E T 
- 2 -
FIT!,ESS REPORT 
Sectio~ C (continued) 
to the development of )1uman relations. His forte is therefore 
more in the field of spotting ancl·making ope.rational contacts 
than in that of more than _s.1ort-range oporational development. 
Subject's operational situation make!. it impo.:.sible for him to 
attempt recruitments. Thus, his very rc~l achievements are· not 
by essence of the spectacular variety. 
Subject's reporting has been satisfactory and continue to 
be copious. H,:? could, however, further improve the selectivity 
of the leads provided the Station and mal<e more of an effort to 
"digest" t'ne information contained in his reports. 
Although Subject has, at present, no supervisory function, 
he Mfs rep·catedly· requested such a responsibility. He is careful 
with operational P-X[>Pnsei; ar,d l-ias ex~rcised tJOOd s~c1.u:it:,•. 
During the period .. unc'ler revi~w, additional efforts have be~n 
made to make full use of subject's potential and integrate him 
further in the work ·of the station component with ,-1hich he works. 
He is a particularly valuable asset for the Station programs 
directed against t.he local HHil1\RSH and TPFJ\ST targets. 
Section D (continued) 
substa,1tial. In a word, is it worth it? We do not yet know, 
although our initi:ll Li,pressions are favorable. 
On the fitness report itself, this rater would have preferred 
an "S" rating for :Jpecific duty nurr.ber one; Subject may ultimately 
deserve an "O", but it docs riot sc!em warranted at the present time. 
Horeover, I believe the overall rating would more properly have 
been ir: the .higher range of the 11P" category, rather than "S", 
but it is of course a subjective judgment of the rating officer, 
w:10 is rr.ore intimately anq_ directly· involved with Subject on a 
frequent basis. 
In sum, the cover is superb, and·. only time will re'leal to 
what extent the cover requirements permit a full r.ieasure on be­
half of the Organization. We are following th5.s aspect closely 
and will be commenting upon it subsequently.as we gain experience 
and knowledge •. 
S E C R E T 
