14-00000 
I 
j-
I 
( 
. • 
(. 
0 
0 
! ;.. 
D00 IXSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
SECRET 
l>OI 50-10 
OPERA TIOXS-CENERAL 
4 September 1973 
operationally feasible and without suitable altcmati\'l', prior appro,-a.1 
in the follo~ing cases will be obtaint.11 as indicated below: 
(a) Any U.S. citizen who is a member of the academic communil)· 
and who is associated in any way with any U.S. or foreign college, 
• unJversity or similar iiutitution of higher learning; 
(b) ~y non-U.S. citizen who is a member of the academic community 
and who is associated in any way with any U.S.-owned or U.S.-
affiliated rollege, university or_siro11 Jt.i,nstituhon of hi;;hrr lcnn J) J) 0 
ing which is located cithe • in the l"uited States - r Jbroad. ;. ' - (, 
If d\e in<!.ividual is located in the L'nitea ,_. cs, Jpproval will be re-Of~ 
quested by memorandum to the Chid, Foreign Resources Dhision. 
The memorandum will include a statemt-nt that the individual is, or 
Is not, a DCD asset or contact, and in the event he is will include 
the concunence of the Chief, Domestic Collection Division. If the In-
dividual is located outside the United St.ites, approval will be requested 
by memorandum to the C\!id of the Area Division who has jurisdiction 
over the area coocemed.) Operational use of foreii;n memben of the 
academic comm•inity. who are not associated in any way -with U.S.-
owned or U.s.:iimliated institutions of higher learning is also con-
sidered sensitive. rhe opcr.itional use of such indi\·iduals also requires 
~ appro,·al of the Chit:f of the Area Di\isi~~n any case involving 
a well known person or having special St'CUJ'ity implications, the 
Division Chief to whom the request is referred under the above pro-
risions will consult -...ith the DDO and obtain the la.tta's approval 
(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) do not apply to Domestic Collection 
Division contacts with members of the academic community, but such 
contacts are subject to the following requirements: 
(a) If a member of the academic community would be asked to per• 
_form an operatiooal task or to alter his normal pattern of activity 
In order to serve Agency purposes. prior approval of the Chief, 
Domestic Collection Division is required. Additionally, if such an 
individual will be in a foreign area. the concurrence of the Chief 
of the Alea Dhision concerned will be obtained. 
(b) Prior roncurrence will be obtained from the appropriate Area 
Division Chief if an indi\idual is to be utilized in a politically 
leDSitive area where his presence or activities could potentially 
embarrass the interests of the U.S. Government. 
(c) The requirements of paragraph 8.a. apply if a citizen or alien 
resident of the United States would be wed in a denied area. 
(4) At the end of each calendar year, Chiefs of Divisions will submit a 
report to the Deputy Director for Opcr:itions ( via Chief, Foreign 
Resources Dhision) on the number of indi,iduals reauited from the 
13 
SECRET 
-
