14-00000 
SECRET 
·also band~es SB operatio·ns) arose during the project y,ar. 
GERENDE baa been having marital difficulties which may end 
in 4~vorce. Along •~~h other incompatible features of tbe 
marriage., which have ·resulted iil numerous family_ fights, 
tb~re·have been long, bftter and violent arguments as to wbo 
will '.have cuat_o~y .of .their· 4 chj,ldren and concerning a mone­
tary settiemiJ'nt·~ -<the ·station baa become involved in tbeee 
al tirca tions·. bec:f-.uefi GERENDE 'a wife 1s knowledgeable of bla 
---CIA reiatidasbi1i' and co~ld~ .. if she chose to do so, expose bia 
as an agency .employee. --- She .bas promised to keep quiet but 
t·here is no assurance that she will do so. In view of the 
r'isk involved, shouid ·owHDB's wife expose bis agency rela­
ti.i'nship and ;1n ·view of the tact that, despite bis 15 years 
of -service:and his undisput~d ability and experience, other 
unfAvorable qualities militate against tiis reten·tion, the 
s·tation is considering f'erminatiog GEREHDB. It is proposed 
to pay him a termj,nation 'bonus of $10,000 for 15 years of 
service in accordance with Mexican Iaw and his wife $2,500 as 
a security measure designed to keep her quiet. After discus-
----·sion with the desk, FI Staff believes that, if GE.RENDE is 
paid the $10,000 termination money, it should not be given to 
bim in one lump sum but should be paid on a monthly basis, 
the-amount per 111onth to be determined by the Station, thus 
eliminating the possibility of his squandering it all at 
once and possibly coming back tor more of the same. The same 
procedure should be followed in the $2,500 payment to bis 
wife. In bo~ cases· at_ ~east an element of control is 
assured in that both CERENDE and his wife will know that con­
·unuJed receipt- of their monthly payments will depend upon 
their continued loyalty to the agency. In the meantime, we 
teel this man, whose moraie, and ability have been seriously 
affec-ted by his marital strife, given time, can perhaps be 
rebabili ta-ted and once again become a valuable Station asset. 
This would ensure bis continued loyalty and give him an income 
out of which to pay bis alimony. Aside from tbe foregoing 
there were no other problems, security or otherwise. All 
meetings between the case officer and the new Principal Agent 
are held under secure conditions, or more often if necessary, 
at prearranged dates, times and places. Meetings between the 
P/A and the suliagents are held under similar conditions. The 
Stat'ion bas been requested to submit an updated emerguncy re­
contact plan to be included in the first FY 1971 quarterly 
program report for this project. 
5. Agents' salaries, safetouse rentals, motor vehicle 
·maintenance and travel, property maintenance and Christmas 
bonuses will total $23,635, Despite the security aspects· 
related to the marital difficulties of ·tbe erstwhile P/A, 
SEGRET 
