14-00000 
•·.··· .• 660. 
,,·-., 
5. The AELITSK!Y Ca3~ 
a. Introdu::t:ion 
NOSEllKO reported to tiA in June 1962 (as or.e of the two ite!ns 
he wanted to sell) that ohe of 1ts a~ents. ~he Soviet interpreter 
BELlTSKIY, Wa5 in fact a KGB double agent w~o had be~n planted on 
c:A (Paqes 517-529). NOSENKO s~id that this wa3 a case run by the 
Second ("Active Line") Section, but that he personally had a role 
in the manag~-rnent of the case in V.ay 1962 in Geneva. ~OS£NKO was 
able to give certain inside inforn.ation on this case; for example, 
he knew the nicknames used ey the CIA case officers ~ith the agent. 
b, DiSCUSl:iiOn 
NOSENK'J's information, at least in its gener.:il outlines, \Jas 
correct. CIA had been r~nn1ng BELITSKIY as an agent, and the CIA 
case officers (alia.:; "Bob" ar:d "Henrr," the latter from Washington 
as uosmKO said) nad just corr,pleted a serie,; of r:1eetings with 
BELITSKl'i in c,eneva, Important aspects of r.is information were 
inaccurate: l::lELITSKlY l1ad lx:en recruited a year before NOS£Ni<O' s 
date of 1959, an:i in Bru5sels, not Lor.don. Also, NOS~i(O's clai:n 
that this ~as a Second Chief Directorate operation aimed at en­
ticing CIA into meetings in the USSR was not borne out by the 
hi3tory of the case or by eELITSKlY' s conduct, altl",ough it cannot 
be excluded that this was a long-term objective which the KGB 
still sought without appearing to. ~OSENKO's account of the case 
thus is not as accurate as could be expected if his mm role in 
it had been as claimed. 
NOSENKO's description of his own involvement is not consis­
tent with observed Soviet practic~ or with operational logic. 
NOSENKO said in both 1962 a~d 1964 that he had had orders to 
supervise the handling of this case in Geneva in the spring of 
1962. The reason was that the case officer for BELITSl<IY in 
Ger.eva. (AATEMEV) was young a_nd inexperienced and had not even 
worked on the BELITSKIY case before. NOSEliKO was sayir.g in 
effect--with the authot it)• of direct knowle-jge and official re­
sponsibility--that BELITSKIY, a prcr:iinent Soviet citizen having 
personal contacts with well placc-d ~er.i~ers of the Soviet Govern­
ment, a man who had beer. under the ostensible control of a hos­
tile ir.tellig~nce service {CIA) for four years, was sent by the 
KGB to Geneva for the purpose of recontacting CIA, with pre­
pared information, but that the KGB did not send with him the 
responsible case officer or any member of the section responsible 
for the operation. Instea~, the KGB turned over the ·responsi­
bility to a young and inexperienced KGB officer ~ho ha?pened to 
be in Geneva to protect the security of a de!egation and who 
had had no prior connection with the BELITSKIY case nor even 
local knowledge of Geneva ccnditions: then, after BELI~SKIY was 
already in Geneva, the KGB had cabled ir:str.;ctions that UOSENKO, 
who had no r.eed to know of the case and had learned of it only 
unofficially from conversations in 1960-1961 with the 5ection 
Chief rP.sponsible, who had no experier.ce or training in handl-
ing double agent operatio~s, ar.d who was similarly in Geneva 
tO;l SECRET 
