14-00000 
760. 
suppress unpleasant memories and would have no real appre­
ciation of or rcspoct for an "objective truth." His re­
porting, like his perception and his ~omory, might tbcr•fore 
seem distorted. He eight recount events accordint to his 
mood of the moocnt. Tbus, to- cxampl~, if real attac~ents 
to family or friends is i~pos~ible ·ror a psychopath, there~!­
be an explanation as to why NOSENKO cannot easily remember \....~--------­
bis childrens' bil·thdays, why in 1962 (or 1965) be appears 
to bave lied--or been indifferent to the truth--about his 
older daughter's schooling, and why he cannot rocall when 
be first married. In theory this bypothesis can explain 
•ny aberration, sinco it involves the unknowable. In its 
most extreme form, by describing NOSENKO as one unable to 
discriminate betweeu fact and fnncy, it would encompass and 
explain away the !acts that his story is obviously untrue 
and contradictory in Major way~; that his account of his 
personal and professional life and his rendition of the-
information he knows are so vague and unsubstantial; that 
he cannot (and/or does not care to) remember or recount 
how he did the thin~s he did. Most important, it woula 
dismiss any conclusions based on NOS~SKO's testimony si~ce 
nothing NOSENKO said could bo taken seriously. This hypo-
thesis, however, is unsupportable because of several 
factors. 
First, NOSENKO claims--and other sources confirm--that 
he quickly rose to high supervisory responsibility in a 
counterintelligence organization which is known to require 
attention to detail. Ho would have risea in the KGB •~.-hile' 
overcoming the black mai·ks in his file: scandal, indiscip­
line, negative b~ck~rou~d factors, 3nd bad Party record. 
NOSE.~O admits that his performance was not good; he was 
iuattentive and inactive and almost none of his operational 
activity was carried out unaccompanied. That his rise re­
sulted from his father's influence or GRIBANOV's is unten­
able, for his father died in 1956 and GRI8ANOV's patronage 
(itself open to the strongest doubt) would not and could not 
be dispensed upon such a mental case. Mental aberration to 
tbe degree which would explain his poor performance under 
CIA interrogation would necessarily have hindered bis per­
fonaance of KGB duties, denied him special privileges, and 
and hence cost him the career which NOSENKO bas claimed for 
himself. 
A second factor negating this hypothesis of a psycho­
pathic personality is that such a person could be induced 
to recall certain details with the help of discussion, 
questioning, and remind~rs, whereas NOSE~1CO's vague and bazy 
reports seem to r~present the absolute limits of his memory 
or knowledge. Years of questioning have not succeeded in 
dredging up any ne,1 detailR 01· incidents. Even when reminded, 
he could not recall, for example, one of KOSOLAPOV's TDYs to 
Helsinki, the details of the seizure of electronic equipment 
from the U.S. Ar~y Attaches at Stalingrad, the correct date 
of GOLi TSYN' s de feet ion, or the presence of KlffiUSHCHEV in 
Moscow at the time of the decision to· arrest BARGHOOR.."{. .·._ .. 
Another factor is th~ impos~ibility of ~pplying this 
hypothesis to the totality of NOSENKO's reporting. If the 
_ bypothesis holds that some things are important to him and 
others are not, and that he therefore remcm~ers the former 
and forgets tbe latter, it 1s refuted by the inability to. 
TOP SECRET 
• 
