14-00000 
I 
sunelJlance team. 
h. Eventually scp.irate GERENDE f~m either LIJERSEY wrveUlance 
team duties or the thre-e phocogrnphlc base house8, preferably t.'1e former. 
The two types of actlvlrtes arc not cornpatlble wtch each other &.Dd should 
not be handled by the same prlnctpal agent. 
t. Implied. but not cpeclftcally stated elsewhere ln this paper, 
la the suggestion that GERENDE be given a "coolt.·1g off' and training 
period of two to three months ln PUPRl~E. Of course, this wlU not 
be pooblble wuU olhcr asaeta &re dt:veloped to tuke over Gl:.R l:.."iVE' a 
present duttea. After hls recurn from PBPRIME, GERENDE could be 
used to develop new suppon i.stictS which would be completely compartmented 
from all of hls previou.ii opcratlons, personnel and actlvlttes. 
OONC:LUSIONS 
It would take several weeks of uninterrupted study of files to wrtte a 
really comp:ehenslve SP,CUrlty rcvlcw of GERE.NDE's operatloos and aalvttlea. 
lfcr,,,aver, based on the taas com.alned tn t.hls paper, It ts the Station's oplnlon 
thAt GERENDE probably lB not now kno.;11 to the local police 8£e::tcics es a 
l<UBARK or FBPRIME agent. lt ls beltevcd that GEREl'-lDE could be ldencuted 
by the local sx,Uce ngenctea at any ttme they choose to lnterrogate Ll?:)""T!Cl(S-12 
and 30 tn detaU or whe:i one o! the other ageas: assetd formerly or currr-ntly 
aaooclated wilh GERENDE ls compromtsi-d. Furthermore, U GERD.'DE ta 
arrested, he could compromise most of L'1c Station's support assets, plus the 
BGMORNINO and Cuban £.'tiles pontons ot LlFEAT. 
•"' 
Clven several months tl0le, the slow procesa of compartmm:.a.tlan 
can be Introduced tnto GERENDE's operations. Such compartmentatloa, however, 
wW never res.ch the truly desirable polnt, but some trnprovement over the . 
exlatlng stnmtion can be made, If GERENDE can emerge bask:ally unscathed 
from the current tncldents, then KUBARK will have an extremely valuable 
luiig•range suppon asaec. 
Qulmon N. OUSLER 
21 October 1958 
SECRET 
'.• '•. 
• 
