14-00000 
•· Blevea unwitting organizations wblcb received 
grants froa. project orpaizatlons for operational or 
cover reaaoas or wbicb cooperated 11S.tb project orpat­
zations. 
8. We eaDDOt aay with complete aaaurance that all 55 
of the apparently tanocent organtzatioaa on tbe BP
7
rta 
list la fact never bad any Agency ties. Our reaearc es llave 
abowa that BID S.adlcea are often incoaplete. We bave found 
operational use data ln CCS fllea on orgaalzations witb no 
record 1D RID. The same ls true in other oa••• wbere lntor­
■atlon was available in CA Staff or area divlaioa files on 
orgaaizatlona wblch drew a blank in BID. It••- likely, 
bovever, tlaat any undetected operational iatereat ln the 
orgaalzatlons was in tbe period of tbe early 1950'• aad of a 
marginal nature. 
9. In revintq available lllforaation on tile lt.ated 
organiutlona we attempted to detel"lline whether there na a 
logical external baala for Ra~rrta• intereat ln tbe orpni­zatlona or whether aoaae fora o internal Agency leak alght 
be involved. OUr reviews and analysis sbow fairly conclu­
sively tbat m•rts baa been proceeding on tbe basts of 
ov~J"f;ly.:avaf e 1Dfonaat1on, aupplemanted by 1ntorv1ewa 
vltb project peraomael: 
a. All but three of tile 42 tera1aated bllt hither­
to uneJEpOsed project orpat.zationa and 24 of tbe 56 or­
pnizatlona wbtcb actually bad ao .Agency tiea are some­
bow related to project orgalllzatlona or funding t.aatru­
-•t• prerioualy exposed. Boae of the orpa:Laationa 
made legitllllate or covert grant& to preri.oualy ezpoaed 
orpaiutloas, o1:bera received covert or leglttaate 
paate fl'Oll prevtoaal,7 expoeed fuadlq tnatruaeat• or 
froa l.aaocent foadatioaa tbat bad aade legitlllate 
grant■ to-exposed orpnlutiona, aDCI etl.11 otben bad 
otftaen wbo were aaoalated w11:II expoaed CIA erpnt­
aatloaa. 
b. Tblrty-one innoeent orpnizatlo• oa tbe 
lam.parts list and tbree of tbe bitllerto wapoeed 
organliitto• of toner interest to tbe .ApDCJ ba98 
DO aucb knowa tl• to exposed Ageaoy organ:lza1:loaa. 
Ia aost of tbeee cases, bolrenr, tile names ot tile 
orpll1aatloas are alllllar to tboae of espoaed organ­
t.zatioaa or are of a nature tbat uk .. tbea aaapect. 
