14-00000 
·•· .. -.- _. ... 
L 
11. Subject's. only other possible coMection with 
narcotics involves a report he gave to Mr. DREW of the 
FBI. This was as follovs: Subject has a friend na.aed 
Carlos ARMAS who is skipper of a shrimp boat the •sea 
Cat•. ARMAS lives at 1800 !IW 311th Street, Miami. At sea 
in British waters <.around some British isla,nd o.r cay in the 
Caribbean). ARMAS has •fraternized• with a Cuban shri&;.,er • 
•t1 Cestero• captained by Antonio LOPEZ. LOPEZ has told 
AR.MAS that his boat,. "El Cestero", often carries aboard a 
saall, very fast speedboat. While anchored in British waters 
this speedboat, with a crew of 31 is put overbo4r~ ~ith a 
•package" on board. It disappears only to return sometime 
later .minus the package but with large quantities of mor,;;iy. 
It then refuels from "El Cestero" and heads for Cuba on its 
own power. Subject and ARMAS think it probable that the • 
package contains narcotics and that Fidel CASTRO is raising 
money this way. Hr. DREW of the FBI told Subject to tell • 
hie story to the C~st Guard. Subject did but the CG said 
they were not interested because the smuggling was taking 
place in British waters. As far as Subject knows nothing has\ 
ever been done about this matter. I 
12. 
40lftl tOI 
Subject says that "politically• hi■ program break■ 
•• 
be 
c. 
Keepin1·· about 200·· men (•my action men") ready • 
for action in case of a sudden change in Cuba 
or a •ao ahead" on raids against Cuba. 
Keepin1 on good terms with Edgardo.BUTTARI •and, 
Frank CONDOM who are both on good terms with 
•aebe" REBOZO who is in turn, an intimate 
friend of President NIXON. (Subject asked me 
not to discuss or report this owing to its 
political sensitivity. It would seem prudent 
not to accentu:~e this matter). 
Keeping g~od r-.lationa with Nicaragua and 
Haiti for poss!~le futuN operations against 
Cut!a. 
13. I asked Subject if he had any dealingH with ~clcn~l 
Angel ARAUZ of Panama in connection with efforts to ~verthrow 
the government of Panama. He said that ARAUZ had t;;••ia<l to 
1•t him, Subj act, to f\n"niah arms, support, and influ:1.ntial-
, .... -
•. 
t 
l 
I 
