14-00000 
; -
f 
QRPBOIIE/1 bis iapressloDB of it all, bis reaction to the 
ST7Llt4FLAM proposal, and whether be •ould accept its 
deuading obli~ationa. QRWONB said be certainly would 
and that be 1ound it a real challenge to bia intellect and 
bis operational ■kills. The tedious rtudy .of the d-ialecuc· 
·would not deter biaa. Bia only concern was bow he· ab~uld .· 
actually play it aa be developed r.elatlonebipa with . 
appropriate party members and, ultimately, the Chinese 1D 
SMORAKGB. ,I pointed out he needn't concern bimaelf with 
tbe last point because that would be part of the purpose 
of tbe ten-day training prograa in SMORAHGB in September 
wblcb would be given bim by the Headquarters STFLil4FLAM 
officer. I said tbe trainin~ would require total emersion 
for ten days ■traiibt, probably in some secluded beach 
house on the coast •here all involved could reside full 
time. Be said this would present no problem cover-wise; 
be ,rould simply tell bie family be bad ~one to tbe continent. 
l said that PAUPBll03 would be worki~i out tbe details of 
tbi■ witb bim, probably after bis return from vacation. 
4. I said that given QJlPBO!fi/l'a pa■t performance, 
bis credent.lals with the radical left, and bis apparent 
interest in viboroualy purauin~ the STFLIMl'LAM program•• 
expected to be able to measure in six to ei~bt months the 
likelihood o1 bie bein~ able to achieve all the STFLIIIFLAM 
obJectives based upon tbe pro,reas be would have made by 
then with bis Cbicoa contacts. Sbould it appear that tbe 
STFLIULAM operation would not aucceed we would be discussing 
alternative courses of action with him by the end of the 
year. Be did say that 01 all tbe countries in Eurol)4f where 
bls STFLIULAM and radical left potential is probably the 
best, ltal1 •ould be first and Denmark second. 
5. I told QJUIIIONE/1 that bis meeting with PAUPEROS 
. bad beea moved to 31 July as be requested, reviewed bis 
Europeaa vacation plans and bis Malta trip and wished bi■ 
tbe very beat of luck. At this point QRPBOHE/1 cert~in!Y 
seeBB willing and able aglressively to pUr&ue our o1Mfrational 
plana. We sball see. 
· Andrew F. TEI.QUIST 
.. 
.J 
