14-00000 
.. 
' L. 
f I' 
r-.... 
-
, 
""'"' • SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
D00 IXSTRl'CTIO:-.l 
NO. 50-10 
OPERA TIO~S-CE:-;ERAL 
.f September 1973 
d. Officiau, Represenlutil°'<'I, or Employee, of Communist Counlrla '" the 
United State, (see 001 00-11) . 
Prior appro,·al of the Uirmor or the Deputy Director for Operations is 
required for operational rontact in the United States with or operational 
use of officials, rcprt>st·ntatin•s, or emplo)·ees of the USSR, its s:.tellite 
countries, Communist Chin.t, or any other couoby under Communist 
control If, while in the United States, such indi,;dual is to be investigated, 
approached for rt'(."ruitmrnt. or contact<'d for operational purposes, the prior 
coocurreoce of the FBI "ill also be required in accorcbnce with para-
graph 6.b .. above. ,e. A nrJ:vs 
e. Dele1;ate1 or Employre1 of the Vnitcd Sr=, • 
It is DDO policy that the operational use of delegates or employees of 
the United Xatioru, including those of its ,·arious ·m:un organs and of 
its related intergovernmental agencies, is of such sensitivity as to require 
special consideration hr the Deputy Director for Operations. lo especially 
worthwhile cases wherdn operational use of a particular US individual 
is deemed essential fur the accomplishment of the DDO mission, approval 
may be obtaiued. In each case iu\'olving a ooo-U.S. citizen assigned in 
the U.S. or a U.S. citiwn whem·er assigned, the prior approval of the 
Deputy Director for Operations will be required. ( See paragraph 8.b. 
regarding use of non-U.S. citizen delegates or emplorees not assigned 
in the U.S.) u. \\·rule In the lToited States, the u~ individual is to be 
investigated, approocheJ for recruitment, or contacted for operational pur­
po5eS, the prior concurrence of the FBI may also be required as outlined 
in paragraph 6.b.. abo,·e. 
f. Slaff Member, or OfficilJJ., of Red Crou Societies 
The operational use of staff members or officuls of the International Red 
Cross or its affiliated catiooal Red Cross, Red Crescent, or other equivalent 
societies requires special consideration and prior appro"·al by the Deputy 
Director for Operations. ODO elements should n1ake e,·ery effort to avoid 
the operational use of staff members or officials of Red Cross societies. How­
ever, when especiaJly high priority objecth·es are at stake and alternative 
agent a;sets are not available. approval for the use of such individuals may 
be granted by the O.:puty Duector for Operations. 
g. Official, of the \'atica11 State 
Operational contact \\ith officials of the Vatican State will be made only 
with the prior appro-.·al of the Deputy Director for Operations. Operational 
ase of Vatican officials ";U be contingent on prior approval by the Deputy 
Director for Operations. 
h. U.S. Cooemment Funded Profem,,s, Lecturers, Studenu or Grantee, 
U.S. or foreign professors, lecturers or students and other persons partici­
pating in U.S. Ccn·l'fDmt'Dt-spoosored academic, cultural, athletic or other 
10 
SECRET 
-·---~ .. ,,,,. .11o::.:-:.: .. :~.._---o-..--~,r~ .......... ----> .. ,.._,_-:- - • 
D 
0 
• 
--
... --
