14-00000 
t 
.. 
SEGRET 
•fr_~m:a· Spaniard (Nicanor FERNANDEZ) in Buenos Aires, urging MIRO 
_to ·go to Buenos Aires to arouse anti-Castro sentiment of the people, 
-iru,.smucb as some Argentine action against C~ba appeared imminent._ 
.(FERNANDEZ said he had already written MIRO a letter.) MIRO say•~ 
"Of course, I cannot go.· 1·have the Consejo meeting on the 10th. -
Furthermore, I am going to -New York.on October 11th or 12th for the 
SIP (S.ocieded Interaqierl:cana de Prensa) meeting and have been allotted 
12 minu_tes to adctre1fs the meeting." • • 
. . . . - • , 
10. MIRO to attend Homage to LACERDA (Brazilian whc; 
Precipitated CUADROS' resignation) on October 15 
Dr. MIRO said he planned to remain in New York City {after 
ll and_ 12 October SIP meeting) until October 15th to attend the homage 
for LACERDA, _the Governor of Guanabara province in Brazil. MIRO 
probably will stay -at the Park Chambers Hotel, but will advise Clark 
of his location. 
I commented that I would probably remain in Washington next 
week in view of his plans, but that I might go to New York City to meet 
with him; if so, I would get in touch with him and arrange a meeting 
time and place through Clark. 
11. Propaganda Commission 
I asked Dr. MIRO about •his ideas on the future organization 
and structure of the Propaganda Commission. He stated that it is out-
side the Consejo and not under his direct control, although the Council 
accountant has been passing funds to it. He said CA@ULLO'had resigned 
as head of Propaganda and that he would like CONTE AGUERO to handle 
it. He' claimed that MESTRE lvld not done anything with propaganda. 
12. MIR,P's Views Relative to Supreme Court Ju11tice or PRIO 
being-Recognized as Head of a Provisional Government 
I asked Dr. MIRO if he believed that there were many anti­
Castro Cubans (both in and out of Cuba) who favored PRIO, or the head 
of the Supreme Court to. be the provisional president if a government were 
to be established on Cuban soil.· Dr. MIRO declared that the revolution 
is a fact, and that practically nobody wants to go back to any former 
regime. The people in Cuba would resist any such possibility. He de-
6 
