14-00000 
-7-
, ~~1[U)!Rlu\!l Y©'l (CIA 
®~~ground Use Only 
1::,,._©~ 11\jgi !Reproduce 
11. In December 1965 WER BELL contacted a Miami DCD 
asset and told him that he and six Cuban exiles in the U. S. 
had organized a group, including approximately 20 Cubans 
inside Cuba, to perform a commando operation in Cuba during 
early January 1966., Their primary mission was the assassination 
of Fidel Castro, with the secondary mission of blowing up the 
generators that supply electricity to Havana, Cuba. WER BELL, 
at the time, stated that he was trying to get a "green light" 
from CIA to proceed with the mission, and inferred that the 
mission would be called off if such approval was not obtained. 
12. On 7 February 1966 the Miami office of the FBI 
reported that WER BELL had been in contact with various news 
agencies concerning an alleged plan to assassinate Fidel Castro, 
and reportedly also had discussed the plan with Mr. Richard 
Phillips, Public Affairs Officer, Department of State, Washington, 
D.C. WER BELL claimed to have a group of some 500 men infiltrated 
into Cuba and said that they were ready for action to overthrow 
the regime immediately following .the assassination of Castro. 
According to the FBI, WER BELL gave the impression that he is 
acquainted with many high government officials, both in the U.S. 
and other countries, and implied that his assassination plan 
had been approved by CIA. 
13. According to a memorandum in WER BELL's file, on 7 
February 1968, one Bruce Arman Baker telephoned an employee 
of this Agency and said he had been in contact with WER BELL. 
Mr. Baker said that WER BELL was in the weapons manufacturing 
business and delivered them by air throughout the world. 
Mr. Baker said that he understood that WER BELL does this for 
CIA. Mr. Baker said that he understood from WER BELL that he 
would have to get a CIA security clearance to fly for WER BELL. 
Baker sa'id that he was afraid that his past smuggling record 
might keep him from getting a CIA clearance. 1,_;--
14. WER BELL came to the attention of the/Bangkok Station\ 
in early 1969 when he went to Thailand represe~ing himself Y 
as Vice President of Sionics, Atlanta, Georgia. He described 
himself as a counterinsurgency expert, had a variety of weapons 
to display, claimed to be a retired colonel, and introduced 
himself at a local nightclub as Chief of CIA in Thailand. 
WER BFLL attempted to sell arms to the Thais and also to a 
variety of U. S. military elements'~" (stat ion Bangkok) passed 
the gist of his reputation to key personalities in ~e U. S. 
mission and the Thai Government stressing that he was not 
sponsored in any way by the U. S. Government. 
