14-00000 
i 
l 
SECRE1 
. ARTICL! VI. Retlr~ment. The Employee occupies 8 posltlon 
wlt.hln the p~rview of the Civil Service Retiremen~ Act. Accord• 
ingly,,,deductlona a.hall be made at the ra.te provided by l~w tprea·­
ently ~~I from \.he Employee's baBlc salary and placed in the Civil 
Se~vii~ Retirement Fund. The Employee may not avail himself 0t 
the provisions of the Poreign Servlc,e Retirement. and Dlsablllty 
System, provided for in Tit.le VIII of the Foreign Service Act of 
1946. 
ARTICLE VII. Medical Care and Hospltallzatlon. ·In the event. 
of lllneee or lnJury to the Employee requiring hospltallzatlon 
_n6t the result or vicious habit.a, intemperance, or misconduct on 
his part, and incurred in the line or duty while assigned abroa4, 
the expenses,..of treatJ11ept of such illness or inJury at. a suitable 
hospital or clinic, or tranapot~ation·expenses to such hospital 
or clinic may be paici''by the Government in accordance with Tit.le 
IX, Part! of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, Under appropriate 
regulations, 'a physical exir.mlnaUon of the Employee will be made, 
together with necessary inoculations, or vaccinations, or the ex­
pense thereof will be paid to the Employee. 
l. In the etent of the death or disablllty of the im­
ployee, the Employee or hla dependents shall be afforded the ben­
efits of the United f?tates Employe.es' Compene_aU on Act of 7 Sep­
t.ember 1916, as amended.· 
ARTICtlt VI I I. Equipment.. The Employee may be furnlahed 
technic~l equipment and supplies to assist in the rendition or 
services hereunder, including an automobile where necessary. The 
Employee shall be responsible for such equipment. and supplies 
issued to him by CIA in accordance with CIA Property Rerulations. 
All such material shall r&main the property of the Government re-
.. gardless or any apparently ~onflicting ownership ~r the manner or 
registration .. 
ARTICLE IX. Salary. The Employee.shall receive a basic 
salary or $·',:·~ -.'.'i) ,.. ~-1. per year in accordance with Section 415 
or the Foreign Service Act of 1946, In-class promot!ons shall be 
granted to the Emptoyee in accordance with regulat.lons establ lshed 
in the Department of St.ate pursuant to Title Vl, Part E, Section 
~42 or the Foreign Service Act or 1946, _ Other changes in statue 
wlll be• made only as speci flcally authorized by the A1>S0:. :.:frG 
-5-
Sf~REl 
