14-00000 
.... • .. ( .. :., ... "" 
: 
...... :- :1,. ;:,~:.:l•<h,•'., , •.;~; -~ ., • .. ) , ·-~~, 
• >. • ..• ::;;\:i(;;~,f. 
Top Secret 
(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962) 
knowledge as to the effectiveness of United States operations 
within the Soviet Union, particularly the military atcache 
collection program. Soviet knowledge of U,S. emphasis upon 
certain intelligence collection areas has made it possible 
for them to identify priority intelligence and probably 
Soviet targets and thereby permitted them to implement 
specific counteractions. The Soviets over the years must 
have amassed considerable information concerning the personal 
habits, problems, attitudes and weaknesses of personnel 
assigned to the Embassy which can be used by them for purposes 
of exploitation at any time of their choosing in the future." 
Col. Theodore F. HOFFMAU, Army Attache in Moscow from 
May 1959 to .M.ay 1961 (a period coinciding with some eighteen 
months of NOSENKO's claimed two years' service in the Embassy 
Section), has been more specific. Interviewed by CIA, Col. 
HOFFMAN recalled instances which the KGB, by monitoring just 
the conversations held in his office, could have become aware 
of the vulnerability of service attache personnel. As 
examples, he cited the two occasions on which military code 
olo clerk /[TORSBER§ was reprimanded for absenteeism (unavailable 
for cipher duties because he was elsewhere with "girl 
. ,.friends" J ; goFFMAN' s conversations with America House manager 
(-:6Qeter BINDE~ (the personality problems, drinking :habits and 
other incidents relating to.America House residents and 
visitors to the America Club), and the detailed circumstances • 
prompting the decision to remove substitute code clerk(}sEYSEi®bb 
• from Moscow (homosexuality).. [Besides his general duties as . 
. Chief of the Embassy Section, NOSENKO claims special-responsi­
bilities for each of the persons mentioned. He supervised· 
the KGB officers operating against code clerks and residents· 
of America House, and asserts he was perso~ally invqlved in . 
· the KGB attempts to recruit [sTORSBERGl and (KEYSERS, .()6 C'1The KGB 
attempted· 1ater to. recruit ~INDE~,tl"'as well~-)] In summing up 
his views, Col. HOFFMAN said: "To be perfectly frank, I 
would assume that ... some of our modus operandi, some of 
our targets, some.of the results, and all 6f our personal 
weaknesses were compromised." 
234 
G00i5C6 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
