14-00000 
..• 
r 
question so that we could respond only with respect to the 
particular companies or individuals in which he was. interested. 
As a concession, he cut down the period from the last ten years 
to "since 197111 and I said we would note his request. 
b. Thompson asked about CIA relationships with the Mormon 
church, the Summa Corporation, or the Hughes Tool Company. -
(Thompson said he had specific i_nformation that we had something 
with the Mormon church.) I suggested that if he is interested in· 
• whether the Agency had any relationship with these three institutions 
in· connection with CIA I s relationship with the Mullen Company; he 
rephrase the question. Thompson refused to do this and I said we 
would note his request. 
c. Thompson wanted a full explanation of the "WH flap. 11 
I told Thompson this involved a sensitive and active situation 
which had been explained to Senator Baker and that Lukoskie 
was not an.Agency witness in this respect. but we would note 
his interest a.rid see what could be provided. (I believe Thompson 
has already been fully exposed to the "WH flap" in an executive 
hearing with Bennett during which Baker asked if Bennett knew 
what the WH flap was all about. Baker later told me that Bennett 
did know, and explained it to Baker. I assumed that Bennett may 
have gotten this information from \Jjm~ EY~_i-E?t~~) Thompson 
observed the pa;rallel which exists between the position of CIA 
with respect to the "Wi-I flap" and the White House with respect 
to issues it did not wish to be explored .by the Attorney General 
in co0.nection with the activities of the Plumbers (an observation 
I have been expecting for some time, .. but this is the first time it 
has been presented directly.) 
Mr. Lukoskie's testimony was excellent with no surpris_es and generally 
paralleled that given to Senator Baker in the Senator's office on 11 December 
1973: 
a. Concerning any general logs that CCS maintains on 
contacts with cover firms, .Lukoskie explained that internal 
procedures had changed some time in December 1972 on the 
information to be maintained in the logs. To assure his 
responsiveness to a specific question, I refreshed Lukoskie's 
4. 
