14-00000 
, 
DOOINSTRUCTIO~ 
NO. 50-10 
SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIOXS-CEXERAL 
.C September 1973 
counterpart to the t'.S. Peace Corps. Such \'oluntttrs are sent to the U.S. 
for a period of service in schools and community de\·elopmeot programs. 
The name of the organization may \·azy by country. 
8. OPERATIO~AL USE REQUIRES APPROVAL BY CHIEF OF AREA 
DIVISION 
Operational use of any indhidual in the categories listed in this paragraph 
Is considered of such sensiti\'ity :is to require special consideration and ap­
proval by the appropri.1te Area Di\"ision Chief. This authority may not he 
delegated. The request for appro\-al wi!I he by memorandum in "·hicb the 
lndhidual's covert appro"al status will be described, together with a concise 
explanation of the intended operational UM'. 
L Citizen, or Alien Resident• of the U.S. Uaed '" Denied Area. (see 
DOI 50-19) 
The opr .-ational use in denied areas of U.S. citizens, or of aliens who have 
been admitted for pennanent residt"flce or ha\·e resided for a prolooged 
period in the U.S., requires the prior approval of the Chief of the Area 
Division un_der whose jwisdictfon the intended use is to take place. 
b. Non-U.S. Citizen D<"kgatu or Em~u of the Unikd Xatlon, not h­
llgned ir1 the U.S. 
The operational use of non-U.S. dtiz.eo delegates or l'Dlployees of the 
United Nations who are not assigned in the U.S. requires the prior ap­
proval of the Chief of the Azea Dhision under whose jurisdiction the in­
tended use is to take place. 
o. M~ of the Academic Commumti, 
( l) Within the contm of this il15truction a member of the academic com­
munity is defined as: any student, faculty member, administrati\-e 
officer or staff official of a coUc-ge. uni\"ersity or similar institution of 
higher learning induding their associated rt'Se31'Cb centers. Persons 
associated with institutions such as police or military training centers 
(except the four college-level military service academies) or under­
going specialized technical training \\ith business or commercial firms 
are IIOt considered to he members of the academic community. 
(2) Operational use of members of the academic community, especially 
those cases wherein an indi\'idual is to be made ·witting of Agency 
lnteffSt, "'ill he on a highly selective basis. Each case "';D be examined 
to ascertain its essentiality to the D00 mission in terms of the price 
of possible disclosure, and to ensure that proper security procedures 
can he observed. When it has hem determined that the operational 
use of a member of the 3'.ademic community as defined ahem~ is 
U, 
SECRET 
. . 
D 
D. 
.. 
• 
