14-00000 
I 
75!?. 
did so in Geneva, SOSE?,KO has given dUferect ans7ers at 
different t 1.llles. Hie stories of skply "dropping in snd 
bangicg arour.d" for lack of anything better to ..=o are 
unacceptable in teraa of known or likely Soviet practice. 
His ex?lanatlon that it was due to TSi'l(BAL's auspices or 
or intervention ~ere contradicted by: First. his o~c con­
fused accounts of bis relationship with TSYllBAL; and second, 
bis own statements at other ti?11cs that it·was GUK who was 
primarily responsible for SOSE~1CO's visits to the R~sidency. 
N<>SENXO bad a full day free for meetings on 11 June 
1962, although thereafter he limited i:ieet ing t lcies to &borte~· 
and shorter ~eriods until his departure. Tr.is seemed 
natural at the time since he would presumabl 1 h~v~ bis own 
responsibilities and would need to be seEn by his Soviet 
colleagues in his proper surroundings. However, in 1964 · 
be seeee-d cot to ~ave any official responsibilities or any 
calls on bis time: He was willing to spend all his time in 
secticgs with CIA. Althou~h this could be explained by the 
fact that he plai:med to defect anyTay, it nevertheless would 
have involved u~necessary risks to a gecuine source about 
to becoDe a defector. Ho showed no concern at the time, 
but later (in 1966), he said that he had been in tact afraid; 
it was tor this reason that he invented the ~oscow recall 
telegram, in order to hasten ais defection and put an end 
to bis fears of getting caught. It is, of course, impossible 
to make conclusive Jud~ments on SoYiet practice, but one • 
would expect, if NOSENKO were not engaged in security duties, 
tbat he.would be required to participate tor cover reasons 
in more of .the Soviet delegation's official activity. He 
said that any absence could be explained as ·•security d.ities," 
since everyone on th~ Soviet Delegation knew or suspected 
that he was a KGB officer. This unconcern tor the suspicions 
of other Soviets conforms neither with observed Soviet 
practice nor with reports from other sources that Soviet 
intelligence and security officers under cover go to soae 
pain& to bide tbelr true affiliation. 
liOSENKO explained the contrast between bis freedom 
and availability in 1964 and his limited free tice in 1962 
by the fact that in 1964 he had no· personal friends in 
Geneva; in 1962 both GUK and KISLOV expected to see him in 
bis free time. (This story does not explain t-.is ability in 
196.f to get a,r;ay during conference working hours; neitt.er 
G~ nor KISLOV affected this in 1962.) 
d. TiJ!llng of.1962 Contact 
NOSE?\'XO had been in ·Geoeva for three months in 1962 
when the incident which brought him to CIA occurred; it 
was only two weeks before his departure. He came to'David 
K.ARK only 10 days before leaving. This bad tte effect of 
limiting CIA's time with him. SOSE~'"KO's contact ca:se only 
about 10 days after CIA had co~pleted, in the same city, a 
series of meetings with HELITSKIY, a Soviet interpreter who 
had been recruited and handled as an agent by CIA during 
earlier visits to the West. NOSE~lCO, as one of the two 
prlaa:y items he wanted to ••sell"' revealed that 6ELITSKIY 
bad been under KGB control fro• t_!:le outset (Page 517). 
10P StCRE1 
,, 
; ., 
i 
l 
i 
{ 
........ 
... 
