14-00000 
··.·sEOl\Et 
'1VES ONLY 
former staff employee, and then a private Investigator, was en• 
gaged to arrange for the coverage. ·Maheu could only identify the 
technician by the name. of LeOA. Presumably, thi■ coverage wu 
done as a routine technique· to keep the Ntuchus lntereat• lnfo-rmed 
on Onassis' 1novem.enta. Thia was not lnltiated at the reque•t of 
any Agency component so far aa our records indicate. 
•· 
8. Subsequently, Maheu advised be had received a me■ sage 
from· one of the Committee's attorneys named Homme who wanted 
to fly out to talk with hhn. Maheu fended him· off by saying he wae 
tied up for the next several days. He then contacted hi• attorney, 
Edward P. Morgan, of Washington. D. C., and lt wu decided that 
Morgan would meet. him bl St. Louis on Z4 May for a conference. 
• 9. On Thu.raday morning, 26 May, Maheu called to advise 
that he wa• at the Madt■ on Hotel, Waahington, D. C., and wu 
anxious to talk with '118. At hi• request it was arranged to have 
Colonel Edward■ accompany a member of this office to meet with 
him. 
10. Maheu opened the conversation by announcing that he hacl 
been •elected to be the atar performer on a plamied TV hearing 
which i• acheduled to open within the next few weeks. He went on 
to give the ·baa.fa for this statement tn the following detail. 
When he first talked to Ed Morgan of the poeeibillty 
of hie being subpoenaed, Morgan aaaured him that he 
had nothing to be concerned about inasmuch a• he was 
a very close friend of Senator Long'• personal attorney 
who had considerable influence upon the Senator. The 
lawyer reside• ln St. Louis, and he suggested that they 
both go out and aollclt his asaiata.nce. After the preaen• 
tation of the facts,_ .all three flew to Washington where 
the lawyer secured an appoinhnent with the Senator. 
Mr. Bernard Fensterwald was in attendance at the 
meeting. He identified himself u the Chief Attorney 
for the Cornm.tttco. According to Maheu, Fenaterwald 
made it clear that Maheu was their ace in the hole and 
without him the Hearings would have no appeal. He 
implied that Maheu's clients and their opposition added 
3 
EYES ONLY 
SECRET 
