14-00000 -
~ 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
re 
• 13. 
... ,. -~ ;,,,, . .. 
this trip because SHAJ<HOV, who _w~s, suspected cf possibly being 
a Western agent, was to be in tne d.:::legation. When the Eleventh 
Departrnent was looking for a case o_fficer to t:"ake this trip 
they wanted to have a chief of section because of the serious-
ness of the SHAKHOV case. When they asked in the Seventh • 
Department (V.D.) CHELNOKOV agreed that I should take the as­
signn:ent. There was no background or neighcorhood inv~stigation 
conducted on me in connection ~ith ny being approved for this 
trip.* My assignment was approved by the Eleventh Department, 
by the Personnel Office of the Second Chief Directorate, by 
the Central Personnel Office of the KGB and by the C~rtral 
Committee of the CPSU." 
NOSENKO was asked why he had been selected to make this 
trip imn:ediatcly after assuming the duties of the Chief of the 
American Tourist Section, on the eve of· the tourist season, 
and at a ti~e when he had no deputy. He explained that it 
was not thought that the assignment would last so long, and 
CHEL:lOKOV, his_ superior and friend, had decided to le~ him go 
as a "treat." 
Dilring interrogations of October 1966 NOSENKO was ques­
tioned further about his 1962 assignment to Geneva as a security 
officer. He said that in this capaciity he would necessarily 
know the identity of all other KGB officers serving with the 
Soviet Disarmar.-.ent Delega~ion in Geneva. There were only, 
besides himself, the KGB First Chief Directorate ufficers M.S. 
TSYMBAL and I.S. Mf,YOROV. (CIA, however, has tentatively 
identified three other delegation members as KGB staff officers: 
A.K. KISLOV, observed in Washington a,,d in Moscow in what 
appears to .have been KGB operational activity; V.G. FILATOV, who 
served as an alternate handler in the KG~ operation with the 
NATO officer Georges PAQUES; and Oleg GRINEVSKIY, a ~cTber 
of the permanent. Sovie~ Delegation who< handled ,- ffi$!!f$ 
double agent during this same conference.) NOSENKO 1.n:: uc,.ed 
GRINEVSKIY in the list of his own· agents in Geneva in 1962 
and said that, in Moscow, GRINEVSKIY was handled by an offi-
cer of the Intelligentsia and Corr~spondents Department of 
the Second Chief Directorate. KISLOV, according to NCS~NKO, 
was an operational contact in Moscow of the Austria-Germany-
• -Scandanavia Department of the KGB Second Chief Directorate 
and was used in operations aga~nst the West Ger.nan Embassy 
there, NOSENKO also said that KISLOV had been a KGB operational 
contact during his earlier·tour in the United States but was 
neither then nor later a KGB officer. He characterized FILA­
TOV as a Ministry of Foreign Affairs.official and stated that 
he is •definitely not an intelligence officer.n 
NOSENKO was also requestioned during these interrogations 
on his investigation of SHAKHOV. After saying on the morning 
of 19 October 1966 that he had been personally told by the 
;··:( 
* NOSENKO has $.aid that in 1960 he was turned down •• for a per-· 
manent assignment to Ethiopia because of his excessive drink­
ing. (See Part V. E. t .-.) . 
··,,. .. 
i. 
I 
I 
f. -
l_ 
_...,_ 
