14-00000 
\ SECRE'f 
ME~IORANDUM 
FIDM 
SUBJECT: 
Chief of Station 
CA/Roger E • MAltCIWANK ~--...... 
TYPIC/OPERATIONAL 
AMSCROLL Progress Report 
1 April - 30 Juno 1967 
A. OPERATIONAL IIIGIILIGIITS 
10 July 1967 
WCA 1395 
·n1strtbution: 
3 - cos 
1 - CA/AIA RCIIDANK 
1 - CA Chrono 
1 - RI Chrono 
1. During the quartor under review AMSCROLL continued with 
its program to ·discredit tho Cuban regime's economic management 
(or mismanagement) nml to. seek to discourage Free World trado 
with __ Cuba. To this end AMSCROLL continued publiahing i ta serious 
economic ·studies nnd comment of the Cuban economic area. This 
material is made a"'.ailable to selected ffrms engaged in inter­
national trnde nnd shipping, to commercial and t<:chnical journals, 
and to sugar brokers including certain banks nnd others intorosted 
in_the sugar trade. AMSCTIOLL also continued with itH radio program 
which is beamed to tho Cuban nudicnce and which is increasingly at­
tc-mpting to provide sertous. comment upon economic developments in 
Cuba or. those areas of economic act_ivity outside of Cuba which would 
have nn.intor,ost among th~ Cuban list;cncrs. During th.is quarter 
AAISCROLL-:rccoived 15 letters from Cuba which compares with 18 re­
ceiv:ed during tho previous quarter. The monthly count was: April -
6, May - 5, June - 4. 
2. On 30 Aprtl AMSCROLL ceased broadcasting over AMTIIIGH. 
Effective 1 May the program was presented ovor JMIIOPE. This change 
in station (and a consequent change in time) has perhaps effected 
the listenership in Cuba; however, we expect that any unfavorable 
dcvelopmqnts will be overcome and that this program will at least 
re~gain its previous level of listeners. Typical themes included 
discussions of-Cuba's houst'ng problem, its actual sugar production 
measured against Castro's earlier claims of what the production 
would be, breakdowns and stoppage~ at the Cuban refineries, activ-
i tics with tho Soviet Union and tho world sugar market, reporting 
the progress of the Venezuelan dock workers boycott of Rhips of 
those nations that also trade with Cuba, the fight against bureau­
cracy, and economic aspects of the Middle East crisis. 
3. A main AMSCROLL effort continued to be an analysis of the 
current sugar crop. As early as 13 February A?i!SCROLL predicted a 
harvest within the range of 6,100,000 and 6,400,000. By 6 llay 
.Al!SCROLL was able to refine the harvest estimate from 6,047,000 to 
,6,101,000 tons. This estimate was further pinpointed to 6,100,000 
tons in a release dated 16 June. These studies received newspaper 
attention and AAISCROL! .. hns received favorable comment from sugar 
brokers and other technicians engaged in this business. Aa ovcnts .· -'-\•· 
SECRET 
