14-00000_ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
'. I 
l I ! 
. ~ 
·! 
i 
! 
I 
l 
i 
• tbe Soviet· F.abaBSJ in Mexico CUy. Similarly, an AF/081 
controllod·a&eat acbedulod to meet A soviet contact was 
unable to do so owing tu illness, but J..JEUPTY pbotQ£rapbecl 
anotber·porson who appeared at tho t1Got1og situ and tbls 
i,&rsoa 1s believed to bo the agent's Soviet cAse officer. 
SUcb covei'ago baa beon helpful to tbe 902nd, Al'/OSJ and 
_,., tbe n·1 in running tbelr controlled double agent operatiom 
llSA1D8t tile So.Viets· 1D lloxico. • ,-
3. Wit~ln one week after a biannual cbango of license 
.plates on Soytet_Enbassy vehicles, L1~1CPTY' hod provided a 
co.mplete lint of ·tbe>· now talI numbers, olonK wUb a complete 
1dentif1cat1on of the vahicles. Amoog other things, this 
enabled tho Station to idontify the compouiobs of Alotu,andr 
Aleuandrovich RIKITIN, a kno.~ KGB officer, durinu his 
last few days 1a Mox1co. 
4. LIEilPTY bas also deterained that newc0111ers to the 
Soviet Embassy frequently gravitnto to group1nga with tbeir 
R.J 8 col leagues in the "fil~f o ty,. of the bbasay bnckyttrd. 
Thi& tact enablod the Siatioo to make certain tentative 
KGB and GRU 1den Uf tea tions. In u·ddi Uon, certain TDYers 
b.avo been linked up w1th· tht1ir escort officers aod clues 
to personal relationships bave occaaioaQll7 been exploited. 
5. In tho fiold of Soviet patterns of activity and 
associations, LID!PTr bas been able to report accurato 
changes in c~rtain specific cases. LIE!4~TY covorage ■bowed 
that ffIKITllf,·mentiouod io pa~acroph 3 abovo, changed bia 
activity pattern following the defection of Ra1aa . 
Yerofeyevn~ KISXLNIKOVA; ·tormor secrotary in the CON1Crcial 
l.iission in Mexico. Tho swr,e appUesJ to Oleg NF.cIIJPORENKO, 
a Second Secrotary at the Ell!bastty and a known KGD officor. 
LIEW>TY also orovided information on tbc patterns and· 
associations of Tur1y Viktorovich ICUPLYAKOV, :i known KGB 
o1ficer and OD Valeriy Vlnd·1tlirovicb SOKOLIN, & known GRU 
.officer. Coverage of VladiJ:ilir Viktorovicb GOilDEYEV, a 
suspect KGB officer, ehowed that ho did, 10 .tact, ·work in a 
"restricted area" at the Soviet Embtu,ay end also establisbed 
who soce of his usocintee weru. In iha case of Oleg 
KonstanUnovic;b JGNATrEV, who had arrived in Uexico City 
from cnracas, Venezuela, Llri.KPTY was nblo to observe 
IGHATYEV enturing and leavin& in the ccm~any of SVyostoslav 
Fedorovtch KUZNETSOY, Pross A tt11che and First Socretary of 
the Soviet Embassy. IGlfATrEV'also vieitvd tbo SOviat Embassy 
I 
I 
