14-00000 
,·,. 
- a .; 
\ 
I 
them out, the father contracts the obligation of absolutely 
abstaining from callin~ on the mother's address, so that she may 
carry on her life freely without neglecting hor children. 
, I 
io. Wbilo the voluo~ary divorce ~s being processed, the 
mother and childron will ltvo at -..---..--.-....----- ..... -and, as above stated, to satisfy their needs, the lather wl11 make the 
first monthly payment of $10,000, 
11. Neither the father nor the mother may take the children 
out of Mexican territory without the authorization of the other. 
12. Since GERlliDE owes the parents or LIEMPTY-19 the sum of 
$286,SOO_plus agreed-on interest, minus whatever payments be bas 
been able to make, th~ said GERENDE is obliged to mortgage the house 
at 39 Ladera, Lomas de· Bezares in this city, precisely during tho 
course of the divorce procedure by mutual consent as established 
in tho antecedent clauses and before the divorce is granted so that 
LIEMPTY-19's parents are reimbursed on their loan or on the out­
standing unpaid balance. 
13. The expenses of making this ~greornont a formal writ as 
well as the fees of B. Juardo will be pnid by GERl!:NDE but tb~so 
will be fixed in an equitable manner by C~rlos Heyn to whose 
decision both will submit. ' 
14. In case of failure to comply with any o, the clauses of 
this agreement nt any time or for just one time, either by GERENDE 
or LIEMPTY-19, both agree to expressly establish the following 
sanctions and terms: 
I . 15, If GERENDE is the one who violates any clause just one 
time, he w111· forfeit the house at Lndera 39 to the mother ~nd 
children, LIEMPTY-19, Adriana Juliette, ChrJ.stopho1· Ramon, Maria 
Madeleine, and Laurence Fernando, and said property will belong to 
the above mentioned persons. 
16. If LIEMPTY-19 1s the one who violates the ·terms of .this 
agreement for Just one itme, she will lose tho custody of children 
in favor of the father or whatever perscn be designates !or the 
guardiansh_ip and custody of the n1inors. 
17. Since LIEMPTY-19 has to establish an appropriate place 
to live, in the company of her four children, both parties agree 
that the household effects will be turned over by GERENDE, to 
LiEMPTY-19 !or that purpose, as well as the automobile sh~ bas been 
using throughout the marriage. 
Mexico, D.F., 4 March 1970 
