14-00000 
.. 
c. AMLASH-1 was given a resupply of S/W developer 
pills and carbon. Ho planned to take the S/W material 
back with him to Havana. AllLASU-1 again reviewvd with 
ONSNAYU-9 and reminded UNSNAFU-9 to turn over to bia Parle 
case officer all letters regardlos& of how Tecelved from Jr 
AIU.ASH-I to either UNSNAJ'U-9 or lotter& that uy be addres 
to his parents-in-law. AAU.ASH-1 also agreed to send S/W 
out in letters addressed to Juan Ventura (AliiHIP-t•s~ 
business partner) in Geneva or Rome. AIDYHIP-1 vae briefed -
to infore Ventura that any letters be received froa 
AMLASB-1 should be illl!ll8diately air malled to AYWHIP-1 
in New York. Since AllLABH-1 will probably find it 
necessary some tirne not to sign the letters to Ventura 
in bis true name, AM\'IHIP-1 was also briefed to inform 
Ventur~ to forward to New York any letter received from 
CUba addressed to him and signed by a person unknown to 
him. 8/W letters to AMLASH-1 should ~ontinue to be 
addressed to Ernestina Acosta, Edf. No. 526, Apt. 8, 
Esquina Calles 25 y H. In an emergency a letter can also 
be sent to AlfI.ASR-1' s mother. 
d. ~'\ILASB-1 was again debriefed on the cache that bad 
been put down for him in Matanzas. He repeated what be 
had previously reportod and attempted to anner l!lOBt of 
the questions in the WAVE cable. A cable on this subject 
was sent from Paris to Headquarters, info WAVE, on 2 ~eb. 
AMLASB-1 was requested to send a message either through 
his channel or through AUTRUNIC-lO's S/W channel reporting 
bow much of tbe radio equipment and other material bad 
been recovered froa tbe cache. 
•• AHLASH-1 was asked if he knew of any individual in 
Cuba whom be could recruit and who could be inserted into 
the Cuban Intelligence Service with the idea of attempting 
to get the DGI to assign this man to Caracas~ Venezuela. 
AW..ASB-1 could think of only one possibility, an individual 
known as Guetavotaonzalez. AllLASB-1 has full con1idence 
ln Gustavo and Gustavo nas previouslr been approached on 
several occasions by Pinero to work for him. Upon bis 
return to Cuba Alll.ASH-1 \Vlll check to find out 1f Gustavo 
can still get himself recruited by Pinero and then be 
ant on a mission abroad, hopefully to Caracas. (AMWHIP-1, 
who also knows Gustavo, will provide the baoqround lnfor­
aation upon bis return to New York.) 
t. AXLASH-1 reported on the upcoming FBU elections 
on 10 February 1965. AMLASB-1 stated that Crombet, the 
president of the Communist Youth, will become the new. 
SECRf:T 
I 
\ 
