14-00000 
--... 
. 
by tho goverm:ont Bhii>plng conc!ml "Yad:icas" to 11ve Rua all possible coop9rat-
ion in the fulfillment of hio. functior.i:. Rl14 then camo to 11ee me and a oked, 
among other thingo, ttmt I surreT.din- •n him tho inco1:1ing and outgoing C'J11l ot 
cortain specific crewmen who were •ua;,c:Jct.9'1 or l eing &/!ainst tho g_overnment., 
Anothor inotanco of ill-treatr..imt which Cut an soamon resent is the discrim,! 
lllltion to which vo aro subject bJ tt-.e Cucan Cuotoms ao cocpared to tho preferr••• 
tial treat.Jrnnt they accord to foreig,i eailors, particularly thoso_from behind 
'. the iron curtain. !~et overything we t.ring fr":n abroad to alleviate tho scorcit.7 
suffered by our familioa ia con.1'1•ca♦..e,,, at the Custcms·ffouse. 
Still other reaoonr: for diegurt are the rran, cuts an4 discounts ;_de tz:011 out 
alree.cly lov PB1 arid, verr eopeciall7, the tidiculousiy 101' amoun~ or rore1,d cut 
rency that vo are allowed when ve uii atro~. For spending mono, in foreign. 
ports, all we got in local currency h t..h9 equivalent or $5 per week which, ot 
course, are deducted from our basic uv..ries. !n applying this restriction, no 
distinction is 11111de between the cr.ew:en or th~ various officer ranko. It is c,· 
for everyone. 
Becauoe of all this, and becauu of the terrible conditions under which 
Communism keeps our homeland, moat Cw-Atn sdlors encl officers aro staunch_ anti­
communists. The Goves-nment know, tMe, but nevertheless they must .employ vhat 
they call "the roactionarios" becawse of the scarcity of other trained personnel· 
to man Cuban boats. Their only cf-.oir..e is to Ofl'J on us constantly, as I have 
Just explained. 
Aa to the ope::-ating c,onditiOJ'JB of the Cubin merchant fleet, it is vortb 
mentioning that . Polish ships, which rake r,; a dzo.ble proportion of Cuban ship­
ping, are supplied vi th foviot-made l!quipr::'?111; vhich the Russians have long dia-
' carded as obsolete. Again, my ovn ebip 1e an examplo. The 11Aracelio" vea ccm-
pleted ao recently as 1963 in a Pollzh shlP)'llrd. Yet, its radar equipn:ent· is 80 
obsolete that it is Bimply not used, dnce ve could never find the par'ts to re­
pair it when it broke. A Ger11111n tecr.ni-::!.an told my Chief Mate here that it must 
have been a World-Yer II unit. 
Excessive bureaucratic red tape au.: dlfnreanization is another serilOUS 
proble~ confronted by Cuban shiPr,ing au: which often results in conside:r~ble 
damage to thooe firms that trade with tJ.e Castro tyranny. I will illustzrate 
this. The Cuban government ar,ency re1;;x:naible for arranging maritime tremspor­
tation for merchar.dise bought abroad is the "Empresa Cubana de Fletes" (CUFLET). 
