M-00000 • 
' I,, 
,'1 
I 
. I 
! 
\ 
\ 
MF:MOMNOUM 
TO 
TIIRU 
FROM 
SUDJECT: 
RYBAT 
S I-: C R E T 
Chief of Station 
ocos/s 
Chief, Special Oporations 
Pr·omotion Recommendation 
21 Apri 1 1967 
lfSO- .3004 
Distt·lbution: 
.-r-cos 
• 0
1-REG (Dummy) 
. 'f,Jf 1-C/SO Chrono 
Branch 1-C/SO/Pers 
Irving C. DEVUONO 
(Dummy). 
1. Irving C. DEVUONO is 43 years <Jf age. He joined WOFACT 
a·s a Contract Agent 10 February 1961 after completing 21 years of 
sorvico with tho U.S. Army. • His last assignment while in the 
Army waR a two-year tour ot duty in Laos as a captain in the 
Special for·ces. Af'ter _a:brief training and administrative processing 
p,~riod in Headquarters JVOFACT, he was assigned to JMWAVE PCS on 
27 August 1961 ns a GS-13 Career Agent. lie has been assigned to 
JMWAVE as a Paramilitary Special Operations Officer since that date. 
2. DEVUONO is n proficient and competent Operations Officer· 
whose pcrfornianco dur.Lng his six-y_car assignment to JMWAVE has 
continuously sho.wn an outstanding proficiency in the supervision 
a·nd mana·gcmcnt of indigenous agentA. He has used his knowledge and 
experience_,-- gathered over a 21 year period with the Army, to an 
outstandi{lg degroo. Jlc has ma.i.nt:ained the morale of his 30 agents 
nnd kept them at a high level of pr6fl~iency by a strong training 
schedule and by planning and implemeriting operations in the field 
o~ rcconnaissancp, caching, deception and Special Operations/ 
inteJligence collf!c tion operations. During t11e past eight months 
he has recruit~d, train~d Arid operationally committed two intelli­
gence c·ollection teams into PnRUMEN. Subject is n hard wc.rker, 
capable admlnistrator and a very able agent handle1:. He has tho 
ability to gain tho respect of his ageAts by his general knowledge 
of ·tradccraft ma ttors and his ability to plan opern tions. He is a 
personally rugged individual and has entablished good rapport with 
a wide variety of agent types. Subject gets along well with his • 
contemporaries. lie is presently assigned as a section supervisor 
in the Special Operations Branch and has two officers and one 
secretary under his supervision. Jle manages and.supervises his 
~ection in an ablo manner. • 
S E C R E T 
