' ... • .. ·,· 
i !; .... : : . ~; j 
'!1 
... ·.~ .... ;:/;.,::~)t 
.:,,«, .. ·.,;,., 
.. ~: ~~:-;.·:~/ 
\t:!if 
,. 
Top Secret 
(Summary of Case) 
the two items of•informacion, He said th&L the need tor money 
was his immediate mocive f0r conta~ting ClA, although in the 
€nsuing discussion he also expressed dissat1sfa~tion with the 
Communist regime in the Soviet Union, 
NOSENKO met Cl~ repLesentac1ves four more times in Geneva 
in June 1962. With the second meeting on 11 June, his earlier 
expressed reservations disappeared almost entirely. He 
answered most quescioris put to him.on KGB organization and 
op~rations. His knowledgeability was almost exclusi~ely 
limited to the KGB Second Chief Directorate (responsible for 
counterintelligence and security within the USSR), NOSENKO 
seemed ~o be what he claimed to be: a KGB officer in a 
sensitive position with knowledge of important KGB operations-
NOSENKO returned to Moscow on 15 June, having promised 
to do everything within certain limits to colle~c information 
on matters indicated to be of interest co CIA. The only 
restrictions he placed on his cooperation were his absolute 
refusal to permit operational contact with him inside the 
USSR and his request chat no mention of his collaboration be 
communicated to the American Embassy in Moscow, He promised 
to notify CIA via an accanmodation address when he came to 
the ·west again. i· 
NOSENKO again accompanied the Soviet delegation to the 
Disarmament Conference in Geneva in January 1964. Since last 
meeting with CIA be had been promoted tu the rank of lieu­
tenant colonel and had become the Deputy Chief of the largest 
department in the Second Chief Directorate. At the first 
of the new series of meetings on 23 January he announced 
that he had decided to defect to the United States. He 
cited as reasons his continuing dissatisfaction with the 
Soviet regime and the fact- that he- probably would have no 
further opportunities to travel to the W~st in the foresee­
able future. Although he implied that he wanted to defect 
as soon as possible, he agreed to remain in place in Geneva 
while arrangements for his reception were being made in 
Washirigton. NOSENKO had brought a large amount of new 
information, much of it in ~cribbled notes, on KGB opera­
tional ictivity which he had collected in the 18 months 
since his last meeting with CIA, 
4 
•. 000127'6 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
