14-00000 
The special charncter of thic national responsibility requ1rco the Agen­
cy to mal~tain correcpondingly Gpecial employme~t criteria vh1ch may be 
different from the routine or normal employment standardo of other Gov­
Prnmcnt depii.rtmcnts and ngenc1P.s which do not have the highly ecnsitive 
responsibility borne by the Central Intelligence Agency. It follows 
that the investigation of applico.nts prerequisite to their acceptance is 
a time-consuming proccso vhich, in addition to loyalty and sec,u-1ty 
checks, 1r.cludea evaluation of competence, physical and emotional fitness, 
and availability of a su1t~ble position at such time as employrnent may 
be offered. This 1s called "clearance" of an applicant. 
2, Investigation of-an applicant may reveal something which prevents 
his clearance - perhapo something of which the applicant 1a genuinely un­
aware, perhaps something which only the special employment c~1ter1a of the 
Agency make unacceptable. In any event, adverse findings b7 the Agency 
are concluoive and final so far ao the Agency 1s concerned, and no atate­
ment of specific reaoons ia IJl'1de to the applicant. 
3, Employment by the Central Intelligence Agency 1e not a right upon 
which an applicr.int can ins 1st, Offer of employment wh1_ch 1s subject to 
full clearance does not constitute a commitment on the Agenc7'e part giv­
ing an unsuccessful applicant grounds for any claim againzt tber.Agency. 
Acceptance of employment upon the condition of clea.ru.nce 13 at the appli­
cant's risk, taken with the knowledge that a very aubetanti~l percentage 
of ~ppl1cants are not cleared, 
Statement of Understanding 
and Agreement 
I have read, understand, and agree to the foregoing aen~ral Consid­
erations. If not accepted for employment by the Central Intell°1gence 
Agency, I will 1116ke no claim or demand in conflict vith those cons1dera­
t1ons. 
I have also seen and read Applicant Information Sheet No. 2. 
SIGNED at Washln;..:ton, D. c., this _ccj_ ':a,1 or September·,' 
1961. 
Signature of Appl1cant 
!)i.n1cl Flores 
