14-00000 
.. . 
·-:-,1 ·. :_,, ... 
S·E·C·R•E·T NO FO~EIC~ DISSEM 
CIA lmER.~AL USE Om.Y 
Clemard Joseph CHARLES (cont~) 
to be aware of the ident:lt:L:s of these.men. Furthermore, 
accor~ing to an official of the US Embassy, at one tiav 
it appeared that Charles had origi1U1ted the idea of the 
junta, hoping to utilize it eventually to launch hls own 
. candidacy for the,Pr~sidP-ncy, Subsequently~ however, 
Charles changed his statell'.ents al:.out being "the next 
President" to be.ing "a future President," and he seemed 
to be placing some distance between himself and the pro­
posed junta. 
During Charles' cforementioned conversation with an 
Embassy official· in January 19691 he revealed other f4cets 
of his personality as well as his penchant for plotting,_· 
He conceives of his role in Haiti in grandiose, almost 
messianic terms.' He said that he had invested $2 million· 
in Haiti ~~d had done more-for tho dcvelop1110nt of tho 
country than any other indigenous llllitian, ·ue claimed, 
for example, that ·the workers in the Artibonite were.· 
passionate admirers of his because his tannery in Port .' 
Sonde (now closed) provided needed jobs, He also. claimed·. 
the special allegiance of the chauffeur guides,.the only 
• truly organized workers .in the:country, because when he 
directed the compulsory Government Motor· -Vehicle. Insurance 
program,, legitimate chauffeur claims were paid,.:.·.He· im• 
. plied that such claims were no longer honored •. , 
Discussing the internai problems of his country,.-
• • Charles stressed the need for immediate· steps to. prevent 
.• the total destruction of daiti's land and resources, to 
control the spiraling.population growth, and to rejuvenate 
the country's secondary cities.· To achieve these.goals. 
before current trends become irreversible, Charles believes 
that it is essential to pursue relations.with the United 
States that would be conducive to massive assistance,and. 
iavestment, In this respect he inaist1 that Duvalier" 
·ha• been grossly unrealistic and has done Hai~i areat • . 
. damage by his refu1al.to recogniae the·role the .United" 
State• muat play· in Haitian affair,. 
111, 1969 
.. 
