14-00000 
.. 
l. 
s "E C R E T ;,"""9er 
REVIEW OF PROJECT LlE.MPTY 
(For the Purpose of Project Renewal) 
PRODUCT OF THE PROJECT 
A. Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (discussed in relation to project 
objectives): 
1. "To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK 
personnel and physical facilities. i, During the past year SCANTLING has devoted 
a significant amount of time to the furtherance 0£ this project objective. Although 
other Station operations and personne~·are also concerned with ~ui cullectlun o£ 
operational information a~t-LIMERICK personnel, SCANTLING's contributions 
are unique as to type and complement information received from other sources. Fo1• 
·example, SCANTLING is used primarily as the -source of information :\bout LIMERICK 
physical facJJities. He is constant,\y on the alert for building modifications, con­
struction activities and the kinds of outside services utilized by the LIMERICK 
installation. He regularly visits Inez PARADA de Moreno, the occupant of property 
adjacent to LIMERICK, for the purpose of obtaining a close view of the interior 
:;roWlds of LIMERICK and to debrief Senora de Moreno about any unusual activities 
which she may have-observed. At the present time SCANTLING is preparing a 
thorough casing report on the electrical power supply used by LIMERICK and all 
other residences and establishments in the same block. This operational information 
is intended for KURIO_T's use and will show all transformers in the block, electrical 
meters !or measuring th~ .amount 0£ electrical power used and the precise points 
where· wires enter each p·roperty. Because of his other sensitive activities and 
because other operational activities provide adequate coverage, SCANTLING 
has been used sparingly for physical surveillances and investigations which might 
conceivably impair his future usefulness to the Station. During the time he spent 
training Simon· D. CLA~KETT (ps} in radio controlled mobile surveillance, 
SCANTLING did perform some surveillance wor~ at the LIMERICK installation; 
however, it was concerned mostly with briefing CLACKETT on dispatching tech­
niques and the procedures used !or the control of several vehicles on a surveillance 
team using two-way radios. 
Z. "To colle=t operational information pertaining to other targets of 
opportunity, foreign ofiicial installations and personnel of intelligence interest 
operating in Mexico. 11 By far the most important contribution made by SCANTLING 
in connection with this project objective has been his support to the LlTAClT 
operation and just recently actually gained entry to the LITACIT target using a 
pretext cover story. During this visit SCANTLING managed to collect highly 
valuable operational information about the security of the installation, which has 
.added materially to KUBARK's knowledge about t1n1-utrget. SCANTLING has also 
cased and prepared reports on the LITABBY target in anticipation 0£ mounting 
SECRET,,...,.. .. 
.. 
r 
