14-00000 
CONFIDErlTIAL • ... 
Page 25-27: The specifics associated with the Cuban 
Missie Crisis of 1962 involving former Director John McCone 
and others are subject to strong question is to whether th~y 
should be included in this text. Again, what is provided 
by Mr. Phillips in this manuscript is drawn ·from such personal 
experiences realized in his Agency duties. 
Page 33-35: The SSU takes exception to the information 
presented regarding "walk-ins" based upon the same rationale 
as contained above. It ~lso flirts with the concerns of 
.sources and methods of this Agency. • 
Page· 46-48: All rema'rks concerning technical operations 
such as hidden microphones, quick plants, etc, are out of 
order particularly with reference to the development of a 
microphohe in the armchair. This again violates the Agency's 
concern regarding sources and methods. 
Page 55-61: Considerable inside information is provided 
regarding Lee Harvey Oswald and his activities in Mexico. 
The SSU defers to LA Pivision, SE Division and OS regarding 
the advisability of inclusions of this material in this 
manuscript. 
Chapter 7 
Page 26: Although there is a legal basis for the serving 
of alcoholic beverages in the DCI dining room, is it appropriate 
to include such "tidbits" providing the news media with grist 
to conjure up stories of senior CIA executives making critical 
decisions following an alcbholic luncheon. This implication 
is synonymous with the problem of beer being available to the 
Secret Service when they are on assignment with the President. 
Page 31: Throughout the manuscript the author in his 
narration confirms the fact that CIA has stations located around 
the world and in his writ:i,ng procedes to verify the location of 
these stations. The comments relating to where he was assigned· 
and where others in the Agency have been or are assigned, not 
only relates to the South America area but on this page the 
author confirms the fact that there was a CIA station in 
12-Jl.(_Brazzaville.) Other than in the change in name there is no 
effort made to dispel the prospect that the station continues. 
Page 42-44: Although it is a most timely subject, 
information regarding any U.S. Government effort to assassinate 
Castro is highly explosive. Mr. Phillips is reporting information 
which he has privy to as a direct result of his Agency exper­
iences. These should not be contained in this book. 
4 
COUFIDENTIAL 
