14-00000 
~ . -:- • • a r ,-_, •r 
~l:.:.ii~i:.ior-\.wj•1\. 
- f -
continued to bear the contact and handling responsibilities 
of t_tie LIENTRAP unit (until mid-August 19t.;7 - see paragraph 
2 A ·:(2) above) and for the operator of the .t.IEMPTY photo-
-_g·rllphic developing/processing laboratory, LIEMPTY-4. 
GERENDE's overall operatior.al assignment involved at least 
12 clandestine meetings per week, in addition to bis 
meeting~ with the LIEllPTY Froject case officer. It should 
·also be noted that GERENDE made numerous and essential 
·contributions to the sensitive AltROD operation and assisted 
th·e· Station greatly with· his detailed area knowledge in 
many-:°fnstances •. He is fre<;uently used to make independent 
lnvestigatfons and neighborhood checks. As noted above, 
he contributed significantly to the Station·•s MHRAVEL 
pr~gram. Finally, be apprcached, developed and eventually 
attempted to recruit an agEnt for use in PBRU~EN operations. 
E. Overall Effectiveness 
As outlined above, each incividual operational component 
of the LIEMPTY Project contributed regularly nnd significantly 
to the fulfillment of Station Mexico City's operational 
p~ogram. Based on the continued excellent performance and 
overall contributions of this project, the Station strongly 
recommends that this project be continued during the forth­
coming proJect year as an essential element of the Station's 
operational support apparatus. 
4~ PROBLEMS AND SECURITY 
During the project year under review there were no known inci­
dents which adversely affected the security of Project LIEMPTY 
or the related personnel. 
5. LIAISON AND INTER-AGENCY COORDINATION 
Not applicable. to Project LIELIPTY. 
A. As noted above, the technical and operational changes 
made in the past year have be·en effective anu have resulted 
in a product which is ns closely geared to operational 
requirements as possible. While no major chnnges are 
contemplated, every effort will be ml\de to continue to 
improve the rroduct, inclucUng greater use of GERENDE as 
an independent investigative asset, and as a spotter and 
assessor of selected agent candidates. Such utilization 
of G.E.'RENDE will be kept cor,~partmented from other personnel 
of the LIEfillTY project and will normally bo handled by 
GERENDE in operational alias. 
