14-00000 
.. 
SECTIQI C 
The assi@Jllllent ot this employee to the field under non-orticlal cover 
was designed to CO!llpensate for the loss of an employee 1n an official cover 
slot whi~h was cut from the Station•s ODACID allotment ot personnel "positions. 
' ' 
During the ~_port1ng per!~ this employee has accomplished with success 
the convincing estabHshment of his cover in a complex milieu, and has been 
accepted -as legitima'te -by his pi;ofesaional colleagues, the persons whom he 
meets under c;over, .and the French author1t.ies. It should be noted that his 
ability to assume his cover has been largely the result of his own effort.a 
over a period of years to acquire and maintain a f'am1liarit7 with the general 
scientific field. • • 
During the repo~1ng period he has devoloped a wide circle of contacts 
in the scientific and Journalistic fields and applies a lon~ backgroW1d 1n 
a variety of usigJlJ!lents in Kt/DOVE to the detennination and B.JJeessment ot 
operational potential among these contacts. At the same time hls cover 
organizatior,, 1n which only fQur persons are witting of his actual status, 
has anown itself to be more than satisfied-with his performance of his cover' 
dudes.---. • 
This employe" 1-equ!re.::; n rr.!.'1.!!?!-.1m of rtet111led operatior.al supervision; 
it is necessary 1n specific cases only to indicate the operational or infor-; 
mational objectives. 
Prom the point of view of administrative support, his attention to 
detail arid meticulousness reduoe tho probhms of his support by the Station 
to a minimum. 
This employee uses the French language continuou3iy, and his facility 
is s4_oh as to permit him _to handle himself excellently in a broad range of 
complex technical subjects. He has 1n addition undertaken specialized French 
lane,uage training to develop this capability further. Hle operational re-
porting is excellent both with regard to clarity and pertinence. • 
In the immediate future he'will be- assigned case work, for the most 
part 1n fiel,ds 1o1r.ere it will compiellll?nt, and be complement.ea by, his in­
dependent operational aotivit.ies and cover work. 
SECREI" 
