14-00000 
• -,J •' 
B. ADMINISTRATION 
5. During the second quarter of n-67 there were expendi­
tures of approximately $19,000 by the AMSTRUT-2 activity. Thia 
figure includes an estimate for the month of December becauM 
the final .figures Lave not been received at this writing. Tbe 
budgeted a110Unt for AILSTRU'I·-2 for the quarter is $24 1 000 and tbere 
1s an excess of budget authorization over expenditures of approxi­
mately $5000. This figure, however, gives an unreal budgetary 
picture of the Ali&"TJWT-3 activity. Thia $5000 will remain as a 
part of the budget aHotment and may well be expended in a flu:a.·ry 
of All6TRUT-2 travel, publication activity and/or promotion during 
. th.a next quarter. In other wordo the excess doaa not represent 
budget "fat" since the bulk of the AHSTRUT-2 expense■ are not 
figured •• month to month constants but obligated aa ttie operational 
eituati~n·de111111lds. 
e. During »ecember AIISTRUT-2 moved into a smaller house 1rith 
a lower rent vhicu will mean a saviq of $100 per month. In 
----- 4~= . ..,,,,..,,,,,_,~ ... -•ckUtion, it is anticipated that a further saving vill be rnlised 
• 1A maintenance and upkeep costs. 
.. , 
I 
\: 
c. PROBLEMS 
, 7. The baste agent-handling problem presenied by AMSTRUT-21 a 
mercurial disposition, excessive gene:rosity and understandable 
emotional appl"6ach to the role which must be played before the pub­
lic &till exists. llo'IIJever, it seems to have lessened somewhat as 
AJISTBIJT-2 gaina confidence in the language and in dealing,g with the 
public. There is little question that a contributing factor to the 
lesaening of thia problem is the reliance placed by AHSTRUT-2 on 
.AMLYIUC-1 who serves as business advisor, buffer and band-bolder. 
B. The problem of projecting the image of tbe AMSTRDT-2 l'ounda• 
tion as an independent charitable organization remains. The appli­
cation for tax e1empt status to the state of registry is in the works 
and wben this application is approved it 1~ likely that there will be 
u iJ:lcreaae of private donations whicb, because of the new at■ tua, will 
be tax deductible. The problem lies in tbe dilatory behavior -of the 
state authorities. 
9. AMSTJUJT-2 continues t,, be attractive to certain extremist 
politic~l groups whose patriotic claims of objectives would often 
-appear to parallel those of .AHSTRUT-2 and the Cuban exile community 
aa a whole. AISSTIWT-2 bas aot alwaya been able to aort out the ''good 
guys" from the "bad guys" and the problem lies in fending off these 
extremist groups and preventing them from exploiting AltSTRUT-2 for 
pa_rtiaan political ends. • 
.• ... _ 
.... 
,. , . ,--;r·j 
... ,...... .,;.. .. :ll 
-l l 
! 
\ 
i 
,_\ 
I 
' . ··--l• 
J 
-~ ,, 
