-4-
objective. ·1n.addltlon to performlng numerous photographic assignments 
Ip suppon of ocher ·Statlon ·pperatlons, LI ENTRAP devoted nearly four 
months, on a fii.lltlme basls, to coverage of the LIERODE operation. For 
severJl weeks the entlre· "take" from the LIERODE target was r~corded 
from the LlE.'\'TRAP-vehlcle. Later, the LIENTRAP agents operated the 
LIERODE recltnlcal gea.r from the lnltlal LIERODE stationary base. 
3. "To provlde operatlonal support to Statfon oper,nions, l. e., 
rent hotel l'OC.'r1U?.and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances." 
GER~'-lDE i:i used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for other 
Station operiltions and actlvltics. GERENDE's comprehensin• area 
knowledge and personal operatlonal capabilltles comblne to m;ike hlm an 
extremely ... --aluable Station asset for such support activities. GERENDE 
also procures and servlces post oCflce box letter drops for the many 
Station oper.itions requlring them. 
4. The quallty and quantlty of operatlonal Information produced 
by the photogr..1phic bases and other actlvltles under GERENDE's control 
and su{k':rvision ls consldercd worthwhlle. The Statton concludes, therefore, 
that this s...~?fllent of the UEMPTY Project should be contlnUed. 
C. Re!aticnship to Related MlsBlon Dlrectlve Objectlves: 
As srat~ ln the previous project renewal, lt can readily be noted 
that Projecr LIE.i.\1PTY has provlded support to many Station operations and 
ln this maa.'ler has been a concrlbutlng factor to the furthere.mce of the 
Related Miss.ion Directive. The project has not produced sny positlve 
lntelligen;;~ nor has It been lntended that lt should cto so. Th~ project's sole 
purpose is to provide a mechanism for the development of operational 
lnform..nio., in support of other Srntion operations. 
II. CHANGES 
There have been no changes in the LlEMPTY Project Jurlng the past project 
year except rhat SC.-\XT"LL\IG relinquished control of the LIRICE (formerly LlJERSEY) 
survelllance team L.,July 1961 in accordance with previous plans. 
SECRET/UC dtE 
