14-00000 
,.f. ::· ·.·.:,, 
.: .. ~ ............. ,.·, .. . 
·:· 
: ·:·::: :·:~:.::: 
ii 
: - •fl 
-.............. , .. r:>· .. • 'J .. ,•·:·:·:·••:-:· 
aJ·_ 
Top Secret 
(FOUNDATIONS OF NOSENKO'S CLAIMS) 
successes, when in fact they didn't exist, the 
figures about how the USSR had passed the USA in 
the production of butter and milk, when in the 
stores they were available only infrequently. The 
endless promises of a better life when in fact 
nothing of ~he sort is taking place. All this 
similarly forced me to re-evaluate not only the 
events which were taking place in the country, but 
already the entire ideology of the Party, its 
external and internal course. 
The events in Novocherkassk where 20,000 to 
25,000 people rose up and the way in which this 
popular indignation was suppressed by troops with 
many casualties. This also made a deep impression 
on me. When I was resting in the summer of 1961 
in Nikolayev, from my relatives--my father's 
brothers--! understood well the real relation of 
the workers both to the leadership and to the 
Party as a whole. At the same time I saw how the 
workers really lived, how they eat, what they have 
and what they can buy with their wages. 
I heard a great deal from my father about the 
r 
domestic policies of Khrushchev in regard to the 
development and the course of construction in 
industry, about his complete illiteracy in 
engineering technology and industrial economics, 
about incorrect decisions in regard to many 
industries, and this was not only the opinion of 
- my father, but also of other important leaders in 
various fields of industry. But no one dared to 
open his mouth and when in December 1955 my father 
tried, as an enginee~, to prove that a certain_ 
decision would be incorr~ct, he receiv~d such a 
rebuff from Khrushchev that he was profoundly 
shaken and in the opinion of my mother ·this brought 
him to his illness and death in August 1956. 
The events in Ger~any and especially in Hungary 
showed with absolute clarity the bankruptcy of 
communist ideology. What was especially importa~t 
for me was the fact that in these countries it was a 
PFOtest not of individuals or groups, but of the 
13 
Top Secret 
00012s4 
TS No. 197124 
. Copy 10 
