14-00000 
I 
I I 
i I 
I 
I 
9 
.:,,~ ... :.-~:-~-:1".>;/!: 
: '·- . ~· 
-. _,._-,',.· 
Top Secret 
(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - ca. 1953-June 1955) 
he was made the case officer solely responsible for opera­
tions against the commissioned officers of the Embassy's 
Army Attache office, until his transfer to the Seventh 
Department. Alleging complete knowledge of all service 
attache operationst NOSENKO flatly asserts that there were 
no KGB recruitments of American military personnel during 
the period of his assignment to the Embassy Section. 
Pertinent to the consideration of.NOSENKO's statements 
is his reluctance to discuss the 1953-1955 period, and his 
inconsistent accounts of the dating and circumstances of 
his entry into the Embassy Section, of his assumption of 
responsibility as sole case officer for Army Attache tar­
gets, and of his transfer to the Seventh Department. ~.Al-· 
though NOSENKO could plausibly cl,aim failing memory to ex­
plain some areas of ignorance, he does not do so. Instead, 
he is positive and insistent that his statements about his 
targets are a factual and complete account of what was then 
known to the KGB. His assertion that the KGB was not in­
terested in his targets' vulnerability to recruitment is 
belied by his own statements as well as by the@UL~c~se,Ob 
as he himself related it. He is uninformed about ooth At­
tache personnel and agent-informants who, by.his own ac­
count, were his targets .and his agents. • 
Conclusion 
NOSENKO did not serve in the American Embassy Section 
throughout the March 1953-June·l~SS period as he claimed. 
Specifically, he neither entered the Section in March 1953 
nor transferred from the Section in June 1955. In whatever 
period he may have served, he was not the sole case officer 
responsible for commissioned officers in the office of the 
Army Attache. Unaware of many aspects of KGB activities 
involving Army personnel and by his own account not involved 
with either Air or Naval Attache personnel or diplomats, 
NOSENKO.has no vaJid claim to certainty that the KGB re­
cruited no American Embassy personnel during this period. 
·0001370 
100 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy ---
I 
I 
I 
