14-000?0, •• ·.·; . '~,, .: 
'·~:· . ' . .. •. -~~-
·'.> ~ .: 
] 
11 
:'
1
'.'.:
1
:1?:(:il 
••• 
Top Secret 
(OTHER ASPECTS OF NOSENKO'S KGB CAREER) 
Conclusion 
NOSENKO's ignorance of the foregoing forms and procedures 
is evidence that he did not occupy the position nor perform 
the functions he claimed during his alleged KGB service. 
Awards and Decorations 
Since 1964 NOSENKO has claimed to have received various 
awards, commendations, and decorations for his KGB service. 
His assertions are material to any judgment of his.general 
credibility and, as well of the validity of his claims to 
having occupied various KGB positions. 
In January 1964 NOSLNKO mentioned that in 1962, shortly 
after meeting with CIA in Geneva, he received the-Order of 
Lenin for ideas which he developed to "enlarge the experience 
and improve the quality" of Second Chief Directorate per­
sonnel in Moscow. 
In the April 1964 interrogations NOSENKO was asked about 
his awards, and he first said he recei~ed the Order of the 
Red Banne_r, . then corrected. himself .to. say he received first 
the Order of the Red Star. He confirmed that he received 
the Order of Lenin, in 1963. [Earlier he had said 1962, 
"just following visiting.Geneva".] He claimed he received 
the Order of Lenin for his performance in his Seventh 
Department.assignment, but when he was asked what recruit­
ments justified his receipt of the award, he said the main 
task of the Seventh Department was not to make recruitments, 
but to counter the hostile intelligence service operations . 
. [For his contradictory statements regarding the Seventh 
Department's mission, see pages 103 and 326 . J The Order 
of Lenin was the highest decoration·for which a KGB officer 
is eligiole, NOSENKO said, and besides himself, the Chief 
and former Chief of the Seventh Department received it. 
NOSENKO said he received in 1962 the Order of the Red Star, 
he "thought" for his service in the Embassy Section in 1960-
1961, not for Seventh Department service; no explanation 
accompanied that decoration. 
345 
Top Secret 
G001G1G 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 10 
-
