14-00000 
-- ( .,,• SEC.REY 
1 November 1977 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Counterintelligence Staff 
0) ;) 
FROM . 
~
lliam H. Godson . 
/R&A/0 
SUBJECT . Herbert Itkin File . 
1. I have reviewed the material in the Herbert Itkin 
file which is divided into two main divisions. The first 
concerns the details of Itkin's use as an unpaid witting 
informant on matters concerning an attempt by Haitian exiles 
in 1963 to unseat then President Duvalier. This involved 
a large number of contacts ~ith Haitian exiles in New York, 
Washington, the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico. Itkin 
became a legal advisor for a Haitian Government-In-Exile and 
put up $15,000 of his "own funds" for this Haitian enterprise. 
~ernard E. MONCURE (P) a CI Staff Staff agent in New York, 
rode piggy-back on Itkin's contacts with the Haitians to make 
his own operational contacts within the group. He also 
provided a small amount of money to them ($4,300) from CIA 
funds. It would seem from information in the file that there 
was high-level governmental interest in removing Duvalier 
from office in 1963. This information is contained in hand­
written notes which are paraphrased and indicate high-level 
interest in the activities of the Haitian exile group. (I 
suggest that this material be kept in case there are Freedom 
of Information Act requests on CIA activities involving Haiti 
in 1962-1963.) 
2. The second and bulkier section of material concerns 
Itkin's efforts to involve MONCURE and CIA in his attempts to 
secure custody of his wife's children from her second marriage. 
Itkin had been heavily involved as a lawyer ~nd confidant with 
Mafia syndicates and labor unions, particularly the teamsters. 
While doing this he had gained a large amount of information 
on the Mafia. In March 1963, MONCURE had recruited Itkin for 
the FBI for domestic issues while maintaining for CIA the use 
of Itkin for foreign intelligence matters. The FBI and the 
federal prosecutors in 'New York starting in 1968 found Itkin 
to be a very important witness in a series of criminal indict­
ments starting with New York City Water Commissioner Marcus. 
E2 IMPDET 
CL BY 019816 
