1
'[1°04-10122-10141) 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY A~.~ATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 
. . .:_ . . . ' . 
SUBJECT: Robert A. Maheu 
~!r. Robert A. Maheu was born on 30 October 1917 in 
Waterville. Maine. He graduated ·from Holy Cross College in 1940 
and is married with four children. Ho was employed as a 
Speci2l Agent with the FBI from 1940 to 1947, and upon re-
-signing from the Bureau, form~d a private enterprise do_ing 
business as 
0
Dairy Dream Products." This venture culminated 
in ba~niptcy in 1952. He then re-entered Government service 
with the Small Bu~iness Atministration in Washington. D. C.> 
and vas appointed Special Assistant to the Administrator with 
the specific duty of Director of Security. In February of 
1954, he was forcedto·resign froa SBA because of political 
. reasons• determined to be th~ result of backing the wrong 
·political party in the election. He then set up his own . 
invostig:itive organiz:1tion known as Robert A. H~"lcu Associates. 
Mr. !-fahcu was recruited by the Office of Security in 
Harch o.f 1954. He was prcvio~sly knO'!.ill to Mr. Robert H. 
Gunningliam (deceased) who was, at that time, Chief, Special 
Securi1:y Division, through their mutual eraployaent by the 
FBI. Cunni:igham saw in Mah-ea a covert asset who could be 
utilized by the Office in extremely sensitive case;,s. ·With 
the approval of the Director of .'.iecurity, Subject was offered 
a proposition ~herein he was to receive $500.00 per month. • 
with the stipulation that he :move into his own o£fic~ and 
that he be on call for nny assignments.by the Office of 
Security. He agreed to this and iromodia1:ely took steps to 
move out of his area, where he rented desk space in a suite 
occupied by Carmine S. Bellino, a former PIH agent: and CPA. 
In July of 1954, Maheu was en_gaged by '=British shipping 
interests'' to check on Aristotle Onassis' activities while 
in the United. States. 11lis includaJ. technical coveraga of 
Onassis'· New York office. -It was later learne!l that: the 
principal ''British interast" was Stavros Niarchus and thaL 
the ultimate goal of this task ~as to scrap the Onassis/ 
Saudi oil doal. Maheu took the job but conditioned his 
acceptance with the fa.ct that h~ would do nothing inimical 
to the U. S. Government. A?..y infon,ation <l,~veloped of interest 
to the United States was to be passed by Haheu to "the appro­
priate f.overnment agency. 1 
i 
