14-00000 
Pago 2 SECRE'l' 
_ through the exploitation __ or the LI.El-O"T/ Prtnctpal Agent, Raymond R. OuU-.lm!, 
2. AOElll' CCMruNICATIOHS A?ID Cotn'A<::I' 
During the period under r,viw, 01-llElIDE vns seen " ttmP.a in regular 
• operational meetings by-·\tie underoime'1, and on 2 oecuions by the local 
KURICYr representative, Rugh 'l'. PJWICCYIT?:, The meettn:r..o between FRANCOl'rB 
and Oi'ltElIDS were attended by the LIEMPTY Project ~ase Officer and dealt 
vith thu installation or a nev PAKO print dryer in the LIOO"l'Y' photo 
laboratory. In addition, O?ll.ENDE !Mt four t1111e11, for extended periods, 
vith LCFU7rl'ER examiner Imliel JI, HOBKIER vhen he Hne'1 aa the inter­
preter tor the LCFLl1.ITER examlnationo af'forded LI~ls, -6,-?,-l!J,-JJ, 
-26, and -'in. No baaic departures, other than the regular preplanned 
changes in meeting sites and times, vere made in the regular and alternate 
communications channela to GFltr:llIIB. It should be not,,'1 that an up-dated 
and reviaed emergency coamunication aystem for cont!IC't vith GERENDE vaa 
forwarded to Headquarters as HMMA-283'3, dated 21 February 1966. Thia plan 
includes both verbal and physical bona fidea 1111d su~e'1ea previous 
arrangements. 
3. ACCOHPL-ISHMEm'S1 PROOR:"..331 ACHir-:'lfl.fE1TI'3 
a) SUMMARY - 'l'hrouf".hoi1t tho reporti11:3 period, Project LIEMPT'l continued 
to provide t.he vast majorit:, of the op'3rational _photographs and physical 
surveillance reporto used 1n Mexico City station's O?"rations againat tha 
J,IMERICIC installation and persol111'31, The LIFM'TY Cl)7erege has proved to 
be a moot reliable tool for: following the daily mo7ements of LIMERICIC 
personnel; providing lead.a to, 6nd confim..1~ the id'!ntitiea of LD-tERICK 
staffers and their visitors; verifying or providing le&lls to the relative 
rank and specific intelligencfJ service connectl on of various LIMERICK 
officers; keeping the 3tation abreast of construction changes in the LIMEltICK 
physical planttprovidine a check on reports of' 3tat1on and OD!!llVY access 
agents, During the three month period under reviev, Proje<:t LifMP'I"l' s 
basehouses rrovided 3,967 frames of operatioMl photo~phs (l!J6 rolls) 
as veil as 650 pages of fiY.ed surveil.lance r€portl!l covering this targat. 
b) LIENI'RAP - Throughout this Jieriod, the LIEN!'RAP mobile unit wa 
tnrgetted against leadez-s and meeting-sites or the local Communist parties 
as well as other targets of opportunity, specificall:, the leaders or the 
strike group at the 1-1.ational Un1Yers1ty. LIDtl'RAP prov11.ed up-to-date 
photographs of numerous Coauunist officials, which are of value to both 
the JMI'IGER program and the Statiou·s recruitmant/p,en.etration program. 
This unit provided 330 operational photographs, while the personnel attachad 
to this wli.t also regularly serviced 21 postal accoi:modation addresses used 
by Mexico City station, Headquarters, and other field Stations. 
c) LIMITED - During this poriod, the LOOTED basehouse provided 1,147 
frames (l~5 rolls) of operational film and daily observation reports covering 
the arrival and departure of L~ICK persoMel and visitors at the front 
gate of that installation during the a!'temoon and rush-hours. In 
addition, LIEMP'l"l-6, the LIMITED basehouse keeper, serv~d ao the radio 
dispatcher for severu LIEMBRACE ~urveillLlnce operations • 
• J.) LILYnIC - r.u,·ir.g tr,!:; pcr:1~, th'!c' LIT,VRT<: lmsehouse provided l,66o 
frames (56 rolls) of opere.tioMl pho:to;,;raphs, coverin.r~ the oamo aree. and 
tnreets noted in the ~nm'ED section, but daril\": the morni~ nnd early 
a-rternoon hours. In addition, the Lll.YHIC personnel prepared a detailed 
report· on the daily comings and p;oings of each LIMERICK staffer and 
contrt'buted the majority of this Project's physical. surveillance reports. 
I 
