14-00000 
I 
i 
f' 
hift.-s Speak Over RFE 
Radio F~~ Europe, on the 01:hcr hand, Jocs not portray Amcriu. Ir com.witratn lugcly 
on what is taking place within the slave. countries. Over .its transmitters Poles speak ro Poles, 
H~garians to Hungarians, ere. They speak· as "the voice of Free Poland," "the voi~-c of Free 
Hungary." ere. They look at their people's problems through their own eyes. 
• RFE programs spc<ializc in idcnrifying and denouncing Cc.mmunist informers and collab-
ora1ors, sending back messages from escapees, anJ exposing the corruption and crime$ within --·------·· 
the Red regimes. 
In their broadcasts to behind the Iron Curtain, the Voice and-Radio Free Eurorc have es­
sentially the same aims: to keep alive the hope of liberation; to let listeners know that they 
have not been forgotten; ro stitfcn their rcsistmcc against their Communist opprcs5'llS; ro ex­
pose the fraudulent basis of authority upon which the Moscow-dominated regimes mt. 
Both combat ·Communism and the persecution of· religion and denial of hWlWl rights. 
Boch report the superior industrial power and fighting potential of the free world over the 
Sovict-mslaved world. 
19Sl Year of Progress for ••voice" 
During the past ~car the Voice of America: 
I. Stepped up daily prognunming from 30 to 50 hours daily. 
2. Made progress in_ overcoming Soviet jamming. 
3. Increased its broadcasts ro behind the Iron Cunain, adding the "splinter" b.ngu.agn of 
Georgian, Armenian, Azcrbaijmi, Tatar, Turkcsta.ni, Latvian, Lithuanian and Esronu.n .. 
4. Inaugurated programs to Albnia, Finland, Israel and Portugal in their respective l.anguagn; 
to China in two additional .dialects, Swatow and Amoy; to Japan and Sourh anJ S..'lUthcasc 
Asia in Hindi, Urdu, Thai, Burmese and Malayan. 
5. Became more outspoken and h.ird-hitting. One of the principal themes was the support of 
the UN cffo~t to 'repel the Chinese and Nonh Korean Communist aggression in Korea. 
Major attention was given ro cxpo~ing the fraudulent Soviet "peace" drive. 
6. Began work on the "Ring Plan" approved by Congress, which calls for a ncrworlt ..,f po•;cr­
ful ttlay base~ girdling the globe. 
7. Cttated "Vagabond"-a ship equipped with a transmitter, so that radio bro.tJwsts may 
be ttlaycd from ~ipboard. 
8. Received 318,0:00 ,lertcrs from overseas listeners-an increase of 35% over 19~. 
9. Nccd1ed the CommunistS so successfully that Radio Moscow and Soviet ttgior.al sutiaos 
doubled their attacks against the Voia. 
.. 
.... 
