14-00000 
-c-
(3) Cllldte. Raul Diaz Arguelles, Chief of 
Artillery of the Occid~ntal Army. 
I 
(4) Elpidio Bae■ Bigo. According to AXI,ASB-1, 
Baez 1& a trusted Fidelman. 
(5) Lula Manuel Cantillo Toirac. Assigned to 
the C\lbu Embassy in Madrid and one of the security 
people. He was formerly assigned to Brazil, la young 
and bas for several years been with Pinero and tbe 
Cuban IS. 
(6) Enrique Oltuski Osacki. Oltuski is a close 
friend of Faustino Perez and bis stock vitb tbe regime 
rises or falls as does tbat of Faustino .. 
(7) Sergio Tol/.on. Code clerk in the Embassy in 
Paris. Tol)'on is staying in Paris at the request of 
Ambassador C&rrillo. 
1. Gastroenteritis, water pollution and unsanitary 
coDdltlons. AMLABH-1 states there are no real problems, 
although the scarcity and lack of a balanced diet do 
caaae some problel!IS. 'nle purification of water has been 
a probles wbich probably has been the cause of some o~ the 
slcknesa in the country. 
a. AKI.ASH-I did aot believe that Aragones bad invited 
bla to fly back to Havana with him in order to get him 
back because of any serious security matter. AMLASB-1 
dld state that Aragones vas concerned that AMI.ASH-I may not 
return to CUba. Since Aragones cleared AMLASH-1 ~or his 
trip abroad, be ls ln a way responsible that AllLASB-1 does 
aot defect and returns to CUba. AltLASH-1 feels Aragones 
does not want any problelllB with Fidel in case AHLASB-1 
decides to stay out. 
n. AlfLASB-1 was unable to provide any information on 
tbe political developments in Olba in mid-November and 
Deeeaber since be bad been out of the country sioce early 
Jro"mber. AKLASH-1 was asked to check on the probleas 
between the opposing factiona in the Cuban leadership and 
ezplalned the i111n1ea, the background and personalities 
lnolYed. 
o. Soviet advl£. or influence in political and econolllic 
aattera creates re;.tment among the middle and higher level 
CUban officials. BaaicallJ. tbe Soviets are· not respected. 
-::;:rRET ••. , .. I 
L ,J 
l­
l 
J 
_,. .·.· ...... 
. I 
-
