14-00000 
\ 
I 
• 
MEMORANDUM FOR:· Mr. Ker~it Roosevelt 
ATTENTION. 
SUBJEC-T 
Mr. John Baker 
Mr. Paulo: Langevin; Employment as CIA 
S~Cl Officer 
1. To those oC·us_at Headquarters who have followed _closely the 
work oC Mr. Langevin in. ·connection with PBSUCCEss·, it iii completely 
evident that he made one of the major and most outstanding contributions 
to this OperatiD!1 and that he has demonstrated him sell to be exceptionally· 
_qualified in· the C1efd o( political and psychological operations· (covert) . 
. 1 have just been informed by Messrs. Barnes and Langevin that the latter 
• who has heretofore been employed in the capacity o( a Contract Agent, 
desir_es_to become more closely associated with the Agency and would 
like to be employed as a _r:egula:r staCC o!ficer. I am very much in favor o( 
following up on this opportW1ity 1 and I have good reason to believe that 
the Director likewise is specifically interested. 
z. There are certain aspects o( this case which appear to require 
special handling and tailoring -- none o( which presents any difficulties as 
I see it -- but, on the contrary, would tie in very neatly with bot}, the 
near term and longer range aspects of the employment of Mr. Langevin, 
These aspects are as foUows: • 
(a) Mr. Langevin desirea to begin his term o{ empluyment by 
the Agency with a period of service ·at Headquarter a. (He haR spent 
many years in Latin America, principally in Chile whert! he has 
owned and still owns·a newspaper, and, in my judgment, it would be mutually 
advantageous lo the Agency and to Mr. Langevin £or him to spend 
not lc·ss ~han a year as a member of the Headquarters organization,) 
(b) Mr, Langevin has for some years in the past been giving an annual 
seric>s o( lectures in various Latin American capitals. These lectures 
have been arranged by an agent oC his in New York .ind his audien,:es 
have consisted o( business and proiessional groups ond women's organ­
izations. The general subject matter o( his lectures has included talks 
on the threat of international Communism to Latin America. Mr. Langevin 
would desire, i£ it can be worked out, to be permitted to continue to 
delive·i" lectures of this kind in the future and is at the present time 
