14-00000 
LIEMPTY racilitie_s and in surveillance activities·directed 
at the primary Soviet target. Some of these :11,(Cnts are 
used also· ln dark room photographic processing, letter 
drop, and,-bn occasion, moving sur~eillance activities. 
3. This project is only part of the complex·of 
·liexico C-ity Station instruments for meeting requirements 
from a nu~ber of U.S. agencies, including the FBI. It·-, 
is clearly an ~rfective, well-managed support operation 
serving important needs. • 
4. No.major or significant changes in LIEMPTY 
personnel or operational techniques have beon introduced 
nor have there been any known incidents adversely 
affecting. the.security of the project or its personnel 
since __ the prev_ious project renewal period. As a uni­
lateral operationa'l support effort, LIEMPTY continues to 
be a most us~ful station asset supporting a number of 
station activities. In spite of small increases in costs 
as discussed above, the project is considcre·d to be .holding 
the line on cost and personnel. 
5. Tl)c objectives of project LIEMPTY are in dir"lct 
support of priority A objectives 1, 2, and 4 of the current 
Operating Directive for Mexico. It is considered by SB 
Division td hove made significant contributions to the 
Station's well developed, high priority Soviet Operations 
Program. During the past year the various LIEMPTY base­
house installations produced valuable information in the 
form of photographic coverage and physical surveillance 
reports on the daily movements, personal nssocintions and 
hnbit patterns of selected targets of special interest. 
1n numerous instances this coverage confirmed the specific 
intelligence service connections of Soviet officers in the 
Embassy. Often the identities of Mexicans and nationals of 
other countries in contact with the Soviets were estnb­
hshed. The mubi le panel truck unit was exploited regu­
larly to provide information on not only the Soviets but 
also the Cuban target as well as local Communist Party 
targets. 
Attachment 
Project 
~ Glenn Fields 
Chief 
Foreign Intelligence 
I 
•.• J. 
