14-00000 
,:,:,... 13. Control and Mctlvatlon 
.. 
• e:---_,,,....,-. 
- 17 -
,. 
Control and motivation arc primarily rosed on two factors: idc.-ology and 
flnancl.al gain. A secondary factor Ls Lhc fear of rcprlaal from 1he local 
police should dl.scovery occur. 
14. Security 
During the pa,!1: project year there wcrc no Incidents which were beyond the 
capability of the pen;onncl lmrnedlatcly Involved to Isolate and remedy Im­
mediately. ln contrast to prev lous yea rs, there was -no Instance of telephone 
work crews approaching a basehouse to check or remove the tap lines running 
to that basehouse. Some of the "crossca" made In the telephone ccn~rals 
have been removed by the central's workmen, but these arc of no d.,nger to 
the operation unleas a -fuU Investigation Ls made of one of these um.1su11l con­
nl!ctlons. During the· past project yearn no such Investigation has bet'n under­
taken, and no suspicion of 1he LIFE:\T llncme,1 has b:?cn rcvcJlcJ to Jate. 
As for 1hc past few years the telephone company Is continuing Its efforts coward 
rnoJt•rnlzatlo:i of the Mexico Ci1y telephone system. This effort lnclud .. •s 
ch,rnging from overhead lines :o und:.:rground cables, clcanlng off of 1hc 
unused overhead "dead lines" and lllti:allaclon of new equipment throughout 
the city: These lnno,atl.ons will continue to cause i,;ccurlty prQblcms for the 
LIPEAT complex, hut 1t is believed chat thc,;e problems are r.ot lmmrmountablc. 
To meet this challangc to LIFEAT St!l:Urity and to prepare for the day when 
access to :elephonc <..llstrlhurlon lines Is further reduced by their i,lacement 
In under.ground cables, UFEAT has rcc<.-ntly succeeded In having c,ne of Its 
linemen (LIFEUD-2) selected co arccnd a four momh special course In c.iblc 
work. When he completes this course (i.n July 1962), LIFEUD-2 ~ill have 
worklng access to all catilew<1ys nm! cable rerminaclon boards in Mexico City. 
This acce&s will be Invaluable from both 1hc.• present security and operational 
srnndpoints as well as for the future when LIFF.AT will be forced to mp dln-ctly 
from the underground telephone cables. As a standard procedure ~he LlFEAT 
pcnmnnel continuously work to devise new method-; ·to Increase security, as 
well as 1raln in security procedures, so as 10 continue .he high levd of security 
enjoyed bf LIFEA T In the past. 
• 15. Training 
Initial training of new personnel and con1inulng refresher training for the ex­
perienced personnel arc handled primarily by the "outside" case offlc~r. David 
M. WlLSTED. Minor rep.1lr auJ m,tintt'nance of equipment as well as emergency 
security procedures are stressed and continuJlly reviewed with the agents. 
' C:· . ' ~ ., 
