14-00000 
\, 
I 
! ..l 
! 
. I 
I 
I ! 
.... i 
I 
·,·· -. 
L .· 
......... 
SECnET 
C. To become of long-term operational use 
to us in the sense of exploiting bis possible 
long-term use to the Cbicoms, QRPHOSE/1 should 
do two things: join an existing "acceptable" 
organization such as the Trotskyite Party or a 
black radical party and, at the same time begin 
a serious study of Marxist/Ma~ist doctrine. As 
be gets into this program (preceded by some ten 
days training and close Headquarters direction) 
be should begin-to seek out Communist intellectuals, 
party members, leaders of radical groups, etc., to 
ask questions about the dialectic, seek additional 
guidance, borrow books and so forth. In doing this 
be will in time come into the attention of the 
professional spotters the Chicoms have and begin to 
develop the sort of bona fides that the Chicoms, 
in time, will find appealing. He should also in• 
this period seek out Chicom officials with the 
same requests for help. The· key here is to 
demonstrate not that QRPHONE/1 is simply sympathetic, 
with Maoism or any other Communist shading but that 
be is a dedicated serious revolutionary. 
D. A quicker way to come into the Cbicom spot• 
light might be for QRPHONE/1 to join the Black 
Panthers, the SDS or one of the other radical groups 
with which tha Chicoms are already known to be in 
touch. He will obviously have to sweat out a period 
of probation in joining any such group until be 
divests himself of bis tattered leftist reputation 
and those JKLANCE accusations. Ness feels that a 
successful passing of this baptismal period will 
depend solely on QRPHONE/l's willingness to plunge 
wholeheartedly into a serious study of the terribly 
boring.and lengthy volumes of the dialectic, As he 
demonstrates his capability to move more deeply into 
this field to the satisfaction of the "spotters" be 
will be accordingly provided additional help and 
encouragement by Cbicom contacts and officials. 
E. The Cbicoms will be looking at him as a 
possible asset in their long-range targetting of the 
American revolution, henee QRPHONE/l's utterances 
ought to be couched in terms of bis ultimate aim of 
contributing to and participating in the American 
revolution. In other words the Cbicoms would see 
little or no use for QRPHONE/1 operationally in 
Europe or Africa (just as w~ would assess and recruit 
a Thai for operations in Tbailan~ not in Nigeria). 
2 
SECRET 
I -
t 
I 
! 
J.. I 
J d: ! ' 
