14-00000 
ADDENDUM, form 45 {fitness Report}, for period March 67-March 68. 
Section D 
As the individual being rated, I would like to add some remarks t? 
those prepared by the rating ofricer .• 
. . 
Th_e assignment I have includes managerial respia,nsibilities which· 
(a} are essential to the _continued existence and security of the , 
cover mechanism as a vehicle for operational exploitation, and 
(b) are not necessarily visible to those "on the inside. 11 
· In the case of (a), I 1T1ust enga.ge in a constant orche.stration of 
·the cover and the facilities it offers. This means maintaining 
a m~nagerial equilibrium to insure that cover work will not 
become, ·of itself, so demandint,; that it negates the cover's 
• util:1.ty,to the···cs. In effect,. the. top officers and middle , 
lllllnagers· or the cover corporation [who are not cleared and wi.tting] 
have. to be satisfied that their demands are met (or cannot be), or 
else- manipulated i-n order. to neutralize or reject their demands. 
After all, the cover position ·is to them a legitimate, nonnal, 
workti.ua.y po&t in•their fir....· .':!h~t wo::-1: i:; done at their bidding, 
. '"it follows, must be accomplished according to the high standarda 
or thoroughness and accuracy which they have set. 
In the case of { b) -- which derives from (a) -- and can prove to 
be so demanding that tha neeus of the CS could no longe1· be served, 
the incumbent is required to manage a span of huinan contacts at 
several-levels in order to preserve his cover position~ enhance 
• its value to !:,he CS. This means planning, dir_ecting and 
managing the work of multinational, multicul.-tural teams of 
technical correspondents, as well as meetings and negotiatiQns to 
improve the (cover firm's] relations with similarly widespread 
individuals.at the levels of editor-in-chief, publisher, corporate 
vice-president, president; and chairman of the board. 'rhese 
levels are :,cattered not. only through industry, but have the_ir 
·analogs as well in government, higher e<hlcation, and professional 
·societies. 
Having previously managed both a CS base and tho principal denied­
areas operating c·omponent of a major fie1d Station, I can report 
quite honestly that my present managerial re~ponsibilities exceed 
·the f'ormer -- despite the apparent lack -of' 11 supervisory 
responsibilities" in my present position. • 
.. 
