~n:.1·l!eaf0ANl>iU~~~le,e_o~.~001a~~; 
a. Infomation from UOSEt:KO .. • • • 
., 
' I 
In June 195·8 there was a reorganization within the .Tourist 
Department of the Second Chief Directorate. The Second Section, !f • 
. which had theretofore concerned itself with operational. activity - -~ 
against foreign tourists fro~ a-11": countries, ·1'ias brOk~n down into '~_:.;._. 
separate sections; one section dealt with tourists from the tinited 
States, Canada~ and Great Britain, the other with tourists from 
Europe, Latin America; and all other countries. NOSENKO said 
that he was promoted at this time to the position of Deputy Chie( 
of the first of these new sections. 
NOSENKO's involvement in at least one major case, Lee Harvey 
OSWALD, stc~s entirely from his having held this position. It 
is also on this basis that he was able to claim awareness of all 
recruitments from among Amer.ican tourists from mid-1958-until he 
returned to the Arneric;:m Department at the beginning of 196~. 
His knowledge about recruitments is based additionally, he said, 
on the fact that some tirr,e between May and October 1959, during 
the.tourist season, he was ordered by Ye. s. KIRPICIINIKOV, • 
GRIBANOV's secretary, to gather facts for GRIBANOV concerning the 
use of tourist cover by foreign intelligence organizations during 
the period from 1955 through 1958. NOSENKO gathered this material 
from earlier annual reports of the Tourist Department and by talk­
ing with various case officers in the department.* 
On the basis of his general and supervisory experience in 
the Tourist Department as well as his research for this paper, 
NOSENKO had the following to say about Tourist Department opera­
tions priur to 1960 (taken from the protocol he signed on this 
subject on 25 February 1965): 
• 
•operations against tourists were developing slowly 
during this period and very little was known by the KGB 
about the use of tourism by American Intelligence at the 
time I wrote the report in 1959. No agents were definitely 
uncovered among American tourists during the years 1958 or 
1959 and, until 1960, no tourists were 'caught in the act' 
of mailing letters, servicing deaddrcps or contacting 
agents, except one whose name I remember as McGUIRE. I do 
Questioned on this paper in February 1965,- NOSENKO said he 
did not remember whether he discussed it with GRIBANOV, nor 
could he recall any examples of the material he included in 
-it, what the paper said apout -:CIA tourist operations, or ~hat 
other U.S. Intelligence ~rganizations were using tourism as 
-an operational cover in this period. He did remember, h~w­
ever, that it incorporated statistical data on the growth 
of fore~gn tourism. 
