14-0000 
. 
'::-
... ,_ 
~ -
SECRET 
2- ~ ...,..{ 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans 
SUBJECT LI.EMPTY' Project Renewal (FY 1970) 
1. Renewal is roqyested for the LIEMPTY Project for 
the period 1 July 1969 through 30 June 1970·(FY 1970) in 
the amount of $38 1 970. Funds are available in WH Division. 
• $45 1 000 was progr·ammod·:for FY 1970 • 
. 2. LIEMPTY is a project supporting Soviet operations 
of the Mexico City Station. It provides for two basohousos, 
a photo surveillance vehicle, and personnel for photographic 
and visual surveillance of the Soviet Embassy. Presontly, 
two fixed surveillance points near the Embassy provide the 
location lrom which the photographs are taken and observers ·! 
. are stationed. One basehouso is adjacent to the rear of the 
Embassy·,· where Soviet officials meet,' play and work. The 
other basohouse is across the street from the front of the 
Embassy and gives a direct view of every person entering or 
leaving. • Thero is also a mobile photographic unit (a VW 
van) whJ:ch .is now used in support of all Mexico City Station 
operations a1id in conjunction with the LIEMBRACE surveillance 
team (used primarily against Soviet targets). Raymond H. 
GE~NDE, ·an indigenous contract agent, is the principal agetjt 
of the operation and meets daily with the'basebouse keepers 
and subagents. 
3. LIEMPTY contributes significantly to the Stati~n•s 
Soviet operations program and is considered an essential 
element o~ the Station's support apparatus. During the 
peri~d_l Nov.~mber 1967 through 31 December 1968, approxi­
matefy 21 1 367 photographs were taken. In response to a 
request to SB Division for an evaluation of the project, tho 
following comment was received: "There are few such sources 
<>f high resolution photographs r:,f Soviets, especially giving 
good side views. These photos a1·e welcomed by SB Division 
since they furnish a steady flow of up-to-date identity 
~a ta .. ••" The pho.tos are useful to the Station in confirming 
the identities of Soviet porsQnnel and visitors to the 
SECRET 
\ i 
