14-00000 
Ailcndc· in R::trmpcct 
·.'0-,RUEWS i Q &ii ih&J iKP-EiiWRiHW?EIMii 11,ic, m-rw <IWSI.J.EtA MM biP&Ptr' l. Q4CC Utt: 2 46 e I »a mms:aa • ----- . . . 
·people have JI/ power and in accord with Iha tonsti• 
tution can do whJ/ they desire when they have the 
.rnJ/ority of the nation behind them.' 
Yet It was precl!.ely the.Que!.tion er majority sup• 
port that was Allende's central problem in his de· 
sip,n to carry_out a peaceful tran~ition to "!:.ociali~.m 
with democracy, plurali~m and libNty." The parties· 
In his coaiition -were in a di,tinct minority In the 
Congress, and althouf,h·theru wa'.; no rlouLt about the 
lcgitim.acy of his election by that body, his victory 
had only ·been possible ~cause ·01 the conditional 
support of the Christian Democrats. The POC, if 
should be noted, included both Radomiro Tornic, 
the partii.:,,1970 presidential. candid,1te, who ti,1d 
eone 10· • Allende's house to· conr,ratulate him the 
day·:after the pop·ular election, clearly inf<:rring his 
future support. and conservJtivcs like Sr:nator Juan 
de Oios Carmona, who had fouP,hl within the party 
10· prnvent It from voling for Allende In the run-off. 
In the Immediate aftermath of the election the POC 
--- ·-- - ......... --------·--·-··-·--· ··--., __ ...., ..... 
\ •. ' 
. 
.. / '. 
• SJN.Jdor Allcncte speaks of his pl:ins for Chile at 
·1he 23rd Congress of the Socialist Party, held In 
Jan11o1ry ·1971, three months alter his election as 
Presid~'nt of Chile. 
-Pholo 11, lontl Vltalll lor Photo,o,o,to,,. 
was controlled by the Tornlc forces. who claimed housc, kl,be elected Immediately followlnr, 1hr, ap­
to be In-favor of "communitarian" !.Oeialism, nation- provJI of the amendment. The Consrcss would be 
allzation of copper, acceieration of awarian reform. certain to reject the amendment, but if Allcndl? 
and reduction of Chile's clcpt.:ndencia_ on the United had the support of a majority In the country, he 
Slates. One way, then, tor Allende to achieve his could win the piebiscite arid secure control of the 
acknowledged £0,11 of majority ~upper! for the unicJmErJI legislature that would then be estab­
transillon to socialism would have bP.cn to. try to fished. • ' 
arrive at an understanding with lhc Chri~tian.O_emo- Allende's strategy for the expansion or electoral 
crats on the points In his program wiih vitifcil 'they : support was an economic one which drew as much 
were In agreement. This might have provokP.d lhe- frorri John Maynard Keynes as II did from Karl M,J1-<. 
secession of some of the rightist members of !hi? TIie Chilean economy, already opcrJ!ing berow 
POC, but If an accord had been reached with the capacity. had gone into a prolound recession a-. a 
party's leaders. It would likely have gi·,en Allende result of Allende's election. The response of Pe,jro 
a majority In the Congress for at least part of his Vuskovic, Allende's Minister of Economics, was to 
program. "prime the pump" by adopting :i deficit budcet, !n-
Flushcd with victory and unwilling to come lo crC'asing public expenditures, and redistributing in­
terms with the party which he had termed "the new come by" sl-.ewing the annual wJge reJctjustment for 
face of reaction·• during the campaign, Allende chose the preceding yeJr's inflation (35 percent in 1970) 
an alternative strategy. The next congressional elec- in fJvor of the low-income sector of the population 
tlons were not scheduled to take place until March (the lowest income groups received J -lO-percent in• 
1973; but the Chilean Constitution provided that in creJse). The utilization of unused industrial ca­
the event of a conlli.ct. w:lh the Congress over the pJcity, combined with strict enforcement of prl::e 
text of a constitutional amendmen_t, the Pres_ident. controls, more stringent collection of tJxes, and re­
could call a national plebiscite. The strategic course. fusJI to devalue the Chilean escudo· in relation to 
adopted by Allende was to attempt to expand popu- the dollar, were expected to contain possible infla• 
far support tor his co.1lition- and then propose a tionJry pressures v.hich might result. (The Allende 
consUtutional amendment which, in accordance with govornment also had a cushion of nearly· $400 
the Popular Unity electoral program, would replace million in foreign reserves left to it by the Fri;i 
the existing bicameral legislature with a unicameral go~ernment as a result ot high internJtional prices 
for copper, Chile's principal export.) 
The strategy also contained. a Marxist elfiment-
46 
