14-00000 
by the KGB entry com.~ission when he first applied in 1950. 
Therefore, NOSENKO continued, he had been trying to ~onceal 
this fact from CIA by moving events back a year, for he thought 
CIA would not have believed him if he.reporteci that he was 
first rejected by the KGB and was later accepted. 
2. Circwnstan~~s and Procedures of Entry 
Although NOSENKO has consistently associated his entry into 
the KGB with his discussions with General KOBULOV,* he has been 
inconsistent conc~rning the conten~ of their· conversation, when 
it occurred, its relationship i~ time to other events (see 
Part IV.B.), and where it took place, at his father's dacha or 
at KOBULOV's dacha. Also, whereas !.OSENKO said in 1962 that 
there were virtually no udministrative formalities prerequisite 
to his entry, he recalled in 1964 that he had had conversations 
with various KGB personnel officers and (at home) had completed 
a KGB questionnaire and a biographic form. NuSE!;Ko was question­
ed at length on these points during 1964 and 1965. As a rest'.lt, 
he provided lengthy descriptions of his various interviews at . 
KGB P.eadqu~rtcrs and ·of the que£tionnaire and other documents he 
comi.:,letea·~ In Apr i 1 1966, ho,..ever, NOSENKO reverted to his 
original statement of 1962: Th~re were no interviews with KGB 
personnel offic~rs, and he implied that he had filled out no 
official forms. His various statements are presented in chrono­
logical ord~r below. 
9 June 1962: "KOBULOV was at our dacha. Well, he is a great 
friend of my father. He was First Dep,uty to BERIYA, ..-nd my 
father was Minister of the Shipbuilding lndustry ... A·conversa­
tion simply began. He saic,l: 'vfuat are you doing?' I ~aid: 'I'm 
working in GRU. I worked in the far East and r.ow I'm workjng 
on the Baltic. I came h.ere on leave.' KOBULOV said: 'How do 
you like the work?' I replied: 'Well, speaking honestly, I 
don't like the work.' 'Well,' he said, 'You better come to work 
with us. Where do you want to go? Into intelligence or counter­
intelligence?' ... I did not want to go into intelligence. I 
consider that only people who have seven, even ten years• ex-. 
perience in counterintelligPnce work should be sent to intelli­
gence. After this, let them go into positive intelligence. Then 
they know how counterintelligence operatcs ... Well, when KOBULOV 
-asked me where I wanted to work, I answer~d: 'It is better, of 
course, to go into counterintelligence.' •~ell,' he said, 
'Good. Look, drop in to see me for a minute sometime.' This 
was simple conversation. Nothing official. A week later I 
got a telephone call. They were calling from Personnel and 
tojd me to stop by. I v1ent. 'Come into this .. room,' Ltney told 
my, 'it's not necessary to.fill out a questionnaire (anketa). 
We have already obtained your personal file frc~ the GRU. Go 
directly to the central entrance. A pass has already been 
issued for you; the pass is already there. Go to the Secre-. 
tariat of Bogdan Zakharovich KOBULOV.' Well, I werit. KOBULOV •. 
had been summoned somewhere high up in the government,-aria his 
assistant receiyed me. 'How ~bout working in the American De-. 
partment7' he Lthe aasistan.!J asked. 'Well, good. Go there. 
r1ght now.~ ~ell, I went to the Second Directorate ... His 
-lKOBULOV'!!/ assistant sent me directly to the Second Directo­
rate, the American Department, the First Section~· working with 
American correspondents." • • • • 
•· 
: fjf 
