14-00000 
! 
I 
I 
i 
l 
✓ 
659. 
monitored and productive ''points" 1n 1960-1961. NCSEm<O was not 
able to exi:,lain why he would n~ed this list to kn.ow the locations 
of the microphor.es when he had been daily receiving. selecting, 
and distributing the product of all of them f~r two years. Sim­
ilarly, it was never clear '-hY UOSENKO die not rem~mber !n 1962 
that there were eleven points--as the list sho-..·ed--:-ather than 
the four-to-3iX ?iOSESKO reported on in 1962. 
NOSCil<O • s account· of how the product from the micropr.ones was 
distributed and exploited would inevitably mean that all KGB case 
officers who had served in the u.s. Embassy Section since the 
microphones were installed would know of their existenc~--despite 
any effort to paraphrase and disguise the prod1..ct as "agent re­
ports." NOSENKO nor.eth2less maintained in 1962 that "it is a 
tremendous secret thet "'e are listening to you," ar.d tr.at ~he 
microphones were known to so few that any countermeasures the 
Americans might take on the basis of NOSE:NKO's statements could 
reflect dangerously en him as the source.• 
Accepting at face value N0~EN:KO's clai~ed lack of ap~e 
and interest in te~hnic~l ~att~rs, and tf.e:-efore his inability 
to provide specific technical details conc~rning electronic oper­
ations against the American E.-nbassy, it is still noteworthy that: 
- ?WSENKO did not know the purpose of tr.e so-called 
"Moscow beam,'' sometimes saying it was to jam E.-nbassy 
co:municatior.s and at other times that it was used to 
monitor them. 
- Although he claimed to have personally pa:-ticipated 
in the planning for the installation of audio d~vices in 
the ~orth Wing of the Embas~y. he die not know of the ex­
istence or the purpose of the coaxial cables and grill 
found there by A~erican technicians in 1964. (NOS~KO 
insisted that there were no audio devices installed in the 
North Wing at the time of its 1 .renovation for occupancy 
by Americans.) 
- NOSENKO knew nothing of the general lines of research 
and developne~t to substitute for or improve the fading 
microphone coverage of the u.s. Embassy. 
These three points relate to aspects of the ~GE's audio-technical 
attack on the u.s. Embassy in which the reporting of a source in 
NOSENKO's claimed position, no matter ~"hat his technical aptitude, 
could have been detrir.:ental to Soviet interests. 
• Both GOLITSYN and the 1956 source cited on Page 254 were First 
Chief Directorate officers. That they both knew of the micro­
phones suggests that NOSE:.J<O exaggerated the sensitivity of 
the microphone cperation, ~"hich had moreover always been 
assumed by the Ei:lbassy to be active. 
TOP SECRET 
