14-00000 
,·;- "Eil 
,._;;., .... ,,::;;,.,;~ 
---·--:·:(.,•,,.Ii 
11 
:· , . .;,,:-:::::~·;:;., 
Top Secret 
(SEVENTH DEPARTf1EUT - January 1962-January 1964) 
tourist operations, and, specifically, awareness of all 
significant KGB operations against American tourists. 
Information Furnished the KGB~ George .BLAKE 
The KGB agent' in HI-6, George BLAKE, in 1959 furnished 
the KGB with a documentary account of the joint CIA-MI-6 
meeting in June of that year, (see p.148) and he was to 
furnish other information by ,;.·..rhich the KGil could keep 
. '· ':: :~: :~~:,'-: 
current on such hostile operations. Another- CIA-MI-6 meeting 
was held in r·Jashington in April 1960, of which a twenty-one 
page summary was made. BLAKE also passed this document as 
soon as it came-into his•possession to the KGB. 
KGB Study of American Intelligence Tourist Operations 
The lengthy 1961 KG~ ~op Secret study referred to earlier 
(see p.149) r~flects the detailed and accurate information 
in possession of the KGB during the period of NOSENKO's 
alleged service in the Seventh Department in 1962-1963 . 
. Pertinent portions are quoted- -as follows: 
"It has been established that the Intelligence 
prgans of the. USA are displaying special activity 
in the utilization of legal channels, specifically, 
·iri tourism, for the purpose of conducting subversive 
work against the USSR. Numerous facts indicate that 
American tourists and members of various US delega­
tions, in the USSR strive to visit areas and instal­
lations to which employees of the Embas~y and mili­
tary attaches have no access, establish contact with 
Soviet citizens,· and collect intelligence informa­
tion. In this regard, the channels of tourism to 
the USSR are used to dispafcih_experienced intelligence 
agents to develop individual Soviet citizens with • • 
the objective of their eventual recruitment. In 
line with the preparation and dispatch of such 
agents, among the tourists the Americans also make 
extensive use of persons not directly connected 
with American Intelligence organs. These latter· 
agents are given one-time assignments such as 
collecting information leading to the ideological 
development of Soviet citizens. 
327 
GD015S9 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 1 0 
