14-000 
-7-
'·.projec.t security. In addition, his wife, LIDlPTY-19 will 
be given $2,500 as a security measure designed to keep her 
fro~ .re~~aling what .sbe knows about project operations. 
The FY i9tO JJ\1dget is' ·being amended to cover this amount. 
2. other· aspects of security continue relatively 
unclianged~-· All the agents still have jobs to backstop 
-their Agency n~s. The Station is compartmented from 
the ·action agents t!lrough FER.~ALD, '\\·hose contact with the 
sub-.agents is 'l:easo.nably well covered by bis status as a 
retired immlgra-iit. ·~··:FERNALD· has been meeting LIEMPTY-9 and 
LITEMPY-13 since 9 ~ember 1969. Brief meetings are held 
once each week at pre-arranged times and places, well away 
from the target ar~a. Oc:-casionally emergency meetings are 
call~d, by phone, if special coverage is desired. FERNALD 
also meets LIEMPTY--1 to·exchange films and prints. These 
mee·tings are held "·eekly at pre-arranged times and places. 
FERNALD can change meeting plans by calling LIEMPTY-4 
directly by telephone. In addition, LIElIPTY-4 has been 
given a special extension in the Station through which he 
may cal 1 as ''Dr. C3i'1os" to leave a message for "Victor" 
(FERNALD). The Station case officer maintains weekly clan­
destine contact with FERNALD in order to manage the oper­
ation and collect the product. 
Coordination: 
Ambassador McBride has not been briefed on Proj~ct 
LIEMPTY. 
Future Plans: 
1. The surveillance units are expected to continue to 
produce valuable information in the form of photographic 
coverage and visual surveillance reports on the daily 
movements, personal associations, and habit patterns of 
persons frequenting the Soviet Embassy, including Soviet 
officials. Operational procedures and the project mecha­
nism will continue as it has in the past, except that Bruce 
H. FER.~ALD, a new principal agent, will be in charge of the 
operation (see Changes, paragraph 2) .. 
2. The Pr~ject does not include an u~r-dated plan for 
emergency contact during violent action or government over­
throw. The Station has been requested to prepare an up­
dated emergency contact plan and submit it to Headquarters 
• in the first FY 1971 quarterly progress report. 
\":---;:·-,. 
I.:..:~-.,..: J 
