14-00000 
MOVIMIENTO UNIOAO REVOLUCIONARIA -------
:iY chir.n,,tcr and I M\'O re-1ut":,tod pollt.ical ttr,ylum f'roc t.he l~1Ht>d rtatee 
bec3u6e ve oro convinced that Cub1n :.mpi:ort or ti:e Con-unist \la?' in Vietnam la 
vrong Bnd we r-,fuo1o tJ r.m tnc ricks of transporting var r.iaterial to rlorth Viet 
Nam. 
All CubGn ships have orrlcrs to cnrry cargo to North Victnru: to help tho 
North Vietnamese var effort. The Cubnn Embossy in Japon is acting as the coor­
dinator ror all shipments or war 111Atorlol to North ViotMm via Cuban ships from 
Communist ports in Aoio, The Cut:an Embasoy in Tokyo had secretly arranged tor 
tho /lracolio Iglosias to· truce a shipment of war materials from ?!orth Korea to· 
North Viot.l'lnm, In order to hide their intentions, the Embassy arranged that tti,· 
/.racelio itinorory be kept up in t.he air until the lost poi:sible momenta then to 
fool the orew and the Japnncso they gavo tho Et4ry the ship would return to Japan 
to lead tin cargo at Yahata anti thon procood on route to North Viet.nsm, In real­
ity, wo voro to receive in:,truct.:l.ons on itinor.'.l.ry while in tlorth Korea tolling 
us to procood dlrectl,y to North.Vietntu11 after loading tho var ~upplies. 
At the laot moment, howover, tho Embassy was informed that the port of 
Chinnampo was blocked by ice, Tho Cuban Embussy thon hastil,y·orranged for us to 
pick up.a shipment or arms in Shangai previously scheduled for another Cuban 
boat about tho end or January, 
Logistical support to tho North Vietnamese is one or the two tallks assigned 
to Mr. ~anuol Jorge Cueyv~,. the now Cuban Ambassador to Japan. His other tunc­
tion is to erase the bad affects on Jap.~nese-Cubnn trade caused by the defection . ' 
of the former trade Counselor to Japnn, Gilberto Ue~any. Tho Cubim government 
is v?r.r concerned about the prospect of declining trade sinco already some comp­
anies that formerly tradod with Cuti11, will no longer do so openly. 
In. general, I may s41 that meMbers or the Cuban merchant marine live under 
unbearable conditions, The treatment wo receive is $0 bad that no one reals 
like cooperating with the marine purposes of the regime, even in the rev cases 
where there might be no ineological inco~ratihility involved. 
As examples or this treatment I may nention the constant spying on board 
by mem~ers of the "G-2". For some reason, the "G-2" •ll'AD on board is usually the 
radio and 'telegraph operator, In tho "Ars::elio" ve had one by the nae or P'.dlJ4l: 
do S4nchaz vho was a notorious spy. -~,rd we had another nan called Y.anuel Rda 
Rodriguez· vho vas imposed as the Fourth !:ngineer, even though he had no training 
or ability to perform such duties. .\s C:c.ptain or the "Aracelio•, I w.s ordered 
tO SI! 9 ST. MIA"''• FLORIDA TELEFONO FR ,-eon 
