14-00000 
., 
l' 
' 
686. 
4. Initial Service in the U.S. Embassy Section 
a. Intro1uction 
1;0SENKO claims to have served in the U.S. Er.lbassy Section of 
the American Department, Second Chief Directorate, curing the 
period-from his entry on duty with the Y.GB until June 1955. His 
targets during these two years were at first A!Derican correspond­
ents in Moscow and later American Aro.y 1.ttachcs at.~he r.-::iliassy. 
NOSE~:Ko sought to avoid discussion cf his o-..-n ~or. ot:her KGB 
activity di;ring this period and on occasion he has lr-led to dis­
miss the whole period as "not relevant" and •cf nc co~~equence." 
NOSENKO has repeatedly said that he •found hir:iself" only after his 
initial service in the U.S. Embassy Section. (He vari0usly dated 
his self-discovery as occurring in 1~55, when he trans!~t•·cd to 
the Tourist Department: in June 1956, in conr.ectic,n w~ti~ !as par­
ticipation in and awaru for the BURG! case; a.~ci after ,"-.·.:,~Ii-=~ 1956, 
when the death of his father forced him to pull h:ms~:i together.) 
Before this, ~OSENKO said, he was a ~astrel and •aid not pay 
attention to the work." 
b. Work Against Anerican Cor~espon1ent3 
tlOSENKO exempted himself fro:n reporting details of KGB work 
against any specific ~erican correspondent in r-:oscow in 1953-
1954 (Pages 93-96) by saying that, as a new, very junior employee 
he had no access to operaticnul files and did no~ par~icipate 
personally in the handling of any of the curresponccnts. Although 
able to identify four correspondents in Mos~ow who were then re­
cruited KGB agents, NOSENKO learned this information either in 
conversations with his superior KOZLOV or at some point and in 
some undefined way after he no longer was working against these 
targets. UOSENKO's early months in the job were spent reading 
personality (not operational) files on a nl..rnber of the corres­
pondents in Moscow (non~ of which indicated the individual's de­
velopmental or agent status) and familiarizing himself with KGB 
methods. Later NOSENKO was assigned the •agent network• of 
drivers, clerical personnel, and domestics surrou~ding four of 
the correspondents (two of whom were recruited YG5 agents at 
the time); he met with them periodic:1lly to determine •.-,hether 
they had. devalof,Cd any important information. Even here, however, 
NOSENKO appears to have been given very little responsibility: 
His superior KOZlOV often wer.t along to the meetings with NCSENKO, 
first to show him ho~ to ~andle the agents and afterward when­
ever something interesting would begin to develop. In fact, 
according to NOSENKO, KOZLOV would accompany him to meetings 
with these Soviet citizens-agents even when there was a •hint• 
that something of interest might develop. NOSENKO has been able 
to identify some of these agents, but for all but a few he re­
called neither their names nor personalia concerning them. 
c. Work Against Army Attaches 
Regarding NOSENKO's work against American Army Attaches, he 
claimed a specific area of KGB responsibility, one for which he 
alone was accountable and one about which something ~as previously 
known fro~ u.s. records. Only 20 months at the longest, it is 
