14-00000 
Itkin and his wife had for a long time been :struggling to 
maintain custody over her children from her second marriage. 
Claiming that she had violated the custody stipulations of 
a New York court by moving them more than 50 miles from New 
York without his permission, Frederick Hersh, Mrs. Itkin's 
former husband, gained custody of the children by means of· 
a ruling from the British court in 1966. Mrs. Itkin began 
legal procedures in New York to regain the children. As 
part of their effort they swore affadavits that Mrs. Itkin· 
had taken the children to England at the request of the CIA. 
Itkin embellished on his CIA record by stating that he had 
worked for CIA for many years prior to 1963, and insisted 
that his original contact had been set up between Harold 
Stassen and Allen Dulles in Philadelphia in the summer of 
1954. Most of these assertions were fabrications. MONCURE's 
CIA relationship was exposed in various legal circles in 
New York. The Agency want~d to avoid MONCURE's having to 
contradict Mr. and Mrs. Itkins' affadavits in court. The 
FBI seemed to have been more interested in protecting Itkin's 
reputatio~ as a witness than in protecting MONCURE's reputa­
tion for honesty. 
3. MONCURE did not appear in court. The Federal 
authorities eventually placed protection around Itkin and 
his wife, keeping them on a military reservation, whil~: 
he appeared as a star witness in numerous Mafia cases which 
led to covictions. -
Q) 
4. One small ?,ide issueJtis worth noting: tthomas L. 
RobertsJwho was al!_aw partner of Itkin)until mid-1961, became 
_ a ~IA staff agent under cover in Africa}2d.fThe many fr3:.udulent 
_ activit\es of Itkin spread a scintilla of suspicion around 
o} lR.obert9 The latter was given a polygraph examination in 
~ankfurt. He answered questions on his relationship with 
Itkin including financial and his few contacts with Marcus 
to the satisfaction of his interrogators. 
5. Comments: The thrust of the file is'main~y defensive. 
CIA was reacting to Itkin's tactics to help his wife gain cus­
tody over her children. Itkin's numerous trips to England 
and Europe were made on behalf of the FBI, and they were part 
of an FBI attempt to·gain information on the Mafia. Before 
the recruitment of Itkin and his utilization ·by the FBI, CIA 
did pass to the Attorney General in 1963 information on a 
Department of Labor official's alleged criminal involvement 
with the Mafia, which MONCURE had elicited from Itkin. The 
file also refers to MONCURE's continued contact with one Mafia 
figure Lenzieri, who was a legal client, as a means of self­
protection as Lenzieri represented a channel back to the Mafia 
