0000 
•·· 
-I l 
-------------•-==·._.,.,_ ___ ..;:.a....-« ... ·-·-----
SECRET 
-2-
b. Connected with·the above was LOGIXOV's 
concern for peace in Vietnam. Fo~_the first time 
that the und~r:i:igned can remeber, a Soviet stated 
·that the United States and his co!,lntry had "a. 
co1llli1on interest of utmo~t import.ince" in bringing 
peace :t9 ,Vietnam. • That the Soviet int~rest lllay 
· be conilect.ed with theil· concern about Coinmunist 
··China was indicated by LOGH,OV when the latter • 
indicated that peace. should be obtained in Vietnac· 
as a way to keep out the Chiilese·Communists. 
This did not prevent LOGINOV from making the usuai 
noises in favor of the National Liberation Front 
and.the Vietcong, blasting away at South Vietnamese 
mH.1,.tarism. • 
c. While tai-king about the Middle East, 
.LQGINOV said that the s·oviet Union was in the 
Mecii~erranean to stay and fully intended .to g-ive 
such support to the Arab nations in that area as 
.to someday "get rid of Israel." LOGIXOV specifically 
-stated, "The Jews liave it coming to them·, and the 
day of reck~lling is coining." The u11dersigned was 
cul".ious to-know whether this was prompted on 
. LOGINOV' s part by a--dislike of the .. Israelis or an 
anti:..Semitic feeling. LOGINOV was quite blunt and 
·categorical.ly. stated that he for one "hated. all 
Jews," and "did not hide his profound anti-Semitism. 
LOG I NOV "added ·that Jews are parasites who have • 
little nati'onalism other th:in that generated by the 
Zio11ist ·cause .. , Uc implied that tho_sc Jews left in 
the :,,oviet 1Jnion arc fo~eigncrs who.have done little 
to. help the Soviet cause. The under~igncd pointed • 
out that !inti-Semitism has been a iQng Russian 
tradition, dating back·to before the Revolution, 
and d~plored t_his obvious discrimination. •. He added 
that this reminded him of the anti-Semitism of the 
party which not so . long ago made ma.c;s murder of • 
Jews a matter 9f national policy.. • 
d. It took LOGINOV about one <13,)· to bring. up 
tho Sucesos:para Todos artic:le. The undersigned 
jokim;ly asked him whether this was a Soviet or . 
Cuban sponsored joke, saying_ that rumor had it that 
·succsos was financed by both the Soviets Md the 
SECRE't 
.. 
. •. 
r. ·.q 
•. 
