14-00000 
CONFIDENTIAL ... :·· 
Page 13: Mr. Colby is quoted by the author indicating 
certain information revealing complications between 
Mr. Colby and Dr. Kissinger. In addition to ~reaching 
personal confidences, the author contradicts what he had 
indicated earlier to be an intent to ,permit Mr. Colby ·to 
spegk for himself. • 
Page 14-18: Mr. Phillips again refers to "Abe" and 
his evaluations of the-various congressional select committees 
investigating the CIA. In effect these comments are suggestive 
0£ Agency judgments and evaluation regarding the conduct and . 
success of the investigative efforts as well as other person-
alities critical of the Agency. • • 
Chapter 3 
Page' 5: Have the circumstances regarding Mr. Wisner's 
death ever been surfaced with such particulars as provided 
in this text? 
Page 14: The information regarding ·the "laundering of 
money" as set forth in the first.paragraphs of this_page 
serves as a confirmation of official involvement in such 
activities. This should be deleted . 
. Page 21: There is a serious question raised regarding 
the author connecting Ernest Hemmingway and the Havana Chief 
of Station implying the prospect of a professional as well as 
personal affiliation. 
Page 4&: If it is in fact correct, has it ever been 
officially acknowledged that a U.S. citizen, a businessman 
in Havana, implied by the author as being a CIA agent was 
executed?· Note: This chapter is replete with a profusion 
of illustrations of tradecraft and operational activities 
too numerous to set forth. 
Chapter 5 
Page 1: Mr. Phillips in his writing provides a 
historical chronology of senior assignments within the Agency 
with particular reference_to the LA or WH Division. This is 
illustrated on this page in his reference to Colonel King 
"regaining leadership of the WH Division". Anyone interested 
in noting the organizational hierarchy and key personalities 
in the WH or LA Division during the period of Mr~ Phillips' 
tenure with the Agency, would be aided considerably on page 2 
and further as the author proceeds to identify Mr. Winston 
Scott as the Chief of Station Mexico. 
·2 
cm:rnIDENTIAL 
