14-00000 
i 
I 
I ! 
. , 
•.· 
.. 
Ricolas LEONOV, Press Attache 
LEOHOV is an extremely bright, intelligent man, and very quick­
thinking. He is popular among the press· ,people because be appears 
very frank, open and nice to them. He is not the kind, like many 
other Soviets, who is afraid to make colllJllents, in his own name, on 
news items and this pleases tbe press who like personal opinions if 
nothing more. He is helpful and hard-working and any reasonable 
request he makes an effort to fulfill. 
Apart from his work with the press, he does appear to be 
involved in intelligence work. He meets with David, Juan Rejano 
and another man (name not known) on matters which appear to have 
nothing to do with bis press activities.· It is possible that mon·ey 
is channeled through LEONOV for economic aid to certain magazines 
and propaganda work (perhaps even to the university groups although 
be is very cautious and this many not be true). 
LEONOV tolerates (but does not love) his wife, who is quite a 
shrew. Be apparently continues to live with her for the sake of 
their daughter, Irina, but they appear to have nothing in common. 
LEONOV is very popular with nearly everyone, but LEONOVA is almost 
universally disliked. 
The actual work of the Press Offica he leaves nearly entirely 
in tbe hands of his employees, who appear to do their job quite well. 
They only consult him on special problems and money matters, but ha 
appears to devote vary little time to the actual work done at the 
office. Ha 1s busy making contacts, seeing people, visiting news­
papermen and doing extra and special jobs for the Embassy (since his 
Spanish is so good and his personality so nice). He interprets for 
most of the important Soviet artists when they come to Mexico and ha 
accompanies the Ambassador on many occasions. The previous Amb. 
apparently trusted his judgment greatly and called on him frequently • 
LIDNOV apparently plays chess quite well and likes to hunt 
and fish, but is unable to devote much time to this. He has quite 
a social life, but mostly alone, and he appears to be high in favor 
in the USSR since he is able to take vacations frequently and do, 
more.or less, as he likes. 
i 
t 
I •· L· 
r Ii 
1: ... ,.. 
I 
jl 
i, 
i' 
i 
'' '' 
! ' 
' ' I ' 
. ; 
.: - .... '· 
