14-00000 
• 1 
·; 
. I 
SECREL, 
ME~IORANDUM FOR: The Inspec.:tor "General 
SUBJECT The Sosenko Case 
AttacheJ please find a summary of a document written in 
1967 to•the General Counsel outlining the Nosenko case and 
explaining to him ac.:tions whic.:h had been taken with rcvird to 
Nosenko. As noteJ in the first paragraph, in October 1967 
Noscnko took up rt.•s idt.·nc.:c in the Wa;;hinuton area ,1nd was 
advised that, should he wish to leave the apartment for any 
_J~f,ttJon whatsoever, he was· free to so do. In other wprds, 
from that date, Noscnko was essentjally a totally free man. 
• That he chose not to flee in any way may he indicative of his 
·attitude toward the manner in which he was handled prior to 
October 1967. 
While one can c.:r~ticize the fact that Noscnko was kept 
incommunicado for appro~imately three years~ and therefore 
presumably Jcnic<l full ~ivil righ~s, the attached document 
d6es indicate, we hclievc, that the Agency w~s on the horns 
•• of a dilemna in this regard. There were legitimate doubt~ 
about, lfoscnko's bona (ides and concern that he was a Soviet 
plant~ There was no cou~try.to which he could he deported 
save the Soviet Union, and Nosenko himself refused to return 
there. Yet, iri the United States, save when isolated from 
society, he was consiJcr~J to be a continuing threat to 
national security. 
Recognizing that only legal experts can judge defini­
tively the merits of the case, it seems to the writer that 
the Agency had.no choice but to hold Soscnko incommunicado 
pending resolution of his bona fidcs. lie. was admitted to 
the United States unJcr the provTsions of Section 212 (d) (S) 
of the Immigration and Nati6nality Act, namely as a parolee 
to the. Agency. As a parolee, Noscnko Jc facto from the date 
of his entry to the United States did notcn}oy the full civil 
rights of the normal citizen. lie w~s a ward of the Agency, in 
a sense, and the Agency N~s ultimately responsible for his 
EZ ll-ll'DET 
CL BY 018307 
SECRET 
