14-00000 
S E C R E '. ,a £ J ± 
- 7 -
he ga~ns more experience. There have been no security problems or incidents in 
connec!i<m with CLACKETT's assignment to thii, Station. Although the notional 
• ·cover provided by Headquarters has held up very well during the past few months, 
the Station had hopes of .placing him in LIL.ABEL's firm and obtaining Inmigrante 
, papers for him. ·However, for reasons mentioned in other correspondence, this 
! cover arrangement did not work out. the Station is continuing efiorts to locate 
another suitable local cover Job for CLACKETT. 
CONTACT AND COMMUNICATION. 
A. Oliver G. SCANTLING - The Station Case Ofiicer meets with SCANTLING 
on the average of three times e;ich week. For regular meetings, a total o! eight 
prearranged contact points are used alternately with SCANTLING "walking the beat" 
and being picked up by the Case O!!icer in the latter's car. This procedure enables 
both the agent and the case officer to chec~ themselves and to check each other for 
poeoible surveillance. Meetings are generally of short duration, seldom m,:,rc than 
30 minutes, and are held in the car. It is possible for SCANTLING to get in touch 
with his case officer by telephone, and vice versa, in case an unscheduled meeting 
is necess~ry. SCANTLING and the Station are currently working on the details o! 
an emergency means o! contact-utilizing SCANTLING's wife's relatives in PBPRIME. 
Headquarters will be advised of.these arrangements to facilitate contact with 
SCANTLING in the event Mexico is overrun by hostile forces and contact w,th the 
Station is severed. 
B. Raymond H. GERENDE - GERENDE's Case O!ficer meets with him five 
times each week. Meetings are conducted in the Case Officer's car using the same 
procedures as outlined aQOve. GERENDE and his Case O!!icer have a total of 11 
contact points· in di!£erent: areas of the city and generally hold their meetings during 
the early morning hours, usually about 0800. As in the case of SCANTLING, 
CERENDE and his Case Officer are preparing an em~rgency contact procedure which 
will facilitate Headquarters communication1J with him through his relatives in PBPRIM! 
Headquarters will be advised of these arrangements just as soo:i as they are completed. 
C. Simon D. CLACKETT - The Station Case Officer meets with CLACKETT 
on the averageof three times each week. The same type of conununications pro­
cedures as used for SCANTLI,NG and GERENDE are employed with CLACKETT. 
VI. ~ONNEL, 
.A.. Personnel dropped from the Project: 
1. 
z. 
Headquarters. 
LlElv1PTY-3 - Now carried under the ·LICOOL Project. 
LIEMP'l'Y-1; - Resigned. Termination report forwarded to 
S E C R E 'l/1 d J ii 
