14-00000 
' 
L 
Ct..An:P'tCAT'ION UI0f'ATC.:H 8l'M8CL ANU NUMD£A 
CONTINUATION OF ,. 
DISPATCH____ _ __ §_E _,Ce.....::Re,_-=A=--=T ___ _._· mtMi\~~.lQ.0'--------
doub ly disapp6inting in view or the fact that as she bec~mo moro and 
more unreasonable, GtlU:liDJ:: was moving in tho otho1· direction. 
5. Tho outcome can still not be predicted. As can be seen 
fl'om GERENDE's memos, the two i:.ides are still fal" apart on a numb~r 
of points, including· 11pc~Uically·m·o11ey. LII::MVTY-19 insists on 
I
. 10 ,ooo pesos per month •. Grl;i~Dl: is willing 'to pay 5,ooo. Gl:JU:lfDE 
is currently on half.;.pay, whkh meilns that' his total (all source) 
monthly income is around 14,000 pesos. From this, he would not only 
•have .. _to pa)· the ~mount which is finapy agreed upon, he must also 
con·ttriue payments of· 2500 pesos per month to LI.1:J,lPTY-19 's father 
(paying off a loan oblnined·: to build ·their house). Tho complicating 
··factor is. tbe unce.rµ.inly of ·G~RENDE's future with RVROCK. The 
Station has auitn·ta:t.n1ici ·•for some· time that it is impossible to 
conUnue to paf:GERUiDE his full salary solely to1·un the LICALLA. 
.and .LILYRIC base·~ouses. Now that FERNALD has absorbed this duty 
with only small inconven•ionce. and some loss of timeliness, it makes 
even 'i~s'$ sense to put GER.i::NDE to work ·only to do this. GER~E 
bas ·1ong been aware of -the Station's thinking in this regard, and. 
prior to the current pereonnl crisis he had been told that be 
would have to work harder at a Kreater variety of tasks in order 
to retain hi~ i)OSit ion. As Headquarters is aware, bo had been 
given additional tasks, and, as reported in reference, he had begun 
to respond very well. There has never been any question of GERENDE's 
ability. As wo have previously stated, he is personable, intelligent, 
bllingunl nnd binationl\l, and has hnd good training and experionca 
in certain fields. On the other hand, there has long been doubt 
about his seriousness of purpose, his initiative, and his ambition. 
The "reversal· of roles" which he describes in ono of the attached 
memos, which took place when ho was confined to his home as an. 
LP keeper, did more than cause domestic problems -- it appa1·ently 
deprived him of tho discipline of a daily job. His well-deserved 
reputation for being lazy wns earned years ago. 
6. The.question which must be answered is whether or 
not to terminate GERJ::NDE. He can be useful to the Station, but 
the Jtation has learned to get along without him. What nre the 
sP.curity hazards involved? The general range of his knowledge is 
described in paragraph 5 of reference. If all of this were blown, 
the ·loss to the Station, particularly in terms of support operations 
against the illillARSH t11rgot, would be considerable. The Station 
does not believe that GJ.:JtENDE would deliberately expose any of this, 
but it is impossible to predict what LIEMPTY-19 might do, particularly 
since she would feel that she had nothing to lose, having already 
lost a· possible source of income thi·ough the termination. GERfil!DE's 
termination·bonus ~ould propa~ly be in the neighborhood of ten 
thousand dollars. Prosur.1ably LIEMPTY-19 is aware of the fact that 
he would get.such a bonus, although the Stntion bas never discussed 
this wi•th her and tho possible division of such a bonus between the 
two of them has never been mentioned. 
I 
LICALLA 
7. The'.LICALLA basehouse continues to function without changes, 
except for the fact that Druce ll. FERNALD has been meeting LIEMPTY-9 
since 9 Dcce~ber 1969. Brief m~etiogs with LIEMPTY-9 are held once 
a week at pre-arranged times and places (well away from the MHHARSH 
·area). Occasionally special meetings are calle<:I, by phone, by 
FERNALD, if special coverage is desired (as in the AESEASICK case, 
for"example). Thero have be<.>n no p1·oblems, operational or personal, 
involving ·the basellcuse or LIEMPTY-9 during the rer,ortiog period. 
LIEAIPTY-9 ,provided 1,728 photograph~ during the reporting period, 
and in addition to bis regular reporting on observed activities of 
MHHARSH personnel, he provided special coverage as requested. This 
"special coverage" consists of bis observations of a selected 
individual -- who does he spend his time with, how is he behaving, 
when was he present (or absent), etc. LIE.MPTY-9 spends over 40 
CLASSIFICATION 
USE PAC\'IOUS EDITION. SECRET I □ CONTINU!:D 
I PAOt: NO. 
I a 
