14-00000 
.,. . . s 
JitQORANDU!& FOO: 
SUBJECT : 
.', / 
Central Cover Staff, Non-Official Cover 
Cover for &dward G. TichborQ 
l. Edward G. Tichborn, o. Contract Agent, is presently 
aosigned to »exico Station under uon-o!f1c1al, personal cover. 
Ile is in Mexico ostennibly a.a a coru;ultant with a Me~ican 
le-gal firm and actflJ as ec.11tor/publiaher of .a left.-wing iutel­
lectua.l publication, JJialogott. .le bas requeoted reas&ibrnt:ient 
to the United States, pre.fl1rably the Aaot Coast and particularly 
the New York City ru-en. Wli Division bao concurred in his 
request to leave ~exico City iu mid-Aubust 1~66 and desires 
to Arrango suitable cover which would perait rnpid discn 1;af:et1ont 
at any time from rer:.-ular day-to-day covar duties to undertal(e 
temporar;y duty asPJigfillients throughout Latin America at the 
r~quest of this D1v161on. 
2. WB Division in itl!'i investigation of cover possibilities 
discuss&d the problem with Mr. bto.nley Gaines, 00/H, Mr. 1ivbort 
Fallow, CA/3 and liir. Gl\le Allen, 000:.i. llr. Gaines investigated 
tbe possibility of Tichuorn's a.seign.r:ient to the Llomestic Operations 
facility in New York but tbe New York. offica <lid aot belicv~ it 
could dovise suitable cover; Mr. Pallow checked on the po-soib!lity 
of inserting Tichborn into two of the Covert Actlon 6taff run 
operations 1D the New York a.rea but tlloso were finally judged 
as not prov!c!ing tha ncccsmu·y flaxibillty; and finally, as you 
have seen in cable traffic, Mr.,Allen ca.mo up with a possibility 
of Assigning Tichborn to WUSALlNE. 
3. On tbe basis of information nade available by Mr. Allan, 
\JH Division believes the llt§ALINE ~~oposal has Aerit ~nd wishes 
to develop this cover proposal further. It would appear th:it a 
satisfactory resolution at this tine ultir.tately rests upon Wli 
Division agrceaont with Tichborn on ter-ms of his contrnct, 
pri111n.rily salary, ruid WliSALINE agree1ment tb.nt Tichborn's back­
ground is of sufficient depth to pro"•icle a modicw1 of credibility 
CUld his personality is of aucb a nature that he would be compat­
ible with the p1•1ncipal agent. This will be res~lved :.ftcr 
Labor Day when Tichborn will be in the UDited States and the 
\itJSALINE principal agent will hav-e returned fro;a a vacation 
'Obicb be is starting about l August. ln tbe mcantilae. in com­
pliance with regulations for the·establis.bment of non-officicl 
cover, the f~llovill(l; backgrouad ioforaation is provided concerniag 
Tichborn and is keyed to your r:aemora.ndum, "Non-Official .Cover 
Roquest": 
SECRET 
'-. 
~ -~ -:. ; . ': ' ; .. ~.,.' . -. 
j 
!
.··-· .... . 
... 
' 
• ttil 
,.-,.;:q 
,; 
