14-00000 
SECRET 
IROf 72501 
- Page 2 
29 November 1971 
fully. Apparently Subject.ls unaware of any c.:impromlse· cf his LNLUTJ!' 
connecUons; has been.truthful ln his reports to JKLANCE; has not been 
lrivoh-ed ,ln any illegal ar~s_ de~lll)gs other than smuggling weapons lnto 
IDFtf A for his personal ·use ·and the. personal use of other members of 
IDE'N D and rela_ted ·organiz.aUons; has not been asked to work agalnst 
• LNLUTE' and has re9elyed no informaUon from or about IDEN F. or IDEN O. 
DFTARS; 
Subject was co-operative throughout the SGS\vIRL and did not 
hesitate to assist in rephraf:lnQ' questl'ons and explaining his responses. 
He seemed open and fnnk ln response to all queries. Subject exhlbi~ 
a resP,9nse to the question concerning IDEN F and IDEN G. Discussion 
of the :fssue elicited the -information that Subject had received some inform­
ation concerrJng a son of one of these individuals. He also mentioned 
that en a trip to IDFN H a few ;,-ears ago he had spoken by telephone to 
IDEN I but no mention had been made of IDFN F or IDFN G. Subject 
also showed·a respons~· t-:, the question concernlng lllegal arms dealing. 
He explained that when he travelled outside of the country he brought 
back piste-ls, rifles, and on one occasion a shot(JUJl. These weapons 
were for hls personal use or were pureh11sed for friends such as IDEN E 
or members of IDEN D. He stated that the weapons were brought in 
illegally and that even possession of the rifles (which were for his own 
use) was IUegal. Specliic questions ctJnceming these arms dealings 
were asked. Based on the se:-;~lons results, it appears that wrJle Sub-
ject has smug-:rled arms into IDFN I, and possesses illegal arms, he has 
• • not been involved in smuggling large amounts of arms for personal profit 
or engaged since May 1968 in smuggling weapons of wRr into IDFN A. 
Specific questions utilized during _the SGSWIRL were as follows: -
V.'ere you born in IDEN J? Yes 
Did you reside in WOCORK'? Yes. 
Are you concealing the identity o(anyone who knows you work for JKlANCE-:­
No 
