14-00000 
.,,. ,.,,, 
tJU!1Ut1ttt 
'..\··.:·::,::: 
. .i'i 
• • l I 
' ,, 
li I, ,, n 
I I. 
I 
.•, .... ,· .. ·,. -.. " 
Top Secret 
(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962) 
in the information as it did not relate to agents or agent 
activities. NOSENKO noted, however, that the material 
concerned messages from the SE=cretary of State to the American 
Ambassador, Moscow. All of this material was highly sensi­
tive, and few people were permitted to see it or even to 
know of its existence. NOSENKO stated that it was t~eated 
more carefully than Top Secret information. 
Unable to describe the techniques of the KGB Eighth 
Directorate in breaking U.S. Department of State crypto­
graphic systems, NOSENKO nevertheless di~ indicate methods 
as known to him. One method 6 mentioned by NOSENKO on 
12 June 1962, stemmed from the habit of certain Embassy 
officials (notably Ministers Counsellor FREERS and McSNEENEY) 
dictating the text of outgoing cables aloud. When the texts 
were picked up on the KGB microphones, the Eighth Directorate 
compared them against enciphered traffic intercepted by 
other means. 
NOSENKO has referred to the Eighth Directorate's interest 
in equipment sounds and snatches of technical conversations 
picked up by the microphones in the State Department and 
military code rooms. 
"Now, we also ·1istened to the code room and the 
teletype office, but we could never get anything out 
of the teletype office because of interference 
[equipme~t noises which drowned out conversations). D6 In the military code. room--that was where (;tames H.] . 
STORSBERQ]and later ~tthew P.] ZUJU~worked--we 06 
didn't get much. We could hear~TORSBER(DswearingD~ 
on occasion, and then he would mention a group of 
numbers. This was, of course, all recorded and we 
turned it over at 6nce ~o the Eighth Directorate, 
dealing with coding and decoding.· Of course, all 
other interc~pts were tuined over to them also." 
Nith respect to the use of code clerks by the American 
Department, NOSENKO recalled that in 1948 or 1949 the KGB 
was helped a great deal by [James H.) McMILLAN [a military 
code clerk of the Embassy staff who defected in 1948], and 
by "ANDREY" [Dayle SMITH, seep. 33]. It was thanks to 
238 
0001510 
Top Secret· 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
