14-00000 
'-"' .. _..__., ·- · . 
Durinv this operation Maheu had. his staff prepare a 
p:iper citi;g dangers to U.S. ~conoray and tratla resulting 
-fro~ the Onassis deal. Through contacts in FOA7 1-!aheu 
had Harold Stassen read this paper in the National Security 
Council on 22 June 19S4. During this same period. naheu 
briefed Scott McLeod, Assistant Secretary of· State for 
Security and Consular Affairs on the project. McL~od 
aPreed to furnish State cornmo nnd pouch facilities subject 
t~ Jo~n Foster Dulles' approval. Additionally, Maheu 
briefed J. Edgar Hoover and Vice :Preshleat. Nixon. 
In August of 1954,, Maheu advised this Office of his rela­
tionshi~ with Niarchus. NEA Division was contacted and 
expressed interest in this matter. They were put in touch 
with Maheu and furnished him a comr.io channel,·a pouch system 
and operational guidance. International litigation erupted 
as a result of. the Onassis/ t-liarchus ma tte:r ~- a:1d as a result 
of Niarchus claiming Government privilege in the case~ the 
Agoncy was subsequently identified as being tho Govenment 
agency involved. Files of this Office ref1ect extensive 
correspondence furnished us by the Office of General Counsel 
in 1956 regarding the Onassis matter. 
On 16 August 1954 Subject was gra!1tod a covert: security. • 
clearance for utilization as an agent under Proj eel: 1i1IXT, 
in the Near East. On 30 August 1954 he was granted a si1Jilar 
clearance to permit his use in the United States as a covert 
associate under Project LPHIDDEN. In 1'1ove~er of 1957, a 
cable frora ~Ciudad Trujill<> indicated that .Mr. :.raheu had 
allegedly been involved in a violation of tha :Mann Ac't in 
• procuring :ind tra."lsport.ing prostitutes for ,::President Sukarnq 
. during Sukarno's state visit to tl1e United States in 1956. 
Mr. Maheu contacted this Office to advise that the a.llcgations 
were 1:1ithout foundation and stated that he would take steps · 
iJOEediately to have his attorney see that appropriate 
(Dominican officials would retract tho charges. This was 
subsequently· done. Edward Bennett Willialil.5 acted as Maheu's 
lawyer in this matter. 
In 1957 infonnation was ri'ceived indicating that during 
Pre.sident Sukarno's visit to Moscow in the fall of 1956~ he was 
introduced to a Soviet woman within the Kreolin.. He had 
an affair with her against the admonitions of his advisers. 
It was reported that the Soviets took detailed filus of the 
affair and that a copy was sent to tho PKI. In June of 1957 
Al Ulmer an:l:Sa:c::uel Halpern. FE Division., contacted the 
2 
