14-00000 
"Intrigut'r about tho Tri-Contincnl"l C,)nferrncc".- Ben Bark..'l, tho rno.ct.orm1nd or the 
':'ri-Conlincntl\l Conference schodulod for lhvsmi, myrt.eriously dir.ap1,c'lred in f'ririr.. 
We remember th'lt, when it 'lmLI thought th11t thio confnrcnco would be hold in Algoria 
umor Chinese spont:Orf-hip, its mast.or!dndc:, Che Gucvllra and Ben 1-Jolh, dis11ppc'lJ'ed. 
Tho cho.rocter who took up Cho 1s role in this Conference, Ben Bark", now v~nishes 1D 
Parts. Could it be th4t what tvippened to Bon Bollil is nbout to hitppen to Fidelf 
Novembt>f 31 1%5 s 11How Ab ~•1ct Gan Cnptro hol 11.- In his recent G t,11 temont to three 
Amoriolln aD.1 ono Sp,inish journalists, C~stro appearo uro,-snt and acte as though he 
didn't care for an "aeg1orn~monto 1 vi th the u.r. Howovor, from tho context of his 
st.ntomonto it 1F quite obvious thl\t he vould like nothintr better thnn being rEl-tlr!mit­
ted to the I.Atin Arnoric~r community am v,ottinP, the blecsing of tho u,r. 
·ms .attitude muat hrivo boon n terribl') liia11ppointmont to hifl followcrf!, who must 
necof!r-~rily soo it AS evidonco that tho u.r.r.R. is in full retrcllt in its economic 
war with the u.r. ov<rr Cuba. 
"Roticcncee Th{lt Rc.-y,ig.l Inoincority 1 Cgut.ion ,uyj F°l'.l!lt",- At lact, tho Old Guard bu 
spoken out through Carloa Rafael Rodr!r,uoz, following the dovaatntinr, "purge" that it 
underwent in the lnnds of Fidel Cnstro. But fear of a eecond, bloody phaEJo, of the 
purge ha11 kept Carloe Rafael Rodr!r,uez from openly atfacking Fidel Cnetro •• ' Instead, 
he has taken resource to veiled reticence and references to Fidel CnBtro 1s "petty•. 
burgeoie 11 past, mixed with insincere praieefl, in order to make it known that the 
"claFr.ics" of ~nrxiem-Lcniniem etill dietruot F:lr!el. If their differences with the 
"new wave" are really a thing of the pnei, why doee Old-Ouard man Carlos Rafrel nov 
bring up the' f~ct that Fidel we not one of them at tho begiMinr,, nnd that '18 was 
not a t.rue V.arxiet-Leninist?. 
. ' 
Novellber 4, 1%5: "The Renction to Camnrioca: C'lf! t.ro If! Rerentment 11nd Ai t terneee 11.-
c~stro 'o vow to let dieFatisfied Cubans out was hie own error of apprecia 'tion. Pree­
ident Johnson took the challenge and then C11ttro tried to sound out the U. r. far co­
exis tentialiet overtures, Hence his rejection ~f the Red Cross to mediate in the 
mstter. His bitter reaction forbidding the depA.rture from Ca!!19J'ioca ~hows the extent 
