14-00000 
• • 
. . 
C 
0 
0 . 
D00 IXSTRUCTIOS 
NO. 50-10 
. . 
SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIO~S-GEXERAL 
4 September 1973 
provided to the FBI. In accordance \\ith this policy, the foll~ing 
categori('S of ODO asscts \\ill be identified to the FBI: ODO per­
sonnel, agents of the Operations Dirl'Ctorate who arc either U.S. citizens 
or alien residents, and foreign agents of the Operations Din.-ctorate 
recruited abroad who come lo the United States for operational 
purposes. 
c. A and Human Sourcu of Foreign Intelligence Registered bv Other 
U.S. Agencie, 
The lnteragency Source Register ( ISR) has been established at head· 
quarters to pro\·ide for Unitl'<.I Stall'S Intelligence Board ( USIB) agencies 
a centralized re<.·wd of agents and human sources of foreign intelligence. 
A principal purpose of the [SR is to register primacy of interest and 
prevent multiple recruibnent or unintentional duplicate operational use 
of such agents and human sources. It is USIB policy that no iodhidual 
registered in the JSR by one t:S18 agency \\ill be used for operational pur­
poses by any other t:S18 agency "11.ithout the specific prior appro\-al of the 
agency having primacy of interesL If a DDO element desires to arrange the 
transfer or joint operational use of a registered individual. the JSR "ill con­
tact the agency h:l\ ing p:imacy of interest to detemune whether theie is a 
willingness to discuss this matter. 
cl. CUizena ( or Per1ona Documented u Citi:.enr) of Arutralia, Canada, the 
United Kingdo~ (including iu Cmneu Dependent Territories) and 
New Zealand 
( 1) 'The operational use of citizens of the above-namc-d countries ( includ­
ing the overseas dependencies of the United Kingdom) is resbicted 
by agreements \\ith tlw intelligence or security authorities of such 
countries, which require the prior 3pproval of the appropriate liaison 
authority. Such approval \\ill be obtainc-d at the earliest feasible stage 
of development tfupugh the Europem Oi\ision ( in the case of citi.zem 
of Canada or the \;nitcd Kingdom), or through the East Asia DhisiOD 
(in the case of Australian or New Zealand citizens)." 
(2) The above restriction also go\·ems the use of false documentation 
representing ODO staff or agent perso=el as citizens of the abo,·e­
named counbies. Appro,11I for the use of such documentation will 
be sought through the same channels as stated in subparagraph ( 1) 
above. 
(3) Authority to make ope-rational use of the persons or documentation 
described io the above subparagraphs without obtaining the prior 
approval of the liaison authority conCt'Tllro may be granted only 
by the Deputy Director for Operations or by the Director. 
7 
SECRET 
j 
i 
I 
! 
J . 
J 
1 
t 
I 
