14-00000 
BinOHAHI'Off, NE'tl YORK plAnS to use t.he following prayer which cw trora 
11 l-1'a,.ora tar 1-Jen 1n Service•, 
"For t.he Oppres:sedr O OOd, The Croat.or of /llefl and of nations, we 
. ifflplore Thy rat.herly care and protoc.t.ion in behalf of all Thy childron 
everywhere who suffer persecution. In nl.l their trials and tribulations 
be Thou their Refuge and Strength. Impnrt to them Thine wn comfort and 
courae0. Turn tho hearts of tho opproeoors from e-n.l to good. Stop the 
hnnds an1 convert the wills of those who would tm'D;(brother again.'>t brother 
in racW 'r.trife. Restore to all 1110n uvorywhore the bleooing of religious 
treogom. Fill our hearts ~d inapiro our minds with_ a doairo firmly_ 
to eotabHsh poace and justice, liborty and fraumity throughout the worldJ 
tor His sak._,, who suffered tar all 1113Jlkind1 Thy Son, Jesus Christ our • 
Lord. Amen. 11 
DULtrrH I HIN?:ESC1l'A 
11 ••• pleased t.o join all Chri:itians ot this country in a Crusade tor 
Freedom. Daily we are 11' aying for t,'10 restora ti.cm of religious froedons 
to the peo;,le11 bchirxi the Iron Curtain. May God t;lesa your effort in 
pro1110ting Cr.r111tian freedom and peace 1n thio world.• • 
WHEELING, WEST vmaINIA 
"'nith deep emotion we••• assure you ot our wholehearted cooperation 
•• •. Rel~i.ws liberty throughout tho worM ha11 long ut:en a epccial in• 
tention re:11e!!:bcred here. We shall not fdl to ck Hi.Ill to in:lpire Pastors 
to encourage their congregations to do all possible to cooperate.• 
CHAH3ERSBURO I PENHSYLV ANIA 
" ••• it is planned in our congregation to place special emphasis in our 
Sunday Bulletin on Harch 23 upon the lll."ltter of >4"a7ere, pt,r11onal Md 
corporate, for restoration of religio1~ libe~ties to repressed people. 
We shall, also, m:.ke a personal anncance:11ent calli!l€ a+,tention to the 
printed progr8111 and trust that in this way, we .u:, mare 1n the •crusade 
tor FreedOL' Your 111ove see!IIS to be ~ne that sho•Jld enl.i.st the tMnking 
and eftcrta ot all ChriBtian people.• 
FCllT SMITH, ARKANSAS 
• ••• ve ccrduct a Novena here • •• every Su.'1day ~t using the booklet, 
1 Crusade for Peace. 1 During this Novena we include all the intcnUons 
or the entire world.and in a spet'ial vay the int.enUons tor your Cruaade 
tor Freedoa.• 
• 
