14-00000 
16 January 1978 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
FROM: Edmund Cohen 
Assistant General Counsel 
SUBJECT: U.S. v. Hemming 
• o) 
t. On 22 November 1977 the undersigned accompanied by Messrs .(J'homas 
Brigg~ Gai.-y Mattocks and Robert Barteaux, travelled to Miami to confer with 
Judge Hoeveler, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas M. Sherouse, U.S. District 
Court, Southern District of Florida, about subject case. Messrs.(Brigg~and 
Mattocks had dealt with Mr. Hemming while they were employed by the Drug 
Enforcement Administration and Mr. Sherouse wanted them available as rebuttal 
witnesses. Mr. Barteaux also was sought as a possible rebuttal witness to describe 
the Agency's relationship with Mr. Hemming in the event that Hemming raised a 
CIA defense . 
03 
2. On 23 November Mr. ~igg1 Mr. Barteaux and the undersigned met in 
chambers with Judge Hoeveler, Mr. Sherouse, Mr. Roger Howard, law clerk to 
Judge Hoeveler, and Mr. Ted Sakowitz, Public Defender for the Southern District 
of Florida. Mr. Sherouse decided that Mr. Mattocks would not be required io, 
testify and he did not attend the meeting. The Judge initially expressed some reluc­
tance to have an~ parte conference because Mr. Hemming had assumed primary 
responsibility for his own defense with only limited assistance from the Public 
Defender. The Judge insisted that a transcript of the meeting be made but he 
promised that the transcript would be sealed and, in fact, would not be transcribed. 
3. The undersigned indicated that the Agency had no interest in the outcome 
of the case and interposed no objection 0 jo t.qe introduction of any relev~nt information. 
Our sole concern was to protect Mr .~r1g~nd his relationship wit}y'CIA both before 
and after his DEA employment. The Judge was informed that M$~ Qiriggsbsol~ con­
nection with Hemming was on 23 May 1975 and that he had no contact with Hemming 
during any period of Agency employment. The~ational security consequences of 
exposure of M~~@riggs)as well as the career consequences were outlined. In addition, 
the Judge was informecf' that Mr. Barteaux was prepared to testify as an overt Agency 
employee about any relationship between Hemming and CIA. 
,E •• ~.IMPDET CL avti.$£11. . 
