14-00000 
' : .~~:;:-,k•~.a1;1-:-•. ' 
j '; 
! ' l ; 
l 
Top Secret 
(AM:ERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - Ja;:iuary 1960-January 1962) 
In addition to supervising his subordinates's direction 
of agents, NOSEHKO said he personally managed ~REISFREUND706 
( "PROKHORfl) and[i._-JEIS~ • ( "SARDAR") . ~ 
• Db 
Supervisor of All Code. Clerk Operations 
NOSENKO said that, upon assuming responsibility for 
supervising operations against American code clerks, he 
found a very "difficult situation". Prior to the assignment 
of KOSOLAPOV to the American Embassy Section in late 1959, 
all operations against code clerks had been handled by 
MALYUGIN, but during MALYUGIN's two years of effort there 
had been ·no operational approaches and no successes. Nhen 
NOSENKO took over there were no active c!evelopmental 
operations-against code clerks under way, he stated, and 
the only agents or operational contacts being used against 
them were poorly educated maids and waitresses none of • 
whom had accomplished anything of importance. No non-Soviet 
citizen agents were being used in operations against code-
room personnel. • 
According to NOSENKO, in _January or February of 1960 
GRYAZNOV was assigned to _the American Embassy Section as a 
second assistant to NOS~NKO in his code clerk activities . 
. From this.po"int .6n,-NOSENKO; KOSOLAPOV, and GRYAZNOV- shared 
the same KGB Headquarters office~ There, all KGB files on 
American code_ clerks as well as the files on all agents 
available for work against them, were stored in one large 
safe accessible to all three officers. NOSENKO supervised 
all of .the section's-work along these·lines, and.no provo­
cations, compromises, recruitment attempts, or recruitments 
could have been _planned or carried out without his prior. 
knowledge and agreement when he was in Mos·cow. If NOSENKO 
was absent on a trip, he would·have been told about any such 
activity upon his return. 
NOSENKO said that he carefully directed the work of 
GRYAZNOV and KOSOLAPOV during these two years, discussing 
their cases with them, taking part in operational planning, 
and approving or disapproving all operational measures. 
160 
G001430 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
