14-00000 
.. 
• 
\'j' v;...v••--
3. 
670. 
. .-. 
c. Cor:ioror'Aisc of CHEREPA?lOV 
(i) Introduction 
NOS£NKC's stories on the compro~ises of POPOV and PENKOV-
S~lY were examined for their accuracy as to ti~ing and cause. In 
the case of CHEREP~.NOV (Pages 548-558), there is no question about 
when t.he so-called CHEREPANOV pape::-s ·._.ere passed, nor how the J'.GB 
openly learnad of the U.S. Embassy's poss~ssion of the papers. 
The chief Gueation is the authenticity of the cocu.~ents themselves, 
with the subsidiary implications, if they are not authentic, that 
the passage of the papers was instigated by the KGB, and that 
there could have been neither a compromise of nor a search for 
Ci!EREPh.~0'/, as described by NOSENKO and attested to by his travel 
authorization (sae also Part VIII.D.8.). 
(ii) T~~ Ooerational Plan in Draft 
Exair.ir.ation of one draft -~ocument--J.he operational plan 
against the ca. officer I WIMTERS-:.reveal.s the following points 
relate1 to for.:i: • 
- Although only a draft, the title of the case officer, 
the designation of his office, the title of his supervisor 
as approving authority, and the dcsignaticn of his office 
component as well as the title of the confirming authority 
(the head of the department) arc Sp(:lled out in full, even 
including the suhor~ination of the KGB to the Council of 
Ministers of the USSR. KGB practice, as reported by 
ether sources and as logic would dictate, docs not require 
that this be done, cumberso~e as these designations are, 
and tr.e typist routinely fills them in as the official 
copy is typed from the draft. 
- Although only a draft, this document has been signed 
by KOVSHUK as being approved, which is against common 
sense and KGB practice. ~OSENKO himself noted this dis­
crepancy, asking himself aloud why· KOVSHUi< had done· this . 
., 
- Although only a draft, the name of the target of 
the plan appears several times, but earlier KGB defectors 
have stated and NOSENKO himself has confim.ed that the 
name is left out of drafts so the typist ir. t~e typing 
pool will not kr.ow the identity of the subject of the 
report: a blank line is used wherever the name is to· 
appear to be filled in by hand by the case officer after 
the document comes back from the typist. 
- On the. basis of references to LANGE!.LE and POPOV, 
this plan (which is not dated) would h~ve to have been 
drafted sometime after October 1959. WINTERS by this 
time had been in Moscow since August 1958, had been de­
tected in operational lette=-mailing, and ~aJ been 
associating wit.h KGB officers, etc. Neither this 
TOP Sl:.CREl 
~- . .::11 
. , 
.i I • 1 
