14-00000 
. . 
r·-- •• · r 
\. .. -·- -i 
- z -
were in a position to sabotage the electrical plant in Havana. (I 
did not ask, neither did he specify which plant,) He did not promise 
immediate act1or,, adding that he wanted to assure himselt of the 
details of the planned operation and the safety-odds of tpe man 
invoh·ed. A-1 then indicated that he would certainly be in a • 
position to ·accomplish this mission and others in the future and 
would be most grateiul for any materiel we could put in place. 
I left the matter with him with the understanding that if it were 
possible we would p~ceed with caching the high explosives in 
the general area of Havana. He assurt:d me of their capability 
to sen·ice and retrieve the cache, 
b. Request for Contact in Guantanamo 
AMBANG-1 asked me if it would be possible for us 
to arrange some means for Rogelio Cisneros to visit Guatanamo 
and talk to his brother who is an employee of the Naval Base and 
another agent of theirs likewise employed there. The reason A-1 
gave for the request was that they wished to inform Ramon Cisneros 
Diaz of the JURE plans to begin the implementation of their plan 
of resistance and overthrow of the Castro Regime. • I advised A-1 
that whereas ! would look into this matter as I could tentatively 
tell him that the chances of accomplishing this were remote, 
c. AMBANG-1 Political Plans 
AMBANG-1 informed me that he was planning at 
this time to be in New York ·on or about 10 August and that following 
this trip he intended. to go to Santo Domingo and Caracas. In Santo 
Domingo he hoped to set up a small base for operations such as a 
small house on a farm near the shore which could be used for boat 
travel to Cuba. Once he had made such arrangements he intended 
to talk to President Juan Bosch telling him of the plan and asking 
his acquiescence if not support. AM~ANG-1 intends to tell Bosch 
that he will not embarrass him and will go about his business in a 
aecur~ and professional manner adding that U he should embarraH 
Bosch, the latter: could d~sclairn him and ·A-1 would desist from 
any further activity there. 
So far as AMBANG-1 's trip to Caracas is concerned, that 
will be principally devoted to orienting the JURE representation 
\ .. -···-
'-----·:.l 
!' 
\ 
