14-00000 
• 
,, 
·, 
i 
l 
-4-
(3) Clldte. Raul Di•~ Argueliea, Chief of 
Artillery of tbe· Occidental .·.r-,. 
(4) Elpidio Daea Bigo. Accordinr to AKLASH-1, • 
Baez is a trusted Fidelmaa. 
(-5) Luis llaDuel Caatillo Toirac. Assigned to 
tbe CUbaD Eabaasy tn lladrid and one of the secur1t7 
people. Be wa_. f_oriierly assigned to Brull, la young 
and baa for nveral years been wttb Pinero and the • 
cu'ball IS. 
(6) Enrique Oltuskl ·O&acki. Oltuski la a cloee 
friend of Fau~tiao Perez and his stock •Uh • the ncuae 
rises or falls as' does that of Faustino. 
(7) Sergio Tollon. Code clerk in the ·Embassy in 
Pari-s. Tollon la staying la Paris at tbe request of 
Aaba&aador Carrillo. 
1. Gastroenteritis, water pollution and una~nitary 
conditions. AHLASll-1 states there are no real proble-, 
although tbe scarcity and lack of a balanced dtet do 
cause some problems. The purificetion of Tater baa been 
a problem vbicb probably has been the cause of some of the 
aickness in the country. 
m. AKLASH-1 did not believe that Aragones had invited 
im to fly back to Havana with him in order to get him \_: 
ack because of any serious security matter. AMI.ASH-I 
did state that Aragones- was concerned that AM.LA~'H-1 mar not 
return to Cuba. Slnce Aragones cleared AllLASH-1 for bis 
trip •~road, be is ln a way responsible that AllLASH-1 doea 
not defect and returns to Cuba. AYLASH-1 feels Aragones 
does not ~ant any ~roblems with Fidel in case AJILASH-1 
decides to stay out. • 
n. MU..ASll-1 was unable to provide any information on 
the pv!itical deyelopments in CUba in mid-November and 
December since he bad been out of the country Rtnce early 
Noyelllbor. Al!LASrt-1 waa asked to check on the problems 
between tbe oppoainl factions in the Cuban leadership and 
explained the issues, the background and personalities 
involved. 
o. Soviet advise or intluence in political and economic 
matters creates resentment among the middle and higher level 
Cuban otftcia!a. Basically, the Soviets are not respected. 
