14-.Q0000 .• 
<SEVENTH DEPARTt-~EN'r - January 1962-J~.nuc:lry 19641 
NOSENKO described the various ways he had tested susp1 Cl(.'ris 
of SHAKHOV in Geneva. He gc1ve SH.t'\KHOV disinformation and tiien 
watched for an indication that he passel~ it on t:O his Amer 1ca;·, 
contacts. SHAKHOV was told to perform countersurvcillance 
tasks during a meeting by NOSENKO with an imaginary agent,. 
while other KGB off ice rs checked for signs that S!IAKHOV had 
forewarned the Americans about the meeting. Finally NOSENKO 
revealed to SHAKHOV the location of a KGB dead drop and 
checked five days later to see whether the specially prepared 
materials emplaced had been disturbed in any way. NOSENKO's 
conclusion was that SHAKHOV was absolutely free of susp1cicn, 
and it was his intention to report this finding when he re­
turned to KGB Headquarters from Geneva. 
,. 
S~cuiity Escort Officer for Soviet Disarmament Delegation 
NOSENKO said that he was the sole KGB officer.with the 94-
man Soviet delegation to the Disarmament Conference and as 
such he was responsible for the security and behavior of the 
entire delegation. [KGB officers I.S. MAYOROV and M.S. 
TSYMBAL came with the delegation to Geneva, but they had left 
Geneva before NOSBNKO made the foregoing statement to CIA.] 
To assist him in carrying out his security functions, NOSENKO 
had the services of a nu~ber of coopted informants of the KGB 
who were serving in the delegation. [NOSENKO has never re­
ported what, if any, security checks he ran on the delegates 
in his charge, or what, if any, information his informants 
.provided him. ] 
NOSENKO has never been precise about how he spent his days 
and nights in Geneva, but he has ·indicated that he disposed 
of his time .a,s he saw fit, and for the most part had little 
to do.· He explained in 1962 that he could come and go as he 
pleased because Ambassador iori~ knew who he was, as did most 
of the delegation. No one paid him any attention, It was 
• known that he was not really a Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
officer, and he could absent himself from conference meetings 
at any time. 
278 0001549 
TS No. 197124 
Top Secret Copy ..:_ ___ -·-·-· 
