1
'[;°04-10122-10344] [ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992] 
• : SECBEI 
EYES ONLY 
7 J"une 1966 
SUBJECT: MAHEU, Robert A. 
1. Robert A. Maheu, a personnel relation• executive and 
foriner F. B. l. Agent, haa been utilized by the Office o( Security 
on many aen■ltlve aealgnmenta ■!nee the early fifties. He ha■ 
also on aeveral occasion• been cleared for u■e by the DD/Pin 
various capacities. He does .buai11e ■• u Robert A.. Maheu, Asao• 
ciatea, and maintain• office ■ in Wuhington, D. C. ~ and Loa 
Angeles, California, where he i• now residing. 
Z. It has come to our attention that the Senate Subcomrnittee 
inve ■ tigating wiretapping activttiea (Long Conunittee) ha.a expreeaed 
considerable interest in Maheu. He ha■ never been asked to per• 
form any technical surveillance on our behalf. 
3. The first inkling we had that the Long Committee was 
interested in Maheu came to our attention through the OGC. 
Mr. Lawrence Houaton advised that Walter Yeagley, Aaaistant 
Attorney General, Internal Security Diviaion, had casually mentioned 
to him that he had been advised by Raymond A. Taggart, an AID 
employee, that he m.ay be called upon to testify before the Long 
Committee regarding his activitlea while employed by Maheu (1954-SS). 
4. The only significant association the Agency had with Maheu. 
during that period involved the struggle between two Greek industrial 
giants, Stavros Niarchue and Aristottle Onassls. Maheu had been 
retained aa a trouble shooter for Niarchus. Onassis had just con•· 
eluded a pact with King Saud which would allow him to control approxi­
mately 90 percent of the oil shipments out of Saudi Arabia. In con­
sumating the deal. he allegedly employed every trick in the book. 
His achievement c·aused much consternation among the British. 
German, and American interests. Niarchus also realized as a 
result of this the balance of power and influence weighed heavily in 
EYES OHLY 
SEG"REf 
t °r. :":f-(t1 
£1cloded Imm a1!:"'!:II: 
de.,,·n-r •'lr 2~d 
~~-:l~~lfl•~iOl 
