14-00000 
l 
' \ 
J 
i 
...... 
l. • The rcaoona for McDoA&ld's contact with us are threefold1 
n. After preparing the 6S-page report (a copy o! which 
bo savo me) be becamo ccmconied that publication of tbis 
document n:ight not be lo tho r..Ati0!14l tntorest. Ho is amdouo 
f4r our ad'Vice on thls. 
b. Ho ls Interested la knO'Wlng whether the information 
le naoonnbly accurate. Ho quito naturally does not "'1lnt to 
puhliah a story that coata!na orrora. 
c. He la ln.tereated la nowlag wbotbor the Agency ,i,aue 
to delvo farther lnto thia matter. 
4. With regard to tho pcooible publicaticu cl the roport, W.c0orui14 
add he plamied to t.Allt la very general tonne this Afternoon "'4th repre­
OO?ltativee of Time/Lile. He will make no commitments to'them and 
.\Vlll treat Ida mooting ae utricily exploratory. lt ls McDonald 111 opinion 
th&t the story would appoal to publishera and would brtng 11pproximately 
$200, 000 io $300, ooo. 
S. Mr. McDonald clAlma be haa no red lnteroat In puraulng Ilda 
. oubJeet turtilor ucl.QH tho Agcmc:y !eol• tbereJa. real merit in tt. Htr • 
•• ca.ld blo aourcee are ''wt.de opGD" and he la confident that furthsr inlorma­
Ucn could be devoloped although he baa no direct cootact with th$m a11 
lcdhiduala and v,ould probably ha.vo to go through the oame lo.borioue 
process of conta.ctbg one pereon through another a.a ho dld before. 
• . . .. 6. McDonald pinna to le:Lvo Waoblogtoo tomorrow, but eald be 
eould.o.tay·lA town through Frtd:ly U Ulla was neccaoary. He said he 
• ,, . ea·m~ hero for the ezprCH p11rpose of diecussinr;. thlo report with as • 
. t!( . He said ht, did not consider Senator Goldwater a percooal friend, but 
ln&catod be bad traveled tbow\ando of mile• with the Senator during 
Id~ preGidentlal camp&lgn and although ho argued with blm: on. many· 
aubjecto bad a very high_ regard for hlin. It was agreed:lhAt I would 
get tho report IA the bands oC the appropriate Agency peoplo u .aoon •• 
poaslble and attomptto give him a prellmlnary reaction some tlme 
tomon~. • • 
·· . ... ~ .. ~r~ ,. 
.·'-·,·t,· 
• .• 
