re-
CONTINUATION OF 
DISPATCH 
I 
i SECRET 
surveillance by the LIElffiRACEs. The results, at least fn tije 
PBRU~~ phase of this operation, have b~en unspectacular so· 
far. The main usefulness of LIRISG-3 and LIRISG-4 has been; 
a) as access agents to LIRISG, (although this has been : 
largely reduced to the LIRISG Consulate), and b) to introduce 
Wallace B. ROWTOS to visitin~ PBRUM~ officials and members I 
of the local leftist community with access to PBRUiIES and 
LIRI'.;G. A major £:ffort was started recently to take this 
opcr;, \.ion up one :nore notch and, taking advant~e of a recent 
cris1~ in the relations between LIRISG-3 and LIRISG-4, send 
the latter to PB?.CllEN on a mission to assess and hopefully ; 
recruit new sources of information. The exploitation of 
LIRISG-3's contacts with rP9resentatives of the Guatemalan • 
FAR rebel movel:len~ was the object of separate correspondence. 
LIRISG-3's rene.ed contacts with these representatives do. 
not at this time involve PBRml&'\, although the latter clearly 
supports at least some of their activities. 
2. Forwarded under separate cover are fifteen reports 
prepared by Wallace B. RO'lfTC:; on the activities of LIRISG-3, 
! '!'!IT'-<'-4. ~"~ c::n-~ ,..f thPil" rnnt:ict!': f,-n,., l :itP. .Tanuarv to 
31 March.1968. The Station has noted Headqua.i~ers' desire 
for more freql!ent progress reports per reference A. ·It felt, 
however, that in this case partial reporting of LIRI.SG-4's 
difficulties in obtaining a PBRUMU visa (by far the most 
important aspect of thh: operation during the period under 
review) could have been misleading, as the situation changed 
several times and LIRING-4 did not really know what to expect 
from LIRING fro~ one meeting with its representative~ to the 
1:~xt, not to again mention the ups and downs of the LIRISG-3/ 
LtRISG--4 relationship, which hit a new low during this period. 
The Station would like to point out in passing that, in• 
addition to cable reporting and dispatches transmitting, 
ROWTo~•s· contact reports, the operations in ~hich LIRING-3 
and LIRIXG-4 are involved in are reviewed in sone detail in 
the over-all mouthlv report submitted bv the PBRG~, Section 
.of this Station. • - • 
3. The last time LIRIXG-4 accompanied LIRIXG-3 to PBRUMEN, 
she obtained an entry visa in a few days. LIRISG--4 thus felt 
that as an ex--e:cployee of LIRI1;G with good connections in 
PBRUllEX and LIRISG she would obtain a new PBRUYES entryl visa 
fairly easily. E:itry visas are now quite a bit more diJficult 
to obtain, however, for PPRUll.E.'i nonofficial citizens abroad. 
It also appears that the LIKING staff did not really know 
what to make of LIRING-4's stated desire to return to PBRUYEN 
for an extended period of time, as this was obviously based 
·on a domestic quarrel. LIRING-3 and LIRING-4 have had :other 
quarrels, and the LIRIYG staff may have thought that this last 
one would subside and that LIRING-4 would postpone or ~ancel· 
her plans for going to PBRUYE.'i. It was to convince th~ LIRING 
staff t'hat the .difficulties with his wife were serious :that. 
LIRISG-3.first went to LIRISG. In a maneuver to further 
convince t~e LIRI~G employ~es, particularly LIRISG-2 arid 
LIRISG-9, that LIRING-4 seriously wanted to go to PBRUMEN as 
a result of domestic problems, ROWTO~ decided to have tIRISG-3 
openly question LIRING-4's right to take· their child with 
her. It must be remembered that, in ~~ico, ~ •ife c_arinot 
leave the country, and especially take a child with be~, 
without the express and official. consent of the busban4. This 
little scenario appears to have been well played. On \he 
other hand, it did not help LIRISG-4 obtain a visa any!faster. 
LIRISG-2 appeared to be waiting, among other thiDiJS, for 
LIRISG-3 to arrive at a decision regarding their childiaccept­
ablr to his'wife. LIRING-3 finally ."agreed" to l~t LIRUG-4 
take the child at his 26 February meeting at LIRISG. Two 
days before, LlRISG-4 had been told by LIRISG-2 that the I . 
cus~,,,c..,.rK>N • 
.,. .. S3a uo,c P•l"o<Ous ""''°"· J SECRET ,..,, 
