'.f-00000 
703. 
by the nature of his information about the four individual cases 
reviewed at length above: 
- In the BURGI C4Be NOSEN~O did not have knowledge . 
of the extensive background ir.fort:'ldtion on the recruit=ent 
target which the KG£ possessed at the ti~c of the appr~3ch; 
or of other significant details in whc1.t NOSENt:O described 
as an operation of greatest importance to the American Tour­
ist Section and to himself perso~ally. In addition, NOSENKO 
has admitted lying about his having received an a· ... ard !or 
his role in the recruit~ent of BURJI. 
- Regarding the DREW case, ?:OSENKO sai:i he was c:hosen 
for the approach (made on the basis o~ hc~osexuality) be­
cause the regular case officer lacked operational experi-
ence. By April 1959, however, the Y.GB had arranged "hur,dreds• 
of homosexual compro:nises in the L'SSR, liOSENKO reported in 
anothei context. His earlier personal experience with 
Western targets had been licited to a secondary.role in 
the BURG! case and a princip3~ role in the HARRIS case, 
the latter not an approach on ho~osexual grounds. It is 
ch fticult lo compre:hend how N05E:!IKO would have qualifi~d 
for the task whereas the case officer IV~iOV would not. 
--There are gaps in NOSENKO's infor~ation about a 
number of significant aspect2 in thei5i~case, includ-
ing st~ff plan~ing and manc1emcnt of the operation, opera­
tional support arr,rngements, ani on personnel of the outl~·ing 
KGB units involved, ?\OSENKO was unable to cxr,lain. why he 
was selected to make the approach to 
- CHELNOKOV was the senicr case offi~er for FRIPPEL. 
NOSENKO nev~r met this agent alone while he resided in 
Moscow as the American Express Co~pany representative, 
and SOSENKO reportedly acted on a supervisor's instruc-
tions at tr.eir later meeting in Odessa. Despite his occu• 
pation and his entree into the American co~~unity ir. Moscow, 
FRIPPEL reportedly was not exvloited by the KGB against 
tourists or U.S. Governmant employees but was targette~ 
to report Oil matters to •,,hich he had no ac::ess; hence 
there seems to have been no logical reason for the FRIPPEL 
case to have b~en transferred from the Alrerican Tourist 
Section to the U.S. Embassy Section and back again. Al­
though available information verifies the continuity of 
NOSENKO as FRIPPEL's handler, it cannot be considered firm 
evidence of NOSENKO having been an o:ficer in either of 
these sections and in fact might be interpreted as evidence. 
that he was not. 
Similarly, while fazniliar with some but not all of the opera­
tional activities of the homosexual agents VOLKOV and YEFRI:MOV, 
NOSCNKO failed to support his claim to being th~ir American 
Tourist Section case officer; he has been unable to provide 
rudimentary background information of these two individuals, 
who allegedly were prominent in operations of the section. 
NOSENKO's statement that he retired the files of VOLKOV and 
.• 
! 
l 
I 
