000 
VI \., 
726. 
k. TOY to Bulgaria and th~ LUNT Case 
In the spring of 1?61, NOSE!l.'JCO said; four r.1onths after 
returning fror.i Cuba, he was told unexpectedly that- in- about--,~ -
a week's time he ~ould leave for Bulgaria to consult with • 
the An:erican De~art~ent of the Bulgarian MVR co~cerning 
operations against the American LeRation in Sofia (Pages 
279-283). NOSESKO flew to Sofia in early April 1961, where 
he was ~et by A.S. tO!LOV, an advisor there and a for~er 
employee of the Second Chief Directorate whom NOSE~KO had 
known at KGB Headquarters. NOSESKO remained 1n liul~aria 
until about the 1:1iddle cf May. While there he discussed 
both general matters and particular cases with the Bul­
garians, gave several lectures on operations against A,ieri-
can installations and pcr~onnel as well as against tourists, 
and finally directed the successful ho~osexual operation 
against the American Professor LU~T. 
Aside fro~ being told that he would be advising :he 
Bulgarian service en operations against Americans at the 
Legation in Sofia, NOSENKO apparently received no prcpara• 
tion for this trip. He said in answer to specific questions 
that nobody told him "'hat he was SU'!1posed to discuss "i th· 
the Bulgarians, that he did not meet with the Bulgatian 
liaison representatives in Moscow before leaving, and that 
he knew nothing of the organi:ation, personnel, area of 
responsibility, 01 problems of t~c Ar.:erican Departmer.t of 
the Bulgarian service bcf6rc arriving in s~fia. 
SOSE~KO wa5 selected for this mission despite the fact 
that he was extreraely busy with his ~utics in the U.S. E~bassy 
Secticn (see above discussion of his responsibilities for 
code clerks, ABIDIAN, and the military attaches) and despite 
the fact that KOiLOV was permanently assigned as an advisor 
in Sofia. NOSENKO described KOZLOV in another context as a 
"very experienced officer" and has said th:it KGZLO\' was. Chief 
of the American Depart~ent until 1953 and then fron June 19SS 
until sometime in 1958 ~as Deputy Chief of the Tourist De~ 
partment, Second Chief Directorate. (KOZLOV, assisted by 
NOSENKO, had recruited BURGI in June 1956.) Asked why KOZLOV 
could not have advised the Bulgari:ins, ~OSESKO said that he 
was too busy advising on higher· levels and h3d been away 
from active operations in Moscow too long. 
NOSENKO gave only a general description of his duties. 
as an advisor on operations against the American Legation. 
On the other hand,:he accidentally became involved in a homo-. 
sexual er:trapmcnt operation against an Am'!rican tourist i.ho 
was visiting Bulgaria, and he has described this operation 
in considerable deta i 1. (NOSES KO' s prc\'ious speciality was 
tourist operations, particularly those involving homosexual 
compromise.) 
NOSE~KO's story about his role in the. LUNT case changed 
greatly between 1962 and 1964. During the first meeting· 
series he·described ir. det~il how he set the operation up 
and what he said to LUST when-he personally confronted the 
America~ ~ith the evidence. Since defecting in 196~, how­
everi NOSENKO has said that he took no·personal part in the 
appro:ich itself, that he re~ained in his office, and that he 
merely advised ho~ to set it up. (A comparison of his account 
and that of LUNT indicates that he was not on the scene at 
the time.) 
r 
! 
