-,:._ 
SUBJECT Limesa/Umust t,1.1 ~ ~ : --
1. :: -
l. Some attention should be devoted, it it has not o.l.reaey 
been, to the dangers involved in t..'lis operation and particularly 
to what counteroeasures the tuget may institute, or may already 
have instituted. 
2. One current danger certainly e.-d.sts, to wit, tJ.\c e."d.st­
ence of project Lical..la base, which is in the group of buil<Ungs 
comprising the Limee:a complex. One of the S6ents ~t Lics.l.l.a 
base·is lmovn to one of the Lipstick age:1ts arrested in the 
suwmer of 1958, and it is, hence, possible that both the host 
government and the tarcet lmovs of Licalla. It is suggested 
that perhaps Lical..la should be te:nrJ.nated. The reason haa been 
advanced that this should not be done since the agent vould be 
suspicious and in a.'ly event Lical..la might serve o.s a r~d herring 
for Limesa. It is believed thnt the Lical.l.a ag~.nt could be 
gotten out of this operation vithcut arousi11s his suspicion. The 
Station could mount an obvious tail on him; "i.-ben he reported it, 
he could be told he had probably been made and that, hence, the 
operation should no longer continue. Tile agent has been a good 
one and could be used elsellbere on some other vork. Licalla 
house is going to be repaired soon. Th!s might be a good oppor­
tunity to stop vork there and let so:ne innoce.,,_t party rent it .. 
That vould be a better red herring. 
3. Concerning the manner in 'llhich Limesa houses vere acquired 
by th~ Station, it should be kept in mind that the purchase mechanism 
vas identical vith that used in Limited. The vstcl1n\:ut at Limited 
knev an American ovned it and told this. to vhat to him must have 
seemed a casual. visitor to the premises vhea it vas under re_pa:i ro. 
We should, therefore, assume the targets knov a."l .American ovns it 
and that it is bll"Y\1?1, Therefore, ve should also assume that it 
the targets have conducted any sort of an investigaiion o! Limesa 
h"uses, they may vell have discovered that the ssme ultimate o-.mer 
is involved. So far as is kno-wn, the bank 'ldlic:h :t"ronts for the 
purchases has not been checked to see if any inqu.iries have been 
made. lie mus~ ag1·ee the targets have the ca:rabillty to find out 
vho the front ovner is--the bank-- Slld froc there could possibly 
establish ihe identity of the ovner, Limousine. L.I.mousine and his 
firms have also bee.,- used as cover for uther Station ag~ts &:ld 
operations apart froc. Limesa and Limited. 
\ 
