14-00000 
.,,,,,... · ·:~EGRET. -~·­
··fYES ONLY 
favor of Onas•i• in their own private battle. It wa• this m.utual 
concern of the Unite~ State• and Niarchua that set the •tage for 
a joint venture. Niarchua 11Upplied the money, personnel. and 
documents, the Agency furnished the communication•. courier 
facilities,. and direction in the form of our Commo channel,· pouc!l 
ayatem, and the NEA Divlaton•a expertise and guidance. 
S. Spyrldon Catapodi■• a Oreek Broker. who had an ax to 
grind against Onaa ■la u a result of being manipulated out of a 
ha.ndaome conmnaslon he believed due hhn for his lnterce■ aion 
with certain Saudi officials to •ecure oil right■ for Oaasaia. spear• • 
headed a campaign to publicize Onaa1ia' high-handed method• .of 
operation. Thia triggered off all aorta of international lttlgationa 
which erupted into suits and counterauita,by· all-partie• ·concerned. 
Of particular note waa the caae of Catapod,l■ v■. Onaaala, which 
suit was filed in New York State. ·· While Niarchus was being exam• 
ined before trial by Onaa·•i•' attorney, he clabned Government 
privilege 1D answering certain queationa. This tact was challenged 
by the attorney and puraued to the point that eventually it was re­
corded ln the briefs filed by both the plaintiff and the def endent that 
CIA waa. ln fact, the Government agency of interest. Clo•• coor­
dination wu maintained during this period with Justice and State. 
At our request a repreaentative of the U. S. Attorney' a Office in 
New York monitored all of the Hearing■. Mr. Houston t■ intimately 
fam:Uiar with the actions tn thia cue. and copies of'hia memoranda 
pertinent to it are contained tn his files. 
6. The Security file on Subject contains a Covert Security 
Clearance issued 16 August 1954 at the requeet of NE/Z. Attz 
William Miller• for Maheu'• use on Project TWIXT. Other Inter• 
eated DD/P personnel were ldentlfied aa William F .. Rowland. 
fating Chief. NEA Division; George Prusaingi Walter Snowden; and 
lCharlea Williamson.) • . 
e~ . • 
7. Mr. Maheu was contacted to determine whether the Com• 
rnittee had been in touch with him.. • He stated he wa• not aware of 
their interest in him. When the Taggart eonversation wae men• 
tloned, he promptly replied that it muat be the Onassis operation 
they are looking into. He recalled that he had Onassis' New York 
of!lce "covered" sometime during the period. John Frank, a 
z 
EYES ONLY 
SEGHEt 
..... 
