14-00000 
I -
Before such an action is. undertaken,· the enemy must be 
softened ~y propaganda, ~abotage, raids, underground action, ~nd the 
n:i.as:s of the people of -C'-'ba must be pre.pared to accept the pr·ovisional 
government through propaganda, increased knowledge of the Council 
:and its unifying ·ertcirt•. . .. 
Dr •. MIRO asked' me what I thought of this project; did I think 
that Castro could be overthrown in any other way. I admitted that • 
strong military action appeared necessary. l stated further that 
of course his pla~ would have to be studied at the highest government 
levels. He proposed that he might elaborate a plan with his military ·, 
.1..&.1L.L.1.1cu.uu...~ors,and 1 suggested that he do this so that it might be examine_d 
and considere~.=:;;.,,---=-------------'----:------;_ 
Dr. MIRO declared that he was convinced that thiS:Communist 
dagger in the side of the States could only be eradicated by such action, 
that the U.S. is and will be blamed fot all anti-Castro propaganda, 
sabotage, etc. arid that enemy states will denounce it for intervention· 
i_n Cuba, but that if the U. S. goes to the aid of a friendly revolutionary 
tegime established in the country and helps it defeat the Soviet-backed 
Communist regime, all frie~dly -governments will applaud. 
"l have no personal political ambitions," declared MIRO. 
111 merely am trying to chair the Council, whose mission is to unify the 
anti-Castro-elements inside and outside of Cuba, If the team isn't _con­
sidered effective, then change the pitcher. But l believe the Council must 
~stablish itself on Cuban soil, and soon .. Time is against us. ""The Punta 
del Este agreement will backfire against the U. S. if Castro is allowed 
to remain in Cuba. In a year, after the politicos of the countries re­
ceiving U. S. aid have gotten their hands on U. S. gold, they will say, 
'Thanks to Castro, we got this. 1 And they will spend it as in the ·past 
with no benefits to the social and economic welfare of the people. 11 
7. Views about the Judges and La'!Yers 
l'queried Dr. MIRO as to his views relative to the judges and 
lawyers and their future status. He said he hoped that they could all 
reunite and that they could be given assistance as in the past. He de­
clared that Dr. ALABAU was not qualified to be a justice and that he was 
doing nothing but making politics and trying to discredii: the CouncU 
aIJ.d MIRO and VARONA. Dr. MIRO declar,ed that he, as Prime Minister 
in the early days of the Caetro government, had named ALABAU to the 
4 
• - .... 1 -
\c'.;...:..,j.;j 
I:: 
