14-00000 
I 
.... 
. ..- . 
--•:' --- ·.-· . ·~·:·. . . 
17 February 1972 
SUBJECT: Mrs. Susan Warren aka Susan Frank 
Susan is a tough cookie. One of her most outstanding 
features ·is a complete lack of interest - in anyone but her­
self. When.leadin&.a:China study class this is her method: 
first she asks a question, from her notes, such ·as "What 
do you think Mao meant when he said.this ... " Then she 
clamly ·1istens to what the class thinks Mao menat. Wben 
everyone finishes Susan begins to tell exactly what he 
meant to say. Through the evening7ier attitude remains 
the same "I've been here before and said this before." 
Ther~, is no enth.usiasm in her that' I could see. 
• Susan is an expert on China~ I . know because she · told 
me~ She told everyone else too within the first eight 
minutes of class. ·"Well, • I spoke to those soldiers in 
. Yunan who fired on those peasants ... " But she really didn't 
have to advertize her knowledge because it is very apparent. 
She has a solid understanding of Chinese-political line and 
can smoothly defend.Chinese history • 
. • • As far as the woman herself is concerned she has . 
not as much money as she would like. I believe she wants· 
to dress in 'style.• Now, although dressing conservatively 
•. she still de·velopes an eye for color and .she would ·clearly 
be receptive to· intelligent male attention. She has a· 
nice figure and.is aware of it. 
Perhaps the clue which best typifies Susan's personality. 
·is her voice. It is deep, slow, even and artificially 
cuitured. For example, "r's" become "d" in "veddy" or 
"Amedica". 
. . 
-Her hand movements when she speaks are measured and 
deliberate. While listenin~ she fidgits ~ little but not 
much. , • 
. Two noticible features are her thumbnails. Both are 
filed.almost to points, are very thick and yellowish-
moreso than other nails. • 
While she is concerned with herself I believe she 
would follow someone who either interested her or gently 
.: . 
I 
I I I 
! 
r r 
r. 
I . 
! 
} 
' 
