14-00000 I , .• 
661. 
by chance with delegation security functions, shoulc guide the 
other •1ess experiencej• case offict:r.• As NOSENKO shc,,Jed 
under questioning, he did net Know the contents of any of the 
positive intelligence li~LITSY.IY was to pass to Cl~ as disinfor­
mation: he did not know BELlTSKIY's Moscow or Geneva ?attern 
of movement or contacts; he did not know in detail hcr,1 or when 
the operation started; he did not kr.ow the nature of degree o! 
Dritish involvement, nor t_he operational details and c:,ntact 
arrangements. NOSE?,1<0 said that B2LIT$J<IY had been placed on a 
Geneva delegation in the hope that CIA might be able to •find• 
and recontact him.•• 
c. Remarks 
The circumstances above not only cast doubt o:i ?lOSE!flCO's 
versiCln of t.he case and his own access but ~lso oliggest t.'lat 
NOSENKO did not have a theoretical appreciation of ho~ double 
agents are handled. The examples he gave of his •guidance• to 
ARTEMEV are few in number. NOSENJ<O also stated in 196~ that he 
had arranged the actual introduction to i.1 £!.ITSKIY of KISU>V, the 
TASS man, to provide for BELITSKIY's need of a notio~al subsource 
for some of his disinformation; NOSE!-lKO b~' October 1966 had appar­
ently forgotten this event, for he stated unequivocally that KIS­
LOV had had no_ccnnection ~hatever with the oELITSJ<I~ case. ~os­
ENKO claimed to have met BELITSKIY, but did not recognize his 
photo when shown it in 1966. 
Did NOSENKO's report to CIA on the BEL!TSKIY case hann the 
KC9? It was useful to CIA, since despite frequently expressed 
doubts of 8ELITSR1Y's bona fides, CIA ••as handling the operation 
as if it were genuine (but not intending to go to the e:c:tent of 
exposing to BEL!TSKIY CIA assets inside the USSR). (Tte KCB is 
I NOSENKO has reported that he handled only one American agent 
(FRIPPEL); he had practically no kr,owledge of CIA r,or even 
vicarious exposure to the substance of any other double agent 
op~rations. ARTEMEV had had extended contact with a CIA 
tourist agent as early as August 1958, a role in o~her opera­
tions against An:erican tourists in 1959--including clandestine 
search (see Page 146), and continuous American Department 
service since then. NOSENKO diJ not know of the 195a-l959 
operational activities of ARTE?~.EV, although they feil in the 
operational area NOSENJ<O claimed to have.supervised at the 
time as Deputy Chief of the A!llerican Tourist Section. 
•• NOSENKO was· seemingly unaware that BELITSKIY had contact 
arrangements which would presumably guarantee recontact. 
..... ,J. 
. -·•····-· .... 
I ..c.:, I 
.... 1:. ...... ....,., 
I 
