14-00000 
,. 
i 
' i 
I 
l 
I l I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
! 
' i 
l 
\ 
l 
i 
l I 
' ;j 
i 
" i 
I 
,, 
C·:r ;- - • 
',. 
\.__..·, 
p. Rank of Cuban officials under Fidel in teraa of 
their influence·ln making national policy. leul is still 
the belr apparent to fidel. Next to Raul la Cbe Guevara. 
After that, no other official, accordln~ to AYLASH-1, bas 
any great influence in the making of Cuban national policy. 
President Dorticos• relationehip with Fidel le g-'Od since 
he is a hard and serious worker, bas good administrative 
ability and la able to work within the general outline l~id 
down by Fidel. Raul Castro bas some political influence1 
and control in Orienta where be bas placed bis men·.1n / 
positions of influence, but only Fidel personally bas any 
polltical influence in the rest of Cuba. Even within tbe 
military Fidel &elects and appoints high army officers. 
Cbe Guevara is atill strong in the economic field and 
bas not suffered a decline in bis influence and autborlty 
because of hie earlier policy of industrialization. 
Guevara restricts himself to the econolllic field and plays 
a very eaall role in the political field. He is aerious 
and very bard worker, one of the few, according to AMLASH-1, 
who baa worked &e\"8D days a week without leave since the 
revolution. Emilio Aragones bolds an important position 
u the organizational secretary of the PURS. Be ls tbe 
official who was alwa 1s at the office of the National 
Directorate of the Party and baa contact with all tbe 
officials in the regime. He.plays an important coordinating 
role. Faure Cbomon bas been. accused of organ-izing former 
13th of l!al-cb Revolutionary Directorate people, but, 
according to AllLASB-1, this probably based on the fact that 
Cbomon always gives jobs in the ministry be beads to DB 
people. Because of this Cbomon today controls to a large 
degree tbe Ministry of Transportation. Of all the lliniatriea, 
the DR's stronghold is in the Ministry of Transportation. 
Other DJl people who continue to bold important positioDS 
in tbe Ngime are Alberto l!ora, Ambassador Carrillo aad 
Tftfta Naranjo. - • ' -~ ·-·~- ••••• 
q. Am.ASH-1 and AKWHIP-1 were unable to develop any 
specifics, but from their convereationa with Ambassador 
Carrillo got the uspression tbat carrillo would prefer and 
welcome a transfer fr01B the BJabassy in Parle to the 
Embll887 . .i.A .Madrid. 
r. According to Emilio Aragones, Anibal Escalante 
is being considered for a job outside Cuba. The job will 
probably be in the cOIIUD8rctaVeconoaic field, but a 
decision bad not boea made as of November 1964 as to 
locattoa. 
-··· 
t 
f 
I 
