14-00000 ,, THE WHITE HOUSE 
WASHINGTON 
April 3., 1962 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. ~an B. Kirkpatrick Inspector General 
Central Intelligence Agency 
In the course of our discussions as members or Mr. McCone's 
World.ng Group on Intelligence and in our March 28 meeting With 
Messrs. McCone and Carter, I indicated that I did not concur 
in the 11Coordination 11 section of the draft report which we 
discussed with the DCI and the DDCI. 
In line with the foregoing., it would be appreciated if 
you would: 
l) Amend the second sentence of the section to read·: 
"With the exception of Mr. Coyne, we are fully in accord.a 
2) Add at the end of the section a new paragraph 
reading as follows: 
"Mr. Coyne does not concur in this recommenda­
tion. He disagrees with (a) the proposed 
organizational placement and title or the recommended 
Office, because this would perpetuate the present 
ineffective arrangement of the Coordinat1on·off1ce 
now in existence and would not provide the recorrunended 
Office with the stature required to assist the DCI 
in fulfilling his hea~ responsibilities throughout 
the Intelligence Community; (b) the limitations in 
the functional concepts of the Office, as outlined 
above. Further, he does not concur in this reconnnenda­
tion because it does not distinguish sufficiently 
the internal CIA operating functions of the DDCI 
from the community-wide functions which the recommended 
Office must perform if the DCI is to execute 
effectively his principal mission as assigned in 
the President's Directive of January 16, 1962. 
Mr. Coyne believes that if the Office is established 
• along the lines recorrmended above, it will be in­
capable of effectively assisting the DCI in performing 
his principal Presidentially-assigned responsibilities 
of (a) coordinating and effectively gUiding the total 
u. s. foreign intelligence effort; (b) establishing 
necessary policies and procedures to assure adequate 
coordination or foreign intelligence activities at 
all levels; (c) maintaining a continuing review, 
