14-00000 
Page°Four 
#2].o 838 
SECRET ' .) 
equipment necessary f'or this operation. Mr. McBee directed that 
I f'ill out a Form #88 and have the technicians band carry it to 
the Franconia De:pot in order to obtain the equipment. The use of' 
the Form #88 disturbed me in this matter because I had assumed 
f'rom Mr. Halpern that he would arrange it so that TSD would turn 
over the equipment to us without charge to anyone. The use of' 
the Form #88 implies that a division is allocating :f'un:ds f'or the 
purchase of' equipment. However, I f'illed out the Form #88, 
listing the above equipment, and walked it down to sAs, where I 
gave it to Charles Matt to have signed. The f'orm., bearing the 
SAS Cost Center #3132-5455-34oO, was completed and returned to 
me within an hour,. whereupon I gave it to DFO Agent Stan Iach, 
who drove with it immediately to the Franconia De:pot. I called 
ahead to Bob Woods and Charlie Beall of' the T & I Sho:p at Franconia 
and requested that they give a little brief'ing concerning the 
operation of' this equipment to Mr. Iach and Mr. Cryer, who was to 
meet Mr. Iach there. Neither Cryer nor Iach had ever had any 
experience with any of' the :pieces of' equipment on the list. Mr. 
Woods and Mr. Beall were quite coo:perative in this request. 
9. Several problems kept appearing and disappearing while 
the DFO technicians were transporting, installing, and testing 
the equipment. One :problem was the :payment of' the equipment. I ; 
received a telephone call f'rom Mr. Dayton s. ("Doc") Barrows of' 
TSD, inf'orming me that sAs bad reneged on :paying the $2,8o2.95 f'or 
the equipment, but that if' I would tell him what equipment we 
wanted, he might be able to arrange to lend it to us. I told Mr. 
Barrows that as f'ar as I knew, we bad indeed obtained the equipment 
with the Form #88, but that if' we needed anything else, I would 
contact him. Another :problem which appeared was the rumor that 
it was not two Cuban exiles who would be residing in the saf'ehouse, 
but only the captioned Subject and a ij:panish speaking Staf'f' employee. 
If' the rumor were actually true, it would seem that an audio 
surveillance of' the saf'ehouse would not be necessary. I called 
Charles Matt f'or an explanation, and he inf'ormed me that Senor 
Artime was going to be the only :person living in the house after 
each day's discussions were completed - no Staf'f' employee would 
be living with him. I asked Mr. Matt to whom Senor Artime would be 
, 
I f. 
f i 
' . i 
! 
