14-00000 
··11 ,· I .. : 
l 
'., 
'·. 
·1··· 
. . ! 
. ,: 
I : ·: 
... 
I .. 
_Top Secret 
(FOUNDATIONS OF NOSENKO'S CLAIMS) 
I entered the Komsomol completely without thinking 
about _it. The time came, the right age, and I • 
became a Komsomol member like all the others. It 
was different in regards to the Party: I joined 
the Party in' 1956 after the death of Stalin and_ 
while I was working in the KGB and already at that 
time there was a lack of faith and indecisiveness 
in me. My father continually insisted on this, 
saying that without the Party I would never move 
ahead and wciuld not have success in life .. But I 
myself understood and saw that I would not be able 
to work in the KGB unless I was a member of the 
Party. And if I worked somewhere else, I would 
truly never move ahead in my career unless I entered 
the Party. But from the very beginning of my entry 
inio the Party, I deeply hated all the Party talmudism 
and dogmatism. All the Party meetings were literally 
a torture. Especially when I became the Deputy: 
Chief and then Chief of a section, and then Deputy 
Chief of a department, because then I had to speak 
. at these meetings. Because this meant to lie, :to 
twist my soul, and to attempt to show myself as 
deeply dedi~ated to th~ Party and its course; , . 
In 1960 my oldest girl's asthmatic attacks became 
worse. The question of a change of climate was 
raised. At that tim~ the Second Chief Directorate 
needed to send an officer to Ethiopia for two to 
three years to conduct counterintelligence work 
among the Soviet specialists there. It cost me a 
great deal of effort to personally talk Second Chief 
Directorate Chief General GRinANOV into Letting me 
go~ The Party and work r~fer~nces had been corifirmed, 
all the questionnaires were already filled out, the 
photos had been s_ubmitted; that is, all the formal­
ities had been acc-0mplished. But at the very last 
moment the Central Persqnnel Office of the KGB began 
to protest against my going with my family to 
Ethiopia. The reason for this was that from the 
house check made at my place of residence they 
received information that I sometimes came home in 
a drunken condition and on this ground had quarrels 
with my wife. A tour abtoad with my family was 
ne~essary because of the health of my daughter 
15 
Top Secret 
G001286 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 10 
