14-00000 
rJpJ 
Th·~ origin.al publicity disclosed that in addition to Washington 
and New York INTER TEL would open offices in Chicago, Los Angeles, 
Philadelphia, and Canada. Just how many of these offices are pre­
sently opened and active is not known, but it is understood from(Al 0.3 
Pease_J:hat the Philadelphia office will not be opened because of the 
fact tliat Mr. J. Shane Creamer is the Pennsylvania Attorney General 
under a Democratic administration. Creamer was former head of 
the Pennsylvania Crime Commission. Just why INTERTEL made 
this change is not known but it would appear that they want no part 
of Mr. Creamer. 
In spite of the initial publicity that INTER TEL executives 
were not would be· 11detectives, 11 it would appear that since December 
of-1970 much of their active staff working out of the D. C. office 
have in fact become just exactly that. INTER TEL was eqgaged by 
the Hughes Tool Company to conduct a sweeping and exhaustive inves­
tigation into the affairs and past activities of Robert A. Maheu. Four 
or five years ago the· Hughes···Tool Company (Howard Hughes himself).., 
allegedly entered into an oil contract with Robert A. Maheu Associates 
to perform a variety of services apparently undefined for the amount 
of $525,000 per year. Before the end of 1970 Maheu's contract was 
rescinded and attorneys for the Hughes Tool Company moved quickly 
to remove him from authority in the Nevada Operations. According 
to the newspapers this was done at the express request of Mr. Hughes 
himself. Preliminary litigation appalled this removal but shortly 
after the first of the year Maheu filed a suit against the Hughes Tool 
Company for $50 million to which he said he was entitled as damages 
for the cancellation of his 11lifetime contract. " 
It is doubtful that there was· any connection between INTER TEL 
and the Hughes Tool Company prior to early 1971. They were engaged 
as an investigative unit under a temporary contract to protect the 
assets of the Hughes Tool Company and to determine just exactly 
what Robert A. Maheu was up to. The first contract was temporary 
and indefinite but currently they are operating under a recently 
executed five year contract. Howard Hugh.es reportedly is living 
in one of the Bahaman hotels owned or operated by Resorts Inter-. 
national. 
There are those in Las Vegas who ·do not look on INTER TEL 
as the "good guys 11 on the local scene. The suave, popular Mr. 
Maheu, even though he was discharged and removed by the Hughes 
Tool Company, remains a popular _figure winning considerable 
-2-
SECRET 
