·- I ... •.· ,.-. 
.~~~~~~~ 
.. , .. ,, ... -, ..... ,-1 
•l l 
Top Secret 
(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964) 
Comment: {Continued) 
which to keep the noted was just 0 fortuitous, 
since neither all offices had such safes, nor 
even all offices of Deputy Chiefs. 
.. 
NOSENKO's Defection 
Oh arrival for his first meeting with CIA during the 
second Geneva phase, on 24 January 1964, NOSENKO said that 
after long and careful consideration since the 1962 meeting 
series, he had decided to defect. He explained that he had 
recently been promoted to the position of First Deputy Chief 
of the seventh Department, and that because of the stature 
and responsibilities of his new job, there would be few if 
any opportunities for him to visit the Nest in th~ future. 
Therefore, he had decided to seize the opportunity at hand 
and to flee to the United States at once, leaving his family 
behind. He _foresaw no _possibility of his wife and children 
being.permitted to leave the USSR for the "next twenty 
years". NOSENKO tol~ CIA that. "the hardest thing is to part 
with my family'~. He had, however, carefully considered their 
· fate as the close relatives of a defector, and he felt that, 
because· of his mother's position in Soviet society, no harm 
would come to them. 
NOSENKO was told that CIA accepted in principle his 
decision to defect. NOSENKO felt that it would be best for 
him to disappear from Geneva without a trace, leaving all 
his personal possessions behind; he assumed that CIA would 
exfiltrate him from Switzerland to the United States. He 
wanted to carry out this· plan as soon as possible, but the 
CIA officers encouraged :'hirn--·and NOSENKO agreed-.;..to reinain •• 
in pl-ace for at least three weeks more. The reasons given 
NOSENKO for this request were: 
-The desire ·to obtain further information cm the 
local .KGB Legal Residency and the Soviet delegation to 
the Disarmament Conference while he still had access; 
320 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
