14-00000 ~ 
ij 
•' 
Top Secret 
(FOUNDATION OF NOSENKO'S CLAIMS) 
When SMITH did not come to the next scheduled meeting 
with GRIBANOV, NOSENKO sought out the maid to find out what 
had happened. She reported that SMITH was in a state of 
desperate indecision; he had paced his ~oom all night as 
if his mood was alternating between despair and defiance. 
To increase the pressure on him, the KGB sent him threatening 
letters on each of the succeeding three days. Finally, on 
the third day, instead of meeting the KGB, SMITH went to 
Ambassador BOHLEN and reported the blackmail attempt. SMITH 
was immediately withdrawn f~om Moscow and (as of 1962) he 
was "still in intelligence work". 
In 1964 and afterwards NOSENKO denied that he had played 
any personal role in the case. He explained that as a 
junior officer tn the Amer.ican Embassy Section at the time, 
working on correspondents, he would not have taken part in 
so important an operation. He said that he had heard about 
the operation from V. M. KOVSHUK, SMITH's case officer. 
(On a later occasion NOSENKO said that his only personal 
role was being assigned to a phone-watch to· receive 
surveil_lance reports cdnn~cted with ihe i~iiial KGB approach 
to SMITH.) 
GOLITSYN's Information 
In February 1962 GOLITSYN reported that in 1957 he had 
read a two-volume KGB study which gave examples of successful 
operations against the Embassy in Moscow. One. case concerned 
an American, p~obably single~ who .was either the Security 
Officer or the courtterintelligerice representative in the 
Embassy. _He had a dog, _and lived in an apartment in the 
city or a country house outside Moicow. His Russian maid 
or cleaning.·woman ~as his mistress. The KGB concluded that 
. the. American would not succumb: to ·ordinary blackmail and 
consequently ihe ~aid, a KGB agerit, was instructed to confess 
t-0 him that she had been recruited by _the KGB against her 
will and would be arrested if she did not fulfill her KGB 
tasks. The American agreed to help her, and GOLITSYN ~elieved 
that he did not report this to his ~~shin~ton hea~q~itters. 
GOLILSYN also recalled that the American first supplied 
only misinformation to the KGB, but when the KGB complained, 
he provided a mixture of truth and misinformation. GOLITSYN 
said the case study he read was based on .a true incident 
38 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
