14-00000 
.J 
.. 
'1 
J 
'l . J 
:1_ 
-. 
J 
'{ 
"j 
\ 
• 
invaded the air space of the Soviet Union and penetrated 
to a significant depth over Soviet territory. 
On July 9 there took place new flights of United 
States aircraft into the Soviet air space . 
The above-mentioned violation of the air frontiers 
of the Soviet Union by American aircraft cannot be inter­
preted as other than intentional and conducted for purp­
oses of reconnaissance. 
It must be underscored that these gross violations of 
the air space of the Soviet Union took place at a time 
when, as a result of the efforts of the Soviet Union and 
other peace-loving governments, a definite lessening of 
international tensions has been achieved, when relations 
between governments are improving, and when mutual conf i-_ 
dence between them is growing. Such a development of inter­
national relations is fully supported by the peoples of all 
countries who are vitally interested in strengthening peace. 
One cannot, however, fail to recognize that reactionary 
circles hostile to the cause of peace in a number of coun­
trLes are worried by the relaxation of international tension 
which has taken place. These circles do everything possible 
to interfere with further improvement of relations between 
countries and the creation of mutual trust among them. 
Among such attempts is the said gross violation by the 
American Air Force of the air space of the Soviet Union, 
which consistently carries out a policy of strengthening 
peace ·and broadening businesslike cooperation with all 
countries, including the United States of America. 
In this connection, the fact attracts attention that 
the said violations of the air frontier of the Soviet Union 
by American aircraft coincided with the stay of General 
Twining, U. S. Air Force Chief of Staff, in the Federal 
Republic of Germany. 
The Soviet Government energetically protests to the 
Government of the United States against such gross viola­
tion of the air space of the Soviet Union by American mili­
tary aircraft and considers this violation as an intentional 
act of certain circles in the United States, planned to ag­
gravate relations between the Soviet Union and the United 
States of America. 
2 
