14-00000 
- 8 -
CONVERSE, INDLINA 
"~ sincere congratulations arid gratitude th~t you are presenting 
the matter of unit<--d -prayer for freod~m ••• I a3::,,1rc you e.lso that I 
will present the challengo ••• to our people and thr,t we•ll Join with 
7ou and all churcheo of J,nerica in prayine tor the freedom that we believe 
ic the natural right of all men.n 
ENDICOI'T, NI:.W YORK 
"Starting Harch 23rd we will have a public prt1yer every Sunday • •• 
tjay God bless you nrrl your creat work for fre;edom. I am sure that with· tbs 
prayers of Our gr,;,at. Nation and all Freedom-lovine people, AL"ltlghty God 
in his infinite goodness and lovo will answer our prayers and all the 
things you are trying to accomplish in the CrU3ado for I-'reedCt4 will be 
1u.lfilledo 11 
LONG BEACH, C/..LIFOIWIA 
11To e::itablish euch a prayer chain from the concerned peoples of t,his 
nation to the· concerned peoples behind the Iron Curta:ln, in faet, to 1;,he 
Christian peoples behind any curtain in the world, will cre?.te a pool ,of 
resources that will strike fire in tho hearts of believirig Christian 
people. It is certainly one of the most important things to do alongside 
other preparation fGr World Peace." 
PHIL.ADELPHIA, PWl'm-LVUlIA - From a Church ~ulletin 
''Bt:ginning Sunday, Harch 23, am. continuing, the Crusade for Freedom, 
which encourages those behind the I iron curtain' in their desperate etruggle 
tor religious liberty, asks for our earnest prayers for those who have ~een 
deprived of their freedom t.o worship according to the dictates of cc..s.;;i.;nce. 
FRAY." 
The president of a I,utheran ST:TE SYNCD, in addition to acquiring newspaper 
notice, ~Tote the following letter to his confreresa 
"Dear 9rethren, Seeking to abide by the request of tho Cruse.de for. Free• 
d0111 that each church in .America have special prayers beginning Sun.:iay, . 
iearch 23, and each Sunday thereafter for the •restoration ot religious liber• 
ties to the peoples in t..'le satellite countries or Eastern Europe,' l!lli to 
atret18then the power or praying peoples far the advancer.ient of God• s Ki.ngd0111, 
I hereby request that each pastor write out a prayer thnt may be used in con• 
junction with the Cie:1eral Prayer in m;y service each Sundsy 110rning, and as a 
special collect tor the Vesper Services. 
(continued) 
