14-00000 
i 1-
j 
! 
L 
7. As for possible· sales of cattle to UfFO~A'C, 
Sul>ject is working on a deal with SOMOZA which may 
involve as much as a million and a half dollars. 
8. Subject lives on commissions. He is now in 
debt to the tune of $9 1 50,0 of which he owes $1 1 600 to 
American Express .:.nd $3,900 to SOMOZA. .Wlie~ he has been 
down and out three persons have helped him with handouts 
of money to tide him over. These are Sixto MESA, in 
the construction business in Miami; Jose Luis GONZALEZ, 
in the lwnber business; and "Tacho" SOHOZ~. Subject plans 
to pay back all three every.cent they have given him. He 
considers these handouts as loans. He is now trying 
to consolidate his debts through a loan from Diners Club. 
He is paying on his home mortgage at a rate of s l/- percent, 
quite low-by present-day standards. Two Cuban Negro friends 
of many-years standing live with him at his home. They 
are taxi drivers and each pays $25 a week to.help defziay • 
household costs. One of these loyal retainers fired the 
first shot during the Pilon sugar mil_l _raid pullad off by 
Sub,ect•a followers several years ago. • 
9. Contrary to popular belief, S~bject does not own 
a piece of the Vizcaya restaurant in Miami althougnne • 
could have been a partner had he made a $SOD investment 
vhen the enterprise began. The owners are Oscar VILA, 
Aranda PIRON, and the cook, named Tomas (lnu). VILA-
and PIRON were with Subject in the Bay of Pigs invasion 
and both are old friends. VILA has been ·rumored involved 
in narcoti~a but Subject doesn't think he is. Some time 
aso the Miami Herald sent its lady gourmet·reporter to do a 
atory on the Vizcaya. She found it to her liking and wrote 
a favorable story but some unidentified ch~acter at the. 
Herald told her that narcotics were pushed at the Vizcaya-
- and that Subject was one of the· owners. Publisher KNIGHT 
of the Herald had an investigation run before allowing ~he 
1ourmat reporter's story tobe printed. The restaurant 
was 1iven a clean bill of health and the story was run. 
• 
• 
' 
.• . 
. . . 
