104-10119-10403 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 
l\.IBMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
FROM: 
SUBJECT: 
REFERENCE: 
• Andrew J. Percival 
Office of General Cormsel 
B ~Eifi!JRN ii'O CHA 
ackground Use On/ 
Do Not Reproduce Y 
Agency Connections with the Grand Bahama 
Development Company 
A. Memo fm C/CCS for Dep. Gen. Counsel. dtd 
15 Sept. 76, Same Subj., OGC 76-5044 
B. Memo fm D/OS, for OGG, _dtd 3 Sept. 76. Subj: 
Grand Bahama Development Corp. and Wallace Grc;>ves 
OGC 76-4861 
1. Referent B forwards an ?nalysis of possible Agency involvement. 
with suspected c_riminal elements in the Bahamas. Referent A is a commentary 
on this analysis that details CCS relationships with individuals associated 
with a .company that is reputed to be an employer of organized crime 
figures. No specific fact is presented that would legally raise the suspicion 
of the commission of a violation of law, morality or ethics by the U.S. 
y citizen businessmen now cooperating ·with this Agency: Major General 
William P. Fisher (USAF-Ret.); Mr. John P. Roulett (USN-Ret.); and 
7ll:r. AlbertWh~ant. 
2. In the sensitivity of this time, it would be imprudent not to 
' recognize that mere proximity to unsavo.t-y elements is sufficient for !.Omc 
to suggest guilt by association. This Agency recognizing that, unfortunate 
fact of life has an obligation to protect the rights of those upon whom we 
have prevailed to cooperate. The only direct method irnmediatel'X".: appat'.ent 
is to sever our relationship with voiced gratitude for past servi&!s in the· 
national interest. The timing proposed by C/CCS in referent A appears 
appropriate. 
. . _. (fJ -, 
3. It should be noted that General Fisher's s9n is a(E.DQ case office1:.:J 
That fact dictates that every effort be made- to contain the substance of this 
and referent memoranda to the narrowest possible audience to preclude 
unwarranted acrimony and suspicion until proof positive of evil or c1iminal 
activity is certain, which event is extre~ely doubtful. • -_fi . . "?1J··-- ' 
/~-~ , 
cc: l\fr. l\forrison 
Mr. I sens tcacl 
Mr. Koehler 
Mr. Camqi~o./ SECRET, 
