14-00000 
Top Secret 
(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - June 1955-January 1960) 
Operational Activities - 1955-1960: SuIIII!'.ary 
According to NOSENKO, after an uneventful assignment in 
the American Department's Embassy Section, in 1955 he was 
transferred to the newly-organized Seventh Department 
Tourist Section as a case officer. Between 1955 and 1957 
he assembled. a network of agents and was involved in four 
KGB attempts to rec~uit foreign tourists. One of these 
attempts, that against fRichard BURG!J, was the first recrui t-06 
ment of the ·Tourist Sec'-Elon; it won NOSENKO.a commendation, 
brought him to· the attention of General GRIBANOV, and turned 
NOSENKO into an effective and successful KGB officer. In 
1958 NOSENKO was promoted to the position of Deputy Chief 
of the American-British Commonwealth Section. He then 
recruited the second member of his two-man homosexual team 
and, in 1958 and 1959, participated in ten KGB attempts to 
·, recruit American and British visitors to the USSR and one 
American resident of Moscow. NOSENKO's success in the 
Seventh Department prompted GRIBANOV to transfer him pack 
the American Embassy Section as Deputy chief with the 
':.ical priority task of reviving KGB operations against . 
. rican Embassy code clerks. . • . 
. It is worthy of note that of the fifteen cases in which 
_he personally participated, by his own admission, NOSENKO 
became involved in nine not because they were operations of 
his section, but beca-use the targets :were the victims of 
homosexual or- other entrapment. In addition, three of the 
fifteen operations were not directed by his section,· but 
by senior Seventh Department officers. According to his 
own statements, four others_ were specifically the· responsi-
. bility of other Seventh Department sections of KGB elements, 
1 including the Foreign Seamen Section <@..EHRCKEN[D; Delega- ub 
ObD~tions Section _rLAN~ andQ)IRS~), CoI1U".1ercial Representatives 
oi obsection ~YLO!f, and i!!ILLERr<ORDJ (Moscow City l<GB) . ~RIPPEyO(, 
. - • does not relate clearly to llOSEUKO' s claimed Seventh 
Department service:. NOSENKO states he was also used as an 
agent of_ the First Department Embassy Section. Even the 
remaining case, that of@_"ARRiij was not necessarily a 
• ct 
0001414 144 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
. '' .. :_.~' 
7 
t 
1 
