14-00000 
.. 
.. 
-4-
e. Eleven unwitting organizations which received 
grants fro• project organizations for operational or 
cover reasons or vhich cooperated wltb project organi­
zations. 
8. We cannot say with complete assurance that all.55 
of the apparently innocent organizations on the Ramparts 
list in fact never bad any Agency tics. Our researches have 
shown that RID indices are often incomplete. We have found 
operational use data in CCS files on organizations with no 
record in RID. The same 1s true in other cases where infor­
mation was available in CA Staff or area division files on 
organizations which drew a blank in RID .. It seems likely, 
however, that any undetected operational ·1nterest in the 
organizations -was in the period of the early 1950's and of a 
marginal nature. 
9. In reviewing available information on the listed 
organizations we attempted to deterlline whether there was a 
logical external baeis for Rgmparts• interest in the organi­
zations or whether soma form of internal Agency leak might 
be involved., Our reviews and analysis show fairly conclu­
sively that Ramparts bas been pr<><:eeding on the basis of 
ov~rtly-. a trailable information, supplemented by interviews 
with project personnel: 
a. All but three of the 42 terminated but hither-. 
to unexposed project organizations and 24 o:f the 55 or­
ganizations which actually had no Agency ties are souae­
how related to project organizations or funding instru­
ments previously exposed. Some of the organizations 
made legitimate or covert grants to previously exposed 
organizations, others received covert or legitimate 
grants from previo1JSly exposed funding instrW111ents or 
from innocent foundations that had made legitimate 
grants to-exposed organiZations, and still others bad 
officers wbo were associated with exposed CIA organi­
zations. 
b. ThirtT-One innocent organizations on tbe 
Ramoarts list and three ot the hitherto unexposed 
organizations of former interest to the Agency have·· 
no such known ties to exposed Agency organizations. 
In most of tbese cases, however, the n&mes of the 
organizations are aimilnr to those ot exposed organ­
izations or are of a nature that makes them suspect. 
