14-00000 
r 
,, 
- il ·, 
~ . f: . 
.. •.~;:>:·:•· ·,!:·,_:; .• 
•, .• .... :~~<·,::·:·.· . ,-:,\ .. ::~:•· 
Top Secret 
(SEVLrJTH DEPARTl"iE~·JT - January 1962-·January 1964) 
the missile documents,) The first sessions 
concentrated on general matters, such as 
BARGHOORN's life history. 
After one and one half hours of questioning 
BARGHOORN agreed that the materials were on him 
when he was arrested, but he maintained that they had 
been placed on his person. He said that he thought 
they were "newspapers or something," that he did not 
know what they were. The package was then opened and 
shown to BARGHOORN; it contained about 20 to 25 pages 
of information on missiles. "BARGHOORN was-not, of 
course, given a close look" at the materials. 
Following BARGHOORi.~'s admission, another declaration 
was drawn up by KRUPNOV and signed by KRUPNOV, 
KOVALENKO, and GRIBANOV. NOSENKO and KRUPNOV then 
took it to the office of the Chief Prosecutor .where 
the in6iden£ report, th~ fiist interrogation, and 
the first and second declarations were reported to 
MISHUTIN, the -First Deputy Chief Prosecutor. .GRIBANOV 
directed that all materials on BARGHOORN, including 
information from KGB Archives, be given to the KGB. 
Department of Prosecution ·so.that they could begin 
leg.al· proceedings against BARGHOOR."t-l. After this, all 
interrogations were conducted by that department; 
KRuPNOV was <iropped from the case: although YEFREMOV 
continued to act as interpreter. 
Comment: . BARGHOORN I s version of his. entrapment, 
C001573 
arrest, and interrogation coincide fairly 
'precisely with.the version provided.by 
NOSENKO. He identified NOSENKO from a 
photograph as a KGB officer present at 
one stage of the interrogation on·the 
·second day of his arrest and said 
NOSENKO took some part in the pro­
ceedings. He recalled NOSENKO as being 
"clever and quick-witted" and as "giving 
the impression that he was not a dedicated 
careerist, but opportunistic and adaptive: 
he seemed not to care about what he was 
doing, but doing a good job nevertheless." 
302 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
