14-00000, 
I I 
• ": .. •:11•;.:~ : ;: •. , .• 
... ~· .,, .. ,. 
Top Secret 
{SI:VE!JTE DI:PARTMI:tJT - January 1962-January 1964) 
!londay. This date was tentatively scheduled, ar..d. lTO~PIHm 
again repeated his desire sinply to "disappear without a 
trace''. He also asked about exfiltration plans. 
On 31 January NOSElJKO reported the results of his 
reconnaissance bf the KGD Legal Residency in connection with 
the proposed audio operation, .which would involve,·microphone 
transmitters operating on a carrier current. He told CIA he 
had accidentally overheard in tl1e Residency that the building 
used its own batteries and generator, and therefore the 
scheme would not work .. He repeated his willingness to remain 
in place until the arrival of the CHERFPANOV Papers, (see 
p.309) which he was told were en route from ~ashington. He 
explained that he_ i.1ad been alarmed _at the previous meeting 
because the delegation was supposed to move from its hotel 
to a Soviet villa outside Geneva; at the villa his disappea­
rance would. be noticed more qtiic.kly. This move, as he had 
now learned has Leen postponed pending the arrival of a 
housekeeping officer-from Moscow. 
AtNOSENKO's request on 1 February, it was firmly 
agreed that the defection would take place on the morning of 
8 February. NOSENKO assumed that exfiltration would Le by 
automobile to ~'1~st Germany and thence by plane to the United 
States, and his case officers confirmed his assumption. 
On 3 February NOSENI<O reviewed the CHERFPANOV materials. 
The defection was still scheduled for Saturday, 8 February. 
UOSEUKOtelephoned the Geneva safehouse from his hotel 
room in the early afternoon of 4 February and said: "I want 
to come now and not go back." After arriving at the CIA 
safehouse he explained that when he dropped by the KGB Legal 
Residency following the ~orntng session of the Disarmament 
Conference,·he·read a-cable ordering him to return to Moscow· 
immediately to prepare for a KGB conference on foreiqn tourism 
in the Soviet Union. The residency was arranging for a 
ticket for NOSENKO to fly to Moscow via Paris· the following 
day and a replacement was being readied to assume NOSENI<O's 
duties as securit~ officer for the Soviet delegation in 
Geneva. Before he had left for Geneva.in January, NOSENKO 
then related, the Soviet Government had ueen deliberating 
the question of expanding foreign tourism in the USSR and had 
32:2 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
