14-00000 
'JN 
~'-ff ~ 
~ 4. One source of Tyler's income has been the Agency. He l 
has been utilized by Central Cover Staff, the Office of Security and the •\ 
Office of General Counsel to my knowledge. I do not think he has been 
heavily involved in operations, but rather has furnished backstopping 
} and safehouse support. On at least one occasion I raised the question , 
/ as to whether we were not using Tyler too much. In view of your interest/ 
"-... I have asked for a summary of our as~ociation with Tyler. _j 
5. Tyler has been married twice and his current spouse is nam~d 
Peggy. At one time she was personal secretary to the Secretary of 
Commerce and has always held a position of executive secretary to highly 
placed people in government. Slug himself is very affable and is 
extremely well known. He has been active in the Ex-Agents Society and 
may have had some minor involvements in politics. 
6. Edward Morgan, who is mentioned above, is a well known , 
attorney dealing primarily with cases coming before the FCC. He is 
reportedly very wealthy and Tyler told me at one time that Mo_rgan obtained 
his funds through Oklahoma oil men. It seems that he represented a 
number of southwest oil men in obtaining a franchise for TV stations in 
that area. He was given part of his fee in oil leases which proved to be 
of great value. On one occasion in about 1954 I talked with Ed Morgan 
_regarding the possibility of a national ex-FBI agents convention in 
Washington, D. C. At that time Morgan indicated that he would be 
willing to put up $250, 000 to back a convention in Washington. He made 
this offer to indicate that he was certain such a convention would be a 
success and no financial loss would occur from such a convention. 
7. In about 1951 Ed Morgan left his law practice to take over 
as Chief of Enforcement of the Office of Price Stabilization. At that 
time he hired a number of former FBI agents and reportedly was 
accused of proselyting agents from, the Bureau. It is common gossip 
among ex-agents that the Director of the FBI was extremely miffed at 
Morgan's action and would have nothing to do with him. There was 
also talk among ex-agents that the FBI had thwarted his attempts to 
become president of the national ex-agents organization. (He ran for 
the presidency and was defeated in 1957.) 
8. The above is set forth for your information. 
~,.d _ _,,.J;;?'~ ____ ,_ 
• ~harle s W. Kane 
Deputy Director of Security 
