14-00000 
'"5ECRET;ltl J iJR 
-4-
... Thi$ Information ls particularly useful in keeping rra~lc~-bf 
LIMERICK perso1mel and asslstlng with the ldentlflcatlon of 
visitors to the lnstallutlon. Also, LIMITED maintains a 
summary attendance llst of LIMERICK employees on a. dally 
basis; thu. enables the Station quickly to ascertain the 
presence or absence of an employee on any gt...-en day. 
_ Finally, __ one other slgnlflcant service u. performed by thls 
base~ t_ht: radio dispatching of the LIEMURACE surveillance 
team on LL\tEIUCK pen,onncl and targets of oppornmlty. 
LIMITED's photographic .coverage ls stlll concentrated on 
visitors, as opposed to employees, to the LIMERICK 
ln~tallatlon. A recent example of the base's contributions to 
Station efforts ls the case of Joaeph Ralph ~1.\URI. In thls 
case, a LIENVOY lead lndlcated that an Americ..'ln might vlslt 
· the LIMERICK target 011 a cercaln day. The base was alerted 
to dlspatch the radio-controlled surveUlance team on any 
person appearlng to l,,e an American. The results of this 
assignment were lndlcated ln MEXI-6392 and several other 
cables. LIMITED was also able to provide photographs, 
which· when compared with photographs prov ldt'Cl by Head­
quarters, left no question as to MAURI's identity. 
b. LIL YRIC - Thls base's ourput of high-qua.Hey clandestlne 
photographs has been in about the same qunmlty us last year. 
In addition, the base operator, LIEMPTY-14, prepares weekly 
reports <>n LL\1ERICK employees and thelr wives. I.IL Y!UC 
ulbu pt::riorms the assignment of notlng and reporting the' 
license plate numbers of all cars brlnglng visitors to the' 
LIMERICK installation. LILYRIC phocograplis also are con­
centrated on visitors to the target, as opposed ro employees. 
It should be noted that LIL YRIC operates for ph~tographlc 
coverage during the hours from dayllght co.1400 hours each 
day ·of the week except Sunday. The Lll\.fiTED Olse m.11.ntalns 
photographlc covenige from 1400 hours to darkness each day 
except Sunday. 
c. LICALLA - As reported in previous correspondence, the 
LICALLA base contributes to the colleetion of operational 
information through photographic coverage of LIMERICK 
employees and thelr familles. Also, the base (?perator, 
SECRET~ 
