4-00000 . , u,.>.r .t\, 1 '-'n l 
-~~-----------·~---------------'---------------
8. POSITIVE INTELLIGENCE. Attempts have been made to 
obtain isseiidnable positive intelligence from AMCARDON-1 during 
.the per od covered by this report. This attempt has been generally 
unsucce~sful, in that AMCARBON-1 does not have a great number of 
contact, in Latin America who would give him access to worthwhile 
intelli~ence appreciably in advance of the information appearing 
in the ?.vert press. As a result, AMCARBON-1 is usually not aware of in; 
inside developments in any Latin American country; consequently, 
he is n~t a worthwhile source of positive intelligence. As a 
matter ~f fact, AMCARBON-1 is less valuable as a source of positive 
intelligence than most journalists. This is attributable solely 
to his }ack of long-standing contacts in the Latin American politica 
scene. !It is believed that AMCARBON-1 will ultimately overcome 
this sh9rtcoming; thus, we will continue to attempt to harness him fr· 
the colfection of positive intelligence. 
9. • COMMENT. In the period covered by this report, AMCARBON-1 
has bee* founafo be a straight-forward individual who is honest, 
cooperative and who understands the need for security. Our 
relatio~ship also indicates that AMCARBON-1 is an accurate reporter 
of that!information which he passes to KUBARK. In view of this, 
JMWAVE plans to continue to. harness AMCARBON-1 in the same manner 
that he 1 has been used in the past. It is believed that our rela­
tionship with AMCARBON-1 enhances our ability to conduct our 
operational mission in a secure manner. In addition, ·this relation­
ship terids to minimize th~ possibility that JMWAVE might have diffi­
culties:with the media outlets in the South Florida area. As a 
result of our continuing relationship with AMCAROON-1, a special 
activities report will be forwarded at appropriate intervals. 
and 
! 
10. i 
that 
I 
I 
i I 
It is requested that a 201 .number be assigned AMCARBON-1 
JMWAVE be advised of the number. 
END OF DJ..SPA TCH 
Ul>E; PRE:VIOUli £0J"CION, S E C 
I.' ... 
