14-00000 
:-,·1 
····''.···•'.~\ 
ll 
Top Secret 
(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-Janu~ry 1964) 
KGB Counterintelligence Operations 
Among American Tourists: Summary 
BLAKE~s confes 9ion and evidence obtained from internal 
KGB documents establish the KGB concern for the threat of 
American tourist agent operations and the scope of KGB 
actions to thwart that threat. The effect of NOSENKO's 
statements is that tne KGB did not know of the American 
tourist agent program. He averred that the operations he 
described accurately depicted the nature of KGB counter-
intelligence operations during the period. • 
SEVENTH DEPARTI-iENT - 1962-1964: Summary and Conclusion 
According to NQSENKO,. in January 1962, at the direction -of 
General GRIBANOV, he was appointed Chief of the Seventh De­
partment American-British Commonwealth Section in the expec-
.. tancy that he soon would be named a Deputy Chief of the Seventh 
•Department. As a Section Chief, he personally handled . a.gents . 
··and, supervised all Second Chief Directorate operations against 
American and British Commonwealth tourists, of which he de­
scribes four. In this·period NOSENKO also was assigned the 
.unrelated duty of serving·as a security escort officer with a 
Soviet delegation travelling to Geneva in which capacity he.in­
vestigated a delegate of suspected loyalty, SHAKHOV. While in 
Geneva he drew also ·the assignment of supervising another KGB 
case officer's management of the KGB double agent, BELITSKIY. • 
On that visit to Geneva NOSENKO first contacted CIA. In July 
_1962; NOSENKO claims ,that as GRIBANOV promised·, he became one· 
of· t.nree Deputy Chiefs of ti1e entire Seventh Department; in • 
thi_s position he -learned of all KGB operations against Ameri­
can tourists. In this connection he described five operations, 
as well as his accidental discovery of the identity of an• 
American GRU agent, and ti1e investigation and search for a 
disaffected former KGB colleague. In July '1963 NOSENKO states 
0001603 
331 TS No. 197124 
Top Secret Copy 10 
