14-00000 
C 
649. 
NOS~1<0'e reporting on indi\'idual cases wherein he vas a per­
sonal participant or supervisor is not, with few exception3, con­
tradicted by information available from other sources. Nearly all 
of his staterr,ents have proven accurate when they could be compare-d 
vith collateral information: In fact, the l,mericans whom he cited 
did visit or live in the S~viet Union, and many of them are known 
to have been of operational interest to the KGB, as NOSENKO said. 
The exceptions to his general accuracy of reporting, hovever, ar~ 
of major importance in the:nselves and in refer~r.ce to his claimed 
positions in the U.S. Embassy. Section during 1960-1961:* 
NOSENKO 
u.s. Emba~ay Security Officer 
John V. ABIDIAN, for whor:, NOSENKO 
was the responsible KGB officer, 
visited the Pushkin Street dead 
drop Si.te in 1960 or at the begin­
ning of 1961. Later that 5a~e 
day KOZLOV, Chief of -.. the KGB Sur­
veillance Dire=:torateJ went to the 
scene. ( . -- , . I -- , 
- ,j • ; 
0~ ,,.,I '-'"f 
' 
KOSOLAPOV, NOSil1KO's direct sub­
ordinate, made but one TDY to 
Helsinki in the 1960-1961 period1 
NOSrnKO would ~ave known about if 
not approved other TDY's in these 
years wher. t.e was Deputy Chief of 
the U.S. Embassy Section. 
Returning from his single TDY to 
Helsinki, KvSOLAPOV was abroad 
the same train as his target, the 
American military code cler~ Paul 
JENNER; as supervisor of all oper­
ations against· code cjerks at the 
U.S. Embassy, NOSENKO ~as familiar 
Yith the details of all such major 
activities. 
The KGB ltne'fl that the U.S. mili­
tary code clerk James KEYS~, 
Yhom NOSENKO personally contacted 
in an effort to persuade him to 
defect, did not report the earlier 
recruitment approach by the KGB. 
Collateral 
CIA records on the PCTI<OVSKIY 
case, in which the Pushkin 
Street dead drop was used, show 
that ABIDIA.~ visited the ~ite 
only once, on 30 December 1961 
at 1130 hours. KOZLOV left Hew 
York City on the same day, 
travelling via France, at the 
completion of a TDY in the 
t:nited States. (Pages 231-
2351 this subject is discussed 
at greater length in Part 
VIII.B.6.) 
Travel records show that KOSO­
LAPOV was t~ice in Helsinki 
during 1960, in March-April 
and again in November. (Pages 
186-200). 
Travel records shov that JENNER 
and KOSOLJ.POV travelled on 
separate days. (Pages 186-200) 
KEYSERS reported the recruitment 
approach L"tlrnediately after it 
occurred, and the report was 
sutrnitted in an Embassy room 
later four.d to have a concealed 
microphone. (NOSENKO stated that 
_he ~_as _ a customer for microphone 
intercepts 3t the time arid that 
this micrcp~one was monitored on 
• continuous basis by KGB per­
sonnel.) (Pages 213-219) 
• An example of NOSENKO's inaccuracy on events during his later service in the Tourist Department related to his accounts on the arrest of knerican Professor Frederick BARGl-i00RN: According to 
NOSfllKO, the approval for this KGB action in which he had a per­
sonal part was obtained from BREZHNEV in KHRUSHCHEV'S absence 
frOffl Hoscov, and the arrest was ~•de_a fev hours later; BARG­
HOORN vaa arrest~ on 31 October 1963, and on that day and the 
day before KHRUSHCHEV made public appearances in Moscow. (BREZH­
NEV was not seen in Mosco~ between 29 October and 2 November 
l; 
l; f 
.- j . . 
J 
! 
I 
I l 
I r 
