14-00000 
• 
761. 
find a category of 1nfor111ation a'2Q1.1t himself which he con­
fITsfi:-itly remeah~rcd nor a;n· thA.LJ1e cogstsfcntl_y lorgot: 
1t what is important is his cwn direct experiences, for 
example, it is odd that he rec&ned the operations of others 
better than his uau; he reMcmbercd the names of hundreds, of 
KGB officers, but could not re-call names of his own agents 
and people involved in his o~n car~cr; he could recount 
details of the PENKOVSKIY investigation, in which he did 
not participate, but not ,of the ctiscoverr of American spies 
among tourists, such as llcGOWA.ll, for which he ,:as responsible; 
be reme~bered details of the 1955 MALIA case in which he 
did not meet the target personally but forgot details of the 
1961 KEYSERS case in which he did. If it is the importance 
to him of recruit~ent operations against U.S. Embussy em­
ployees which p~rmitted him to rer.all so~e details of the 
STORSBERG and MULE operations, it is not icportant enough 
to help him recall some ot the other details which were 
equally pertinent to him personally; and it is not selective 
memory which made him forE;et al~oht every detail about CIA 
personnel in !,\o~cow and KGB action against them. If it is 
said that his parental f~ily is importar.t to him ( hence 
his memory of his father's funeral and the names of his 
ur.cles and aunts), it is odd that he cannot recall details 
~bout his childhood. If drinking with important people is 
meaningful to him, it would eitplain why he remembers one 
GRIUASOV evening with sharp clarity, Lut it does not e~plain 
why he cannot remember the other two times, not even in what 
~cason of thb year or in what rcstaura~t tbcy took place. 
Finally, with reference to the •·selective me:nory" hypo­
thesis, it is precisely in aatters NOSE:-;KO said he remembers 
best and which he told cost confidently that the majority of_ 
inexplicable contradict ions arise. Nothing could shake hi.Ill 
from his claim to have been directly responsible for ABiDIA..~ 
or on his story of the Pushkin Street dead drop, among 
numerous exaQples. 
c. Embellishment 
The third possibility is that he has simply embellished 
and boasted, while underlying his story is a core of truth 
somewhere near. what he has rcpor~ed. XOSEXKO has, after all, 
admitted many "white lies" Rnd boasts ("painting" himself, as 
he called it). Also, in the interrogations there were 
repeated signs that he was fabricating and improvising, often 
in ways which led him into more contradictions and further 
admissions of white lies. Perhaps then, according to this 
hypothesis, he simply invented, on his o~n, various aspects 
of his career. Perhaps he dated his entry into the KGB . 
earlier to make himself seem :aorc experienced, and invented 
"bis service in the American Department to make himself more 
interesting to American Intelligence. Perhap~ he was only 
a priLcipal agent, not a staff officer, but learned enough 
from his operations and from his handlers to think be could 
• pose as one. This hypothesis would certainly explain ~any 
of the dubious aspects: the story of his career, his lack 
of information on KGB staff procedures, bis ignorance of 
major KGB events and scurces, the degree of his relationship 
with GRIBANOV, etc. This theory, however, founders on a 
number of points: 
