14-00000 
21 April 1958 
EMBASSY OF THE UNION OF 
SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS 
Note No. 9 
The Embassy of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
presents its compliments to the Department of State of the United 
States of America and, referring to the Aide-Memoire of the Depart­
ment of State dated March 31, 1958 and containing a reply of the 
Government of the United States of America to the Aide-Memoire of 
the Soviet Government dated March 5 concerning a violation of the 
Soviet state border in the Far East by an American military jet air­
craft, has the honor to communicate the follov.-ing: 
In the reply Aide..:Memoire of the Department of State an 
attempt is made to deny the fact of an American inilitary aircraft. 
having violated the Soviet border. 
As has already been communicated, the Soviet Government has 
at its disposal carefully verified data on this violation, the reliability 
of which leaves no room for doubt. According to these data, on March 2~ 
1958, at 4:05 a. m. Moscow time, an American military reconnaissance 
aircraft of the Lockheed U-2 type, having appeared from the direction 
of the Sea of Japan, violated the state border of the Soviet Union in the 
area of the scttlem.ent Velikaya Kema, 32 kilometers south of that 
settlement. Then the violating aircraft deeply penetrated the airspace 
of the USSR and, after re1naining over its territory for a considerable 
period of time, passed beyond the limits of the Soviet territory 45 kilo­
meters south of the Olga Bay at 8: 11 a. m. 
In the. light of the established facts the reply of the Governrr1ent 
of the United States of America can in no ·way be recognized as satis­
factory. Naturally, the question arises as to how to explain such a 
reply of the American Government: whether it was misled deliberately 
by its military representatives in the Far East or whether it considered 
it possible to protect such persons subordinate to it. who, without re­
gard to the possible consequences, sanction violation of Soviet borders, 
thus creating a threat of international complications. 
