14-00000"•, 
-.;,~eputy~Ch1e,~·ot·•Kttrr!feeoncrettrer»1rec·r-o·rate"··tb·1t.,..tbe· SHA 
investigation was th~ main reason i~r his assign~ent to Geneva 
in 1962, NOSENKO later in the day stated: '"My main task was to • 
check the security of the delegation, plus SHAKHOV. You can't· 
separate these tasks." 
In this questioning NOSENKO described the basis for the 
suspicions of SHAKHOV, the lack of. results from earlier inves­
tigations, and bis owri preparation for this assignment. • He 
said that as a representative of the Soviet Delegations De~ 
partment of the Seccnd Chief. Directorate, M.G. SITNIKOV had 
conducted investigations of SHAKHOV in Geneva in 1961, b~t 
SITNIKOV was unable to resolie the questions concerning him. 
Bec_ause of the failure of these early efforts, the KGB dee id_ed 
to send "a senior guy" to t_he Disarmament ta_lks in 1962, and 
NOSENKO was chosen- "to finish things up.'' ·sefore leaving Mos-
cow in !darch 1962, NOSENKO therefore discussed the SHAKHO'i . 
case wiH,·SITiHKOY and with one (fnu) LYALIN, the.Soviet De.~.e­
gations Department officer in charge of the SHAKIIOV case; he 
also read various rnatcrials·on the c~se, including an irivesti­
gative plan drawn up by LYALIN. NOSENKO's description of ~hese 
preparations provided the basis for the questionl.ng which 
followed: • 
.Question: Why was. SHAKHOV under suspicion in .June 1962? 
NOSENKO: He was working with different delegations at 
different conferences anu, beinc in Geneva, 
it was noticed that there was something which 
can be described as a connection with David 
YARK, who was considered a CIA officer.* Also, 
little, little, little things before. 
Question: l'ihen did SIIAKHOV and ll.~RK first meet? How did 
it begin? 
NOSE~1CO: In '60 or '61 there was a contact with MARK. 
I don't remember who reported it. The report 
was maybe from SITNIKOV in Geneva. MARK was 
known to the Second Chief Directorate as the 
Rezident [CIA Chief of Station! in Moscow. 
After Moscow he went to Geneva, and it was con­
sidered he must be the Rezident in Geneva. 
All the KGB officers going there were told to 
pay attention to him. 
Question: What about the report? 
NOSENKO: Maybe the officers saw the two going to the 
toilet. Maybe there was .a contact. The file 
said "maybe." I was sent to Geneva to c.arry 
•As stated earlier, MARK was not' a CIA officer in Moscow, 
although he did perform certain clandestine tasks for CIA. He 
had no CIA missions in Geneva in 1962. Within the context of 
discussion of NOSENKO's security officer duties during October 
1966, NOSENKO was asked to name any CIA officers he knew to be 
present in Geneva during the 1962 disarmament talks. MARK was 
the only.one be cited. 
' ·: :..-.. ;· 
;.' •• : --~~/ J • • 
... --· 
.... . : -·. ,.·. 
·~..... ;, •• 
