14-00000 
t I ! 
·I I . r 
CC!oo~-~-A ~c-s c-r 
DiSPAYOI 
organiution of a_ basic net, COl!'.z!unic.a.ttons and reporting techniques. 
In tbe course of this trainin~, AIWIDOY-1 exprebsed a particular 
interest in the subJects of seci1rit)·, cover and compartmentation. 
Charles F. IL\SESGILL was tbe.prica.rr instructor for this bloc of 
tra.•.ning, •• and be reports· that. ,\i.:E".IDDY-1 was a keen student who •• 
appreciated the opportunity to learn as much as possible about 
clandestine operations. ·MASESGILL believes that AIIBIDDY~l at the 
coapletion of bi-1 training was probably weakest on the topic of 
how to report intelligence in!ormation. 
c. Resistance Activity and Guerrilla War.fare: . AJIBIDDY-1 
received training on the principles and concepts Inherent ln. • 
~ganiziag an infiltration team. In addition, be was traiaed . 
r•latiYe to the principles of organizing a resistance net~ 
Additionally, he was trained tn caching~ demoUtion.and sabotage 
techniques. AIIBIDDY-1 also received instructi,.on. in the principles· 
and· concepts of guerrilla ·warfare. AMBIDDY-1 was also given an - • 
opportunity to familiarize himself, through actual range_firing~ 
with tboae weapons which are normally used by_anti-AIITHllG-1 forces. 
· Alton T. PIRNACK- was the principal instructor for this .bloc of 
training. PIRNACK reports fb& t AMBIDDY-1 was responsive to the 
subject material which was presented to him. AMBIDDY-1 did not 
hesitate to ask questions nor to seek clarification of points.which 
h• did not clearly understand. AMBiDDY-1 did indicate tb~t he 1iaa 
a neophyte in the subject of PM operations, and, as a result, he 
was m".lBt appreciative of the training which be was receiving on 
·, these subjects. It was evident during this bloc of training that 
' .. ·caching-. was an entirely new facet • of clandestine operations for 
AIIBIDDY~l. -
_3 • . CO)QIIJI'\': - Pbaae II of. AJIBIDDY-1 '"s training co~cen'tratecl 
on upoaing IJIBiDDY-1 to those management techniques and principles 
whi.~h are applicable to a ;.aJOI' clandestine operation against a 
target like PBJWMBN. This part of the training was carried out­
uclusively by Andrew K. REUl'EMAN and Stanley a. ZAMKA •. In·thili 
phaN, .of .tJie training, AMBIDD.Y-1 constantly expressed .a .great .deal 
of enthusiasm for the subject material which was being preaaated. 
Tbrou,ghout the trainin~, AIIBIDDY-1 gave every indication that he 
was absOZ'tiing the maj ,...:-: portion of the traiJling. At the same • 
. :.t1.ille/-/i·1.t :.vas clear ti-t he was overwhelmed by the m&terial and the 
_,. illiplicatiDns ot· what this ti1Lin1ng meant. in terms of:-his conduct in 
.. \,:·-future.operations. After the ~nagement phase of AIIBIDDY-:-1 's • 
• /I:training was completed, RBUTBIIAlt and ZAlr1KA reviewed the 83· hours 
• 'trainting program- in its totality with AIIBIDDY.;.1. In ad.dit'ion, :tho 
.. · program was reviewed with all of. the instructors who • participated 
in thei,training. As a result .of this review, a consensus was . : 
•reached thati while AMBIDDY-1 ls an intelligept an~· responsive. • . 
student, the training which be received does not qualify him for 
tbe POSition of, senior officer in a major· clal'dlestine undertaking 
against PBR1B1BN. The training did, howffer, alert. ~MBIDDY-1 to a 
number of problems and pitfalls which be should avoid in his­
activitiea.-,, This trainina; alao provided certain guide polita for 
ADIDDY-1, but ·these guide posts were laid out in•auch a concentrated 
close that they cannot be considered aa an ad~uate _substitute 
for experience or trainins.in depth over an extended-period of 
ti.lie, 
llm or DISPATCH 
' 
' 
