14-00000 
. ! 
i 
I 
I 
I 
L 
Top Secret 
(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962) 
Comment: (Continued) 
nor filed the initial surveillance report of 
ABIDIAN's visit to the Pushkin Street site. If 
he transferred to the Seventh Department two 
days after ABIDIAN's visit, as he claimed (and 
NOSENKO' s participation in the@. E. JOHNSO~ case {)£ 
indicates that he was working against tourists 
by 5 January 1962);-E'e could neither have visited 
the site as he described nor could he have 
received thereafter the daily surveillance 
reports. He could not, of his own knowledge, 
asseri that the surveillance was terminated 
after three months, since well before the-three 
months' surveillance ended he was abroad in 
Geneva. Lastly, it cannot be for the reason 
NOSENKO claimed (that the surveillance was 
unsuccessful) that NOSENKO did not mention 
ABIDIAN's activities to CIA in Geneva in 1962 . 
Case Officer for John ABIDIAN: Summary and Conclusion 
If for no other reason than ABIDIAN's security functions 
with the Khrushchev entourage, files of the First Chief 
-Directorate would record his name: If NOSENKO states to 
the contrary, that traces were negative, NOSENKO did not run 
the traces himself nor·know the ·results. According to 
NOSENKO, ABIDIAN was "one of the most important targets of 
the Second Chief Directorate"; all KGB resources were 
. employed. for two years, including 24-hour surveillance, the 
exploitation of all agents with access to him, a~dio sur­
veillance, and technica·1 aia.s, with almost absolutely negative 
results. The results could not have been negative: for 
NOS~NKO to so assert ·can only mean that NOSE:tlKO was not 
informed of the results. In the two instances NOSENKO cited 
of Embassy agents' ·activities against ABIDIAN, he made 
fundamental errors: ABIDIAN's maid was not employed by 
ABIDIAN~at the time NOSENKO insists she was applying the 
metka,· and GROMAKOVA tau·ght AtIDIAN Russian throughout his 
stay in Moscow, not just "several times". NOSENI<O acknqwledgcs 
220 
00fJ1432 
Top Secret 
TS No. 197124 
Copy 
