14-00000 
·.1 
I 
i 
\ 
I 
.• 
~ .,, .. -:. 'l • 
•. , . I 
• I 
I 
SECRET/·ta!!-IL 
-s-
L~:Y-9, supplies extremely worthwhile lnformatlon 
pertalnlng to the apparent posltlons and jobs of the target 
employees. ,He accomplishes tlils objectlve by careful 
observation and analysts. LICALLA also m.1lntalns a dally 
attendance roster ·of all LIMERICK employees. LICALLA 
covers~· 9f the target, both photographic and physical 
observations, enables the Statton to keep abrcst of LIMERICK 
perso~el changes, a vital contribution to the Station's counter­
espionage effort. 
2. "To collect operational lnformatlon and Identify operational leads 
penalnlng to Station targets of opportunity." 'I11t: LlliNTRAP operatlon, 
handled by GEHENDE, ls the major ·contributor to this objective., It 
has been posslblc for LlENTRAP to take photographs and to perform 
pret~xt lnvcstlgutlons ln support of numerous Station activities. 'The 
cases listed below are cited as examples: 
a. In the case of Cesar GONZALEZ Sanchez (see I, A, 3, a, above) 
LIENfRAP was able to procure photographs of GONZALEZ at his 
tkxtco City residence which, when compJred to Headquarters 
provided, photof,-raphs, ·1et't no doubt that GONZALEZ was the 
subject of Interest to Headquarters. 
b. LIENTRAP confirmed the Identity of Olga CASTILLO de Ledon, 
a frequent visitor to the Lll\IBRICK installation and an ardent 
supporter of the present Cuban regime, throus}1 a pretext 
lnv~stlgatlon of. the residents of an apartment huildlng where 
C.-\STlLLO was believed to live. Later, LIENTRAP supported the 
results of the Investigation with excellent photographs of the 
subject, ' 
3, "To provide operational support to Station operations, l. e., rent 
hotel roorns and apurtme11ts, and conduct counter-s:.irvelllances.,. 
GERE..\lDE ls used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for 
other Station operations and activities. GERENDE's comprehensive 
area knowledge and personal operational capabltltles combine to make 
htm a:i extremely valuable Station aaset for such support activities. 
GERE.\IDE also procures post office box letter drops for the many 
Station operations l'cqulrlng them. 
. ' 
