14-00000 
SECUET 
-3-
Che Gue varn,. tu whora ho waa vG1·y c loao. AhITnUNK-10 'o 
wlte, who WJOd to be a uocretory to tho wife ot nnul 
CAtl1'lW, luie all but diesnauociatotl hel"selt from rovolu• 
t1onAry a~t1v1ty. Sile wna formerly vor7 acUvo. 
b. Jcmo MASUl lualb'U0,. anothor cousin, is still 
wrtUn« for tho Cuban lWJtituto of the Ttwatre. Uo romaint1 
vory pro-COcmzuniot. 
c. Antonio MASll' Ianlguo, 11nC1thor couoin, 1a presently 
1n Eaot Gonnany utudyinc. Ue cnnnot return to Cub.a. Jkl 
proviouoly ntudioJ and/or worked in tho Soviet Union, 
Czechoolovukia and .Polnnd. 
d.· Certain fruitEJ which ai-o grown tn Cuhn, but were 
beretoforo e~vortod and unavailable locally, aro now 
plenti:tul. On occos1\)ns , tboy aro givon .frc,o to·the pub-
lic in tho local 111Arlcc,to. On tbo other hand, canned Soviet 
goods, which wore plontiful before, ore uow almoDt non-existent. 
o. Tho Iele of Pinoo no clooed and ·th~ 50,000 pr1aoners 
havo boon tranaferred to•tbo J:I.Qinland to work on farms. 
t. A Uve-aod-let-Uve att1tudo bas been ndopted by 
the Ca.otro Oovernmont in relation to the opponento of the 
roglme. l>oniecution 1a tal11n« oU. 
g. Marta's husband, Fernando de ROJAS, was sent to 
lJatanzAo following :tho ctml::LA/GUIN wrap u1,, and was interrogia­
ted, but was exonerated t1-om any implication, nnd returned to 
La Cebann. • 
b. During Karta•s converaations with her husband prior 
to hor lesving Cubar tuo two PINEIRO agents Joined in tho 
talk wlthout boing in any way oppressive, and encouragod 
lfarta and hor husband to auggost ·ways in which "too uyetem" 
might bo improved. 
8. AldSTALK-1 was ae!;cd about the ~sibility ot Mnrta'e 
providing addi Uonal inforrnatiori or support, and 1t sho 111ight 
consent to cmtoring into contact with au American. ·i·he agent mado 
it cloor that aho waa frightEJnod by what the irupUcations of the 
messago ebo tuid brought out :for Alt:iTALK-1 might he, o.od h.a«J no 
intention ot cotting any further involvud 1n clandestioo re!a­
tion.ebipst s1nco bot.h her husband,· ,!llcl Qdopt-oll mothe1• (,aother of 
At~·rALJC-lJ woi·e still in a dangerous 11001 tion. A!.fST,\LK-1 was 
instructed to roviev the JQGS8a~e bfJ had received, tnlk agntn with 
bis cousJn, Marta, and add whatover ile cou1d to:a.mplify tho available 
info-cation in this matt.ar.,.·,.·:c,_ -.,• ·,,. 
