14-00000 
I 
I 
.i 
! 
i 
- ' 
I i 
I 
i 
' ' ! 
.! 
I i· I 
i 
i 
-i 
.,,, 
aOUCA.l'IOHAL ANO P.t'(NOLOOICA".;, 
1111v1c•1 ■ Ult.AU 
OEOROETOWN UNIVERSITY 
WAeH1PfaroN. o. c. aooo7 
August 211, l 9£i(i 
Name: Mr. Myrosluw II. Mnksymicc 
Mr. Myroslaw A. Mak8ymier., age 1JIJ, r..:rme to this Bureau on J\Ub'USt l, 
1966, in connection with the Veterans lltlin.inJstrati.on's cclucational and 
vocational counseling program for fonner scrvJecmcn. Mr. Maksymicc .is 
mat•riccl, has two childre11,-ages five aml eiglrt, and is employed by a federal 
govet·rvnental agency as a· photograph ir. rc~earch technician (G3 Wl/3). He 
reti•red- from the United Stat~s J\tmy .in 1961 j,r the gt•ade of Ma:,ter Sergeant 
'-after scl'ving for over 20 ycars_-w.ith pririwry duties as an intel.llgence 
photographer. His educat.ion .ine_lutles cjg!1t years of fonnal schooling, a 
• high school completion equtvalcnce certificate, and additional courses with 
the· Graduate School, Department of llgrieult11rc, anti the United States /umed 
forces Institute. Mr. Muksymiee stated that he was interested .in further 
education at .the college level Jn order to- .imvroye himself both personally 
and professionally in a f.leld related to his present vocational activities. 
In add.it.ion to several conferences with the undersigned, Mr. Maksymiec 
was administered a battery of eclucut.iorwl and vor.at.ional tests. Th.is report 
contains the results.of.these conferences .:and tests, the results of which 
should not be interpreted either as conclusive or final. They should be 
considered pr i.marily as. ind I.eat.ions of var.ious psychological factors that 
should be ser.iously considered by.Mr. Maksymiec .i.n making decisions concer-· 
ning his educational and vocational goals. 
In order to detennine Mr. Mnksymiec 's fields of vocational :interest 
he was givf.!n the Kuder Vo<:>at i.ona.t Preference Reeor<l. When compared to a -
reprc-sentative group of me11 i.n the nat io11al popu.lat.i.on, Mr. MaJ-,:syniiec in­
dieated that h.is interests arc s ignific::rntly similar to persons who are 
engaged in computational, scientifie, and literary activities. Men who have 
interests similar to Mr. Milksymiec's are found in various engineering fields, 
astronomy, seismology, ·economics, psychology, _and technical public.it ions 
writing. These f.ields are closely allied t0 his present occup.:it in~al endeavors. 
- . 
_ On the Educational Int:-erest Inventory, a devir.e that is bene.ficitil 
to an in<liv:i.dual in discovering· his interests in various fields· of ·study, 
Mr. Mnksymiec's responses indicated that his study interests are ~.l .b1.£h 
in physics;~ in engineering, chemistry, earth science, and h;story and 
political science; high average in communication, zoology, and mathematics; 
and average in_ psychology. The areas in which he showed low _!2 average 
interest were music, education, industrial arts, agriculture, botany, 
sociology, literature, art, business administration, and cconomi_cs. • 
