14-00000 
SECTION C continued 
approaches to operational -proble~s and personalities,· .and expends considerable' 
effort in maintaining a level of s;:,ecialized knowledge sufficient to backstop hls 
cover and to e_nsure the maximWI! exploi t·a.tion of his contacts with target organi­
zations and_ i_ndlviduals, His comr.iarid: c,.f spoken, Kri tten, and technical French ·1s 
excellent:. • 
Fi'o~ .the.point of.view of. supervision, this employee in his present position N­
qutres guidance only i1µ1ofar as to ident,ify specific targets and for him to protect 
himself in· situations where he does not -have, by virtue of his not having access to 
-official f,il~s. speciali.zed information. 'Otherwise, he requires no supervision 
ott.er ·than the periodic provision of policy and operational directives, • 
This ampioyee has ·always be·en conscious and punctillious in his preparation of 
operational and administrative reports, including financial accountings, and his 
• reporti,ng in general·, despite· th~ b,urdens imposed by the necessity for minimizing 
the risks inherent in the Iaclt or access .. to classified storage, leaves nothing to be desired. ,· ··- • • 
Other than the •funds for operaticm41 activities, this employee currently has no 
responsibility_ for.the progran:nlng and use of personnel, space, equipment, and 
funds . 
. With respect to dedlcatlon to ~ls Job,.:thls employee has practically speaking 
single-handedly built his.present cover/operational position despite a number of 
neglltive factors ililierent .to his:s1-tuat1on such as· relative isolation, meager oppor­
tunity for con.tact witl'i hts·praresstonitl ·group-,- and expensive area or assignment, 
and an exposed cover situation wlirre· the necessity for living cover is compounded 
b:y tne necessity of .a.void.1.nf.C,Distakea whlct.'mtght Jcc;::9...-J.iz~ MVlllr. Hid dedication 
to and enthusiasra for accepting the challeng~ ofthis assignment, and his willingness 
to continue on 1n it, deserve particular mention, particularly since he would per­
haps Justifiably feel that his present assignment may leave him outside tho main­
stream of competitive organization progression . 
• This eniployee''s health and. family situations leave nothir.g to be desired, as his 
proven inobility 1n_·the exec~tton of operati<>nal assignments attests. 
It 11hould turthe~· be noted·tpat·. w'ith respect to the probl1Jr,1 endemic to deep-cover 
assignments of allcication of time between cover work and operational activity, this 
employee comes very close to the happy norm of making cover work complement opera­
tional work, and making operational work contribute where possible to the enhance­
ment of cover·. 
While this employee's assignment to date has essentially been a one-man show, it 
is recommended that Sl!rious consideration be given to expantUng the operational com­
plex which he has created_ ir. ·order to capitalize on his experience, the work he has 
put in to date, and his own ~anagement capabilities. 
*(Section B) - No special ·recognition of Subject's "Outstanding" overall perfonr.ance 
is being requested at this tiir.e. 
• 
