14-00000.· 
' 
' I 
I 
I 
I 
. I. 
DISPATCH S E CR .E T· 
GERJ~i>F: 
2. • During the reporting period, tne ca_se officer bas been 
mectin~ Gh'REND~ an average of three. times per week.. Meetings 
are usually pre.;.arrangcr:I, at .various SJ:tes and times. Heetings 
avcra~c ?.Q to 30 minutes. GERl1WE turns ovc.r to the case 
ofii~er nccatives, prints, l~gs, an~ other reports ihi~h he bas 
pi~ked up froci the base houses jince the previo~s meeting~ 
alon~ •1th.brief contact reports on hi~ meetings with base 
house. rcp~csentatives. Reports on other operational activities 
are also turned in and discussed, and G.ERENDE is given instruc­
tions, notes for the base h6~ses, and neg~tiyes for any enlarge­
ments which may be desired by the Station. Also, LIENVOY tapes 
and transcripts are exchanged at each meeting~ (The departure 
of. _LIACUTE-1 at the end of April 1968 left the Station· without a 
BEOOX transcribe'r. As a temporary solution, pending. tlie return 
of LIACtrrE-1 or tbe recruitment of another BEDOX transcri}?er, · 
G.ERENDE's wife, LIEMPTY-19, has been· hired at the ra_te of :n.5Q 
pesos per hour to transcribe the Spanish language por.tions of. the 
tapes. She does the work in her home, a1,1d GERENi>E.transports tbe· 
tapes.) • • 
3. Gl:.1tENDE bas the direct agent-handling responsibility for 
the following LIE1,n>TY agents: LIE!,!PTY-4 (photo-processor; met 
twice per week); LIEMPTY-G (LIMITED;· met once per.week until 
termination) i LIE!IPTYs 13, 14, 26-, and 27 (LILYRIC; LIEUPTY-13 
normally met twice per week -- in his absence Lim,n>'i')'-27 makes 
meetings);.and LIEMPTY-9 (LICALLA; met twice per week). Ho is 
·responsible for directini; their work, paying them, and handling 
a11 • ot tho administrative problems which may develop.-. To judge 
from the results, GERENDE has excellent rapport with these agents 
and is able to get~ consi~tently high ~crformance rate from 
them - particularly LICALLA and Lll,YlUC personnel.· ·'· 
• 4. As noted in i,-eference, GERENDE was employed by the 
Mexican P.OmAVEL committee, which v.·e found a use·tu1 side benefit. 
His MHRAVEL activity during the reporting period has been minimal, 
but we expect it to start picking up again •.. GEP.ENDE h1Ls con- • 
ducted a few disc~eet inquiries a1.d investicatioris for us within 
the MHRAVEL coQplex, and wo have instructed him to try to get 
P.n assignment which will keep hiA as close to the FJSTEAL 
delegation as possible. 
5 • . Reference also pointed out that GERENDE had performed 
nicely in the cultivation and development of an operational 
lead, and that the Station planned to give GERI:211)E more of.the 
same •. Furtherr.iore, GER~DE's standing assignments (LIEllPTY. 
base houses, )mnAVEL activit;y, and occasional support O:.i. JtffiOD 
requirements) were not challenging enough or occupying enoui;h 
of GERENDE's til:e. GERENDE is. rather firmly. committed to • 
.WOFIR.\I by virtue of the fact that he has worked fo:r WOFIRM for 
over 13 years and has no other outside employment pf·· any. 
consequence. By the same token, he was, throueh no fault of 
bis own, doini; less work for WOFIRll than at any time.in his 
~areer. GERENDE's operational exposure thro~h .. tbe year__L 
dicta:ted rnot:e aruJ more restricflons on his activity,- for sound . 
security reasnos.-- The solution to GEREN'DE9 s prolffem (lack or:· 
apromising fut_ure) arid the Station's.• (not getting its. money.'s • 
worth) seemed to be to give GERENDE additional ta·sks which he. 
could hRndle under suitable cover and with due regard to security 
precautions. Since 111ost of GERENDE's supp~rt acti,vtties had • 
been against the FJSTEAL target,particularcare would have to 
be·taken in con-.mitting him further in this direct1.on •. It.was 
decided, therefore, that his principal retooling would be in 
a non-FJSTEAL field. 
CS CDPl 
530 UK NllVIOUB IOITIOII. 
SECRET 
rv7 . 
·~co•m,.um 2 
I ' 
• 
