14-00000 
., 
6 April ! 962 
M.ElvlORANDti~,i FOR: Director o! Central Intelligence 
SUBJECT : Final Report of Viorking Group on Organization 
and Activities 
1. I have the honor to present herewith the fin;tl report of the 
working group which fOU eatablished in January to consult with you and 
advise on the organization and activities of the Central Intelligence -
Agency, and of its relationship with other agencies in the intelligence 
community. This ~eport re.fleets the views of t!-ie working group and is 
dhlided into two parts. The £!rat part deals primarily with the organiza .. 
tion of the Central Intelligence Agency and reflects the unanimous views 
of the working group. The second pa1·t contains comments and recom­
mendations on areas dealing with tho work of the Ce;ih·al. Intelligence 
Agency and activities of t'1e intolligenco community in which the working 
group was ~ither unable to agree or felt that conside1·ably more study 
was needed before action was taken. 
2. For the record I ,vould note that the ,vor!~ing group held its 
first session on January 3 and met on 35 different day~ bet--..veen that date 
and its final session with you on Maich 28. During its .. vork the group 
had approximately 100 briefings. i .. 1ost of these briefings ciealt with the 
organization and activities oi the Central Intelligence Agency I but also 
included a full ciay spent with the Department of State in addition to several 
bi-iefings on State Department activities and ite relations with CIA; approxi­
mately one-half clay S.i:Jent in the Pentagon in addition to other briefings 
by the Defense Intelligence Agency; ancl a full week spent visiting SAC, 
NORAD and other activities in the United States. We were b:defed by 
the head of every major com.i:Jonent in the CIA with the ~xcepticn of three 
DD/P area <ii visions whose brir:-fings had to be exclu.::.cJ becau:ie of the 
pre.ssure 0£ time. Ho .. ·,ever, we feel that having hearci. from four other 
area aivision3 the working group had a knowledge of the activities an<l 
problem.s of these unit3. In addition to the 100 briefi::-1,:;3, the "vorking 
group had. ,:no:re than ten ex~cutive sessions in which it cii:JCU9sed and 
debated at gr~at len~th its fincling3 and conclusions. Finally, there were 
t;·-- -• --··-: -.... -.......... ---,-
'. ·- ..... - -.. --
