The following report in one of the first full attacks on the recent "Balloon Operation" in Czechoslovakia. The text was read over Radio Prague on July 18, 1945:

We are going to read to you now an article from today's Níce Pravo.

The article is called, "An Action Doored to Failure". That is to say the peace policy of the Soviet Union and of all the countries of the world of peace, the conviction that a war can be prevented only through the world. Naturally, this evolution creates a great concern with those for whom the situation takes a source of irremovable gain and of a luxurious life.

Their core the warmongers do their best to put curteases on the way which leads towards the weakening of international tension. In particular the part of the prowardees and saboteurs of the peace effort was given to Syngman Rhee. In Germany scores were made, resulted from the ranks of Nazi war BINANDEIN DER DEMOCRATISCHEN REPUBLIK, And after the failure this much berated day, there comes the hypocritical and denational offer to help to the population of the DOK, which was made for obvious preoccupations since which, in fact, was admitted by the Western bourgeois press.

Into this chain of provocations which are aimed against the strengthening of peace there also belongs the American propaganda action which was started in the last days in western Germany against Czechoslovakia. In a similar way in which two years ago the ill-famed "Crusaders for Freedom" were doing it, today again balloons disperging inflammatory leaflets over our territory, are being sent from the Bavarian side.

The Munich transmitter Free Europe, financed by PRA and similar "institutions" speaks bezugsweise of the propaganda balloon action which, allegedly in the biggest action of this kind which ever has been attempted and for the direction of which there came to Western Germany specialists from America.

He can indeed certify that the balloons specialists did not spare the leaflets in the first two days tens and hundreds of thousands of those leaflets are with our police and our national committees where they are being brought by our citizens after having been discovered. The farther Hajek from Dolnovec, districts of Cheky Brod, brought an entire parcel of leaflets which came down in one piece. Josef Körincik from Hlohle brought an entire balloon which fell down. The leaflets are being brought by the workers of the Vladimir Lenin Works as well as other factories, by farmers, railwaymen and children. Yet even if the balloon action was not only four times bigger - as Free Europe says - but hundred times bigger than the Crusader action of 1943, it will bring to its initiators the very opposite of what they had in mind.