Avoids "hurtling" his friends. Gloria then told me that Val never accepted an invitation to have coffee with her or Pepe or to dine out. He explained to her that it could hurt her to be seen with him. She gave an example of when she was invited to the ballet with Val and a group of friends.

After the ballet, Pepe and Gloria invited Val to join them for dinner. Val declined. Pepe and Gloria went to the Hoyo 19. Shortly after they arrived, Val and a large number of embassy officers also arrived. Val steered them away from Pepe and Gloria. Shortly afterwards a man arrived, sat at a remote table and took notes while watching the Soviets.

Val works mornings only. Gloria mentioned that Val is in the embassy only in the morning. This was in response to my statement that I had tried to call the embassy and talk to Val to find out what had happened to Dmitri, but since he was out, I would call in the afternoon. She added that he of course works in the afternoon, but outside the embassy. I said "trying to buy gringos". She said "trying to convince Mexicans".

COMMENTS

It seems to me highly unlikely that Val is really concerned about the welfare of his friends seen with him. It seems quite clear that he considers Gloria and Pepe, and perhaps me, as potential assets. He does not want to be seen with us because we would lose our value to him. He told Gloria that they should confine their contacts to the French Club. This seems to confirm the suspicion that he believes that this is a secure place to meet people.

It is possible that he checked with his colleagues and they were of the opinion that my choice of the Llave de Oro for lunch was too public, exposed us to too many Americans.

I feel that Gloria has served a very useful purpose in this matter. If she is working for Val, which I doubt, she is in a position to see that my business is indeed legitimate, time-consuming, and with considerable financial potential. Further, she is in a position to relay to Val my unwillingness to cooperate with him and his government and my threat to take the matter to the embassy if his harrassment continues. ,