whenever they can. They're human beings--one, they'll be flattered and another thing, they'll need the money.

I think one of the things that might be helpful with respect to the situation in the universities is to try and catch some of these students in the high school level. I suggested to the ambassador, a plan that would be something comparable to the Rotary Club's scholarships that are given in Colorado. I remember that when I was going through high school, I was given $10 a month by the Rotary Club and I was given a sponsor. I used to meet him once a month and we'd have lunch. I remember this very strongly because it was meaningful to me to have this kind of relationship.

I think that many of the businessmen in San Salvador could get the bright young guys in the high schools who are actually the guys who become the effective leaders in the college. Get them on the high school level and become friends with them. Once they have gotten to know some of the people who are supposed to be the egres that they later talk about, and have had some actual financial help from them; they are more apt to be approachable. At least the person who has been their sponsor during the time in high school can approach them. I think we have got to start working on this at a stage before they get to the university. Your leaders can be spotted, the people who are going to be your most effective in colleges can be spotted in the high schools. I think that is the time to start bringing some of the people in close contact with the government, also the business community. I talked to the ambassador about this and he said he felt it was a good idea and was going to talk to some of the people about it. I think, bearing in mind, that the universities are really power seats in many of the Latin American countries. We have got them to accept this as a starting point and then work with this and find out what are the elements that produce the leaders and when do the leaders first become observable and try to catch them at the earliest possible time. I think it would ameliorate much of the situation with respect to the students. The other thing (still on the university thing) I've observed in places that I have been is that the newspapers in these universities really are not newspapers. I think the leftist newspapers are really truly ineffective as far as appealing to the middle span. The same thing with the rightist, you have either the right or the left. The Catholics, generally speaking, have newspapers that are more costly; and they are very dogmatic to the right. Then you have the leftist students who have poorly printed or poorly m印eographed newspapers to the left. I suspect that the vast number of students who are in the middle never have any newspapers and here,