1. A happy ending has been written in the case of Horrie L'Appelman, former Communist who is now secretary of the General Hospital Executive of Denver. He has been praised in Washington for "disclosing his Communist past", and his board of directors has voted confidence in him and continued him in his job.

2. No doubt all this is fitting; and proper but it doesn't answer the question of why nobody in Denver goes to have known anything about Appelman's Red-tinted past, or why there was anything sensational about his revelation of it in Washington. Since the police state is rightly anathema to American citizens, it seems remarkable that official records should not be in existence and reasonably accessible to people with reason to check up on such a point as past Communist service.

3. The point about Appelman is not that he did anything particularly reprehensible, but that what he did was quite in the open. According to the Washington testimony he served the Communist party, apparently without special concealment, in Russia, Germany and other points in Europe, going around the world between 1924 and 1938. He sought to relieve Max and Grace Granich in the editorship of a Shanghai English-language Communist magazine, "The Voice of China", in 1937, he testified, but didn't get off his ship in Shanghai because of the hostilities there at the time.

4. This shows something of a light on the supposedly fearless and ruthless Communist operations throughout the world. I was in Shanghai when fighting broke out there between Japan and China on Aug. 13, 1937, and can testify that we had three months of directionless warfare before the campaign moved inland. During that period a good many people left for obvious reasons, but some came in, and it might be presumed that an accredited agent of international Communism would at least have paused in nearby Kobe or Hongkong till things calmed down a little. Possibly the Communists are as subject to qualms about personal safety as anyone else—or more so.

5. About "The Voice of China" there could hardly be any illusion in the mind of anyone who had cared to pay the slightest attention to it. Each issue bore a virtual advertisement of its Communist allegiance on its front cover, to those familiar with methods of converting Chinese into English. The name "Voice of China" appeared in both English and Chinese, and in the Chinese a peculiar Soviet-originated system of Romanization was used so that what is ordinarily, by conventional trade system, written "Chung Min" for China was spelled "Chung Jun"—an extraordinary effect frankly explaining the publication's ownership.

6. But what was more, Harold Isacksen, the editor who received the Granichos, had done considerably more than was conveyed by press dispatches from the Washington hearings of the House Un-American Activities Committee. These said he was "believed to have deviated from Communist policy" whereas in fact he challenged with the Chinese Communists and their Moscow patrons