an automatic weapon, while "the people were frozen solid", gathered up the money and was away quickly. Subject said the scheme failed because his accomplice went to the cache-site to get some of the money to spend before it was safe to do so. His accomplice was apprehended and in time broke down and implicated Subject. Subject said he was not bitter at his betrayer, but rather professed a genuine admiration for French interrogation techniques. Subject served a difficult confinement of 5 years, and was paroled to an older brother in Marseilles, as I recall.

C. Subject said that he began at that point to appreciate the futility of violent actions, while opposing the authority of society. He therefore attempted to go into business using some of the inventions that he had conceived during his confinement in prison. His winning personality and intense drive and self-confidence quickly gained him a business partner with capital to invest in a cinematographic color reproduction system that was pattened and earned decent profits for the venture. Subject was still on parole and tied to his older brother "self-righteous indulgence", however. It was shortly after this that Subject was approached by a member of the AIS who was following up on Subject as an ops lead furnished by a cousin in the US who was a moderately successful lawyer, and who had been long since recruited as an agent spotter for ethnic Georgians. Subject was favorably assessed and removed back from France, because of travel restrictions imposed under his parole status. I believe that this opportunity rekindled his old feelings of exhilaration and grateful enthusiasm for the opportunity to perform his deeds of duty for an authority, sanctioned by a national state, in this case the AIS.

D. Here at last, he considered, was a secure source of backing and support for his natural outlets. Subject always considered the Agency as an essential business partner, ally, and protector. He was therefore a grateful, sincere "tool" who thoroughly enjoyed his role as lower echelon action agent. Subject now probably feels like an equal partner.

E. He was a willing pupil, physically active -- since the job called for physical endurance -- and looked on self-denial and fatigue recognition as a point of honor. Undersigned was never a poor athlete, however, was bested on numerous occasions at whatever the field problem. Subject absorbed Soviet Realities, Border Troops M.O. and basic tradecraft quickly and with great applied flexibility.

F. It was during this period that Subject began to confide regularly and in depth to Undersigned. Subject would often tell Undersigned, "Fred, you must believe me, I want to do something." "I will do anything you tell me to do, only tell me." "You (meaning the Agency) want me to kill somebody." - Okay: I do it anyway you say." I believe Subject was genuinely sincere, and that this was neither an attempt to impress his C/O or a trust/assurance maneuver.