Dear Oliver:

We need to get a firm commitment with respect to the Crusade's next balloon operation.

Our best target from the point of view of geography and RFE radio coverage is Czechoslovakia. We can go into Poland and Hungary somewhat less efficiently. If Hungary should be the target, we will presumably still have the problem of clearance from the British to launch from their Zone, and failing that should have to back up to our Zone.

We need an absolute minimum of three months to prepare a balloon operation; the longer notice the better. A date of special significance to the target country is perhaps of some slight additional desirability from the psychological point of view. It is, however, not essential. From the point of view of our campaign schedule, an initial launching date of about August 20th would be ideal. This would allow the story on the operation and its effect to become known at the opening of our September campaign.

We have in storage in Munich 50,000 packages (of two each) of razor blades, 100,000 zippers, 72,000 packets of needles (five to the packet), and 150,000 cakes of soap (1/2, 3/4 and one ounce sizes). All of the above except needles were donations to the Crusade, and the needles were at cost. We have had to tell Gillette and Talon twice (at Christmas and at Easter) that the operation for which they supplied their products had been delayed. We should very much regret having to do this again.

I do not know what keeps putting this off the track. It is my information that the boys in the big house were initially enthusiastic about the idea, and the record will show that Ambassador Briggs thought it most valuable in Czechoslovakia, witness his special request that this means of communication be used at the time of the Czech Freedom Train break-out.

I would appreciate your getting us as soon as possible a positive and (barring an act of God) irrevocable approval for a balloon operation into a specified target country at a certain date, with agreement in principle on the nature of the operation -- i.e., of an order of magnitude of 60,000 to 75,000 vehicles, bearing the above mentioned materials together with messages. To repeat, by far the best target is Czechoslovakia; our preferred dates: around August 20th.

Let us not make this approval in principle (with firm date and target) contingent on a budget, except in a general way. With an approval in hand, we can proceed with plans and supply a fairly accurate budget, which will depend somewhat on such things as whether we can use the P-20 balloons on hand for the short flight to Prague or whether we will have to resort to P-50's for the longer flight into Poland or from the U.S. Zone of Austria into Hungary.