Silver Resources Corporation

Silver Resources Corporation (Silverco) is a New York corporation organized by a group of mining and financial companies to invest in silver in all its forms: silver mines, mining claims, shares of other silver companies and bullion.

Silver Resources controls, with Mexican associates, Minas Huruapa, S. A., which is arranging production for a fully developed medium-grade silver deposit in Chihuahua, and in addition controls Palmarejo and Mexican Goldfields, Ltd. (listed on the London Stock Exchange), owner of a residual interest in the same orebody. It also has a minority interest in Minas Suriana, S. A., which operates a high-grade silver mine in Morelos under the management of New York & Honduras Rosario Mining Company.

Silverco holds silver claims in Colorado and is developing a limestone property in Gallatin County, Illinois.

The company also holds investments in securities of silver companies.

Silverco is interested in providing financing for silver properties seeking development. funds. It is also interested in the purchase for investment of producing and nonproducing silver properties in the United States and abroad.

The original investors of Silverco include:

Consolidated Gold Fields Ltd. Industrial Minerals Exploration Company New York & Honduras Rosario Mining Company Northfield Mines, Inc Train, Cabot & Associates

DIRECTORS

John P. C. Truax (Chairman of the Board) Partner, Truax, Cabot & Associates Director, Sarlaga Gold Mines, Ltd.

John L. Carroll Economic Geologist

Robert A. Koch Gasperini, Koch & Savage Formerly Assistant General Counsel, American Smelting & Refining Company

R. Carter Nicholas Trustee

George W. Tower Formerly President, La Luz Mines, General Manager of Hochschild Interests in Latin America, and Director and Vice President of Ventures, L.L.A.

OFFICERS

George W. Tower, President

John L. Carroll, Executive Vice President

John P. C. Truax, Treasurer

Robert A. Koch, Secretary

Richard H. O'Neill, Controller

John J. Truax, Jr., Assistant Secretary-Treasurer**