AIR

Security Information

H03-A-687

Chief, WED Chief of Station, Guatemala

INPO: Lincoln

Operational

Arthur G. VAIVADA

References:

1) SAHJ 1954 2) DIR 32680 3) GUAT-938 4) DIR 31729 5) GUAT-953 6) GUAT-957

1. As has already been reported, Arthur G. VAIVADA and company arrived in Guatemala City on 2 January 1954. The first of several contacts with him was successfully accomplished on the night of 4 January 1954. Subject currently is living temporarily in an apartment hotel; however, he has already rented a small, inconspicuous apartment located in a middle-class neighborhood. He has purchased a few pieces of inexpensive furniture for the apartment and intends moving his family to the premises within the immediate future. Subject's choice of neighborhoods in which to reside is believed excellent. The apartment is located in a fairly busy section of town, is on a busy street served by public buses which travel to all parts of the city and is of such modest appearance that it will attract no attention.

2. Subject has registered with the local university and is in the process of developing contacts which may prove valuable in the future. Concerning subject's entry into the University he has pointed out that this type of cover is not here and that at an undetermined date in the future he may request authorization to discontinue this cover for one of a more logical nature. However, until this matter is discussed at greater length with headquarters in the future, subject will continue to attend his classes to put in an appearance.

3. Subject's wife is a native-born Costa Rican national. According to Guatemalan law she automatically becomes a Guatemalan citizen at the time she establishes a residence here. Because she does not wish to accept Guatemalan nationality but desires to retain her own nationality, subject has through a local attorney arranged to have his wife granted the status of a permanent resident but not a naturalized citizen. In this way she will enjoy all the privileges of a Guatemalan citizen except the right to vote. She will be able to work or engage in private business of her own. Subject will have all the necessary details completed in this connection within the next few days.

Securities Information-

COPY

5 Jan. 54

Sec-00168881 75