25 March 1966.

CONTACT REPORT

SUBJECT: Dr. Ernst GOEBEL

1. Subject called me on 23 March to report that he had learned a little which might interest me. We made an appointment to meet in his office at 1700 the same day. The meeting lasted for 20 minutes.

2. Subject stated that at 1200 hours on Sunday, 20 March, LOGINOV came to the French Club. He was accompanied by his wife whose salient features were redish hair which could be died and very generous proportions, "a typically stout Russian woman." They were also another Soviet couple with them. The man was described as very blond, boyish haircut with a part, not quite as tall as LOGINOV (ca 5'9"), with a solid muscular build, like a weight lifter. His apparent age was 25 to 35. His wife was dark-haired, normal figure and also young. The two couples had three children with them all in the 4-6 bracket. Subject did not remember their sexes since he was concentrating on the adults. (COMMENT: I first thought that the second Soviet would be KORMUSHKIN but Subject insisted that he did not wear glasses (KORMUSHKIN always wears glasses). However, Subject's description fits GORLITSYN and wife perfectly. I will take pictures to the next meeting for confirmation.)

3. Subject stated that upon arrival the two men went into the locker room and emerged in shorts. The women were already dressed in shorts. They had their own badminton rackets and repaired to a side lawn where they played badminton until Subject left at 1330. During the period 1200 to 1330 they did not contact anybody but simply played badminton among themselves.

4. Upon leaving Subject spotted LOGINOV's car in the parking lot noting the make, color and license plates.

5. Subject was apologetic about the paucity of his information but I encouraged him and told him it was a fine start. Subject said that he had briefed his wife on LOGINOV and she will be on the lookout for him during the week. Subject appeared to be very much interested in pursuing this subject for me and gave every indication that he will keep working on it.

Paul Dillon

File: P-12330 P-11712 P-11163