Similarly, isn't sensitivity that you spoke about. It'szzzzssazzy the Cuban population sensitized in such fashion as to come up with a comparably provocative and and dialogue-ending remark.)

the

It seems a little bit less. One of the problems is that of Cuban immigration. There isn't in Cuba, to the best of my knowledge, a broad anti-Americanism. Always am even in Fidel's speeches, he makes a distinction between the American government and the American people. Thus there is a very open atmosphere about the Cuban counter-revolutionaries. They may be counter-revolutionaries but they also happen to be uncles, cousins, nephews, and almost everybody has some one among them, from Fidel on down.

((The exiles in Miami and elsewhere))

That's right. They are relatives. Just as the treatment for instance of the people at the Bay of Pigs- which was extraordinary. In many countries they would have been -- in our country, they would have taken them all out and shot them. There they weren't allowed to beat them; they said they "had been misled" and so forth. This was really a propaganda, this was a feeling. I have seen it happen over and over again. They might shoot someone. They did, they shot three people, a Batista sergeant and some others. It was an incredible gaffe to include among these people an old Batista torturer. He was shot and killed. I have been told by people who have been there recently that you have only to say that you are an American to get a sympathetic audience around you immediately. People want to discuss with you, why did they do this, that. You see they can hear Miami. They listen -to the American radio all the time, and they listen to Radio SWAN. I heard Radio SWAN in Cuba. Radio SWAN was a CIA radio operated off of Swan Island off of Nicaragua. [Actually, the islands] and an island which is claimed by Nicaragua but in actual fact is possessed by the United States (laughing). The Nicaraguans have never been able to persuade us to leave. We just have some sailors on it. They built this enormous radio which broadcast to Cuba. It wasn't an official radio. It was called Radio SWAN. It was a CIA operation. It was so crude, it was really pathetic, the type of thing-- people are starving, that type of thing. Now this was directed at Cuba and when you have propaganda like that - well it is very little that can be confirmed. You say people are starving, and they are able to go out and buy something. There was a lot of racist material in there about Congolese troops stationed in Central Cuba. There were no Congolese troops. This short of attitude came out later. During the time of the Bay of Pigs operation they the press releases were incredible. This is what --