Subject began working in Paris. He was employed by the firm of Jacques Gara, which specialized in making models of houses. He stayed with this firm approximately from 1947-1953 and was paid about Fr. 120 an hour. There he met his future wife PARMER, who originated from Besançon (her parents have a grain business in Besançon and own a house and car).

Subject was married in 1949. Among Subject's acquaintances was a certain ADAM, Jaques (about six months older than Subject). It appears that ADAM convinced Subject of the necessity to make more money. Because making great quantities of money was quite difficult, they decided to commit robberies. It appears that Subject was not against this idea and did not oppose Adam, who had been a former schoolmate of his and with whom he had lived together in Versailles.

Their first objective was a jeweler's store in the rue du Bac (Veneu). It seems that they broke in without much trouble and got away with Fr. firs. 1,000,000 in jewelry. Adam organized the sale of the loot. They netted Fr. firs. 250,000 each. It should be noted that the police had no clue as to who the calprits had been.

Approximately one year later Adam appeared at Subject's house and blackmailed him (in front of his wife) to commit another robbery. The objective was another jewelry store. However, the proprietor of the shop happened to be there (or actually the robbery had to be committed in daytime). Subject did not wish to get into a fight, so they beat a hasty retreat.

Approximately a year later the chosen objective was a bank. Adam and Subject watched the banking house from a truck which was equipped with a periscope. The truck was so parked as to make it possible to observe the teller's counter and thus to count the incoming money. At one point Adam wanted to begin the hold-up when an old woman brought about Fr. firs. 1,000,000. Subject, however, was against it (he told us that he had thought of his mother). Nevertheless, the hold-up took place. Both friends entered the bank. Subject jumped on the counter with drawn pistol. Miraculously both got away. Some time later Adam was apprehended mainly because he started spending money. Adam confessed. Subject at that time was on his way to Gap together with his wife, and daughter, ELIZABETH. He told his wife the story and asked her to flee to Switzerland. Subject himself decided to attempt to cross the Spanish border. He, having been recognized by a chopher, was apprehended in the mountains. As Subject indicated during the interview, he had not been actually too careful to flee the country.

During the ensuing investigation the two first crimes were confessed by Subject. He was sentenced to solitary imprisonment (a technical term in France which precludes parole).

Subject served his term in various rather notorious prisons of France. It appears that he read quite a lot (if and when it was possible) and also worked at one of his inventions: a machine for making cardboard boxes. This machine was actually built for one of the prison administrations and put into operation at the prison factory.

When he got out of jail, his wife's family communicated to him that they did not wish to see him any more. As a matter of fact he has not seen her since and does not know whether she has remarried. He told us that he would like to see his children but that he will only do so when he has achieved something in life.

At present Subject is living in Gap. He is not allowed to travel without permission from the local police. However, people treat him normally, because, as he thinks to put it, "I am the brother of the brother". Subject is partner in a mechanical construction firm at present specialized in making advertising aids (electro-mechanical). If and when necessary, he gets permission to travel.

FBI SJC P.O. BOX 2286 PARKING LOT HOUSETOWN CORNER BROOKLYN