INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

The material containing information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Lipper orange Law, Title 18, USC §§ 793 and 796, the transmission or revolution of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM CONF

NO DISSEN ABROAD

COUNTRY Haiti/Dominican Republic/ Bahamas SUBJECT Planned Invasion of Haiti between 5-13 Nov 66 REPORT NO. 00-B-321/17879-66 DATE DISTR. 7 Nov 66 NO. PAGES-1 REFERENCES This report was previously disseminated as TD-00B-321/17879-66

DATE OF INFO. 28 Oct 66 PLACE & DATE ACQ. ---1 Nov 66

CTRL C-006-52051

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national with wide travel experience in Latin America. He speaks some Spanish, and has many social and business contacts in the Dominican Republic.

(This report was developed by a Navy representative assigned to the office of preparation.)

1. On 28 Oct 66 I spoke with Rolando Masferrer Rojas, a Cuban exile, and he told me that he has organized a military force of approximately 250 men to invade Haiti. The invasion force consists of Cuban and Haitian exiles residing in the US, the Bahamas, and the Dominican Republic. The invasion will probably be launched from the Dominican Republic sometime between 5 and 13 November and the target is Port-au-Prince. The invasion force will strike in the early hours of the morning selected. It will be armed, and will have air cover; the presidential palace will be bombed.

2. Masferrer stated that Eugene L. Maximilian, Haitian Consul in Miami, Florida, is aware of the invasion, but he has no knowledge of the invasion date. Maximilian is presently in Haiti informing President Duvalier that the invasion can be prevented by paying off $200,000 to Masferrer. Maximilian will return to the US on 3 November and he has agreed with Masferrer that if Duvalier agrees to the pay-off, Maximilian will receive $50,000 and Masferrer $150,000.

3. Masferrer told me that the invasion will take place in any event and that $150,000, if received, would be used to further support the invasion.

4. Masferrer stated that he met within the past 10 days with several dissident Haitian army officers and he had received their support. The Haitian army officers told Masferrer that they would revolt as soon as informed that the invasion had commenced. They do not know that the target will be Port-au-Prince; they believe that it will be in the cap Haition area.

5. Masferrer stated that he was confident that the invasion will succeed, and if successful, Father Jean Baptiste Georges would be appointed provisional president. Masferrer stated that Colonel René Leon, Haitian exile, will participate in the invasion.

- end -

S-YES

U-YES

The dissemination of this document may result in personnel being fired and all due{i} legal proceedings being initiated against the USA government personnel involved in the dissemination. This document is classified as TOP SECRET. If released to these stateside personnel, the responsibility for compliance with the information control provisions under the arms control agreements between the U.S. and other countries remains with the U.S. Government. Any violation of this restriction is subject to criminal prosecution.