(Summary of Case)

On 4 February, four days before the date tentatively selected for NOSENKO's defection, he reported that he had received a cable from KGB Headquarters ordering his immediate return to Moscow to participate in a KGB conference on foreign tourism to the Soviet Union. That night exfiltration plans were implemented and NOSENKO was driven across the border to Germany where his debriefing was resumed in a Frankfurt safehouse. The decision was reached on 11 February to bring NOSENKO to the United States, and in the early evening of 12 February he and his CIA escorts arrived in Washington via commercial aircraft, thence to a safehouse in the Washington area.

At the request of the Swiss and Soviet Governments, NOSENKO met on 14 February with representatives of their respective Washington Embassies in the offices of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. He told both that he had defected on his own free will after careful consideration and that he had no desire to return to the Soviet Union. In answer to the questions of the Soviet representatives, he orally renounced his status and rights as a citizen of the USSR.

CIA completed its initial debriefings of NOSENKO on 18 February, and on 24 February he was introduced to representatives of the FBI for questioning. At about the same time, there was a marked change in NOSENKO's comportment. While outwardly cooperative during most debriefing sessions, it became increasingly difficult to get him to respond to specific questioning. His free time in Washington and nearby cities was punctuated by drinking bouts, crude behavior, and disputes with his security escort. He explained his behavior by saying that he was under great tension as a result of his defection, abandonment of his wife and children, and the disgrace that he had brought to his family name, and on this basis CIA acceded to NOSENKO'S demand for a vacation. On 12 March, NOSENKO left Washington with a CIA case officer and two CIA security guards for a two-week visit to Hawaii. There his behavior deteriorated still further. He drank heavily and almost constantly; he consorted with a number of prostitutes; he was loud and crude in public places; and he spent money extravagantly and conspicuously.

5

600127E

TS No. 197124

Copy 10