23 January 1970

Subject: World Associates (such McDonald, Proponent)

1. On 13 January 1970, at the request of McDonald, I met with him for four hours. He went through his routine about his organization and提出了throughout the world in various countries in connection with bank security work. Quoted specifically on this security question, he informed us that he hoped to work with the Bank of America and International of Denmark, New York, in setting up security matters that would prevent credit card lease in foreign countries. In arranging to do this, he said that he was planning to put his enforcement officers on the payroll in various countries who would have access to government information and who would, in turn, eat in Madison for him with banks that might be helping such credit cards, or merchandise, in various cities in the country. Immediately, he said that if a credit card is stolen or fraudulently issued and used, and once his organization is notified through his law enforcement employees, he should notify all the banks, hotels, etc., in the city so to be on the alert and not charge anything to such card.

2. This trend of the conversation indicated that McDonald was again seeking some assistance from the Agency in setting up his organization. I asked him whether or not he had gotten it off the ground as yet and he said he had not, but that he was planning a tour to Europe sometime in February 1970 during which he hoped to sign up law enforcement officials in distant cities to work for him. His assurance that he will get these people on a monthly retainer. He feels he will have a real intelligence communication going in distant countries that will provide economic, political, and other types of information. Obviously, McDonald has not yet made any firm arrangements with the Bank of America or Inter-Bank.

3. I told McDonald that I had previously foreseen information concerning his plans to my headquarters and that the reply I had received was that, instead of his organization had law enforcement affiliations that it would be of no interest to the Agency. McDonald then switched the conversation completely and said that we must merely interested in informing us of the existence of his organization abroad. On this basis, I said that I would be glad to make a record of the conversation.