II. PRELIMINARY ASSISTANT

12. At this stage in KUBARK's relationship with STREBOW it is well to note certain factors that must be taken into consideration as we seek to devise a longer-term operation centered on his capabilities and potential. For the sake of brevity, if not precision, we will discuss these factors under the following headings: Security, Assets, Propaganda, Handling & Guidance, Security, Termination, and KUBARI Operational Requirements.

PERSONAL ASSETS:

13. STREBOW, as has been noted in OIA-42,750 "really astonishes with the breadth of his personal information and understanding... [of] African affairs (especially in left-wing fields), European Trotskyists and Communists and their general milieu, and Chinese-oriented international front organizations. Similarly, he appears to be informed on certain Chinese efforts at subversion and propaganda in Latin America." Combined with this knowledge and understanding is a long list of personal contacts in left-wing revolutionary circles and a reputation as an articulate and committed agitator for national liberation movements.

14. The Agent exudes an air of self-confidence and presents himself well and dynamically in interpersonal relationships. He has demonstrated talent as a working journalist, especially as a reporter. While we have limited information here upon which to base an evaluation of the accuracy and thoroughness of his reports, they have tended to be consistent on the whole and reveal the workings of a mind capable of storing away vast amounts of information and recalling it with minimal stimulation. As I seem to have good command of the French language and can get by in Italy and Spanish. He has had considerable experience in international travel, apparently accommodating well to various degrees of discomfort and hardship as the case may require. He is able to use cameras and tape recorders operationally, and he quickly learned a/w techniques.

15. Because of his coloring and facial characteristics A/I can pass relatively unnoticed as a North African, Near Easterner, South Asian, or American Negro, inter alia. He gives the impression of being able to strike up casual friendships readily and easily.

MOTIVATION:

16. This is a sticky area open to considerable speculation at this point, though there are specific actions and statements on the part of A/I indicating he has sought some professional relationship with KUBARK for several years. We understand, for example, that he tried to establish contact with CUTRICE while a student in Italy in 1951-52, that he appeared to be next cooperative when questioned by PESCHI in Paris in relation to the assassination of President Kennedy, and that he took a calculated (?) risk by writing in directly to KUBARK in the summer of 1962 offering his services. In his contacts with KUBARKers since January of this year he has given every indication of being forthcoming and, apparently, sincerely interested in cooperating with us. One has the impression he was hoping to be recruited, and he certainly didn't play hard to get.

17. Now that he has signed a letter of agreement, undergoes an interview, and been passed a considerable amount of KUBARK money he may consider himself already "on the team," though in effect he was told specifically at the outset that he had to prove himself over the next three months. He has initiated to BODIFACT that he would like to parlay his present association with KUBARK into a long-term career relationship including retirement, insurance, etc. He has even alluded to an interest in working for BODIFACT's "service" in a "less covert" capacity sometime in the future.

18. One basic question rests with all of us concerned: Why?