If more space is required, use a continuous line (solid Form No. 58) or a sheet of paper the same size as this sheet, and examination title. Attach to each submission.

From: Feb 44 Place of employment (city and State): Washington, D. C. Name and address of employer (then, reapplication, or person) if Federal name department bureau or establishment and division: OSS-R&A - East Asia Economics Section Kind of business or organization (a. wholesale silk insurance agency, mfg of locks, etc.) U. S. Government Number and kind of employees supervised by you 1 Clerk typist Name and title of immediate supervisor G.H. Greene, Jr., section Chief Reason for leaving: Transfer to Far East. By: Sep 44 Place of employment (city and State): Shanghai, China Name and address of employer (then, reapplication, or person) if Federal name department bureau or establishment, and division: Var. Dept., OASW, Eq. SSU/CT Kind of business or organization in which silkworm insurance agency, mfg of locks, etc.) U.S. Government Number and kind of employees supervised by you Capt. Wayne Richardson, Chief Lt. Col. R.J. Delaney, CO Reason for leaving: Deactivation of OSS SSU CT

Secretary to Section Chief Description of your work: Responsible for performance and allocation of all secretarial and clerical duties pertaining to work of East Asia Economics Section, Responsible for files, correspondence, periodic reports, etc. Salary or earnings: Starting 1800 per Final 1800 per Annual leave of 6 months, 30 days, and 90 days. Secretary and Chief Clerk Description of your work: Responsible for secretarial and general administrative duties for R&A Branch -after 1 Oct. 45. IRIS/State Dept. Separate Registry and document library. Allocation of typing and clerical duties to EM clerks &amp; typists. Reproduction of R&A analytical reports and dissemination to State Dept. Washington and appropriate Consulates. Prepared periodic reports to State, Washington, Consulate-General, Shanghai, and SSU/CT. Requisitioning and accountability for expendable &amp; non-expendable property for IRIS. Salary or earnings: Starting 2520 per Final $2320 per annum Annual leave of 6 months, 30 days, and 90 days.

Secretary Description of your work: Responsible for secretarial and composi ing classified Order of Battle reports. Set-up biographical file of military personalities. Spotted troop movements on situation maps. Salary or earnings: Starting 2320 per Final $2430 per annum Secretary Description of your work: Responsible for secretarial and composi ting classified Order of Battle reports. Set-up biographical file of military personalities. Spotted troop movements on situation maps. Salary or earnings: Starting 2320 per Final $2320 per annum