COPY

No. 26 Dear Adolf,

A day or two before I sailed for Europe in January, 1953, I received a typed manuscript copy of the "Progress Report on the College de l'Europe Libre", which has now appeared in mimeographed form under date of February 27, 1953, over the signatures of Royall Tyler and Richard Sears.

I admit to considerable curiosity when this document appeared. In the covering letter Royall Tyler merely stated, "It comes from Dick Sears". I rather wondered why this report should be compiled when it was known I was coming to Europe presumably to examine into conditions and it seemed to me immediately that this might be a counter foil to what it was expected I would find. In reply to a direct inquiry from me, Sears now states it was prepared "to reinforce the German language unit project by supplying information that was apparently lacking."

At the risk of indicating an overly suspicious temperament, which is not characteristic of me, I feel that this report over-simplifies a complex situation. It embodies a point of view that the operation at Strasbourg is proceeding smoothly and successfully, which it is not. It assumes that a paper plan (for the National Seminars) is in full and healthy bloom, which is not the case. I have stated so frequently (almost ad nauseam) that you must live in this frustrating atmosphere for a while before you can understand what conditions are. Royall Tyler and Sears have never had that experience and formed their opinions from what they have been told by Davis, Galy, Straka, and Donzelot. The latter in turn was constantly fed information by Galy and Straka, and altogether has spent only three or four days on the ground. He has had numerous talks in Paris with Galy and some of the tutors.

So, while the factual material in this report can not be questioned — I mean the statistics and the historical portions — the interpretation of them does not reflect the disappointing results. This pertains to the work of the Committee on Awards on the one hand and the actual operation at Robertsau on the other.

When I asked Sears how widely this report had been distributed he told me "to the Trustees of FEUE, to the members of the Association du College