3. In two memoranda on 21 June we informed you of our relationship with the Robert R. Mullen Company and the General Foods Corporation. The utilization of the Robert R. Mullen Company dates back to June 1963. Mr. Mullen has provided certain sensitive cover support overseas for Agency employees. In addition, Mr. Mullen was involved in the formation of the Cuban Freedom Committee -- an activity terminated several years ago. As of 1 May 1970 Mr. Everette Howard Hunt, who had just retired from the Agency, became a legitimate employee of Mr. Mullen. In July 1971 Mr. Hunt informed the Agency he had been assigned to the White House Staff but continued to devote part of his time to the Mullen Company. The General Foods Corporation is a client of the Mullen Company. General Foods is providing certain cover 24 support to two Agency assets overseas. Over the years sixteen officials of General Foods have been cleared on certain aspects of our interests. They have not been informed of our use of the Robert R. Mullen Company. Also on 21 June, in response to a verbal request of 20 June, we informed you that a check of our records disclosed no record of Agency involvement with the Association of National Advertisers or the words "CIF".

4. In a separate memorandum on 21 June we advised you that a review of the duties and assignments of Mr. James McCord provided no indication that he was involved in Cuban matters and that he was not assigned to the Bay of Pigs operation. We stated, however, that he might have developed personal acquaintances which are not recorded in official personnel and security records. We have no information regarding Mr. McCord's activities with Cuban exiles since his retirement. We indicated in the same memorandum that as an Agency employee, Mr. Hunt was involved in operational activities relating to Latin American countries and was known to have had some ties to Mr. Barker. In a separate memorandum of 27 June regarding Mr. Hunt, we informed you about the issuance of the alias, Edward V. Hamilton, to Mr. Hunt on 30 September 1960. This alias was subsequently used by Mr. Hunt for several drivers licenses. We provided additional information on this subject in a memorandum of 5 July and also reported that there is no information in our files to the effect that Mr. Hunt was issued a Social Security Card or Insurance Policy bearing the name Edward J. or Edward Joseph Hamilton.