Photography. At the present time, considerable operational use is being made of a darkroom at my residence. In addition to my own photographic equipment, the station photographic equipment is used there. My replacement should be trained in the use of the duo-printer and in 35mm copy work. If he has no personal photographic equipment, headquarters may wish to issue him a camera so there is only one camera at the station. Most of the copy work has been done with my personal Rolleiflex and enlarger.

Administrative Reports.

(1) Station Funds. He will be responsible for dispensing funds, keeping records and preparation of the monthly accounting reports.

(2) Property. He will be responsible for keeping records of government property and preparation of periodic reports and inventories.

(3) Exchange commodities. He will be responsible for keeping records and preparing periodic reports and inventories.

Maintenance of Files. The station files are set-up along the lines recommended by headquarters, and should require little time for upkeep.

Information Reports. Dependent upon the clerical workload, he may assist Konan in the preparation of information reports.

1) Cover Job. None. If there are only two people at the station, the replacement for my job would not have time to perform a cover job and consequently, would have no regular working relationship with the DYNAMO employees.

4. A resourceful person can find Monterrey a very enjoyable post. From a social point of view, the city is not a dull place and either a single girl or man can find plenty of things to do. There are a limited number of single persons here, but one can always find somewhere to go and something to do. The American colony, as a whole, is the friendliest group that I have known at any post and they are very gracious with invitations to their homes. If headquarters has someone in mind for this post and would like elaboration on living conditions in Monterrey, I shall be glad to forward them on request.

Distribution: 2-Mexico City 3-Hqtrs 2-Monterrey

Robert B. Riggs

CINCOLVAI