SECRET Security Information

SEC. II. WORK EXPERIENCE (CONT'D.)

2. Other than CIA: (Describe work experience for the last 15 years in sufficient detail to permit specific coding of your qualifications. Include military work experience. List last position first.)

Exact Title of your position

From Aug. 18 To Aug. 20 Tot. mo's Classification Grade(If in Federal Service) Salary Number and Class of Employees Supervised: Manufacturer's Representative Description of Duties: Acted as traveling representative of Swanson, contacted other food processors, U. S. Govt. agencies, and commercial outlets, represented company at conventions, trade fairs, etc.

Duty Station if overseas:

From Dec. 15 To Nov. 16 Tot. mo's Classification Grade(If in Federal Service) Description of Duties: Acted as chief of message center for Communications Section of Headquarters, Far Eastern Air Force (later called Pacific Air Service Command) at Manila, Philippine Islands.

From Aug. 19 To Aug. 25 Tot. mo's Classification Grade(If in Federal Service) Pfe., Salary Number and Class of Employees Supervised: Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility) Duty Station if overseas:

From Dec. 15 To Nov. 16 Tot. mo's Classification Grade(If in Federal Service) Description of Duties:

From Aug. 19 To Aug. 25 Tot. mo's Number and Class of Employees Supervised: Employer Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility)

From Nov. 26 To Nov. 27 Tot. mo's Classification Grade(If in Federal Service) Salary Number and Class of Employees Supervised: From Dec. 15 To Nov. 16 Tot. mo's Classification Grade(If in Federal Service) Description of Duties:

From Nov. 26 To Nov. 27 Tot. mo's Number and Class of Employees Supervised: Employer Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility)

Number and Class of Employees Supervised: Employer Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility)

SECRET Security Information 3