B. ADMINISTRATION

4. The AMKNOT organization remains constituted as reported in the previous Quarterly Report. However, in December AMASK-1 was offered a permanent position as personnel director of a local shoe company that employs some four hundred people. His starting salary will be $475.00 per month which will be increased after the first three months and increased again after the second three months. The Station concurred with AMASE-1 that he accept for these reasons: (1) The AMKNOT position is not permanent, (2) it appears that AMASK-1 will be terminated when AMKNOT is closed, (3) this position should solve AMASK-1's personal financial prob- lems, and (4) AMASK-1 has agreed to remain as chairman of AMKNOT without salary and to continue to lend his name to the organization. The Station expects to replace AMASK-1 with AMPOLISH-1 who appears qualified to handle the hand-holding and housekeeping aspects of AMKNOT. AMPOLISH-1 is presently employed by a local automobile dealer and is able to take the necessary time off to handle the AMKNOT matters. We see three advantages to this development: (1) The Station will be spared a possible disposal situation when AMKNOT is closed (it has been made clear to AMPOLISH-1 that this is a temporary assignment that at the most will last for a few months), (2) We have offered AMPOLISH-1 $200.00 per month versus $390.00 for AMASK-1, and (3) AMASK-1 should be in an excellent position to offer at least temporary employment in the shoe fac- tory to mariners to come.

5. An estimated total of $2,505.00 was spent during this quarter. This amount represents AMASK-1's salary and allowances, office expenses, and English instruction for those seeking MSTS employment. Expenses by month were: October, $855.00; November, $825.00; and December (estimated), $825.00. The allotment for this activity for the quarter was $3,000.00.

C. PROBLEMS

6. The chief problem of the period was caused by the antics of Raul QUINTANA Ruiz who jumped ship in New Orleans after a run-in with the ship's captain and after difficulties with the Immi-gration and Naturalization Service over the lack of proper documen-tation to re-enter the country. QUINTANA has been resettled in California, though we may not have heard the last from him; AMASK-1 recently received a letter from QUINTANA which said that QUINTANA was about to sue the shipping line that had employed him for back salary and loss of personal effects that QUINTANA claims the captain had locked up. AMASK-1 was advised to ignore the letter in view of the difficulties already caused and in view of his potential for further trouble (see paragraphs 2 and 3 of JMWAVE-3990).