TO: Chief, FROM: Chief of station, London Attachment to OELA-43,272

4 June 1965

1. Cover Situation. S/l was not successful in lining up any cover arrangement in the U.S. Around 28 May he received word from New York of a flat turn-down on his offer to serve as correspondent for Monthly Review. Karl Schleiffer, who was on the spot—got this job, and MR's chief editor Leo Hubermann plans to attend 2nd Bandung himself. Locally, however, S/l was able to line up the following sponsors (though none is in a position to pay much for his services they collectively provide him with sufficient reason for being in Algiers; he will let on that his travel costs were advanced him by his wealthy brother-in-law):

Cinnamon, a sort of British Ebony scheduled to bring out its first issue on 20 June.

West Indian Gazette, described in earlier correspondence, will provide S/l with a letter of accreditation.

Institute of Race Relations. This politically neutral, academic outfit publishes a monthly newsletter. Connected with Chatham House, the Institute's secretary, Sheilla Paterson is a good friend of S/l. She has asked him to do a paper back book for the Institute on Africa. Again, though they could pay little for this effort it constitutes a highly respectable piece of cover.

During the last two months, S/l has explained his income to his wife as coming from advances, expense money and articles for Encounter. This has not pleased her, as she dislikes both the Congress for Cultural Freedom and Laskey, but has at least satisfied her curiosity. To explain Katzenbach's telephone calls to his home (K. identified himself to S/l's wife as "Mr. Wilson") S/l had to improvise a purely notional affiliation with an American feature story syndication service, called "Metropolitan Features". This will help explain some of his income to his wife, but will not be used with others.

2. The above skeletal cover will hopefully be reinforced in Algiers where S/l will scour around for bits and pieces of work for his many contacts there. His visits to Grippa and Andersson on his way to Algiers will also help to fill out his ostensible sources of income, though S/l has agreed not to overplay this angle. In other words, he will not pretend that these two have given him any funds, but if others want to make the assumption, so much the better.

3. On 1 and 2 June, Tiffany expounded at some length on the importance of S/l trying to get an Opposition (Soviet, Cuban, Algerian or ChiCom) sponsor for any further cover, such as the researching of a book or establishment of an Afro-Asian news service for U.S. leftist periodicals and/or individuals. While we could easily set him up in this enterprise, we do not want to for the simple reason that this would at best only provide him with a superficial sort of access. What we want him to strive for is Opposition sponsorship that will lead him into one of the nerve centers of the national liberation movement in Algiers or Djakarta. (S/l ruled out Cairo on the grounds that his wife is Jewish) S/l accepted this reasoning and agreed to go for a position that holds out the prospect of long-range penetration in depth.

TOUCH SECURITY VIGILATION NO FIELD DISTRIBUTION

ATTN/TO OELA-43272