TRAINING REPORT

Operations Support No. 50 120 hours, full-time, Phase I 2 - 20 April 62 8 Students 80 hours, full-time, Phase II 23 April - 4 May 62 10 Students

Student : O'CONNELL, James P., Jr.

EOD Date: December 1951 Grade: GS-15 Office : OS

Year of Birth: 1917

COURSE OBJECTIVES - CONTENT AND METHODS

The Operations Support Course emphasizes the role of support personnel in clandestine activities and their responsibility in originating material of a support nature at headquarters and in the field. The Course objectives are to provide the student with (1) an appreciation of the interrelationship between operating functions and support functions; (2) an understanding of some of the basic principles and techniques of Agency operations; (3) a knowledge of procedures, regulations and problems pertinent to the necessary support of operational activities.

Phase I covers Instruction on organization, functions and responsibilities of the Clandestine Services; basic principles of clandestine activity accompanied by practical exercises; project and agent management; familiarization with defensive and offensive audio surveillance.

About fifty per cent of Phase I consists of lectures, briefings, and discussions; about thirty-five per cent is devoted to field exercises, practical written assignments, practice problems, and observing films as training aids in basic tradecraft. The remainder of the time is devoted to studying and testing.

Phase II Includes name checks, records procedures, foreign travel, finance and property accounting, dispatch, pouch, cable and message-writing procedures. For this phase, problems have been developed to represent situations as they normally occur at a Class B Station.

About thirty-five per cent of Phase II is composed of lectures, briefings, and discussions; about fifty per cent is devoted to practice problems and practical written assignments. The remainder of the time is devoted to studying and testing.

ACHIEVEMENT RECORD

The adjective ratings on this student for each major area of this course are the result of an evaluation of his work on his individual projects, on the other exercises, and on the final examination. Comparative judgment takes into account students in preceding classes as well as the present one. The numbers show how many students received each rating. An asterisk (*) shows the rating this student received. The rating the student receives represents the student's performance in the course with no allowance made for difference in age, education, experience and so forth.