19 May 1970

Date of Report SECRET REPORT

Student Names

PICCOLO, JOSEPH S. Offices WII

Courses Inclusive Dates

PORTUGUESE FULL-TIME-01/05/70-04/23/70

Language Training Aims and Evaluation Criteria

The general aim of this course of study was to provide the student with a command of a foreign language in a skill and at the level set by the sponsoring office. Speaking,ural comprehension and reading comprehension, as required, were emphasized. Fluency and accuracy were given equal importance in training and in evaluation of the student.Cultural matters were covered only incidentally.

This student evaluation is based on (1) Instructor and Linguist observations; (2) regularly administered oral and written achievement tests; (3) a final comprehensive achievement examination. The achievement rating reflects only performance and achievement in the course and is conditioned by the length of time the student spent in training, achievement potential based upon his or her attitude for language study and upon motivation. This rating should not be confused with the Proficiency Rating which is submitted separately on Form 1273, Certification of Language Proficiency.

PROGRESS IN ACHIEVING COURSE AIMS (Overall progress in the course is shown as unsatisfactory, marginal, satisfactory, above average, superior when compared against established standards for such training).

Speaking Focal Comprehension Reading Comprehension

ABOVE AVERAGE ABOVE AVERAGE ABOVE AVERAGE

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

This student, with no experience in Portuguese, held his own extremely well in a class with three other students, all of whom had had previous training in the language.

He did especially well in pronunciation and soon succeeded unusually well in eliminating any interference from Spanish. Because of his knowledge of Spanish, the student's ability to read and understand is greater than his ability to speak.

His mastery of the course material was very good. His oral use of the language was generally limited to short sentences. In longer sentences he had a tendency to get lost in mistakes of syntax. He was almost always aware of his mistakes and would correct them himself, at the completion of a sentence. He always responded well to correction.

The areas in grammar presenting problems were 1) use of the subjunctive 2) a tendency to overlook, or sidestep, idiomatic expressions 3) failure to see reverse side for additional comment

For the Director of Trainings