'American Friends' at Rallies in Peking

Special to The New York Times

HONG KONG, July 10 — Frank Coe and Sol Adler, two aging former officials of the United States Treasury Department, appear to be filling the social role formerly occupied in Peking by Anna Louise Strong, the 64-year-old American leftist who died last March after years of service in the cause of Chinese Communism.

For the second time in little more than a month Mr. Coe and Mr. Adler were listed this week in Peking reports sent here by Hsinhua, the Chinese Communist press agency, as "American friends" present at a mass function along with top Chinese and foreign officials.

The function, on Tuesday, was a sports performance before 20,000 people in an indoor stadium arranged in honor of Prince Norodom Sihanouk, former Chief of State of Cambodia who now heads a Cambodian government in exile in Peking.

Mao's Wife Present

Tung Pi-wu, the aging deputy head of state; Premier Chou En-lai; Chiang Ching, the wife of Mao Tse-tung; and Hu-ang Yung-sheng, chief of staff of the armed forces, were among the Chinese officials present. In the Prince's entourage were his premier, Penn Month, his wife, Princess Mo-

nique, and three sons and others of the Cambodian community in Peking.

The previous occasion at which Mr. Coe and Mr. Adler were listed in attendance as "American friends" was a People's mass rally on May 21 held to mark the statement made by Chairman Mao the

previous day calling for world revolution against "United States imperialism."

Mr. Coe and Mr. Adler figured in Washington investigations of alleged Communist subversives in the United States Government in the late 1940's and early 1950's, at the time of the Alger Hiss case. They have both been in Peking for many years and seem to have escaped serious trouble during the Cultural Revolution purges in 1967-68.

Wives Also in Peking

Whether they have helped the Chinese Communists as financial specialists is not known, but it is thought here they have mainly been employed in editing English-language news and propaganda material.

Both have wives in Peking. Mr. Adler is author of a book on the economy of Communist China.

There are a few other Americans in Peking in good standing with the regime there, but only Mr. Coe and Mr. Adler have been listed as "American friends" at the two functions. This is believed to indicate that they have been selected to act as the American representation at public affairs at which the Chinese wish to give the impression of broad international participation.