(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

audio surveillance operation against the Embassy in Moscow. Among foreign agents of the KGB NOSENKO identified Canadian Ambassador WATKINS (see p. 23) and described a British Ad-miralty employee (William VASSALL, see p. 30). He talked freely of his activities in Geneva, including his association with KGB officers there, his visits to the KGB residency and his security duties with respect to the Soviet delega-tion. NOSENKO seemed to CIA to be what he claimed: a KGB officer with personal knowledge of important and sensitive KGB operations. He described his education, his service in the Naval GRU, his entry into the KGB and the general func-tions and operating techniques of the various components of the Second Chief Directorate in which he had served, along with the approximate dates of his service.

Ultimately the only restriction which NOSENKO placed on his cooperation with CIA was his refusal to permit communica-tion with him in the Soviet Union. He was willing to meet with CIA representatives during future trips outside the Soviet Union, which he estimated would occur about once every other year. He said he would not consider defecting except in cir-cumstances in which his personal security was endangered, citing as reasons his devotion to his wife and children (and fear of KGB reprisal against them if he fled), his widowed mother's dependence on him, and his love of Russia and the Russian people.

NOSENKO promised to contact CIA and arrangements were made for him to do so, when he came to the West again. Meanwhile, he expressed the intention to do everything within limits imposed by concern for his own security to obtain in-formation which he was informed was of interest to CIA.

Attempted Recruitment of Horst BRAUNS

Immediately after returning to Moscow from Geneva, NOSENKO claimed he personally was involved in the attempt to recruit American tourist [BRAUNS].

0001559

TS No. 197124 Copy

Top Secret 2/BR

06

288

2/BR

Copy

0