A) LIMITED - Throughout the past project year, with the exception noted in paragraph 8, section 13. above, the LIMITED installation provided daily photo coverage and physical surveillance of the main site of the LIEFERück Installation during the afternoon and early evening hours. (During the morning hours, the LIMITED basehouse keepers prepared the typewritten surveillance reports and photographic logs covering the previous day's activities). In addition, the LIMITED installation provide a fixed radio dispatch base, used regularly to support the LIMESPACE surveillance team. Because of the tight security measures instituted by the local security forces in the immediate vicinity of the LIEFERück installation, normal stakeouts by this unilateral team are precluded. However, with the support of the LIMITED radio base, which can dispatch the team from almost safe areas, secure and effective surveillance coverage of this target can be provided. During the ten-month period from 1 November 1964 through 30 August 1965, the LIMITED base provided 150 rolls of 35mm operational still photographs, which provided the station with approximately 2,970 individual frames. In addition, the LIMITED base provided bi-weekly physical surveillance summary reports.

B) LILYRIC - The LILYRIC installation also provided extensive photographic and fixed visual surveillance of the front of the LIERICK installation throughout the period under review, during the morning and early afternoon hours, with evenings being spent in the preparation of written surveillance reports and photographic logs. During the ten-month period from 1 November 1964 through 30 August 1965, the LILYRIC basehouse provided 5,060 individual frames (226 rolls) of 35mm operational photographs. In addition, the LILYRIC basehouse keeper provided 1,060 pages of physical surveillance reports covering the daily movements of the principal LIERICK officers.

C) LICALLA - During the above-noted ten-month period, the LICALLA installation provided photographic and physical surveillance coverage of the back of the LIEFERück Installation, the garden and the palka area. This coverage produced 153 rolls of 35mm film, which produced 4,174 individual photographs as well as bi-weekly physical surveillance summaries. In addition, various headquarters specialists made night-time entries into the LICALLA basehouse for on-site clandestine surveys in support of a potential sensitive technical operation.

SUMMARY OF FIXED BASEHOUSE EFFECTIVENESS

The fixed LIMITTY basesouses (LIMITED, LILYRIC, LIERICK) thus produced over 12,000 individual frames of operational photographs during a ten-month period within the last year. This coverage linked with the related physical surveillance reports prepared by each basehouse has proven to be a most reliable and valuable tool for: