Nenni Socialists. I don't know if she has gone with the PSIUP, people the new left split, or not. I tried to get more information about her in Rome but I couldn't just walk in and say "weren't you the girl I found in bed with Babu". She speaks English well and she spent a considerable amount of time in Geneva with him and came to Paris with him. (She was in bed with Babu)

He was also with Murray Fells ( phone ) an Australian who spent most of his time as a mutual funds salesman. x Murray was based in Geneva. I suspect that he also was supplying girls.

Murry was also in contact with and introduced Babu to a man by the name of Victor Herbert, who is an American Mutual Funds salesman.

He used to be with OIS Overseas Investment Service, in Geneva, which is the biggest American overseas fund, run by a man by the name of Kornfell

Bernie Banks Cornbelt(?). Exactly what this curious crowd was doing with Babu there in Geneva I don't know. Murray Sales then later told stories which were not quite true of a man who was going around the Hotel Intercontinental in Geneva knocking on doors saying "are you a Foreign Minister?" "Yes" "Well, I want to invest $50,000 in your country. Which country do you come from." Now Murray Fells story is different. He told Melvin Zakay & Encounter that someone came and said, "I'm from the CIA. Here's a gold watch and I'll give you $50,000 if you'll work for us." ((Who are you)) Yes, who are you? Bessy.

Despite some of the curious antics I heard of with Cubans, I can't believe anybody would get that way. And besides, Babu was very amused by the man who did come. And he didn't get a watch. He told me that he'd gotten a camera from the West Germany once. They said "don't recognize U-bright and we'll give you this lovely camera." Of course they had already made a deal with East Germany.

(What was Victor Herbert's role in all this?)

I suspect that they were trying to invest money, that was all.

The thing which interests me about all of this is that Babu, despite the fact he is a revolutionary, and a very competent one, I think, he has other

One, he is very much interested in women. Two, he drinks heavily.

Money, which is extremely scarce in Zanzibar like most places in the world, is of great interest to him. He also tells us that he had informed the Chinese that he was going to carry out the coup and the Chinese were opposed to it. They went ahead anyway. They thought it was an adventure. Then afterwards... since you were able to do it, (Is that what he told you?)