to para. 4 of the above-mentioned agreement (16 Sept. 1950), according to which "You will be required to transfer the gross royalties to CIA...," (This agreement was also drafted by Mr. Kelley). There doesn't seem to be any difficulties of substance there.

There has been no decision on the size, format, etc. of the book. I mentioned that I had written Shub, mentioning that Simon & Schuster is able to offer its $3.95 FOR a Pictorial History —"260 photos with commentary"— at only $1.50 in cloth.

I said Shub had written some time ago that it would be a help to know the approximate number of photos as soon as possible, and Lyle said he of course agreed. He thought Shub and his collaborator should have something to show in, say, 30 days.

I mentioned that the "STALIN" PHOTO-BOOK, when written up, which I will do shortly, will merely be a sub-Project of KAPUTNY, and will therefore require only Mr. Thompson's signature: Lyle queried whether it was necessary to make a formal project of it at all. I said that, for purposes of Status Reports, etc., it would be more or less necessary to have a formal title for it, and he agreed.

Shub has about 150 sterilized CIA Graphics photos, which we selected last summer. None of them could actually be printed, published, without a release from CIA Graphics. I therefore urged Hunson to urge Shub to work up a good cover story about them, vis-a-vis his collaborator. Hunson said he would advise him not to use them at all. (They are run-of-the-mine; they could all be duplicated with ease from agencies).

I told Hunson that Mrs. Poland, of CIA Graphics (of whom he knows) had personally made an arrangement with Roy Larsen, whereby he supplies them with photos from Time-Life files, but not for publication. And that she had told me she is particularly anxious to do nothing that would undermine her relations with Time-Life.

We agreed that, if Shub's collaborator gets permission to use photos from Life's files in the book, it will still be a book being prepared for the overt SWEN Company, and that Life will not know the Government is involved. Hunson thinks Shub is being very circumspect about all this.

WSS

JB III real afine.