MEMORANDUM

TO : Chief of Station FROM : CA/Roger E. MARCHBANK SUBJECT: TYPIC/OPERATIONAL AMSCROLL Progress Report 1 April - 30 June 1967

10 July 1967

WCA 1395

Distribution: 3 - COS-1 - CA/MARCHBANK 1 - CA Chrono 1 - RI Chrono

A. OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

1. During the quarter under review AMSCROLL continued with its program to discredit the Cuban regime's economic management (or mismanagement) and to seek to discourage Free World trade with Cuba. To this end AMSCROLL continued publishing its serious economic studies and comment of the Cuban economic area. This material is made available to selected firms engaged in international trade and shipping, to commercial and technical journals, and to sugar brokers including certain banks and others interested in the sugar trade. AMSCROLL also continued with its radio program which is beamed to the Cuban audience and which is increasingly attempting to provide serious comment upon economic developments in Cuba or those areas of economic activity outside of Cuba which would have an interest among the Cuban listeners. During this quarter AMSCROLL received 15 letters from Cuba which compares with 18 received during the previous quarter. The monthly count was: April - 6, May - 5, June - 4.

2. On 30 April AMSCROLL ceased broadcasting over AMTHIGH. Effective 1 May the program was presented over JMIHOPE. This change in station (and a consequent change in time) has perhaps effected the listenership in Cuba; however, we expect that any unfavorable developments will be overcome and that this program will at least re-gain its previous level of listeners. Typical themes included discussions of Cuba's housing problem, its actual sugar production measured against Castro's earlier claims of what the production would be, breakdowns and stoppages at the Cuban refineries, activities with the Soviet Union and the world sugar market, reporting the progress of the Venezuelan dock workers boycott of ships of those nations that also trade with Cuba, the fight against bureaucracy, and economic aspects of the Middle East crisis.

3. A main AMSCROLL effort continued to be an analysis of the current sugar crop. As early as 13 February AMSCROLL predicted a harvest within the range of 6,100,000 and 6,400,000. By 6 May AMSCROLL was able to refine the harvest estimate from 6,047,000 to 6,101,000 tons. This estimate was further pinpointed to 6,100,000 tons in a release dated 16 June. These studies received newspaper attention and AMSCROLL has received favorable comment from sugar brokers and other technicians engaged in this business. As events

U.S.A.

Danh Ph堂

Khirot

Marchbank