RYBAT

to take back to his boss some general information on what WIROGUE wanted in Frankfurt. This led WIROGUE to begin a long discussion of his problems in the Congo and his desires for a new assignment with the "Service". LACKLEY was trying to build up sufficient rapport by letting him talk, to find an opening by which he could obtain the passport.

4. WIROGUE advised that he had come from Leopoldville to Brussels and was fortunate enough to catch a connecting flight 22 May to Frankfurt. He explained he was in Frankfurt to talk with some old contacts in hopes they might have a job for him. He asked if Miller (LACKLEY) knew Mike, LACKLEY told him no. He said that he had arranged with the Congolese Minister of Defense to come to Europe to attempt to trace 30,000,000 Francs (sic) - rate 65/1 US Dollar which had been given to the Ministry of Defense officials to purchase airplanes. This money had been deposited in Swiss banks and disappeared. He showed LACKLEY an Order de Mission dated 17 May 1962 signed by the Secretary General of the Congolese Foreign Ministry identifying him for travel for the Congolese Government to as many countries in Europe as necessary. WIROGUEounded resolved to complete this mission. He claimed, however, that this mission was simply a cover for his Frankfurt contact with the "Service".

5. WIROGUE talked about himself for about an hour and said a half. Some of the highlights of this are:

About the investigation - a Belgian citizen, who had been in the Congo before independence and who was now a colonel in the Congolese Army and close to General Mobutu had gone to the American embassy to "name-check" WIROGUE. WIROGUE said he was not worried about this investigation (NOTE: LACKLEY was not asking these questions, but simply listening to WIROGUE and attempting to lead up to the request for his passport). WIROGUE felt the only way this Belgian colonel could pin him down was by contacting the Viennese diplomat representative in Leopoldville and through him checking WROGUE's Austrian passport number. He mentioned that his friends in the Surete and Department of Defense Ministry had asked him for a police certificate from Austria. WROGUE saw no problem in furnishing this. He could fabricate this with no trouble and was confident it would be accepted because the Congolese officials would have no other such document to compare it with and had a practice of throwing records away.