Ex-OSS Official Works For Reds in Moscow

By VICTOR LASKY North American Newspaper Alliance

A former Boston University professor, who once was a high official in the OSS, has turned up in Moscow working for the Soviet government.

The professor, Dr. Maurice H. Halperin, fled this country seven years ago after an inquiry into his Communist background.

According to the State Department, he probably is advising Soviet officials on Latin American affairs, an area in which he is expert.--

Prof. Halperin was suspended by Boston University in 1953 after he refused, on constitutional grounds, to tell a Senate subcommittee whether he had ever been a Communist Party member.

According to the State Department, he had previously been involved in Soviet espionage in wartime Washington. He had been named by Elizabeth Terril Bentley, admitted former spy courier, as one of her sources of supply among Government officials.

Intrigue In Mexico

And since 1953, Dr. Halperin has been involved in still more intrigues as an "exile" in Mexico. It was he, for example, who assisted two suspected spies in their flight from Mexico to Czechoslovakia to avoid United States extradition proceedings.

On July 15, 1960, Dr. Halperin and his wife, Edith, appeared at the United States Embassy in Moscow to present their United States passports for renewal.

All this was disclosed in a State Department memorandum prepared for Senator Keating, Republican of New York, who has been urging the passage of Eisenhower-supported legislation empowering the department to deny passports to active participants in Soviet skullduggery.

The memorandum, citing "cases where passports have had to be issued to known Communists," devoted considerable attention to the case of

Dr. Halperin. It was obvious on the basis of the information contained in his dossier that the State Department had been keeping an eye on the former professor's movements for some time.

Fired in Oklahoma

From 1931 to 1941, Dr. Halperin—a Harvard University graduate—had been a professor at the University of Oklahoma. According to the record, it was in this period that he directed Communist activities in Oklahoma and, on repeated visits to Mexico, conferred with Mexican Red leaders. On one visit to Cuba in 1935, he and other leftwingers had been arrested by Cuban authorities and expelled from the country.

In 1941, much of this was disclosed in an investigation conducted by an Oklahoma State legislative committee. The committee, investigating subversive activities in Oklahoma, produced information that in 1940 Dr. Halperin had cashed a check for $438 drawn on the Bank of Foreign Trade in Moscow. As a result, Dr. Halperin was dismissed from the University of Oklahoma.

Despite this record, Dr. Halperin managed to enter Government consideration.

See HALPERIN, Page A-6

WASH DC STAR-31 Aug 60

HALPERIN

Continued From First Page

Government service. Employed as chief of the Latin American division of the Office of Strategic Services (the OSS) was then the United States Civilian Intelligence-Gathering Agency), he later was transferred to the State Department. In both agencies, according to the Elizabeth Bentley testimony, he transmitted confidential documents to a Soviet spy ring.

Linked to Spy Ring

In 1949, he became head of the Latin American regional students section at Boston University's College of Liberal Arts.

A year later, he was first publicly identified as a member of a Soviet spy ring. This came about when Vice President Nixon, then a California Congressman, made known a top secret memorandum on espionage transmitted by FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover to the White House on November 8, 1945.

In March, 1953, in Boston's Federal Building, Dr. Halperin repeatedly invoked the Fifth Amendment when—in a hearing conducted by the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee—he refused to reply to

various questions concerning his allegedCommunist activities.

In November, 1943, Dr. Halperin and his wife, without analyzing the university, left their home in the middle of the night never to return. Turning up in Mexico, they became members of the American Communist group in Mexico.

Like most ACGM members, the Halperins did well. They invested in an ice cream company, dabbled in real estate, and gained jobs. Dr. Halperin was employed by the Mexican government as a financial consultant and his wife taught in the American School Foundation.

They also became friendly with Alfred K. Stern and his wife, the former Martha Dodd, daughter of a former United States Ambassador to Germany. The fact the Sterns had been implicated in Soviet espionage came out with the arrest in New York of Jack Soble, a Soviet agent. To avoid being exposed to the United States to testify before