SUGAR

As the Cuban representative to the International Sugar Council. I was able to observe at first hand some of the problems facing the Cuban sugar industry. Some observations follow:

International Aspect:

It is well known that all countries that import or produce sugar are making efforts towards reaching a long-term Sugar Agreement that would stabilize and solve the critical situation in the world market of over-supply and low price. Castro's stand to that respect has been to boycott and undermine such efforts.

This has been clearly reflected in Castro's refusal to participate in the various work groups that have been created for that purpose under the sponsor- ship of the Secretary General of UNCTAD, Dr. Raül Prebish.

Castro believes that by not participating in efforts to reach a Sugar A- greement he can cause the collapse of the sugar industries in the less efficient producer countries in order to bring economic hardship to those countries in La- tin America to which sugar exports are important. Castro's ultimate end, of course, is to cause internal disturbances in these countries and thus to ripen them for Castro-communist subversion. This has been a boomerang to Cuba. The hoped-for economic disaster in the Latin American nations has not occured. In- stead, it is occurring in Cuba. The regime is unable to meet its announced goals (the goal for the sugar year 1966 was 6,500,000 tons whereas 4,455,255 were actually harvested). To move its sugar, Cuba has been forced to grant spe- cial discounts, for example to Japan, and to Great Britain. This further com- pounds the chaotic economic situation in Cuba as the country obtains even less per pound that the current low price of .014 3.

Internal Aspect:

The blows received by Cuba's sugar economy from the hurricanes and droughts are nothing compared to the damage caused by the improvisation and incompetency of those who today mismanage our country's affairs. The shortage of manpower for cutting the cane, the enlistment of inexperienced "volunteer" cane cutters, the failure of combine machines from the USSR, and the deteriorating situation in the transportation of the cane crown the existing economic anarchy.

The régime has been committed by Castro to produce 10,000,000 tons of sugar in 1970, which figure sugar economists in and out of Cuba agree is most unlikely. However, the attempt to reach this goal is resulting in activities that amount to economic suicide. Cuba is buying generators in England costing more than one million dollars which will be used to provide power for the "Centros de Acopio" (reception centers). The concept of these centers was tried many years ago in Cuba and discarded as both inefficient and uneconomical. There is no reason to believe that anything has happened that will change this. So, what to do with the generators?

One might conclude a discussion of Cuba's sugar problems with the observa- tion that never before in Cuba's economic history has so much discussion, so many speeches, and so much activity resulted in such a loss of effectiveness.