FIELD REASSIGNMENT QUESTIONNAIRE TRANSMITTAL

INSTRUCTIONS

A. This questionnaire is designed to provide information for consideration by Headquarters in planning your next assignment.

B. Each supervisor in the field will ensure that this questionnaire is completed for each employee under his immediate supervision and forwarded to Headquarters eight (8) months prior to the individual's planned date of departure from the station.

C. The questionnaire will be completed and forwarded through normal channels to Headquarters in duplicate.

SPECIAL NOTES

This form must be prepared with the regard for the security considerations. As far as possible, on the face of application, name and support personnel and others whose names do not appear in the individual's personal file or files of operations at which he is temporarily assigned that a complete and current statement of all activities to be performed in his area. However, the nature, purpose or direction of information or operations will not be included on the other side. The designation of the initial duties of personnel other than headquarters staff should not be fully stated on this form. In these cases a general reference to such duties will be incorporated into the form. As far as possible the list of previous experience shall be omitted. On the reverse of your destination - especially operational requirements - include as necessary the following: 1. Previous experience with the type of operation; 2. Previous experience with the item specified; 3. Previous experience with the organization to which you are being assigned. 4. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 5. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 6. Previous experience with the procedures to be followed. 7. Previous experience with the organization to which you are being assigned. 8. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 9. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 10. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 11. Previous experience with the item specified. 12. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 13. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 14. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 15. Previous experience with the item specified. 16. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 17. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 18. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 19. Previous experience with the item specified. 20. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 21. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 22. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 23. Previous experience with the item specified. 24. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 25. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 26. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 27. Previous experience with the item specified. 28. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 29. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 30. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 31. Previous experience with the item specified. 32. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 33. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 34. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 35. Previous experience with the item specified. 36. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 37. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 38. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 39. Previous experience with the item specified. 40. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 41. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 42. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 43. Previous experience with the item specified. 44. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 45. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 46. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 47. Previous experience with the item specified. 48. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 49. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 50. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 51. Previous experience with the item specified. 52. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 53. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 54. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 55. Previous experience with the item specified. 56. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 57. Previous experience with the materiel to be operated. 58. Previous experience with the procedure to be followed. 59. Previous experience with the item specified. 60. Previous experience with the equipment to be operated. 61.