slogans and initials of yet another group. Among groups named in testimony before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee are: Accion Cubana, or Cuban Action; Alpha 66, a name adopted when victory in 1966 seemed possible; FLNC, standing for Frente de Liberacion Nacional de Cuba, which means Cuban National Liberation Front, and Pragmatistas, which means what it sounds like—pragmatists.

A group calling itself Zero issued a "death list" of people marked for killing and, according to officials, several persons on the list soon died violent deaths.

Dade County's antiterrorist head, Lieutenant Lyons, says he has stopped trying to keep track of the groups and instead concentrates on trying to solve the crimes that they are suspected of having committed. He has no shortage of business. Here is a sample of the violence attributed to terrorists in the last two years:

Since February, 1975, there have been at least seven assassination attempts directed against refugee leaders who were viewed as opponents of the terrorists' tactics. Three men were shot to death. One was killed by a bomb. Three other attempted killings failed, but a prominent radio broadcaster lost both legs below the knees when a bomb ripped his car apart.

On Dec. 3-4, 1975, bombs blasted the Miami office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, a Social Security office, a State unemployment office, two post offices, a bank, a State attorney's office and the Miami police-department headquarters. A man accused of those bombings, and also the bombing of the Miami International Airport two months earlier, was acquitted recently in a federal court. He is to be tried again in a State court.

A number of bombs have been exploded in New York. One blow out the window of the Venezuelan consulate on Fifth Avenue, across the street from St. Patrick's Cathedral.

On Feb. 12, 1976, a Soviet freighter, the Dzhordano Bruna, was sitting motionless 35 miles off Cuba's north coast while its tanks were being cleaned. Suddenly a small boat raced close to the freighter and raked it with heavy machine-gun fire. No one was injured.

On April 6, 1976, two Cuban fishing boats were attacked and a fisherman was killed.

On Sept. 21, 1976, in Washington, D.C., a bomb exploded in a car and killed Orlando Leteller, a former Chilean Ambassador to the U.S. under the Marxist regime of the late President Salvador Allende. Although the crime is officially unsolved, there have been persistent reports that the bomb was planted by Cuban terrorists as a "favor" to the secret police of the present anti-Communist Government in Chile.

NEW TERRORIST STRATEGY

Leaders of the terrorist bands are hard to identify. But one man has emerged as an apparent leader: Dr. Orlando Bosch, a pediatrician. He was caught firing a bazooka at a Polish ship in Miami harbor in 1968 and was sentenced to 10 years in prison.

Dr. Bosch was released on parole after four years, but he reportedly returned to the movement. He is now under arrest in Venezuela, charged along with three other men in connection with the Cuban airliner bombing. Dr. Bosch is described as the leader of the group calling itself Accion Cubana.

In June of this year, Dr. Bosch called a small group of his fellow activists together in the Dominican Republic. They were sharply divided on policy and strategy.

Some wanted to avoid the risks of further attacks in the United States and to concentrate their efforts against Castro outside this country. Others held out for continuing their activities both here and abroad.

After a heated argument, a shaky agreement was reached

Automobile bombing that killed a Cuban refugee in Miami is one of many unsolved crimes attributed to anti-Castro terrorists.

to focus their efforts outside the U.S. To direct the activities, a new group was formed with the initials CORU, which stand for Coordinacion de Organizaciones Revolucionaires Unidas in Spanish or Co-ordinating Committee of United Revolutionary Organizations in English.

American law-enforcement officials say that members of CORU have the backing of powerful forces, perhaps even the governments themselves, in some countries of Latin America. The terrorists are described as "at home" in Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Nicaragua and Chile. They are well armed for terrorist acts, as shown in the box on page 32.

Since the June meeting, a new wave of terrorism has swept across the Caribbean and beyond. Bombs have damaged Cuban airline facilities in Barbados, Jamaica and Panama, Two Cuban officials were kidnapped in Argentina.

On July 23, three men who had flown from Miami carrying three coffee cans filled with plastic explosive attempted to kidnap Cuban Consul Daniel Ferrer Fernandez-in Merida, Mexico. He escaped, but a Cuban fisheries