trained CLACKETT in radio controlled mobile surveillance. SCANTLING also has rendered valuable support to the LITACIT operation having gained entry to the target under a fabricated cover. He has also issued and prepared reports on the LITABLY target in preparation for future operations and performed investigations of numerous other station targets of opportunity. He investigated many leads from other audio-surveillance operations enabling the station to maintain current data on various Soviet contacts and resulting in a recruitment attempt which, while unsuccessful, is believed to indicate future potential along this line. He has further been used to develop radio procedures for the mobile teams and to rent various properties in support of other Station operations. The GLANDOLI segment, using three base houses for photography, produced upwards of 10,000 photographs during the year. One base has recently begun taking motion pictures of Soviet personnel in the course of conversation which have been formulated to FI/D for possible exploitation by lip reading analysis. This segment also operates the mobile radio surveillance vehicles. A mobile photography surveillance truck has been used during the project year for coverage of various Station targets which do not warrant the establishment of permanent photographic bases. GENERnde has also served to rent post office boxes, hotel rooms, etc., in support of other Station operations. During the past project year CLACKITT, who returned to Mexico in early April 1959 after Headquarters training, spent the following two months being trained by SCANTLING in mobile surveillance techniques. He then undertook training of a four member team which was judged ready for operational use toward the end of the project year. Two additional contract agents, Wilma J. FIORDALISI and Louise J. MACKINO, performed translation and support functions.

4. Appropriate staff components concur in recommending renewal.

(a) CI Staff notes that the CI value of the project is difficult to judge since it appears that much of the material produced remains in the Station for exploitation. However, CI Staff remarks that the value of the project should be increased when the CLACKETT surveillance team enters into active operation. CI Staff suggests that the Station be queried as to the pretext or circumstances under which SCANTLING frequently visits Inez Perada de Moreno, the occupant of the property adjacent to the Soviet installation.