CERTIFICATION

I certify that I have read the names of the above listed organizations.

To the best of my knowledge and belief, I am not, nor have I been a member of, contributed to, received literature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any organization listed above, or any organization outside the United States espousing Communist, Fascist, Totalitarian or Nazi causes, except as noted below.

To the best of my knowledge and belief, none of my close relatives are, nor have ever been members of, contributed to, received literature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any such organizations, except as noted below.

INSTRUCTIONS

For the purpose of this certification, if an applicant or employee is completing this form, the term "close relative" will include spouse, children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, etc. "Close relatives" of the spouse, for this purpose, will include children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, etc.

If there are exceptions to this certification, set forth below under remarks all pertinent information concerning the nature and extent of your activities or those of your close relatives in such organizations, including the names of the organizations, dates of membership, meetings attended, titles of positions held, amounts and dates of contributions, nature of petitions signed failing within the meaning of the above certification and circumstance thereof, titles and authors of literature received, and dates on which received.

In exceptions concerning relatives, include only such information presently known to you or available from your own records.

If necessary, use additional sheets and sign each sheet. Write none if there are no exceptions.

REMARKS: To be completed by Spouse

[Signature]

Date 2-17-63

Signature of Spouse

P. H. (signature)

Address - City and State

San Francisco

Witness

Dudley J. Henick

Address - City and State

Miami D.F. Miami

REMARKS: To be completed by Applicant or Employee

T. G. (signature)

Signature of Applicant or Employee

S. C. (signature)

Address - City and State

N.Y. 10/19/63 New York City 11

Witness

Dudley J. Henick

Address - City and State

Miami D.F. Miami

OK

RS 31/4