Date Place Activity

C. II, continued.

1943 Berlin Resumed his role as French最高est Coast, as driver at the Atlantic Wall construction. They were taken to -

Paris and given French-ford trucks to drive to -

Sainte-Aazaire. David was Detached toavy. (U.S. unit). Later he refused to take an oath, was returned under arrest to -

BERLIN. Puritative camp in - asked and got the permission to contact the police..., for employment in police force. Employed with the Police. Guard duties. Broke his elbow at physical training. In hospital for 40 days, then convalescing. Falefied convalescence leave papers. Forged a 3-month "surgical operation" certificate, to be free of checks with his police unit During this time, and already before David was active in black marketing with gold and coffee, and he started document forgery on larger scale.

He got acquainted with Irakly LORIKIPANIDZE, the future husband of his sister Helen. He knew already asterée SCHMIDT-AZI-BADASSI, his confidant in forgeries. Other acquaintances in Berlin: a half-jew KATE, French radio-technicians LUCAS, ALLUMES, VILEMAIN,a.o. He prepared false documents for 14 people, for friends and unknown people. He made trips where he contacted engraver ALLOU and ordered forged stamps and seals, also Currier &amp; Ives blank forms of official letters. He traveled to

French-Spanish border 3 or 4 times, to buy coffee, and brought to, and sold it, in Berlin.

Berlin, he used a German soldier in the Commandantura in Paris, and his wife in Berlin for signaling purposes (conventional telephone calls indicating safe arrivals).

1944 Berlin He sent his parents and sister, who had come to Berlin, with false travel documents to Vienna, his parents being unwitting of falsif. He contacted the German Military Intelligence Service"CIA/AIS" to get employed with it.

He damaged his left hand when a capsule of an unexploded incendiary bomb exploded in his hands, in his room, wounding ALLUMES also.

Feb. Belgian girl, for whom he was preparing documents, who should not have known where he lived, came to his living place just when the explosion had happened.

22 Feb. Berlin Hat, Katz, Allumes, Astée were arrested at Annalter RR station when meeting the Belgian girl,