PROCEDURE

Subject first refused to make the effort, naturally as the government did in his estimation his relationship with ROWTON, so well as his whole way of life, were at variance with any past pressures. In the course of four weeks that this was being discussed, Subject also decided to quit working for ROWTON.

Eventually, over a specific matter of heart grounds, Subject agreed, or rather demanded, to be let out on "two conditions—(1) as long as Rowton ROWTON to IDEN E intelligence and whether (2) insured ROWTON," following which he would break off contact until ROWTON. Under the circumstances ROWTON judged that the basic assumption could be an exception, this lessens and attempts no more than a clarification of Subject's relationship with IDEN E Intelligence. The examination was not optimistic above the possibility of getting a valid last under these circumstances, but either talking with Subject for a time is was possible to draw up what the examiner considers a reasonable and technically acceptable net covering unsupported involvement with any intelligence service.

The above procedure might be visualised more accurately if it is mentioned that once having met with Subject, ROWTON and the examiner had almost no time together without Subject being present, and it was even possible for them to converse in any language either than English whereas damaging their cover.

RESULTS

Subject has no connection or commitment whatever to ROWTON with any government or intelligence service. He has no involvement with the IDEN E's that he wishes to conceal from ROWTON, and he has no contact with the IDEN E's which are contrary to when he believes to be ROWTON'S interests.

Concerning revelation to the IDEN E's of Subject's accreditation with ROWTON, the same itself was, not unexpectedly, a clearly own. In brief, Subject stated that he could not really recall the exact event to which he might have revealed the fact that he was backed by a IDEN C or that the IDEN C's name was (ROWTON's alias). Subject himself suggested that he be asked if he was "informing the IDEN E's of ROWTON's movements," Subject's way of expressing the idea of "reporting" ROWTON. The examiner used this question, and Subject appears to have been confused in his negative answer to this question.