LIMING/3 was to pay a friendly visit to this person, making no reference to politicians, but simply using a prearranged code word in the conversation. This recognition signal would lead to the first meeting with the comrades (probably two) who would escort LIMING/3 to Nasar Montes.

11. LIMING/3 stated that he had another meeting with "Talentin" at 2200 that same evening (29 July), at the Café Literario where he hopes to obtain more detail regarding the timing of the trips. L/3 said that he preferred to make the first trip (to Tapachula) on 1 August since LIMING/4 was greatly upset over the recent developments and had to be claned down. He added that L/4 was very pessimistic over L/3's chances of returning from such a trip alive and he would have to reassure her that he intended to take all reasonable precautions.

12. Inasmuch as Rowton's careful review of LLMM traffic for the period 18-24 July failed to reveal any telephone call from anyone asking L/3 to make the trip to Tapachula, and in fact revealed traffic indicating that LIMING/3 was in Mexico City during the period 19-21 July, when he claimed to be in Tapachula, Rowton stated that he did not believe L/3's story regarding his initial contact with "Talentin" and his trip to Tapachula. Since Rowton's telephone answering service reported repeated messages from "senor Juarez" and L/3 himself in true name, he felt he could use this rather than intimate in any way that L/3's (safehouse) phone was tapped. LIMING/3 became thoroughly upset, as he had done on the previous occasion when Rowton had impugned his veracity, and assured Rowton with tears in his eyes that he had always been "fundamentally" honest, although he might have exaggerated in the matter of details and exact dates. L/3 was so emotionally disturbed that he felt it unwise to press the matter further at that time and proposed to L/3 that he (Rowton) meet with LIMING/4 that evening at 2200, when he would be meeting with "Talentin" again. Rowton turned down L/3's invitation to be present at the Café Literario so that he could get a look at "Talentin" himself, since Rowton hoped that the meeting would be covered in any case by the Station team (which had L/3 under surveillance since the previous afternoon).

13. LIMING/4 came to the safehouse at 2200 and Rowtons able to talk privately with her for about two hours. The arrive in a highly emotional state, alleging that she was not aware of what was happening and was sure that L/3 was heading for disaster. She exclaimed that "fking capital was one thing, but risking one's life was another", and that although she agreed with the principle of the revolution, she could not accept the terrible