SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training, Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Following realignment of Station officer assignments last year, Subject was given the responsibility for operations against the MPCHEEK "hard target". He also assumed additional tasks in more traditional areas, such as coverage of the local government, penetration of the Communist Party, and press placement activity. The breadth of these operational commitments attests Subject's professional ability and versatility. (This would be a senior case officer's load by any description and Subject's performance at it was the reason behind our recommendation for accelerated promotion last year.)

Particularly against the difficult MPCHEEK target, this officer has displayed admirable determination despite the inherent frustrations and disappointments of working against this remote and suspicious group. During the period under review, his job has been the more difficult since the MPCHEEKS, in all probability reacting to a Station attempted recruitment operation (in which Subject played a major role), have withdrawn into a defensive shell which makes access operations verge on the impossible. Nevertheless, he has continued to probe their defenses, and has managed to develop two leads which, with the exercise of patience and application of his proven operational resources, could eventually give us access to the official MPCHEEK Mission here. This officer refuses to become discouraged, a quality officers working on hard targets must have.

Special mention is made of Subject's successful bid to make recontact and establish regular meetings with a valuable penetration of the revolutionary government. The agent had broken contact with his former handler in the belief that such action was dictated by his security situation. Our choice of Subject to attempt to recontact this asset was dictated by his experience in dealing with skittish Latina and our belief that Subject could bring it off with tact, reading the situation /CONTINUED/

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

28 June 1973 /s/ Daniel Flores

2. MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION BY SUPERVISOR

20

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

28 June 1973 Deputy Chief of Station /s/ Thomas J. Keenan

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

As described, this officer is a steady and solid performer who carries a major case load securely, productively, and without complaint. He has even volunteered to take on additional work when he has seen opportunities to help the Station's overall mission. Because he blends in well on the local scene, he is often drafted for all kinds of ad hoc operational work. This is invariably well done. He is operationally aggressive but also shows lively awareness of the tricky operational climate here and does not push beyond what the traffic will bear. His agents respect his seriousness, which permits him to get more utility out of them. He is a pillar of this Station.

DATE 2 July 1973</td