in a concrete plant and after a residence of forces I got a job as a senior engineer in the Bauman Borc Road Repair Dept. At this time I was divorced and re-married. My first wife was a bookkeeper. Her stepfather was a major in the Soviet Army. He was later killed, in 1942, during WW II. Her maiden name, by her stepfather was Shchegolyeva. My second wife (maiden name - Volsova) was a pathologist. She hid the fact that she could not have children and we were divorced one month after my marriage. In 1952 I met Rose Kirkina. We were officially married only a few months before our son was born. The cause of this delay in our marriage was the fact that I wasborn in the United States. Her brother is an aviation engineer and her brother-in-law works in the field of electronics. Her mother considered that our marriage would harm my wife's relatives. In 1955, after the birth of our son we began handling in applications for an ext visa from the Soviet Government. At first we tried to get out as visitors to my parents. We received our first refusal at the time of the Hungarian Revolt. Up till 1957, when my father came to visit us we continued to hand in applications for an ext visa as visitors. After 1957 we continued to hand in applications approximately every six months to leave the Soviet Union permanently. And we continued to regularly near refusals. I consider that the aggravateds connected with these refusals contributed to the causes of my wife's death in March, 1961. Andonly in July, 1962 my on and I received exit visas. As I mentioned in Form 444 I filled in two different applications. The first answer to the application I filled out in the U. S. Embassy in Moscow as an immigrant and as a native-born citizen was a Quonropa immigrant visa. The Board of Appeal of the Dept. of State, after my arrival, restored my native-born citizenship.

In 1957, due to a reduction of forces I lost my staff job in the Bauman Road Repair Dept. At this time I was working as a free-lance translator in the U.S.S.R. Chamber of Commerce and as a part-time translator in Hydroenergo project. Until January of 1956 I worked for these organizations. In 1956 I began working as the Head of the Translators Dept. of the Scientific-research Institute of Construction and Road-Building Machinery. After having finished the translation of all manuals in this field I continued working until I left the Soviet Union as