himself from Algiers to Brazzaville. And he was threatened by the MPLA people, who are of course Soviet-backed to the hilt, in fact more so Dr. Neto, apparently more than ever now. And the Algésians, Ben Bella, who had supported the MPLA up until the great fiasco when people discovered that they didn't have what they claimed to have - and only having it because they have given their support to the UPA. Nevertheless, the MPLA people still remain and they are promising to reform and really carry out things.

ideologically

I think that logically the MPLA is much more congenial to the Algerians and to all of them, the hard revolutionary line, people.

Holden Roberto is considered to be an American agent pure and simple and always has been. In actual fact, he received a lot of money through various Protestant missionary groups, American Protestant missions.

And he himself is a Christian Protestant. These tie-ups have helped the Rightists to back him. He did go off to China, made some trouble here, and which the Chinese were pleased with.

The Chinese haven't made any real decisive choice between the MPLA and the UPA. They're just waiting to see who is going to be able to produce.

(What about da Cruz? What is his function?)

He has no function except to write articles about Angola, which he has done, one of which he signed with his own name. He has very little money and he hoped that Verges would be able to smooth the way with the Chinese, but alas! poor fellow, he learnt to his horror, that Verges presumed to understand the Chinese agent that he assumed him to be. I understand that he has virtually retired from politics. He is a poet. And he'd much rather be a poet than anything else. He told me on several occasions that in Paris when he came to my house there for dinner that he wished he could get out of the whole thing, but what was he going to do, he didn't have a passport, he had all these all these people sort of pushing him in into this. He didn't have any money. He didn't know what to do.

(He lives in Paris)

No, he lives in Algiers. He is still in Algiers to, best of my knowledge, He is one of the people in Algiers I would see. If I were to go to Algiers I would make him look him up. He's not terribly dynamic but events almost threw him up into a leading position and he sort of stuck there and doesn't know how to get out. The Chinese haven't given him the all-out support that he had hoped for

(Neither have they turned him down)

No.