1 May - 50,000 Mustering out payments for approx. 100 men and final contractual obligations of project

50,000

Weapons. ARTIME agreed that it would be in nobody's interest for his weapons to fall into the wrong hands. He was asked for ideas on disposition of the arms and came up with the following suggestion which appears to be an excellent one. The mothership, MV SANTA MARIA, is in need of repairs and must go into a shipyard. Tentative arrangements have been made to put her in the yards at Galveston, Texas, some time in March or April. ARTIME can order his security detail to store the arms aboard the ship for "security" reasons before she leaves for the yard. They will simply remain on board when the ship leaves and we can take control of the ship and the weapons from that point on.

Maritime.

(1) MV SANTA MARIA. See above. The ship would be sailed from Monkey Point with a contract crew supplied by Chester, Blackburn, & Roder, Inc. of New York, who are agents for the ship's owner, Liberatic Corporation, a CIA proprietary company. One of ARTIME's senior officers would accompany the ship as his representative, with orders to turn over control of it and the arms upon its arrival at Galveston. CIA officers, possibly documented as Customs officials, would accept custody and Office of Logistics could recover the weapons and any other equipment which might be shipped by this method. The ship would then be disposed of according to Headquarters wishes at any time after 17 April when the charter arrangement with General SOMOZA expires and the ship legally reverts to control of the owner.

(2) Swifts, V-20's, Boston Whalers, rubber boats and other operational craft are all owned, technically, by ARTIME's group. He has had title to the Swifts legally transferred from a Costa Rican politician to one of his own senior officers. He wants to retain these craft for the time being, hoping against hope that lightning will strike and he may, after all, be able to use them in the next