might undertake continuing assignments for us, but this is not an unusual area of uncertainty with a new agent and one which a probationary period should dispel. (It should be noted that in one instance, he volunteered a name as an operational lead -- i.e., as someone whom we might find it worthwhile to look up. He also provided what is apparently an accommodation address in Bogota for Chinese mailings.)

4. Long-Range Usefulness and Initial Targeting. Gibson's long-range usefulness, of course, would depend not only on his effectiveness and dependability, but on the opportunities which will emerge and take shape as a result of his initial activity. As a general proposition, he can be viewed as an intelligence collection asset targetted at radical independence movements, pro-Chinese personalities and organizations, and official personalities in newly emerged countries, primarily in Africa. Specifically, these targets would include:

PAC and ANC: Gibson claims to have friends in both.

FIN and Algerian government and publishing circles.

Afro-Asian Journalists Association, and by extension, other Afro-Asian groups, such as exist or promised in youth, labor, women, and so forth.

Pro-Chinese European parties, including the Belgian (he claims to have access to Grippa), the Marseilles faction and the Swiss activity of Nils Andersson.

By extension from these, although at present only a remote possibility, developing Chinese propaganda and intelligence instrumentalities.

In the short range, a current assignment for us should meet the following criteria:

lend itself to probationary exploitation;

not tie Gibson down indefinitely to one location or involve him in an identification with one faction, group or party that would limit his later flexibility;

permit him to respond to targets of opportunity as we may define them, both to have a maximum test of the range of his capability and access, and to probe for the best long-range use we can put him to;

enable him to build his bona fides and his contacts as we may direct.