contract with LANGEVIN would also be reviewed jointly by representatives of these divisions with a view to incorporating any modification which might be necessary as a result of the agent's entering into a loan agreement with the agency.

6. As a prerequisite to the issuance of a loan, LANGEVIN would be required to submit a complete name-plate inventory of all machinery and equipment involved in the loan transaction and its physical existence in his custody, his title to the property, and an approximate evaluation of its worth would be determined through WID station personnel.

B. Background

Contract agent, Paul D. LANGEVIN, is the sole owner and editor of the English-language paper, South Pacific Mail, which is published weekly in Santiago, Chile. The printing of this publication was formerly done by an outside firm. Desiring to handle both his own printing requirements and to engage in job printing, LANGEVIN obtained equipment from an individual who expected to be compensated through a partnership in the business. However, serious illness has prevented the prospective partner from entering the business, and has forced LANGEVIN to meet the financial obligation alone. The repayment of this obligation will require LANGEVIN either (1) to accept a Chilean partner in his business, or (2) to obtain a loan. The requirements of security and the need for flexibility of operation militate against bringing in a partner. Moreover, a loan obtained locally through ordinary commercial channels, i.e. banks, would entail exorbitant interest rates. In addition, since a bank loan would almost certainly be of short-term duration; there would exist the constant threat of loss of the cover business through a possible refusal to renew the loan.

LANGEVIN has contacted a bank in Texas in an attempt to secure a loan, offering as security his share of a family interest in oil-producing lands. It appears doubtful that the Texas bank will grant the loan.

C. Current Status

LANGEVIN was advised, while in the United States for training, that Headquarters would investigate the possibilities of an