3. Financial - After a detailed review of the then-existing LIEMPTY agent salary structure, selected agents (LIEMPTYS -6, -9, -10, and -11) were granted salary increases effective 1 January 1966. Formal notification and revised salaries for oral commitment were forwarded to Headquarters with FNOA-26,15%, dated 25 January 1966. There was no change in the salaries of the 8 remaining LIEMPTY agents.

C. Personnel

1. During the Project year under review, LIEMPTY-6, -9, -13, -14, -26 and -27 were afforded their initial SOSWIRL examinations, all with satisfactory results.

2. LIE almost every OA effective 29 November 1965 for use as a cut-out to the LIEMPTY basehouse (MEAN-14177, dated 9 December 1965). LIE is being actively used during the past Project year for the above-stated purpose.

3. LIEMPTY-27 was created an OA on 27 July 1966 for use as a part-time LIMRIC basehouse operator (MEAN-14757, dated 1 August 1966). While LIEMPTY-27's heavy university schedule has thus far precluded his regular use by the Station, it is anticipated that subject will be regularly employed after the end of the present school term.

EFFECTIVENESS.

Throughout the period under review, each operational component of Project LIEMPTY contributed actively and concretely to the fulfillment of the operational tasks listed on Station Mexico City by the IAD and other directives. Highlights of the accomplishments and the achievements of each component are cited below:

A. Fixed Buses

LIMITED

Throughout the past Project year (with the change in working hours noted in paragraph 2 above), the LIMITED installation provided daily photographic coverage and physical surveillance of the main gate of the LIMERICK installation. In addition, the LIMITED base provided for a fixed radio dispatching station which was used continually to support the LIBERACE surveillance team. Due to the stringent security measures instituted in the immediate vicinity of the LIMERICK installation by local security forces, normal stake-outs by this unilateral team are precluded. However, with the radio dispatching support from the LIEMTTY radio base, which allows the LIBERACE team to work from adjacent safe areas, secure surveillance coverage of this