#7 continued

Subject believes that NECHIPORENKO is very intelligent. He speaks the best Spanish of any of the Soviets known to Subject and due to this facility as well as his looks, can pass for a Mexican. Subject believes that NECHIPORENKO was given the task of cultivating and attempting to re-recruit him after LOGINOV failed. Subject had some interesting comments about LOGINOV (P-11,712) which seem to jive with other comments which have been made about him. LOGINOV had apparently originally been given the task of re-recruiting Subject. When he failed, he felt rebuffed and has since been very cool towards Subject. Subject believes that LOGINOV either has or thinks he has been given bad marks by his superiors for having failed with Subject. LOGINOV is probably jealous or NECHIPORENKO who has at least managed to retain Subject's friendship. Subject says that LOGINOV is not dumb and that he uses his good looks to great advantage particularly with women.

Subject has recently had some dealings with IVANOV (P-1612) who is furious for the following reason: Formerly Soviets leaving Mexico would take KLM or Sabena to Europe where they would pick up Aeroflot the following day. KLM and Sabena would pay overnight hotel costs. Now, however, the Soviets are picking up Aeroflot in New York. Because of scheduling, however, they still must spend at least one night in New York. The airlines will not pay this and IVANOV wanted Subject to cover it. Subject refused for the very sound reason that it did not make sense for him to pay $20 for selling a $127 ticket from which his profit was only $9. IVANOV became furious and Subject yielded by agreeing to pay for IVANOV's accommodations and he said he would do it for those becoming as friendly, such as NECHIPORENKO, but he would not do it as a general rule. While Subject was away, however, his wife went overboard and got IVANOV four rooms - (for two people). Now Subject is furious.

On 31 July Subject was visited by PRIKHODKO (P-2270) who came in carrying a copy of Pravda or Izvestiya. Subject quoted the old saw, "There is no truth in Pravda and no news in Izvestiya," and PRIKHODKO got mad claiming Subject was acting very unfriendly by making anti-Soviet propaganda. PRIKHODKO was very serious. This is probably as good and as accurate a thumbnail sketch on PRIKHODKO that we are likely to get. PRIKHODKO, who said that he was leaving in September, had visited Subject to find out what Subject knew about a congress of Jewish intellectuals which is to be held in mid-September in Bogota to discuss the Jewish problem in the Soviet Union. PRIKHODKO wanted to know whe was going from Mexico. Subject told PRIKHODKO that he had not heard of the congress but would check into it. He did check with someone at the Israeli Embassy who was informed to learn that word had gotten out since at this time knowledge of the congress is confidential. Subject told me that he would tell PRIKHODKO that he had been unable to learn anything, reasoning that to tell him about it would get him involved with further requirements and would be working against the best interests of the Jews. I told Subject that I agreed completely.

Subject said that the Sputnik group which was due in June never did get Mexican visas and their trip has been cancelled. On the other hand, a delegation of about a dozen Soviets is due in August for a Congress of eye, ear, nose, and throat specialists, and still another group of a dozen is due in September for a congress of soil mechanics. Since these are official delegates as opposed to the sputnik group who were tourists, they will have no trouble getting Mexican visas.

Subject himself will be going to Budapest from 1 to 7 November for the IICA congress. Subject is world chairman of this group which apparently is the International Convention Organization.

Subject has received several letters from the Sputnik translator who meet on his recent trip to the Soviet Union. She had received the dictionary that he had sent her from Rose and the art books he had sent her from Mexico but not a pair of glasses he had sent her by KLM. Subject will look into this. He is obviously quite fond of this girl and appeared to be seeking my permission that she was not a KGB provocation. I repeated that I had said before which is that the possibility she is should be considered but that under the