students to the U.S. Tichborn (P) was told that he should write a letter to this individual upon his arrival in Mexico City alerting him that he had arrived.

3. Most of the time was taken up with talking about terms of the contract. Briefly, Tichborn will have a two-year contract covering 50% of his time, and will be paid a salary of $8,000 per annum. In addition, for any trips made outside Mexico in connection with his assignment, he will receive travel and operational expenses plus per diem. He will also receive mileage for his automobile when it is used in the course of duty and will be reimbursed for any fees related to his registering (probably as an auditor) at the University of Mexico, Politecnico, etc. in connection with his assignment. He will be paid on a monthly basis, probably sending a check to his bank in Los Angeles. Details need to be worked out on the cover firm to be used in making such deposits and this is being taken care of by both PAG and WHD (it might be possible to use the same firm as in the past, Ashmend, Haniford Associates). Tichborn was also advised as to some items which cannot be claimed under "operational expenses" such as air flight insurance, purchase of personal clothing, parking of automobile while on TDY, broken eye-glasses, etc. He was also told that any questionable items should be checked out with his Station contact and all vouchers and submission of accounting would be made to that person.

4. Tichborn was told that he would be contacted on 29 May (he plans to drive to Mexico City and arrive there on about 25 May) by someone from the Station using an assumed name which was provided him. Tichborn will be staying at the Hotel Montejo on avenida Reforma; he can also be reached by leaving a message at Wells Fargo, Reforma 6. He will also be legitimately employed as legal representative by Mr. John Manson, owner of Producciones Marc IV, Melchor Ocaampo 463-8, Mexico City 5. A clearance is being obtained by WH on Manson although it is not planned to make him witting of Tichborn's activities.