8 March 1957

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Office of Security

VIA: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT: Arthur G. VAINADA (sp.) C-25507

1. Reference is made to OS's verbal request of 7 March 1957, for additional information on Subject in connection with our request for a Provisional Cover Security Approval dated 26 February 1957.

2. Subject was born in De Kalb, Illinois, on 20 June 1922. He received his primary and high school education in De Kalb and entered the U. S. Army in 1940, later transferring to the U. S. Air Force. He served as an operations and intelligence specialist, first in the China-Burma theater and later in Panama. He was discharged from the service in 1945 with the grade of Technical Sergeant. After his discharge, he worked for a brief period as a laboratory technician in the Sterling (Illinois) Silica-Cel Corporation and then returned to the Panama Canal Zone to marry a Costa Rican girl in December 1945. For about four months he worked as a stovesore and labor foreman in the Canal Zone. In April 1946 he re-enlisted in the Air Force in the Canal Zone and was discharged three years later, in 1949.

3. Late in 1948 he was recruited by the Agency, and on 1 June 1949 became a CIA contract agent. Since that date, he has served as a contract agent with continuing high level performance, first in Costa Rica, later in Guatemala and Cuba. He is currently assigned to Cuba where he is utilized as Principal Agent of Project ANGCDARCH. Subject has worked principally and successfully so, on Communist Party penetration operations since his engagement with CIA, and his current work involves the handling of a net of agents providing coverage of Communist, leftist, revolutionary and other political activities at the University of Habana, and the student-youth circles in general in Cuba.

4. Subject has always proven to be loyal and trustworthy. In view of his outstanding record and strong overall qualifications, and his expressed desire for a career with CIA, it has been recommended he be converted from contract to career agent status. He was promoted recently to the equivalent of a GS-10 rating.

AS 50 3/14/57

DEWEMEER