Subject: Moscow, Russia

1. Subj should get a visa to visit him in at his office on 20 July. (Loginov has asked the permission in the office too). Loginov told Subject that he had received a letter from V連連 that "they" were very disappointed, because they had left their jobs, and they had hopes that Subj would cooperate. Subj answered that he must return like a broken record by now) that he still was a friend to the Soviet Union, that he was on their side, he was their man - but he can't do anything for them. He hoped they wouldn't try to force him- because he just can't do anything for them.

Loginov didn't give up: he told Subj that Pavol Yatskov was leaving for Moscow on 4 August (he was in Subj's office to make the arrangements)- and would be returning in a month. He asked what word Yatskov can bring back to Moscow. Subj said he had already told him: nothing- he can't do anything for them. Loginov then asked what Pavol Yatskov could bring back to Subj- and Subj said not a thing. He jokingly told Loginov if they could bring "Tumara" (a Soviet actress who had attended one of the parties) with her, the two will be fine with him. Loginov appreciated the joke, and korted off form Subj cordially.

/Comment: Loginy did not ask for the piece of paper he had left in Subj's office - some man had started to inquire about, and Subj left it at that- he didn't bring the name of the person, although he has the piece of paper to return to Loginov/.

2. In response to the C.O.'s inquiry Subj mentioned the names of some applicants for travel to the Soviet Union.

Apparently the S-69istiky Committee to take place in Moscow in August 1966 Loginov had received several applicants to Subj's office: Juliet Fernandez de Ochen and her sister (Dr. Fernandez' card attached) and two friends. Dr. Fernandez made inquiries about travel arrangements. She has not come back yet.

Licenciada Luciano Lara had come to the office (?) on 21 July to arrange travel to the Soviet Union. Subj said that his employee, Miriam Avila Katz, who handles INTERSTATE matters, had told him that Lammz had been invited by the Soviet Ambassador and also that he was a close friend to the Mexican Hizb to Moscow.

The Montfort Travel Agency in Tijuana had transferred a request to Subj to handle the travel to the Soviet Union as tourists for two "Senoras": Maria Jesus de Abakian and Estela Castro.

/Comment: the C.O. told Subj we wanted more info about these applicants/

CYP to P-885 P-11712 P-2912

P-11712