SECURITY INFORMATION

The contemplated operation involves primarily the installation of central heating connected with the main heating system. As the present time there is no central heating, the building is constantly damp in winter and the attempt to maintain a satisfactory temperature with stoves and portable heaters has proved unsatisfactory. Other improvements consist of additional kitchen equipment, including a gas water boiler, a kitchen cabinet, the construction of a closet, repairs to the electrical system and conversion of existing garage space into a small dining room.

(c) Construction of an auditorium for student meetings, lectures and recreation activities, such as concerts, student theatrics, moving pictures and the like with, as a secondary feature, facilities for indoor exercise during the winter months.

Total $102,800.

The auditorium will have a reinforced concrete foundation, outside walls of pine chipboards (similar to recently constructed dormitory and lecture hall) steel compressed fireproof straw material for insulation, a composition roof of the same material used on the new territory and lecture hall and with main grading of steel.

Satisfactory lighting and heating systems are included and the interior finish will be such as to provide satisfactory acoustic qualities. Also included in this building are offices and living quarters for the "conductor." The architect's estimate shows the estimated cost of the auditorium itself (17 meters x 72 meters in size, including 15,000. for steel costs and $3,000. for safety places) as $55,000, the additional cost of the stage with the "conductor's" accommodations above as $19,000, connecting passage between auditorium and adjoining building, 17,300, relocation of library and alteration of study halls, 61,100, movable seats, stage and window curtains, action picture equipment with screen and window curtains, motion picture equipment with screen and athletic equipment, $22,000. (All figures approx.)

(d) Re-surfacing walks between buildings and installation of a few electric lights at strategic points along the walks. $1,500.

(e) Installed age equipment of a central telephone switchboard with necessary wiring and additional telephone instruments so as to permit intercommunication.

NOTE: $3,000.

SECURITY INFORMATION