-III-

BRIEF OF ACTIVITIES (Continued)

TET: PLCT: ACTIVITIES:

C. Period of W. II:

Dec.39 Paris Volunteered to French Foreign Legion. 1940 Tunis French foreign legion, courses for A.S.O., unfinished. Barcares F.R.L.: Sent to a special Georgian unit. /finished. Paris Discharged, after the end of German/French war.

1942 Paris Did not join the German/Georgian special unit. Volunteered for work in Germany. 3 mnths Politz Worked with HICXER on S.E. contract for one year. Got acquainted with Pascal. Both decided to flee. May'42 Berlin Contacted some Georgians, said: going to Paris. A few days Achen Falcified his leave/travel document; went to GESTapo: was ordered to return to Berlin. Eupen-Almedy: Illegally crossed the border. On train/Had luck and help from French employees: to Paris/twice escaped German controls. Paris Visited the family. Reported again for work in Germany (in an other bureau of German Labor Office), and was sent to a factory in Berlin as photographer. " Suspected in theft, his living place searched. " Troubles with German women. Discharged. " Contacted the Labor Office. Was directed to work in a factory at Stahlschreiber Street " Get PASCAL again. They decided to flee to Brazil. " They forged leave certificates, got passports for foreigners, and traveled to Paris. Paris Visited the family. They started for Brazil. Spain Hunger: nobody exchanged their money. They decided to return. 50 = inside France, near Bayonne they were arrested by German Custom Guards, searched, investigated, ordered to return to Paris, escorted to the train. Had luck: managed to get tickets instead to Paris to - Pau, and crossed to the free zone of France. Seen by French gendarmeres, he invented the story of wanting to join the Free French Legion. Sent t Marseilles, to the Regimental M., Trouble with Pascal's documents. Escaped before being arrested. Pascal went: direction Algiers. David - to Paris. Lion David contacted a relative, to get documents for returning to Paris. Did not get any. Border of David passed the French post, showing his Ger- French ac-/man passport. Held by the German post, he re- captured / requested being brought to "officer", and there Zone . / he "spoke" himself free, and through to - A few days. Paris . He visited his mother, and reported to German Commandantura, for work with K.S.K. in Germany.

Berlin-Mangelheim, drivers’ courses of the K.S.K., " -Brandenburger Tor, in a drivers’ unit of K.S.K.