S/4612

himself, and desires neutrality but since those who command are Serrano Sunar and the Palangists, France has no choice but to do what Hitler orders him, and there is serious danger of war for Spain. He says that the Anglo-Soviet and the Soviet-American pact are known through the Palangist press which has spoken of them. They made a very good impression on the people. Asked if he knew that the said pact stipulated that after the victory nations would have freedom to decide their destinies without foreign interference. He says yes, the press published it. About the Second Front he says that everyone thinks of it, and is hoping for it to end if possible through Spain. That the day they disembark, all the people will rise. Asked what the people would do in case of a landing in France, he said that his opinion was that if that happened the Spanish people would rise, even though the invasion was not on their coasts. The agreement about the Second Front is also known. He says the people who are most fervent supporters of the Nazis are Serrano Sunar, Primero de Rivera, and a certain Count whose name he does not know. He often says that he knows nothing of politics, because he only reads the sports news in the papers and did not want to know anything about the Falange. He says that there are many preparations for war; they are making fortifications on the coasts of Galicia and placing a considerable amount of artillery there. He says that the political force of the Falange and the syndicates is "artificial" everyone hates them. The people belong to the syndicate because they can't help it, but they do not pay their dues or take them seriously. Discontent has even reached the ranks of the Falange. Many clerks, students, and people who joined it thinking they "were going to steal the music" are now very discontented, and do not pay their dues, and when they are threatened with being expelled they say that is what they are waiting for, for the Falange to play at "fisticuffs". There are many officers in the army who are not in agreement with the Falange or the idea that Spain is to go to war. The most violent opposition comes from Queipo de Llano and Yague. No one knows where Queipo is going and Yague is thought to be in exile in the Prov. of Pontevedra. Both were cashiered, Queipo for protesting against food leaving for Germany and Yague because in a speech at Zaragoza, he said - "we do desire a great and free Spain, but without any Blue Shirts, Red Shirts, or prisoners."

All the sergeants say that they are very discontented, because they earn 5 pts. which keeps them very short and of the soldiers he says -in a word they are hungry, many years in barracks, and then the danger that they might be sent to war". He says that they are well-uniformed, just as well as before the war. They have dismissed the 1941 Draft. He thinks that there was very little sympathy for the Division Azul and the people laughed at those who volunteered. 40% were forced to go, others went because they were hungry, and there were volunteers. He says that survivors came back in a state of panic, there was a lack of food and equipment, several of them mutilated themselves in order to escape from this inferno. All say that the Russians are very well-armed and fight with great courage.

HELP TO THE NAZIS. — He says that his opinion is that a great deal of food is taken to Germany, although he can give no details, but if there is no food and olive oil in Spain where is it? He says that in Torrelavega the "Fabrica Continental" is working at high pressure, making tyre covers, while in Spain transport is held up for want of them.

THE CHURCH. — He says that it is not true that in the Church there are anti-German and Anti-Falangist groups. The supporters of the Regime are the Falange, the Germans and the Clergy, in that order. The Church wishes for the triumph of Germany, in spite of her anti-Catholic policy because they believe that in that case they will be able to preserve their position of influence. He says that English and Russian news can be heard although it is very difficult and is forbidden although there is no watch or inspection. He says that everybody is against the Falange and submission to Germany, including the monarchists and the rich on whom the Falangists impose large fines for racketeering. Many of the monarchists, bourgeois etc. are on the side of England. Democracy is considered as a possible substitute for the Regime. A democratic Republic like there was before the war. A Regime of peace and work. Speaking off the solution