SECRET / KAREV

LIFEAT/LITMUS: 1) LIFEAT provided information which lead to the successful recruitment of agent BEYAN who was in a position to provide information on BESOOT. 2) LITMUS leads also lead to the attempted, but unsuccessful, recruitment of one Una WARREN, believed to have been a contact of Polish officials in Mexico. 3) LIFEAT leads also lead to the surveillance of a clandestine meeting of Alexander BEKIER, Polish Counselor of Legation in Mexico. Due to the advance notice of the meeting given by LIFEAT, MKCHARITY was given time to plan technical coverage of the meeting and prepare especially fabricated equipment for this coverage. 4) LIFEAT was also responsible for the discovery of the location of a Polish Intelligence basehouse. This information was operationally important to the responsible Case Officer.

LIFEAT/LIERODE: In this phase of the LIFEAT project leads have been most rewarding in terms of agents actually recruited and operations supported by LIFEAT provided information. 1) LIERODE produced leads which were directly responsible for the recruitment of agent's LITANGO-1 and LITAMIL-3, while providing security check and information which have increased the value of agent LITANGO. 2) The defections of LITAINT-1 and LITAG-1 were greatly aided by LIFEAT leads and information. The internal reaction to the defections in the target establishment were also readily available through LIFEAT. 3) At present LIERODE is providing coverage, both from a security and informational standpoint, of the attempt to place a recruited agent as Mexico-based advisor to a high official of the Cuban Intelligence. This operation is largely dependent upon LIFEAT leads and support for security coverage of the agent's activities. 4) LIFEAT/LIERODE has been unusually successful in providing information which has enabled the Station to identify nearly all the Cuban agents operating in Mexico. Due to the increasing importance of the Cuban target, these revelations are of utmost importance.

Coverage of a CI/CE nature was provided by LIFEAT targeted against a recruited member of the Mexican Communist Party, and has produced leads on semi-clandestine travel of party members behind the Iron Curtain, as well as providing a check on the veracity of the agent.

Project LIFEAT has been employed also in support of the highly sensitive LIEMIT operation.