NO FOREIGN DISSEM CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

BIOGRAPHIC SUPPLEMENT

HAITI

Clémard Joseph CHARLES

President and General Manager of the Commercial Bank of Haiti

CENTRAL REFERENCE SERVICE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Clémard Joseph Charles, a man who has insisted on numerous occasions that he will be the next President of Haiti, has been chronically involved, directly or indirectly, in rumored plots against President Duvalier which have never materialized. In May 1963 Charles is reported to have passed word to US officials through an American journalist that he was in a position to head a provisional government after President Duvalier had been removed from power. In subsequent years, particularly in 1966 and 1967, Charles approached US officials both in New York and Port-au-Prince with the apparent intention of enlisting US support for a group of conspirators he claimed to lead which was determined to topple Duvalier from power. None of these plots materialized, however, and there was never any evidence to suggest that any serious plans had been made.

In January 1969 Charles had a lengthy conversation with an official of the US Embassy in which the former candidly discussed his grievances against Duvalier and the plot he claimed to be instigating to overthrow Duvalier and replace him as President of Haiti. Charles stated that the group supporting his efforts consisted primarily of soldiers, a few militiamen, some professional men, priests, students, and assorted other well-placed individuals. He claimed that representatives of these groups had already agreed on the essential elements of a constitution which would include a bicameral legislature and an operative political party structure. The reporting official cautioned, however, that Charles' remarks should be viewed in light of his previous history of relating such conspiracies.

When President Duvalier was reported to be seriously ill in mid-May 1969, Charles' name was again mentioned in connection with myriad rumors of imminent government takeovers. According to a reliable source, a military junta was formed to take power in the event of the death of Duvalier. The junta purportedly included Gen. Gérard Constant, Col. Octave Cayard, Col. Kusner Blain, Col. Roger St. Albin, and Col. René Prosper. Charles was said

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

GROUP I Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification