still pulling the wool over the eyes of an aimless at 400 million signors of a Petition in the name of "peace" (with the largest standing army in the world's history) and mouthing "democracy" (while holding down more than 15,000,000 slave laborers in his own country alone). And your readers won't learn (millions of 'em don't know) he has more than 15,000,000 slave laborers unless you tell them. Not screaming at the top of your voice, —but tell them. And no harm in gliding the figure "15,000,000" more than once, if it proves convenient. Repetition is no sin.

In fact repetition can be dandy. Witness the world-wide best seller (so said only to the Bible, (a mighty repetitive book itself) Andersen's fairy tales. Plenty of repetition in them. If the ah story is good, the theme gripping, the reader laps up the repetition: if the wicked uncle is wicked, it's more than OK to keep on saying (as, in your case, showing) it. And you've certainly got a story, and the uncle is wicked. Let's show it, by any and every truthful means that doesn't detract from readability.

Re Repetition, I'm sure there is a lot in what J says. That when you are writing for mass readership, you ought to use a good deal of repetition: "I am going to tell you the story of how......So here is the story.....So that was the story." After all, that is the time-tested fairy story technique, and they are the world's best sellers.

So why should we shy away from (a) repetition, or (b) calling the spade across the spade, dotting the i's and crossing the t's. /If you don't/must your t's pretty vigorously & regularly, a lot of woolly-minded readers are going to have a breathing space in which to say: "Still, he had his dear old mother up to stay with him in the Kremlin, so there must be some good in the man; and Byrnes (a Catholic) writes that he is undoubtedly a "likable" fellow." Of course, you will an anticipate & counteract that with photos of Big Brother accepting bouquets from schoolgirls, juxtaposed with photos showing Big Brother in a