Cricket

INTER-CITY MATCH IN VISA

The Inter-City match played at had Meredith caught at the wicket Villa last week-end was interesting for O. enough to merit a commentary from R. C. R-G or E. W. Swanton. However, yours truly must suffer the weather was fine. Lucky Chuican cricketers, as last year's Wisen pointed out to find this unexceptional.

Wonderful to relate the players were nearly all ready to start, as the secretary had ordinated, at 10.30 a. m. sharp. However, nobody seemed to have faith in this co- incidence and the game duly start- ed at 11 a. m. Santiago won the toss and chose to bat. One Villa optimist was heard to remark that this was defeatism, choosing to play for a draw. But by lunch- time with Santiago 90 odd for one and Meredith seeing the ball foot- ball size there were some signs of compalsiance amongst the San- t iago players. Manning had by this time been exasperating the bowlers with his smothering tactics which effectively closed up one en i while Meredith made hay. Even so it had not been fast mov- ing and it looked as if the draw- prophecy was not without found- ation. Jones had made a useful if lucky 26. Meredith was clear of his 50 and Manning was well, still there. Manning, incidentally, was using a substitute run getter.

From Villa's point of view, the lunch Interval.. always a stuff hardly for the batsmen, worked wonders. It woke Manning, who d fitfully with a four like golden-rain fire-wonks and then went out played-on to Ness. It made Meredith careless and bad him bowled by Freestone. There- after the score-sheet shows a stea- dy fall of wickets until the end of the Innings. Santiago were unlurky to lose Hobsbawn, run out on his own call, who had been shaping un well, but apart from him and Tienken there had been no other serious attempts to stop the rot. Ness had taken 6 wicket for 55 and Freestone 2 for 15 when Strart's wicket fell caught at the wicket by Fairbrass off Maxwell at 3:30 p. m. Paine with 5 maidens out of 8 overs ha! been bowling with a consistency that was to be rewarded in the second Innings. Apart from a few muffed catches the fielding had been keen and it was anybody's game. Although on paper it was then to be expected that Villa would be able to put on over 200 in reply and leave San- tago to make up the difference in their 2nd innings.

But the fates in cricket are no respectors of paper probabilities and Villa wickets fell with alarming rapidity. An overner Paine play- ed late and outside a fatally straight ball from Tienken. Sutton lost an L. B. W. suit to Meredith. Tienken traded Fairbrass into pas- sing a fly-ball to Knowles and Frestone allowed Marshall to knock off his balls. Maxwell and Paine were in together after tea and looked as if they might pull the game out of the fire but Maxwell, the safer of the two, played a weak forward stroke to a good left hand ball from Meredith to be bowled. Then it was Yeom- an and turn to me abitling at Marsir all and missing And Moodie was out to the last ball of the day being caught and bowled off a half-hearted stroke to a ball from Meredith. Reid was still there with 53 but there was Saturday night: to come.

On Sunday it was not long before The Villa tail lay down and stood and the scores stood at 155 to 140 still anybody's game.

In show End Infinna Santiago were off to a bad start waca Paine H P. Hardy, c. Macquarie.

Then came Manning, and the bowlers heaved a sigh of resisat- ton, but 17 was a welcome stimulus to his team's fortunes and he hit with 3 boundaries to his credit when once again played on to Ness Then Paine bowled Jones who at 39 looked dangerous and the games' complexions changed perceptively. Knowles played some pretty