President of Mali,

Belgica Keita, xuxa Married to a French woman. Leftist.

He knows Verges through friendship and offered to help. He put him in contact with

who is Minister of Information, who is very very pro-Chinese in Mali,

and when Chou en Lai visited Mali you recall that he got quite a committed welcome in Mali. And there were some gratuitous open-handed slaps the Russians made. Didn't have to be made but were.

(How did Verges and Diallo get together)

I don't know. He had known him for a considerable time. There is nothing very much. This is again one of Verges's attempts to have a finger in another African country. One of the reasons that he kept Phombeah was Phombeah's connection with Odinga.

If in Algiers he was referred to as Le Chinois, I don't think Odinga would accept him.

This is a real problem. He says, "well, we colored people and so forth" and it is true that he is part - he's Eurasian, but it is very hard for Africans to accept him. They just put him down as Chinese.

I don't know very much about Gama Diallo. He played very little role in the magazine except that he was a contact inside of Mali. He came to France early last year, the spring of last year, with his wife. He went to Vichy for his health and drank the waters for two or three weeks, and he saw Verges. Verges had ideas, had mentioned to Gama that if he couldn't keep the magazine going he might go to Mali. But Gama was going to be sent off to wherever, Viriato da Cruz of the Angolan Federation of Liberation, as adviser, and I was going to be sent to Indonesia for the Afro-Asian journalists. That was how he was going to take care of everybody.

(How about Castro Da Silva?

Castro Da Silva is the pseudonym used for Viriato da Cruz, formerly of the MPLA, and now of the UPA. He is a poet, again, late thirties, married, has a child and is based in or less in Algiers. He has virtually no money at all. He has a small group which went into the UPA.

Holden Roberto, the head of the UPA is very suspicious of him, but nevertheless he needs him. He needs the Left. He has been to China and this gives him a sort of, ~ gives the Chinese a guarantee, but on the other hand the Chinese didn't even want to give Viriato money to transfer