21. REFERENCES.—List three persons living in the United States or Territories of the United States who are NOT RELATED TO YOU AND WHO HAVE DEFINITELY KNOWLEDGE OF your qualifications and fitness for the position for which you are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Item 16, EXPERIENCE.

FULL NAME PREMIER BUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS Give complete current address BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION

1. No photo available. SEE REFERENCE 2.

2. No photo available. SEE REFERENCE 3.

3. No photo available. SEE REFERENCE 4.

INDICATE ANSWER BY PLACING "X" IN PROPER COLUMN YES NO INDICATE ANSWER BY PLACING "I" IN PROPER COLUMN YES NO

22. (a) Are you a citizen of the United States of America, or (b) as a native of, American Samoa who has shown allegiance to the United States of America? X 20. May you be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc.?

23. Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of the Com- munist Party, U. S. A., or any Communist organization? 29. Do you receive or have you applied for an annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service?

24. Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of a Fascist organization? If your answer is "No," give details in Item 34.

25. Are you now or have you ever been a member of any foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, group, or com- bination of persons which is ineganitarian, terrorist, Communist, or subversive, or which has adopted, or shows, a policy of advanc- ing or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or which seeks to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means? 10. Are you on official or employee of any State, Territory, county, or municipality?

If your answer to question 23, 24, or 25 above is "Yes," state on a separate sheet to be attached to and made a part of this application the names of all such organizations, associations, movements, groups, or combination of persons and dates of mem- bership. Give complete details of your activities therein, and make any explanation you desire regarding your membership or activities. (See instruction sheet) If your answer is "Yes," give details in Item 34.

26. Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by birth or marriage) with whom you live or have lived within the past 3 months? 31. Have you ever been barred by the U. S. Civil Service Com- mission from taking examinations or accepting civil-service appointments?

If your answer is "Yes," give in Item 34 for EACH such relationship: (