paring the cotting for the "discovery" of Cuernavaca's corpse: it will be said that asthma killed him, or the imperialists, or the head-hunteres of South America.

"The Second Chapter of Marcus Rodriguez' Trial." In his statements to American journalists, Carlos Rafael Rodriguez has dug out the issue of the trial against an informor, which trial was recorded as one against the "Old Guard". This trial has something more to it: the "dossier" on Joaquín Orozqui, which Fidel keeps hidden in his sleeve in order to produce it whenever it may suit his purposes. Perhaps Rafael has definterred this issue to signify that internal rifts are more acute than ever before.

November 8, 1965: "The Red Tyrant is Beyond Himself with Rage." Comments on Castro's TV appearance yesterday. Castro is furious over the Cubans' rush to get out of the Island, and over the fact that technicians and doctors are about to desert him. He reacts by pretending to dismiss the doctors: "the grapes are sour". We remember Hatuity, the Indian chieftain who rejected conversion because he said that if his Spanish tormentors were going to Heaven, then he didn't want to go to Heaven. Similarly, if Heaven is Castro's Red paradise, the doctors and technicians want out of it.

"What About the Tri-Continental Conference?". The abduction and disappearance of Ben Barka seems to have suspended preparations for the Tri-Continental Conference that the Reds had scheduled for, January in Havana. Judging by the kidnapping of the chief organizer, this Conference, which is rejected by China, is given the same treatment that forced the suspension of the Algiers' Conference that the Chinese sponsored. Let's wait for the second chapter and we will see whether the Conference is held after all or not.

November 9, 1965: "What Goes From One Nov. 7th to the Other". We recall that on Nov. 7, last year, Castro was interviewed by a correspondent for the New York Times. At the same time, he said that he would down whatever American U-2 planes he could with this surface-to-air antiaircraft missile. He also said that he would use Soviet troops in the defense of his Communist regime, and that he would welcome a