Section C

Mr. James Walton Moore is hereby nominated for a Career Intelligence Medal in recognition of his substantial contributions to the missions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Office of Strategic Services, the Strategic Services Unit and the Central Intelligence Agency for more than 37 years.

J. Walton (Jim) Moore spent most of his boyhood (1920-27, 1930-36) in Shantung Province, China with his missionary parents. Following graduation from Hardin-Simmons University in 1940, Jim joined the FBI and served as a Special Agent in both Chicago and San Francisco. During the latter assignment he reported on pro-Communist elements in Chinatown and directed a US Government panel to interview aliens and US citizens returning home to ensure that enemy agents were not slipping into the US as refugees or foreign businessmen.

Jim joined OSS in November 1944 and was commissioned as an Ensign, USNR. His first assignment was in Kunming where he recruited and trained Chinese agents to infiltrate Japanese lines. While in Kunming he took parachute training and on August 17, 1945 jumped into the Japanese internment camp at Weihsein. Following evacuation of refugees he became Chief of Mission in Tsingtao. Returning to the US in December 1946, he was reassigned as Vice Consul and Chief of Station in Dairen. Soviet intransigence prevented his reaching Dairen so he remained in Tsingtao for an additional year until transferred as Chief of Station in Calcutta, arriving there in April, 1948.

Jim returned to the United States in October 1949 and joined the Contact Division, Office of Operations, CIA. CD/00 policy favored continuity and Jim was no exception. From 1949 to 1954 he served in the Houston Field Office and from 1954-1977 as the Resident Officer in Dallas. The Contact Division evolved into the Domestic Contact Service and a reallocation of resources raised the Dallas Resident Office to Field Office status. Jim was the obvious choice for the job. After nine months training and preparation in Washington (where he performed admirably) he was assigned as Chief of the new office with responsibility also for Resident Offices in Tulsa, Houston, New Orleans and, eventually, Austin.