b.- Unfavorable trade balances: 11

Argentina Chile Ecuador El Salvador Guatemala Haiti Mexico Nicaragua Paraguay Peru * Uruguay

5.- The economic analyst has to conclude that the deficit in its overall trade balance plus the importance of Latin America with regards to Japan's foreign investment will make Japan increase its interest in this Hemisphere.

B.- Consequences of the Japan-Communist Cuba trade throughout Latin America.

The consequences of the Japan-Communist Cuba trade are beginning to be felt throughout Latin America, due to maintained "agit-prop" and subversive activities by the Castro regime, financed, partially, with foreign exchange resulting from its trade with Japan.

A highly illustrative example is the case of Venezuela.

1.- Venezuela: Trade Relations with Japan and Communist attacks.

a.- Japan was able to obtain US 133.5 million for the period 1958-1963 from its favorable trade balance with Venezuela. The favorable result in the trade balance for the Jan-Jul 1964 period totaled US 12.4 million.

Recently, C. ITOH and HITCHI closed important agreements with the Venezuelan Phone Co., and C. ITOH was able to get an important contract with "Corporation Venezolana de Petróleo".

b.- On the other hand, Venezuela is considered by all experts as a prime target of Communism. The important arms cache discovered in Paraguay towards the end of 1963, prompt the Venezuelan government to accuse the Castro-Communist regime during the IX Meeting of Foreign Affairs Ministers of the Americas, on July 26, 1964. Since this incident, numerous subversive activities have caused great losses to both the People and the government of Venezuela, and to foreign firms as well.

Less than a month ago, another important arms cache was discovered in Los Teques, Miranda State; and once more the hard of Castro-Communism was traced and found.

c.- Then, when the situation is fully analyzed, it is a fact that -- Venezuelan hard currency goes to Japan, and from there it goes to Castro, in order