6. Masferrer alleged to Clark that he was representing some twenty Cuban exile organizations, and that he was working with a Haitian, Charles Forben, head of an anti-Duvalier organization known as "Capois La Mort." Forben allegedly asked Masferrer to help his organization by leasing or buying a PBY-5 aircraft for use against Duvalier. Masferrer claimed that Forben's group was in a position to take control of the Ile de la Gonave, an island just off the west coast of Haiti in the gulf north of Port au Prince. It is conceivable that this is the wrong island since Clark did not have the name of the island in question, but based on the description of its location by Masferrer, I am assuming this to be the island involved. At any rate, in return for help from Masferrer, Forben was to be asked to let Masferrer and some of his Cuban exiles use the island in question as a base from which to harrass the eastern end of the Island of Cuba.

7. Clark told Masferrer that as a member of the Air Force Reserve, he would have to report the conversation to the USG and could not do anything without clearing with the USG. Masferrer said that he had no objection to this, particularly with regard to the activities of Forben and his group, but he asked that Clark not mention his intention to harrass Cuba, since he maintained that the USG would forbid this as being against USG policy. Clark said that Masferrer would have to leave to him what matters he chose to discuss with the USG. It was then agreed that Clark could reach Masferrer through Ross's office for about a week, and thereafter could pass a message to him through Ross.

8. Clark got in touch with me because I had known him during the war; I had known his family for many years, and one of his closest friends, James B. Watriss, is a cousin of mine and was, until about a year ago, associated with the Agency. Incidentally, I believe that Clark has had some discussions with SOD with the idea of possibly being used in connection with special operations.

18 Aug '64 201-042669