SECURITY INFORMATION

PERSONNEL EVALUATION REPORT

Items 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated

List your major duties in approximate order of importance, with a brief description of each. omit minor duties.

18 July 53 - 31 Jan 54 a. Manage and direct the activities of an overseas operating branch. b. Assist the division chief of operations in the planning of new and continued operations. c. Assist the division chief in personnel programming in support of branch and field station activities.

1 Feb 54 - 17 Jul 54 a. Establish new domestic activities branch. b. Develop and manage operational program of this branch, insuring (1) continuity of treatment by qualified personnel, (2) processing of intelligence requirements, and (3) expeditious movement of finished intelligence. c. Multilateral liaison with other elements of CIA, the Government, and foreign IS.

8. List courses of instruction completed during report period. Name of Course Location Length of Course Date Completed

Counterespionage (CTR) Washington 3 weeks 22 January 1954

(In addition to the duties indicated in §7 above, I also give a 3-hour lecture at the CI course (advanced phase) approximately every six weeks.)

9. In what type of work are you primarily interested? I am primarily interested in a foreign assignment where I could apply the various espionage and CI techniques it has been my responsibility to manage and plan for in recent years. IF different from your present position, explain your qualifications (aptitude, knowledge, skills). My work at headquarters has become somewhat narrowing in that I am losing language abilities and opportunity for direct contact with foreigners.

9 July 1954 DATE

Items 11 through 16 will be completed by Supervisor

11. BRIEFLY DESCRIBE THIS PERSON'S PERFORMANCE ON THE MAJOR DUTIES LISTED UNDER ITEM-7 ABOVE. Richardson is a superior officer in the performance of his duties. He is efficient, precise, and energetic, and brings considerable imagination and foresight to the operational problems confronting him. His concept of staff organization and responsibility is of a high caliber. In handling personnel, he is perceptive and serious, and his judgment and motivation are of the highest quality.

FORM NO. 37-151 MAY 1952

(Over)

(4)