SECRET.

22 June 1963

SUBJECT: Contact Report, Meeting with Dr. Agustin Guitart

DATE : 12 June 1963

PLACE : CO Office, New Orleans

PRESENT: Subject and Gerald R. Lapsley as Carl Teels

1. Dr. Guitart turned out to be an energetic little man with considerable background in revolutionary/political activities. During the reign of Machado he spent about 17 months in the Isle of Pines prison for his anti-government activities. He has also been active more recently in anti-Batista and anti-Castro activities. After explaining our present needs for current intelligence, Dr. Guitart suggested that we try to establish contact with his uncle, Rene Guitart. Rene is the youngest brother of his father and was always rather close to Dr. Guitart. Rene Guitart is a Santiago businessman. He formerly represented a number of Canadian firms and perhaps other firms as well but now has only one account that Dr. Guitart knows of. This is for the Pillsbury Flour Company of Canada. Rene had business agents in various cities of Oriente province and is very well acquainted with the entire area and, naturally, has a very wide circle of friends and acquaintances. Dr. Guitart said that he had, by indirection, asked Rene to provide him with information about military construction at the port of Banes. He expects to receive Rene's report on the subject in the near future and promised to send me a copy of it. Dr. Guitart felt sure that he could, by indirection, convey to Rene the means for developing the SW system number 99. These directions will be relayed in two letters to be dispatched at one week intervals. A third letter will carry the SW text.

2. Guitart said that he could receive the letters at the home of a friend using the name of one of his friend's daughters. The address is Lillian Martinez, 1517 Walmsley St., New Orleans 25, La.

3. Dr. Guitart wrote the first two letters that same evening and brought them to my hotel Friday evening. Since Dr. Guitart is an energetic man I believe our contact with him will produce more than one recruitment attempt. He spoke of another family that he knows in Holguin and said that he would try to determine their present address and think of ways to contact them.

Gerald R. Lapsley

SECRET,

8

U.S. DEPARTMENT

RECONCILIATION