Copy of letter from MELVIN LASKY dated 21 May 1950, New York City

"Dear Jim,

"I have just finished with the press conference here at Freedom House. I think Beichman managed a nice turn-out — Hartrich of the Herald-Tribune, David Anderson of the Times, Henry Beckkett of the Post, et al. I won't be able to see the clippings tomorrow; doubtless much will be asked. But publicity won't hurt, and may do much much good. I have given Beichman two hundred dollars for now; another two hundred has already gone in phone calls, telegrams and the like. Spoke to Upton Sinclair again; can't come. Silone is writing the piece for the Times. Hook is doing an opening piece in the NL; with Levitas promising a nice spread. Beichman is writing letters, sending out releases. Pearl Kluger is working in the little office, hired out from George Field of Freedom House (20 West 40th Street, Tel: Chickering-4-3060). I have instructed him to consult you and refer all problems to you. I think he can do a most useful job with the press. I have done my best to keep all such expenses down, but in the end this job will be more important than the expensive presence of many of the delegates in Berlin. Do keep in touch with him until your departure.

"On the Russian matter, I think it would be an almost criminal waste of opportunities if there weren't the strongest possible Iron-Curtain delegation there on the platform in Berlin. Nicolaevsky and Shub have come up with the proposal to smoke out the professors, deans, scientists, poets now secluded in Western Germany; five or six of these worthies (Russians, Ukrainians, Asians) would indeed be a most appropriate bombshell. If they — Nicolaevsky to give them Russian-political-confidence, Shub to give them American-diplomatic assurances — could have a week together working out from Frankfurt and Munich ten days or so before the Congress begins, this might turn the trick. I think that's the way, and probably the only way to do it. God knows I won't be able to round them up. In any event, — although I have been reluctant to raise the issue for fear that my motives might be misinterpreted — I think that Shub's presence in Berlin would be of immeasurable value, handling the radio and Russian angles; and he's not considered there another "American outsider". Which is important.