D. OPERATIONAL ASSETS WITHIN CUBA

1. Cayo Cinco Leguas. This key is used for production of charcoal and salt. Residents are reported solidly anti-Communist. A/14 has two contacts here that he used previously for infils and exfils. One is "Tango" Garcia Lezcano. Tango is a brother of Eustiquiano Garcia Lezcano (201-307338) whom A/14 wanted to use as a guide in this operation, but who was already being utilized elsewhere. The other contact is the owner of the Salina (salt drying beds). A/14 has not yet been able to recall this individual's name.

2. Finca Casualidad. This area is directly south of Cinco Leguas, on the mainland. Key contacts here are Antonio Garcia (not related to Tango, above) and Pablo Lopez both of whom have small farms in the area.

3. Town of Marti. Contact here is "Perico". LNU. Subject is about 50 years old, is employed by INRA and has a jeep which was used previously by A/14 for operational purposes.

4. City of Cardenas. Contact is Pedro Barbi, owner of the Bate Marino restaurant. Subject is a close friend of A/14 who assisted him previously with transportation for maritime receptions. Barbi would be used to take A/14 and A/27 to Havana. Owns a car.

5. City of Matanzas. A-14 has a friend here named Carlos. Pedraza, who also assisted A/14 in underground activities in 1961. Subject is 60 years old, married, and is a former of public works in the city. Subject has a son Carlos now in New York City. Pedraza will be contacted for transportation to Havana. Owns a car.

6. Varadero. "Fifo" Pineiro owns a car and was formerly a close friend of A/14. Subject was formerly active in the underground and might be used by A/14 in the event he could not use Barbi or Pedraza for obtaining transportation. Pineiro is the brother of the communist Manolo Pineiro, aka "Barba Roja", but is reported to be anti-communist himself.

Havana

Adolfina (Suarez) More. Subject is single and lives with her mother. Is friend of AMICE/27 (possibly mistress) and can be used as safehouse keeper. Subject is sister of Rafael (Suarez) More, a commandante in the Navy who, according to A/27, was at one time chief of naval operations. His present assignment or location is unknown.