two main conditions were met. At that point someone came by and interrupted the conversation for a good two or three minutes. Rather than renew the argument he could see LOGINOV wanted to develop, the undersigned started to talk about the cattle in the fields, Mexican agriculture, et cetera. LOGINOV listened to this for one or two minutes and then reminded the undersigned he had said something about conditions for the armistice. The undersigned said that the primary condition for peace was for North Vietnam to pull out all of its troops from South Vietnam. Before he could mention the second condition, someone again interrupted the conversation, handed the undersigned and LOGINOV drinks, and remained for a good five minutes. After his departure, the undersigned again talked about something else, but again LOGINOV, after one or two minutes, doggedly went back to the original discussion and wanted to know what the second condition was. The undersigned then told him that this condition was that really free elections be held in South Vietnam. About half an hour later, LOGINOV opened up on the March of the Poor, whereupon the undersigned referred him to a recent article in the U.S. News and World Report listing the salaries of various workers in the United States. Electricians, for example, are listed as making $7.50 an hour. In short, the undersigned pointed out, to be really poor in the United States takes a lot of doing, or rather, a lack of doing. He said he wished the United States could do as the Soviets do and send people without a desire to work or the will to assume responsibility to re-education camps in Siberia and elsewhere. LOGINOV confirmed, in fact, that that was what the Soviet government was doing. LOGINOV also touched upon the search for the assassin of Martin Luther KING, whereupon the undersigned told him that the United States lacked the regimentation of the Soviet Union and the heavy state controls over the population so that it was difficult at times to find a man in that nation of more than 200,000,000 people in one or two days. He also told LOGINOV that it remained to be seen who put the assassin up to his act. The undersigned, of course, mentioned that the assassination was an abominable deed, as KING was probably the most reasonable of the black leaders. He said that had the white extremists, as LOGINOV called them, been behind the assassination, it is probable that Stokeley CARMICHAEL or Rap BROWN would have been shot. During the ride on the bus and out of the clear blue, LOGINOV asked the undersigned