21 July 1953

MEMORANDUM FOR: DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE SUBJECT: Meeting with PSS

1. I understand that two of the matters that have come up before your PSD lunch are:

C. D. Jackson's proposal to send food to East Germany via balloon.

C. D. Jackson's proposal for a monument memorial to be put up near the Brandenburg Gate. I would like to comment on these two proposals for what use it may be to you.

2. It seems to me food shipment via balloon is a meaningless gesture. It will not do any positive good because it can't get enough food into East Germany to make any difference. Thus a negative result is fostered; it looks and appears to be psychological warfare of a rather obvious kind. The food offers by the U. S. Government and those by the ICFTU were, as the London Times pointed out last Monday, psychological victories, but the Russians are now moving food into Germany in far greater quantities than we can do via balloon. In addition, there are obvious dangers from the standpoint of a BW play-back as Mr. Wisner suggested. It would be much easier and much more effective for the Russians to use the BW these on balloon shipments than on any quantities of food that the Government or the ICFTU are actually able to get behind the Iron Curtain. In sum, balloons are a trick and food doesn't lend itself to tricks.

3. I think the memorial idea is a respectable one but not on the level that the PSB people seem to want to play it. They have in mind a world campaign to be conducted in all countries, particularly in this one and in South America with a distinguished body of citizens to lead the campaign here. I do not think the memorial idea is big enough for that (the best memorial so far erected was Berlin's own decision to change the name of the Unterlinden to Strasse June 17). I think the memorial idea ought to be left to the Germans. We can delicately suggest it and see that it is followed up with any support necessary in this country through already existing organizations such as NCFE or the Crusade for Freedom if this is necessary. These should play a minor role.

THOMAS W. BRADEN Chief International Organizations Division

CIO:TMB/ch Orig - Addressee 1 cc - GIO-1 cc - H.