his own free will but which nevertheless disappointed Subject greatly, as he greatly admired him, despite the fact that Subject's fathers decision was responsible for the suicide of his mother, whom Subject greatly loved. Undersigned believes that Subject's anguish in memories of his parents was genuine. Subject was a clever though precocious child during his Lycée education, and frequently was dismissed by school directors who did not appreciate his temperamental though erratically brilliant performance. Subject, during this stage of development, probably tried as hard as ever in his life to conform to the rules of society, which during that stage of French national education practices, would probably seem quite strict by American middle-school practices. Subject greatly desired academic/professional recognition in imitation of his father. These feelings were especially frustrating because of his quick mind and seeming natural ability for mechanical and electrical theory and principals. I do not believe he ever has learned to consider conventions of living anything more than a tiresome game to be played when there is no alternative. Subject's quick mind, and early appreciation, recognition and adaptance of guile did much to ensure the necessary understanding of French culture for moderate success in that country. Subject who is an unusual looking man even by French standards, has no trouble in identifying with the under-privileged elements of French society. Subject is temporally bald, hooked nose, short, slender, bandy legged, wiry, and of dark complexion but possessed of a dry, caustic wit eager to laugh and contribute in the Caucasian spirit of comdererie to those whom he considers worthy of friendship. Subject, however, makes real friends cautiously, and has conciously established for himself personality assessment criteria that would do justice to many successful senior FI or CE C/O - agent handlers.

B. World War II offered Subject the welcomed opportunity to show his ability and ingenuity by engaging in black market affairs in luxury items and travel documents in German-occupied France. Subject would wistfully recount stories of his escapades during that period, which, after really getting to know Subject, seemed to be entirely possible. Subject admired the Germans as "worthy opponents", particularly their efficiency and ability to act decisively whether the problem be tactical or strategic. An extended period of German incarceration (until war's end) did nothing to alter his opinion. War's end left Subject bored and unfulfilled. The excitement and thrill of "the game" were gone and Subject's unsettled, numb confusion was for quite another reason than most of Europeans milling thousands of displaced and shattered families. Therefore, it was not long before Subject and a close friend from his black market days decided on a daring daylight bank robbery in one of the suburban centers of France. Subject contends he planned the robbery from start to finish, and needed only someone to help. Subject and his accomplice carefully cased a bank, stole a heavy truck and during the height of the business day backed the truck full speed in reverse through the large street level plate glass window. Subject said he hopped out of the truck with