9. Dirección Federal de Seguridad - Federal Security Police

The principal functions of this security unit are to: (1) Provide a plain-clothed security detail for the President, (2) maintain an extensive telephone tap activity on both the Rightist and Leftist political opposition forces, and (3) perform investigations and arrests of primarily political offenses. The unit's agents are largely poorly trained, insecure, and unreliable. Their professional characteristics are best described as being dishonest, cruel, and abusive. The position, at this moment, of Manuel RANGEL Escamilla as Director General of DFS is precarious.

Política

A Marxist anti-U.S. semi-monthly magazine published in Mexico, Política is printed by Talleres Graficos de Mexico, the same shop which prints La Voz de Mexico. In addition to the modest revenues derived from a circulation of 15,000 to 25,000, Política is financed by the Soviet Embassy, the MLN, the PPS, and possibly, the Cuban Embassy. As an indication of the Mexican government's assessment of the capability of this magazine to influence public opinion, it is worthwhile noting that Política frequently experiences a great degree of difficulty in printing and circulating itself due to the government's repressive efforts.

11. Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional (MLN)

Organized under the influence of the PCM in August 1961, the MLN today is dedicated to the furtherance of the mutual interests of its adherents who are found primarily in the ranks of the PRI, the PPS, the PCM, the CNC and the UGOCM. The MLN's objective is to gain leftist political representation in the government by inciting PRI to accept leftists into its camp. As a consequence of this objective, the mission of MLN is to generate evidence of popular leftist sympathy by means of fomenting agitation among the popular, labor, and peasant masses.

12. Confederación de Trabajadores de la América Latina (CTAL)

The CTAL has recently been replaced by the CUTAL (Single Confederation of Latin American Workers). Until recently, the