6. Charles states that Gracia Jacques, chief of the Presidential Guard, "will be needed in the execution of the plan." In terms that Jacques is so longer basically loyal to Maloney and that he can be bought. Once the plan is in the hands of a military junta and Charles, Jacques "will be eliminated."

7. The banker further stages that honest and competent citizens, who are also proof, will be brought into the government. Some of the exiles are in the US which is in the government.

8. Charles warns that he and his friends are strong enough on the domestic scene to do away with the Maloney government "sooner or later." His greatest fear is that either Castro or Malaguez might interfere in Haiti's affairs following a coup against Maloney. He recently believes that the US will destabilize Castro and Malaguez. Charles is convinced that Maloney and Balaguer are "close friends." He feels that the time has definitely come for the US Government to get in touch with him now in Port-au-Prince. If his wish is granted, he will divide his plan (name, etc.) in the "Lincoln era."

9. On 19 May 1967, a group of prominent Haitian exiles had a meeting in New York City to celebrate Haitian Flag Day. One of the organizers was Dr. Jeanette, an M.D., whose brother, a former Minister of Finance, was killed by Maloney. Another exile in attendance was (Mno) Visser, who claims to be a legal adviser to the Republic of God. Visser, who is described by him as a statistician, stated, "I am going to be the next president of Haiti." Dr. Jeanette believes that the group calls itself "National Organization of Haitian Malades," according to his, some of the members are now heading Charles' presidential aspirations.

10. Louis Léogard, a member of the Democratic Planning Board of Haiti, a member of Charles', will come to New York City after a few days' stay in Miami, Florida, and Moshehuis, President. On 25 May 1967, Léogard will meet with representatives of the J. D. White Engineering Corporation, Dr.amed Street, and Dr. Jeanette, to discuss the port materialization project of Port-au-Prince. According to Dr. Léogard, "this very important information relative to the Charles' plan."