CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

2430 E STREET NW. WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

Date 6 February 1961

Dear Mr. Broe:

1. This is to notify you that the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, has accepted your employment effective 4 February 1961.

Position: Intelligence Officer (Chief)

Base Salary: GS-13 $7600.00

You will be:

Entitled to annual and sick leave in accordance with Civil Service Commission rules and regulations, or such other provisions of law or regulations as may be established in lieu thereof.

Reimbursed for travel expenses in accordance with CIA Regulations or Standardized Government Travel Regulations, as amended.

If stationed outside continental United States, granted such monetary allowances as are prescribed by CIA Regulations.

3. As a condition of your employment by the Central Intelligence Agency, you are subject to assignment to tours of duty at posts outside the continental United States. Each time you are so assigned, unless otherwise specified in advance by CIA, you will be required to remain at the post to which assigned for a period of 24 months from the date of arrival therein, unless sooner transferred, reassigned or separated for reasons beyond your control. If you wish to return to the United States for personal reasons during that period, all travel and transportation costs incident to such return will be borne by you, with no expense to the Government.

4. If this employment is for assignment to an overseas post, it is understood and agreed that, unless earlier separated for reasons beyond your control, you will remain in Government service for 12 months after your arrival at your first overseas post, and if you violate this agreement, any money expended by the United States on account of your travel and the transportation of your immediate family and household goods will be considered a debt due to the United States.

5. Employment is conditioned upon satisfactory completion of the training courses prescribed by CIA and satisfactory performance of duty for a total period of six months from date of employment. In the event