Continuation of Section C of Fitness Report on NIARCOS

enthusiasm, imagination and drive. He has built good photo and audio programs and a support mechanism which give us excellent coverage of the target. He has then gone further into analyses of individual targets. The groundwork has been laid methodically; what we lack is luck to recruit that most elusive of sources--a Soviet.

I have no doubt this officer has additional growth potential. He has unusual drive and motivation; he shows imagination with good judgment. He combines this with a broad background of experience in FI, CI and operational support work and excellent tradecraft. He should guard against a tendency to be over-cautious, but is intelligent, ambitious, perceptive, and has all the attributes necessary to do a good job in his next assignment as DCOS at a moderate-sized station. This will give him an opportunity to show adaptability in a major supervisory position.

This officer has high personal standards. One of his strongest characteristics is his decisiveness and ability to organize his time, recognizing priorities and accomplishing his work quickly. He never misses a deadline. His work is thorough but cuts through verbiage to the essentials. He accepts responsibility well and once an assign- ment is made can be depended upon to take care of it without further follow-up by the supervisor. He is mature in his attitude toward JKLANCE and both he and his family observe the highest standards of per- sonal conduct. His wife, who is bi-lingual, adds considerably to his contact work. They are popular in the community. In sum, this employee is a proven case officer who is about to take on managerial responsibility; he has every qualification to do equally well in this field.

Continuation of Section D., Item 3. (Comments by Reviewing Official)

and correctly, has indicated as having some rather strong weaknesses. However, this comment should not be construed as indicating lack of aggressiveness in Subject. He is, in fact, very aggressive in developing operational contacts and in making recruitments. In sum, Subject is one of our best all-around officers with a great breadth of experience, a fine potential for growth, a sharp intelligence coupled with unusual discipline. We shall miss him and his wife and are certain he will do well in his new post. And