1. Subject arrived at 1930 bearing a Russian record as a gift from his wife and a bottle of vodka with a jar of caviar as a gift from himself. He apologized that his wife could not make it that evening because she had to attend a "command performance". Although Subject claims to be under a doctor's care for problems with his stomach and legs (blood pressure problems) and is supposed to avoid use of alcohol for four months, he did accept a drink (Scotch) and then proceeded to chat about various inconsequential topics. At about 2000 MARGANDE dropped in and a general conversation ensued. LEVERONE offered to prepare some Shashlik and Subject stated that it was one of the favorite dishes of his wife. He suggested that perhaps he could pick her up after the "command performance" and bring her to the apartment. This was readily agreed to but since there was an hour and a half remaining before Subject could fetch his wife, we continued with general conversation. The following points concerning Subject's past activity came to light.

Subject stated that he had spent some time in Argentina in 1958 and that during this time he had had a chance to travel freely and see something of the country. The people were friendly, polite and less hurried than. He did not go into detail as to what he was doing in Argentina but it appears to have been an official visit.

His "high point" was Mexico and his fondest memories are of his time spent there. He claims that he was able to travel over the entire country and got to know it better than his own. He also had various close friends in the journalistic field including several Americans (sio). In Mexico he was a PRAVDA correspondent.

Subject also stated he had been in Ecuador for an unspecified length of time during the month when the annual Indian fiesta is held. He claimed to like the place very much and described at length the Indian practice of selling all their produce at the fair and then spending the money on liquor.

When Subject was ready to leave Mexico he applied for a transit visa to the United States. When its issuance was delayed for some time, he asked the American officials concerned if there were

slc att # 1 to HABA-20210