no se descomplica, ni se da la idea de que hay undecima cara o una cara, ni hay dos rojos y un verde; si es esto lo que está pasando, yo no voy a estar en esta cuestión, y si no va a ser así, voy a estar bien. Si me han llamado today, he venido hasta acá para ver cómo va la farsa, y si ha ido a Creating a home in a foreign land, have I said anything? ¡No! No ha ido a شيء, y si no va a hacerlo, ¿por cuál voy a estar? Aquella upon was a long time ago, and it will be so again. There are two things that make life tolerable: to be able to love your neighbor as yourself, and to know that you are loved by someone. Love is the most beautiful thing in the world, and to feel that one has it is to feel that he is not alone. He who loves someone else feels the same way with himself. If one of us were a criminal, then there would be no reason for him to live, because all of us would want to kill him. But if we could be sure that each of us would die the same death, then we should be happy. It is a very sad thing to have to choose between our friends and our enemies. And yet, even if we had to do this, we should not worry too much about it, for when people get together they lose their individuality and become one. The danger of this is that if people get together to discuss something important, it is more likely that they will end up discussing some little detail and ending up in a fight or quarrel. But if there are enough people to split into two groups, then it is better for everyone. If one person is going to tell his story, then I should have to listen to half of it, but if several people are going to tell their stories, then it is better for all of them to listen to the whole. What is the use of having two accounts of the same event, when one can give an account which takes into consideration the point of view of each of the participants? Each one has its own story, and one cannot say that one of them is wrong. For example, if two men were to tell the story of what happened on the way to the airport, they would say different stories, but both of them are right. The reason why we have two accounts of the same event is that each tells his story from his point of view, and so he describes it differently from the other. This is because each of them has his own point of view, and so he describes it differently from the other. One man tells his story from the point of view of the government, and so his version of events is different from the other two, and so it becomes possible for the third person to get a false picture of what happened. But if one of them were to tell his story from the point of view of the government, and so his version of events is the same as the other two's, then he would say that the government is doing everything the government is supposed to do. He would say that the government is telling the truth, and that it is true, and that everyone else is making up stories. But if you look at it from another point of view, you will see that the other two are right, and that the government is making up stories, and that it is not true. But if you look at it from the other point of view, you will see that one of them is right, and that the government is making up stories, and that it is true. And if you look at it from the second point of view, you will see that both of them are right, and that the government is making up stories, and that it is true.

There is one rule which applies to all wars. In any war there are two classes of people. First, there are the soldiers. Second, there are theSupporters. Third, there are theloyal ones. Fourth, there are the friends. Fifth, there are the women. Sixth, there are the children. And lastly, there are the non-combatants. These are the ones who have no direct participation in the military. They are the ones who do not fight. They are the ones who do not kill. They are the ones who do not damage property. They are the ones who do not fire or kill people. They are the ones who do not kill the enemy. They are the ones who do not destroy the equipment. They are the ones who do not kill the enemy. They are the ones who do not cause harm to the enemy. They are the ones who do not kill the enemy. They are the ones who do not kill the enemy. They are the ones who do not kill the enemy. They are the ones who do not kill the enemy. They are the ones who do not