Mr. Thomas B. Casasin

Dear Mr. Casasin:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you as an Independent Contractor to render professional services of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1. Fee. For professional services rendered hereunder, you will be paid a fee calculated at the rate of $8,000 per annum. Payments will be made as requested by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government.

2. Taxes. As an Independent Contractor, monies paid you under paragraph one (1) above constitute taxable income for Federal tax purposes and you must satisfy your Federal tax liability thereon. Such income may be paid you by or through a cover facility. Because of cover, operational and security considerations, the Tax Board or this organization is authorized to make certain determinations and establish procedures (including tax withholdings) which will result in the full satisfaction of your Federal income and Social Security tax obligations. It is specifically understood and agreed that such determinations and procedures, whether oral or written, constitute an integral part of this contract and are legally incorporated herein by reference.

3. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for travel and transportation expenses for you and your dependents to and from your permanent post of assignment and for you alone for authorized operational travel. In addition, you will be entitled to storage of such household and personal effects as are not shipped in conformance with applicable organization policies and procedures. You may be entitled to per diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of all travel performed hereunder and when authorized for you alone while on temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. Upon your satisfactory completion of services hereunder, you will be authorized transportation expenses for you, your dependents and your household and personal effects to your recorded permanent place of legal residence in the United States. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be properly authorized and expenses incurred herewith are subject to payment and accounting in substantial compliance with Government regulations or your cover facility, whichever is directed by the Government.

4. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information, as specifically approved by the Government. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting in substantial compliance with applicable Government regulations.

5. Repayment. It is recognized that your failure to account for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appropriate.

6. Execution of Documents. If, during your utilization hereunder, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U. S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by this organization to evidence this relationship.

E. IMPORT CL BY: SECRET

IMPOR