Development of Art by Houston:

5. Houston met Subject in April 1966 by cold approach in the art studio where Subject at the time was receiving his latest work. After scholarship of Dallas Innes, Houston raised a Creek business interest in Subject's style and his immediate objective at the time was to ascertain the address in New York City of Subject's wife's father (a Dutchman of Chinese origin who had left China as a refugee). Houston, feeling that he had to present an above-average prospect to Subject to merit future detours, alleged that he was auxiliar to arrange for the payment of a rural to be installed in a new York district owned by a Great friend of his (Kita Omufri, one of few Westerners at the "J. C. Alexander"). Houston felt that this "incentive" to show "York District subject" would have its double advantage of demonstrating Subject's submitted position to his own in York City and in a more prosaic environment.

7. Subject to credit very favorably to the local approach and reported Houston's invitation to dinner in the course of Subject's wife the next evening. Subject, however, received no specific contact. Houston found the subject unfavorable and dislike for the company in question. As a result of this negative reaction, Houston realized that any attempt at a direct approach to either Subject or his wife, who was then employed part-time at the Dallas Complete, would be counterproductive and that a more subtle approach would have to be developed. Houston decided that a strong personal relationship developed with the subject would be productive and should eventually lead to useful interaction on Subject's part.

8. When, therefore, on 2 May 1967, Subject expressed appreciation at having met Houston and indicated that he wished to continue his friendly contacts, regardless of whether Houston purchased his painting or arranged for the rural. Houston NY moved in with an offer to "fire" Subject as his business associate on an unofficial basis, so that Subject could acquire a degree of independence financially and perhaps do some traveling for Houston. In order to develop as much clannestinity as possible in his future contacts with Subject, Houston explained that he was simply a tourist in Mexico and as such not permitted to engage in lucrative business activities. He would therefore have to depend on Subject's discretion in any dealings he might have with him. Subject accepted this as quite normal but pointed out to Houston his limitations xas far as business training and experience went. In reply to Houston's query, he did confess, however, that he had excellent contracts in Havana that could be exploited for business dealings with Cuba. He volunteered to make an exploratory trip to Havana to renew his friendship with the persons concerned. Houston accepted this offer, not only to test Subject's story but also to seize the occasion to be in a position to provide subject with money to make the trip and thus compromise him somewhat at the outset.

9. Houston's next move was to explain to Subject that he had a long-term interest in Cuba and hoped to do a great deal of business in the future but first felt it was essential that both he and Subject develop tradeupofer contracts inside to ensure success. Subject readily agreed to this and felt relieved when Houston did not extract him to produce concrete results overnight. When Houston, therefore, accepted that Subject find and rent a house for entertainment and development of non-active contracts, Subject N to work immediately without question. Although Houston's plans were first made on 17 June, Subject did not succeed in finding a suitable place until the end of July. This project, however, gave Subject something definite and relatively clearcutine to do for Houston without seriously sacrificing any of his principles. Subject, or its developer later, has interested in such a plan. Houston even to his wife, for his own purposes.