STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Chief, Contact Division FOR : Alien Branch (Czajkowski) FROM : Chief, New York Office SUBJECT: Concern about Physical Security of Gisela Wassiliew, IRC Representative in Berlin REF : Our TK NY-9780, dated 30 Nov 51 (to Alien Branch)

DATE: 27 February 1953

1. In reference wire, David Martin recommended subject individual (whose name he spelled "Wasiljew") for contact by this office. Martin described this German national, wife of a Russian DP then and now in the US, as "exceptionally capable, intelligent, with rare political understanding". She has been director of the Berlin office of the International Rescue Committee for some three years (perhaps longer). As you know, the IRC has been prominent for aid given to West Berlin and is currently in the midst of a campaign for aid to refugees arriving there in increasing numbers from the East.

2. Mr. Becker, present executive director of the IRC, has passed on to us a letter from Mrs. Wassiliew, dated 23 February 1953, in which she reports alleged attempts on the part of "the East" to kidnap her. In view of her activities and her connection with Rainer Hildebrandt's Kempfgruppe gegen Unmenschlichkeit, there may be some basis for her fears. Mr. Becker, who knows her as a calm person not given to hysterics, is deeply concerned about her safety and has stated that he would have replaced her with a U.S. citizen if it were not so difficult to find a qualified successor. He has requested that we communicate with any U.3. agency or department in a position to provide physical security for persons representing U.S. interests in Berlin.

3. We have promised Mr. Becker to pass on his request to our superiors, but we told him that we were not aware of CIA facilities abroad or of CIA responsibility for coordinating action abroad with other appropriate US Government agencies. We therefore suggested that Mr. Becker himself communicate with such agencies to the test of his ability and did not commit CIA to any action upon his request.

4. If, in your judgment, the covert staffs might be interested in this problem or a justifiable representation to other agencies (e.g. Defense or State) can be made, we feel that such action would serve U.S. security interests and, incidentally, benefit IRC in a measurable way. We are attaching Mrs. Wassiliew's letter for whatever use you care to make of it.

5. This office has had no contact with Mr. or Mrs. Wassiliew, and these individuals are not aware of any possible CIA interest, to the best of our knowledge.

6. Please advise whether there is anything you can do, whether Mr. Becker should approach another Government agency (if he has not done so in the meantime), and what reaction, if any, we may pass on to Becker.

WL.F. WLFreund:mfd

ATT:

SECRET Security Information

Loud