(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - June 1955-January 1960)

Operational Activities - 1955-1960: Summary

According to NOSENKO, after an uneventful assignment in the American Department's Embassy Section, in 1955 he was transferred to the newly-organized Seventh Department Tourist Section as a case officer. Between 1955 and 1957 he assembled a network of agents and was involved in four KGB attempts to recruit foreign tourists. One of these attempts, that against Richard BURGI, was the first recruitment of the Tourist Section; it won NOSENKO a commendation, brought him to the attention of General GRIBANOV, and turned NOSENKO into an effective and successful KGB officer. In 1958 NOSENKO was promoted to the position of Deputy Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section. He then recruited the second member of his two-man homosexual team and, in 1958 and 1959, participated in ten KGB attempts to recruit American and British visitors to the USSR and one American resident of Moscow. NOSENKO'S success in the Seventh Department prompted GRIBANOV to transfer him back to the American Embassy Section as Deputy Chief with the critical priority task of reviving KGB operations against American Embassy code clerks.

It is worthy of note that of the fifteen cases in which he personally participated, by his own admission, NOSENKO became involved in nine not because they were operations of his section, but because the targets were the victims of homosexual or other entrapment. In addition, three of the fifteen operations were not directed by his section, but by senior Seventh Department officers. According to his own statements, four others were specifically the responsibility of other Seventh Department sections of KGB elements, including the Foreign Seamen Section (GEHRCKENS), Delegations Section (LANE) and (DIRSE), Commercial Representatives Section (TAYLOR), and WILLERFORD (Moscow City KGB). FRIPPEL does not relate clearly to NOSENKO's claimed Seventh Department service: NOSENKO states he was also used as an agent of the First Department Embassy Section. Even the remaining case, that of HARRIS, was not necessarily a

06 06 06 06

06

6001414

144

TS No. 197124

Copy ____