Attachment to EGFA

REDSOX Spotting and Assessment Report

Subject: REASPIC DOD:

Address:

Cover for Contact:

Notes on Contact:

20 March 1959: Upon the receipt of DIR the undersigned borrowed a car from the Paris station on 19 March and drove that night to Moulins, arriving about 9 o'clock. From the principal hotel in this town a call was made to Subject who was informed that we would arrive at Ambert at about 12 o'clock, and we agreed to meet at the railroad station at 1200 hours. We proceeded to Vichey where we changed clothes and bathed and arrived at Ambert about 1220 -- Subject was waiting. He returned the car lent by Dassaud, one of his business partners, to the residence cum work shop at 14 rue St. Josef. We waited outside for Subject who came out, got into the car and we drove to a restaurant which we left immediately as it was too crowded and returned on foot to 14 rue St. Josef house where our conversation was held. Incidentally, Subject showed the undersigned around the work shop and demonstrated how the machine and the _______ for it are made. One cannot help but marvel at Subject's ingenuity and ability as a tinkerer and pseudo-sort of engineer. He said they are producing about 300 a month, sell a few more than this at 48,000 francs a piece (nearly $100). However, Subject gets no income other than pocket money, free room and board where he now lives, and will not receive any until the capital outlay of his other two partners has been amortized. Taking the bull by the horns we explained to Subject the delay: A telegram had been sent to "certain colleagues" in Paris who were supposed to write a letter to be forwarded to Subject. The man to whom the telegram was sent was on leave and upon return he waa not notified of the telegram we sent; consequently, Subject was not informed as he should have been. We are terribly sorry and hope that Subject would appreciate such a minor matter. In any event we reminded Subject that he had not been promised a letter on or about 1 February but rather told that he could expect to hear from us then. Subject agreed this was so.

Subject was far less interested in explanation than a decision. He rhetorically asked whether he was acceptable, adding he was obliged to assume he was not, and commenting that although there are "many two legged people in America also" he thought he was probably a unique person from the point of view of language ability, experience as an operator in dangerous situations, etc. We replied thus: One man (the psychologist) has already come all the way from the States just to see Subject and another was on his way. From this Subject could fairly conclude the importance "Headquarters" attaches to Subject's candidature and that far from being a dead issue, Subject's prospects were good, although all depended on him.

We then turned to the matter of Subject coming to Paris. Subject explained that Paul ( ) had been sent by the Paris station to Annick and had not done very well. He had failed to convince Annick that he was sent by Mike (Friganza) and apparently although we did not go into the details of this, he did not get the message straight. In any case Subject immediately said that he could come to Paris anytime although he would be obliged to travel illegally. This because he had permitted his identity document to expire as of 14 February 1959. However, Subject felt he could make the journey by train without being caught because the police are not checking most trains. He did not want to travel by car because he had heard there are occasional road blocks (this may be true for the undersigned ran into one on the drive from Paris to Ambert). Subject also said he could stay as long as need by but it was absolutely essential that he not be obliged to stay at a hotel -- he could either stay with Annick or at a place put at his disposal by us.

Case Officer