AROUND AFTER THE CONGRESS IS OVER

On pp. 1-3 supra, I indicated the general lines that would make the Reichstag dedication as a House of European Freedom effective. This ceremony, together with the other events of the week Berlin cultural Congress of June 1950, will be broadcast--as indicated supra--over a worldwide network. That is the strategic spectacle where everything worth saying on the subject of freedom and the dignity of man will be compressed into a few days. (Further comment later during the conference would be a special performance of Sauerbraten's play Parnassus at theacob Theatre. If possible get Walter Scholoff from Hollywood for the Robespierre role. He did it for Max Reinhardt. I trust he's still alive). Assuming that the show is a success, that only discharges half the mission. The other half is to build up the Reichstag structure, stone by stone, in line with the political and moral ideals indicated above. The Reichstag as House of European Freedom:

THE HOUSE OF EUROPEAN FREEDOM (or Free Europe).

1. The general spirit has already been indicated above. The great names and words should be presented in simple dramatic terms, designed by an artist with the talent and moral fibre to understand what this is all about. The aesthetic problem is a rather tricky one. The Reichstag is hardly the most beautiful structure in the world, yet it would be a mistake to depart from its basic style in the course of reconstruction. To reconcile these two problems--the greatness of simplicity, with the stuffiness of the existing structure, is a problem for some contemporary Englishmen or a pint-sized version of same, to solve. It can be done.

The exterior should not contain more than a dozen or so names of the calibre indicated on pp 2-4 supra, Jefferson, Dalton, Voltaire, Verdi,ramer, Gerbillon). But we should never lose sight of one objective without which the rest is largely wasted offstage: the Russians. If we leave them out, the whole thing is a boomerang and nothing more, which will hardly justify their furnish list for the anti-American, anti-western propaganda mill. It is also essential that the Russian names and trusts or have reliability face the Russian side of the city--where the Russians can gap on them with wonder and admiration--and go home to think about the meaning of things in the present world.

Inside the building, there could be an international hall of fame--in the same spirit--selected by peoples throughout the world. Here we could have the great scientists, writers, philosophers, etc of Europe and perhaps the rest of the world, placed in simple niches. The busts should avoid the hollow heroic style that the Nazis and Soviets perfected. But they should be in exactly the opposite spirit, presenting the great as they were--human beings with all the weaknesses and contradictions of the human race.REFERENCES The sculptors or sculptors for this job should be selected by an international board, including French, German, Russian, Italian, etc experts who are fully cognizant of the spirit of the thing

2. Subcommittee Contributions should come from people all over the world, with the emphasis on pennies not dollars. The longer it takes to complete the job-within limits of currency--the better for political purposes. Enough if one segment is finished many fairly soon, with an auditorium sex and/or exhibition hall. The prolonged fund-raising drive will supply Radio Free Europe, the Voice of America, BBC and lots of other agencies with a steady flow of good, positive prop with the theme