of the Communist Party of the United States, which did not particularly approve of seeing the two issues mixed, Cuba and Negroes.

Williams, very volatile, a very determined person on a local level, has no ability whatsoever on a national level. He has become a symbol now to Negro youth in particular, as a Negro who is not an Uncle Tom, who will fight, but we knew that what was coming in the summer of 61, perhaps it was before... no, I'm obviously was embarrassment for the national executive of the NAACP, embarrassment for the Justice Department, and more than all the embarrassment Terry Sanford, who was the Governor, and who was then told him, "I wish you were dead. Period." They finally, by one of these flukes of fate, there was a demonstration over a swimming pool. They didn't want to integrate the pool. They just wanted to swim in it. But the local people said they didn't want to do that because they would have to change the water, and it would take too much time to change the water after Negroes swam in the water. So they had some demonstrations. Williams was almost murdered in one of these occasions. The demonstrations were getting pretty violent. And then King sent in some Freedom Riders who were going to show them how non-violence worked was going to work in this town. They decided to make an example. So Williams said, "I'm going to get out of this. I don't want anything to do with your non-violence. But you go ahead and I'll see what happens."

Well the non-violent demonstration became more violent. There were people shot. There were arrests. There was an English girl who now figures here in the British Trotskyist party, who was over there. People were coming from all over, reports in the European press. The rumor went around - Williams now had nothing to do with this. He was just sort of staying there saying well you see where non-violence gets you-- but there was a report that they were going to lynch those people who had been arrested. As often happens in these type of thing the Negroes and whites outside whites who were involved, really came in for a hell of a beating, and as in the Philadelphia Mississippi case, they have been killed. Williams was more or less a victim of the mob in the Negro community which said "we've got to do something. We've got to free these people, get them out of jail."

He had arms, including some machine guns, which had been purchased in New York, and sat down there. They didn't use them because they got scared, but they had arms. The community was armed. The people, out in the street in front of his house, when a car with a white couple, came down this road. It was surrounded and they were told to get out. The crowd wanted to string them up right there. This man came from a neighboring