He again repeated, "There must be massive propaganda; secondly, we shall furnish the dead, but I need to know 'How are we going to die.' " He commented that he was going to ask that his photograph not be put on the cover of a certain magazine because he didn't know whether he was going to continue; that in the present circumstances he didn't see how he could continue. Again I urged that he must do so, and that I felt certain that we could resolve some of his protocols, probably not to the extent that he desired, but at least in part, but that time was necessary to accomplish this.

He repeated that the Council needs to have some action taken in Cuba, but the Agency knows on undertaking actions without any connection with the Council. Further, that he must have the reason for conducting propaganda, such as outlined in the "Operation Grieta." He asked so when could I give him some answers. I replied that during the current week I expected to have meetings in which these matters would to discussed - the Department of State, with Mr. Goodwin, with representatives of the Agency, and that I hoped that something would be resolved, but that he must realize that many people are involved in such matters and solutions are not reached quickly. He reiterated that he had to keep telling his organizations "Wait a little longer" and that this was becoming embarrassing.

Then he brought up his proposal of having him and the Council go to Cuba, saying "perhaps it would be advantageous that I die in Cuba; that the Council ask recognition from Cuban soil and the military aid of the United States -- all to take place within 48 hours. He added, "I have told you of the reaction of Cardinal Spellman, "We have done very badly in the Cuban affair."

I reminded him that despite the urgency that we all recognized in the Cuban situation and its threat to the United States and all the Americas, there are many other world problems - Laos, Berlin, etc., - which also occupy the attention of our government people.

Then I said I wished to take advantage of our meeting to ask him for information relative to his current budget; first, did he believe that there were any people receiving a salary from the Council who might also be getting financial aid from H.E.W. He said, "No, I would never permit that." Then he declared that he had two ways of operating when he absorbed the personnel of the various organizations into the CRC: either to cut off their salaries suddenly, or to put them to work for their pay; that the "non-income" (payroll) gave a little bit because he had to take in certain people, and that he considered his absorbing them was according to the policy of C.I.A. Then he declared that the razors' benefit received by refugees from H.E.W. was $100 per family per month, and that no where here could a family live on a hundred a month. Hence, he did not feel that he could cut off the revenue on the staffs of the CRC organizations, and send them to the H.E.W. Therefore, they were assigned to the different

SEP 17