An emasculated political apparatus in the WAVE area will deprive AMBIDDY-1 of all excuse to divide his time between Central America (where he belongs) and the WAVE area.

The tawdry aftermath of the ZENON II raid can justly be blamed if not on AMYUM, at least on AMBIDDY-1's political representation in the WAVE area. With that representation effectively eliminated, one of the main sources of ODYOKE discomfiture will have been effectively dislocated. Impending changes should at least eliminate the AMYUM press and intel sections.

Should there be further unpleasantness in the WAVE area, KUBARK will, once contacts with AMYUM-19 have ceased, have a base for plausible denial of responsibility for not preventing it.

If we are to believe certain not altogether unbiased reports, AMBIDDY-1, through his mistress Adelaida PADRON, has become linked with the exile demeande which moves on the fringes of common crime and which is closely intertwined with the remnants of Batista's regime. While AMYUM, and particularly AMYUM-19, may to some extent serve to counteract and slow down these trends, they are obviously unable to halt them entirely. Hence, what little benefit we could have derived from a tie-in between AMYUM and AMWORLD has not been forthcoming. Short of an enduring political compromise between conflicting viewpoints, which we don't consider within the realm of practical politics, any solution which keeps AMBIDDY-1 out of the WAVE area and close to his command post, serves AMWORLD and hence KUBARK interests.

AMWORLD in WAVE area had become a breeding ground for rumors and beyond reasonable doubt a valuable source of classified information for ANTHUG's agents. By placing AMBIDDY-1 and his pals out of reach, PERUMEN's 1. B. may be forced to base a major collection effort on Nicaragua which won't be easy.

AMYUM-is in a "nice guy," personally prepossessing and basically honorable. He evidently and in full measure shares PERUMEN propensity for political intrigue and fractionalization. He is intensely preoccupied with ideological issues and is unwilling to accept the absolute primacy of overthrowing ANTHUG to which, at least at this rather hopeless stage of the