SCANTLING spent six weeks during July and August of this year giving tradecraft and surveillance training to LIPAILS-5 and 7 from Monterrey. Although this is not a direct contribution to the above objective, it is considered sufficiently related to mention here,

4. In addition to his contributions to the above objectives, SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support requirements from the Station. For example, SCANTLING is now handling LIEMBROIL-2 and will continue to do so until the return of LIMOTOR-14 in June 1962. Also, during the past project year, SCANTLING handled the LIRICE surveillance team until July 1961 when Simon D. CLACKETT (ps) returned to Mexico City. SCANTLING is also used to spot and rent safe houses and apartments for other Station operations.

5. As stated in the preceding Requests for Project Renewal, although SCANTLING's LIEMPTY Project objectives can never be completely fulfilled, it is the Station's opinion that SCANTLING has made important and valuable contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically and to other Station activities in general. SCANTLING's production, measured against monetary expenditures, case officer time and other intangible factors, unquestionably justifies his continuation as an integral part of Project LIEMPTY.

B. Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project objectives):

1. "To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK personnel and physical facilities through use of photographic base houses." Three photographic bases, LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA, contribute to this objective. To avoid repetition, the Station is omitting the usual description of the functions of these three bases and how they contribute to the above objective. There has been no change in the coverage as described in the 1960 Request for Project Renewal.

2. "To collect operational information and identify operational leads pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." The LIENTRAP operation, handled by GERENDE, is still the major contributor to this