SECRET Security Information

20 November 1953

MEMORANDUM FOR FILE

SUBJECT: BIRADIAL

On Monday 9 "November 1953 a meeting was held with subject for the primary purpose of delivering his salary for October 1953 amounting to $350.00. A receipt for the amount was obtained and returned to Mr. Wolcott, Finance Division. A copy of the receipt is retained in subject's file.

During the meeting, subject reported his schooling at American University will terminate in approximately three weeks. His scheduled Covert training will also come to an end during the first week in December 1953.

Subject related he has not as yet received any news on his visa for Argentina for which he made application approximately 90 days ago. You will recall that subject anticipated it would take approximately 90 days to obtain such a visa.

BIRADIAL informed if he doesn't receive word on his visa within the next week he plans to have his wife follow this matter by writing to the Argentine Embassy in Costa Rica.

Subject also presented this thought in the event no results are forth coming within the next two or three weeks: He related that in so far as his friends and wife's relatives in Costa Rica are concerned, he and his wife and family are in the states on an extended trip. They are expected to return to Costa Rica. In so far as he knows, he, his wife and the Argentine Consul in Costa Rica are the only persons in Costa Rica aware that they have made application for the visa under question. In the event no positive results are obtained on his visa application, subject wondered about the advisability of returning to Costa Rica, to finalize his visa affairs and depart for Argentina.

The question of maintaining cover while in Costa Rica was discussed. In this connection he informed he would have no trouble finding a suitable job which would lead authenticity to him and his wife status. Too, it was indicated, and it appears somewhat reasonable, for subject to remain in the U.S. presently for too long a period of time may raise some question as to his true status in the minds of Argentine Embassy Officials in Costa Rica as well as his friends and relatives in Costa Rica.

It is suggested that consideration be given to allow subject to return to Costa Rica within the near future if the appropriate Argentine Visa has not been received to: (a) allow him to finalize such details (b) To preserve his cover status.

Contact will be maintained with subject for further developments. It is anticipated that John Heyn will meet subject at the next meeting for the first time. This is recommended, inasmuch as Mr. Heyn who will be in the pertinent area, may be able to familiarize himself with subject.

John t. Cavadine

SECRET Security Information