joining. When NOSENKO entered the KGB in the spring of 1953, he transferred routinely to the Komsomol organization there and became Secretary of the Komsomol Organization of the Second Chief Directorate. This was a small organization consisting, NOSENKO thought, of about 17 KGB employees; he remained its secretary until June or July 1954, when he got into the trouble over illegal use of operational documents. According to NOSENKO, "Immediately after this incident the Bureau of the Komsomol was gathered, and I was immediately removed from the position of Secretary." A week later, a "strict reprimand" was entered in NOSENKO's Komsomol records.

In October 1954, on the eve of his 27th birthday, NOSENKO was forced out of the Komsomol for over-age. At that time, the "strict reprimand" he had received several months earlier was remitted on NOSENKO's petition, and he was permitted to leave the organization with a clean record. He was not permitted to join the Communist Party immediately, however. NOSENKO described the situation on 15 April 1964 as follows: "Now I had to prove myself. Not being a candidate for Party membership, I asked them for assignments to show my eagerness, to prove myself. I also asked the Party Organization of the Second Chief Directorate for some 'public service' (obshchest-venniy) assignments. I collected newspapers." For a year, NOSENKO "made good" by running errands and performing other such tasks, until it was decided that he was suitable for Party membership. He applied in January 1956 and was accepted as a candidate member of the Party in June the same year; full membership was granted in 1957. For over a year, from October 1954 until January 1956, NOSENKO said, he had the distinction of being the only employee of the KGB who was neither a Komsomol nor a Party member or applicant.

4. Statements to Others by NOSENKO

Before giving CIA the foregoing details, NOSENKO had talked about himself to several non-Soviets, including persons involved in cases which are reviewed in other portions of this paper. NOSENKO informed the recruitment target Horst BRAUNS that he had two daughters. He advised Ivan Ivanovich PREIS-FREUND, a Finnish citizen used in the recruitment approach to a U.S. Army sergeant in Moscow, that he was married, his father was dead but his mother was living, he had served in the Navy, and he had two children. PREISFREUND met the "little girls" and later reported to CIA that, although NOSENKO was a "woman-chaser," he loved his daughters very much.* With one KGB agent in particular, Arsene FRIPPEL, NOSENKO was especially forthcoming: he told FRIPPEL of his

According to the Statutes (Ustav) of the Komsomol in effect in 1954, the maximum age for a Komsomol member at that time was 25. On this basis, NOSENKO should have been excluded in October 1953, upon reaching his 26th birthday. When this was explained to NOSENKO by DERYABIN in July 1965, NOSENKO replied that he was certain he left the Komsomol in 1954 upon reaching the age of 27, that he was sure the maximum age was 26 at that time, and that no special exceptions were made in his case.

See Part V.F.9.

*PREISFREUND is discussed in detail in Part V.E.4.a.