CROSSWORD - By Eugene Muffler

HORIZONTAL VERTICAL

I silent
most serious
jump
a beverage

13 beyond 14 sumptuous &amp; entertainer 47. of the people 49 adjudge 51. heighten

15 cheek bone 16 source of &amp; phosphorus compounds 52. flower part 53 connected 54: white poplar

17 quite 18 one who entitles

put on 21. force

22 pale 24 impel

25 continue to one locality

27 cap 29 indigent

30 central part 34 at an end &amp; poetic

36 quinter 37. soft mineral

40 S American wood sorrel

42 subsist 43 Luzon savage

Answer to last week's puzzle.

Average time of solution 27 minutes Distributed by King Features Syndicate

which on percentage rated to be the case. West cashed the king and ace of clubs and shifted to the jack of hearts, drawing East's queen and South's ace. Burying his head in the sand, declarer, in ostrich like fashion, proceeded to lead all his trumps but one in the hope that someone would fall into the error of unguarding the hearts so that the king and another heart would establish the fourth card of that suit. This was the height of futility because the cards spoke for themselves and no player out of incarceration could hold onto diamonds and let go heart's

Declaration would have been better advised to attempt to visualize the adverse holdings and he might have hit upon a scheme to win the hand without resort to chicanyery. Declarer should start extracting trumps. When West shows out on the second round, he pulls one more, leaving East with the nine. Declarer cashes the ace of diamonds and then plays the king of hearts. If East ruffs he has nothing but diamonds to return, permitting declarer to dispose of his two losing hearts. If East refuses to ruff, declarer simply plays the three of trumps and few E's. It was with the nine. This is a Great gift for the forest diamond return points and to the contest

BEAUTY AND YOU

DO YOU RUN LIFE.. OR DOES IT RUN YOU

By JOSEPHINE LOWMAN

Few of us run our lives. Our lives run us. If we are to lead reasonable full lives this has to be so to a certain extent. However, over and over again I am impressed with the fact that few people consciously make choices. Few are firm in their determination to get from life that which has greatest meaning for them. Most persons go along in the usual groove with only a sideways glance at the things they long to accomplish; the things which have always held great interest for them.

We fail to realize that we should have an energy budget just as we have a money budget. We have only so much energy to spend without nervous exhaustion.

We should budget it in order to have time for the realization of some of those dreams and the accomplishment of some purely personal interests.

Women are supposed to run houses but most houses run women to death. In this, as in all activities, you must choose what is really important to you

Is it more important to have a perfectly kept house, or a home where everyone is comfortably and you are gay -and everyone is happy? Is it important to you to entertain formally and flawlessly or to have enough energy left to enjoy your guests when they arrive?

I am not advocating a messy house. This leads to fatigue and hecticness. Charm of atmosphere and a certain amount of order are certainly essential.

Myriad small wastes in energy add up to fatigue. If your kitchen work table is not the correct height for you it will be a handicap. If you stand