814.

(iii) Sub-sourcing by

In the case of POPOV, it was said that he had learned these details about the compromise of POPOV from a conversation which he conducted some time earlier with the Verification of POPOV because at the time he was assigned to the task of verifying information by the supplied CIA. The same sub-source was cited by him as supplying the information.

(iv) Remarks

It is reported, inaccurately, that American Intelligence gave him an accommodation address in Berlin, that a dead drop was used in the Moscow phase of the operation, and that the KGB doubled POPOV for a year and one-half before terminating the case. Each of those incorrect items came to light since its discovery, participated in the investigation of POPOV, presumably he would have recognized them to be untrue. One explanation for the inaccuracies might be that precisely what he had been told, but which was deliberately misunderstood him. There is, however, no evident reason why such an explanation should not have been done this. Another explanation might be that POPOV's misidentified his sub-source, or in relaying the information to the details. This would mean that POPOV was less than fully attentive to details on a personal acquaintance who had gained notoriety, details which he was told at a time when he was in a position comparable to POPOV's; in contact with Russian Intelligence.

None of these explanations seems entirely satisfactory, and the answer may lie elsewhere.

The theory has been inconsistent about the degree of suspicion surrounding POPOV when he was recalled to Moscow in November 1958 in connection with his correspondence with the KGB. On one hand, it indicated that the KGB surveillance of the U.S. Embassy officer was coincidental with the separate investigation of POPOV's relationship with this Austrian woman. On the other hand, in 1962 it implied that as a result of the suspicion of POPOV in Berlin, there was interest in POPOV's future contacts in Moscow, an interest which would be covered by the KGB's surveillance of U.S. Embassy employees.

However, in another version, it is said that as soon as the illegals reported their compromise in January 1958, POPOV immediately fell under suspicion. The conflict between the statements has not been resolved.