12 February 1953

At 1715 I was called to Brad Connor's office and shown a memorandum dated 10 February 1953, "Meeting with Representatives John Taber and Cliff Clevenger on February 6, 1953 - Baker East and Baker West". The memorandum was signed by General Stonor. Present were:

Rep. John Taber Rep. Cliff Clevenger Mr. Wilson Clayton General Frank Stoner I/R - Mr. Crooby ITC - Mr. Connors I - Mr. Harris IBS/IN - Mr. Morton S - Mr. Barnard - Mr. Lourie

General Stoner had been discussing the need for money for more installations for VOA. At the top of page 3 of his memo, there is found the following:

"Mr. Taber mentioned that we had a large Munich plant. He said that this was the alleged place of employment of Ruby Parsons. We stated that our plant in Munich was not comparable to the large plant built up by RFE, that we felt there should be a closer coordination on a technical level between the various US activities engaged in international broadcasting in Europe and that there wasn't any reason why a single centralized plant should not be able to serve Radio Free Europe, Voice of America, Armed Forces Network, and the American Committee for the Liberation of the Peoples of Russia."

"When liberation of the Peoples of Russia was mentioned as a potential broadcaster, Mr. Taber made notes and said that he would look into the matter. He was told that the single building in Munich erected by RFE could also house all the feeders located in separate sites and separate buildings pertaining to U.S. activities mentioned above. He was particularly interested in this possibility."

Mr. Connors told me that he had ordered page 3 of this memo rewritten to omit these two paragraphs before the paper got further circulation. However, he wanted us to know what Stoner had said as shown by these two paragraphs, so that we could take any action we see fit with reference to Taber and Clevenger. Connors said he didn't know how far we cut in the Appropriations Committee. He said that he had warned Stoner "twenty times" not to reveal such things. He stated that Stoner had learned these things while in Germany.

ARISTIDES G. LAZARUS

PYD M

PUD

M