C. Targets of Opportunity - The immediate availability of independent assets to perform investigations, photographic assignments and other essential types of support services in connection with Station targets of opportunity represent an operational advantage which this Station considers highly significant. It is due to such LIEMPTY assets that an agent can be sent to distant areas in Mexico to do investigations, that photographs can be made of individuals and places which are of operational interest and apartments and hotel rooms can be acquired in fictitious names in support of sensitive operations and activities.

D. Although the progress and success of any support project depends upon requirements from other Station operations, it must be concluded that Project LIEMPTY has indeed been effective during the past project year.

IV. PROBLEMS

A. Security - The activities of the LICALLA base were suspended in September 1960 as a direct result of the arrest of three KURIOT technicians by the Cuban Government. One of the technicians was known to have knowledge of the four LIMUST units (LICALLA is located in one of these units) and the Station considered it appropriate to suspend photographic operations pending resolution of the situation. At this time, there is no indication when LICALLA operations will be resumed. The LICALLA base operator has reported that there have been no unusual inquiries or other suspicious actions which might indicate that LICALLA has been compromised to LIMERICK personnel; however, such a possibility will exist until the release of the three technicians. No other security problems have occurred during the past year.

V. PLANS

A. Processing of Photographs - During the past year considerable progress has been made in the Station's handling, i. e., sorting, indexing, identifying leads and filing, of photographs produced by the several bases.

B. Photographic Techniques - The previous LIEMPTY Project Renewal Request indicated that the Station planned to try new techniques using HY-PAN film in night photography. HY-PAN film was used on a trial basis during daylight hours with poor results. Almost invariably, prints

SECRET, FOR OK~~