CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH SUBMITTER'S COVER FORM ACLY-192

Documentation provided with accompanying cover story to show that ACLY/1 is an Austrian and who has never had OBOKEK connections, nor ever been in service. (See separate cover attachment A).

4. It is planned at this time to take WOQUE/1 "black" to Germany. There he will be set by the undersigned, given his Austrian documentation, contact instructions and letter of credit, stripped of any WEITEK clothing or personal effects, and dispatched. He is to proceed to Leipzig on his own and then arrival make contact. The cover assignment for subject is temporarily left open, although he has been told to look into the prospects of opening a photo or general repair shop. He has actually done photographic work but the decision on this we will leave to your on-the-spot judgment. The letter of credit for three thousand dollars is to be used to finance this venture. There will also be a reserve of one thousand dollars in a Swiss account should expenses necessitate a greater outlay. This money will constitute an non-interest bearing, operational loan which must be repaid by WOQUE/1 from profits over a period of years. All other profits after the loan is paid off will be WOQUE/1's.

5. A word about the manner of men with whom we are dealing. He is a small, energetic individual, who has displayed shrewdness, cleverness, ingenuity and inventiveness. He has a peculiar turn of mind which leaves itself remarkably to nefarious and extra-legal activities. Excitement and intrigue are important factors in his life, he relishes it and as a result may to a little delicates to handle. WOQUE/1 likes order and clear cut chain of command. He admires the Prussian approach and as a result will take orders even if he may disagree. It is important to him to have the trust and confidence of his case officer. If in his own mind he feels assured of this and is confident of the professional knowledge of the CO, he will reciprocate in kind. He is indeed aware of the precepts of right and wrong, but if he is given an assignment which may be morally wrong in the eyes of the world, but necessary because his case officer ordered him to carry it out, then it is right and he will dutifully undertake appropriate action for its execution without pangs of conscience. In a word, he can rationalize all actions. One last thought which may be useful. Best results will probably be gotten if, when given an assignment, he be permitted to accomplish it in his own way. The latter is connected with his idea of trust and confidence.

CHARLES R. ROISTADZE FOR USE 43-43

PAUL E. LEIGHTON

Attachment A (under separate cover)

SECRET FORM 10-67 53a DATE 12/17 USE PREVIOUS EDITION, REPLACES FORMS-41-28, 31-28A AND-31-29 WHICH ARE OBSOLETE. CLASSIFICATION SUBMITTER'S COVER FORM CONTINUED PAGE NO.