Intelligence Agency, in this instance)" who was there to attest to the fact that neither the CIA nor the U.S. Government is opposed to Abacan independence. His interlocutors, despite Muldoon's protests that he was retired from CIA and in no way represented U.S. government interests respecting Abaco, seemed anxious - he felt - to accept his presence there as evidence of U.S. government endorsement of the Abacan independence movement.

5. Muldoon took some pains to gain reassurance that he would not be pinpointed by Werbell as the source of this information if any action were taken on it. I assured him that, apart from the particular incident on 17 May 1974, the general outlines of WERBELL and his activities and aspirations for Abaco have already been reported by two or three other sources. Since there is nothing the Agency can plausibly do at this juncture about WERBELL'S apparent effort to con his supporters into thinking that the CIA was backing the Abaco independence venture, I told Muldoon I planned merely to make his side of this story a matter of record and let it go at that.

6. To cap off the story, Red Stent invited us to lunch at the Class Reunion on Eye Street and 18th. When Muldoon and I arrived to meet Stent we found him ensconced at a corner table with three other people. Red rushed over to inform us that he would be introducing me as a colleague of his from AEROJET. He then presented me to WERBELL, Werbell's date Patricia BOTOND and Cecil BROWNLOW of "Aviation Weekly." WERBELL, looking for all the world like Jerry Colonna, was intent on the task of seducing Miss BOTOND, who happened to be promoting a convention for the Atlantic Union organization, a political enterprise which is an offshoot of the World Federalists Movement. Miss BOTOND, as it turned out was reared in Shanghai, China, at the same time as Stent. Red had attended school with her brother - the German School in Shanghai. Miss BOTOND had been expelled from the German school in the late 1930s for having had anti-Nazi doodles in her copybook. Brownlow had helped Red obtain aerial photos of the ChiCom consulate compound in Geneva in the early 1960s when Red was stationed in Paris. When Werbell had wearied of the reminiscences of Stent and Botond and had managed to hustle his prey off to a private table, Stent revealed to BROWNLOW that I was not AEROJET but CIA. Fortunately my name was mumbled at the introduction so that no one could have repeated it. No one in fact seemed interested.

3.8