INTERVIEW TECHNIQUES, COVER, ETC.

At the first meeting and the one the next day before I made the main trip, my principal local political contact presented a possible cost of operations in the coming election. I asked him if it were a realistic figure and whether his analysis were realistic. He admitted that it really wasn't and I told him to go back and sharpen his pencil and sit down and talk sense. It was therefore agreed that when I came back from my trip we would sit down and go over it district by district, and problem by problem. He and his political cohort tried to lay out an itinerary for me and they recommended the people I would see in each town. Our boy there dutifully wrote down all these names for me and then we very dutifully threw the list away when it was all over and we started making up our own list. Some of the people you gave me I included in the list and saw. Also, our boy had a number of people. We both agreed that this trip would have to be played by ear, since after you arrive you have a better idea of what you are doing. The only strategy that we really agreed on was that I would take a plane and fly from the south up.

I did exactly that. I flew over to the south and then went on, smelling around. I used three methods: (1) street interview, shop interview and in other words, people of no significance, (2) the Rotary Club routine and (3) talks with lawyers.

Using the first method, I would go into a little shop and would inquire about how much an article would cost. If the shop keeper could speak English we then got into a conversation, and then I would make a purchase. If he couldn't speak English, then I would go to another shop where they could. I bought all sorts of odds and ends — a pencil, a little notebook, a pair of slippers. I bought a pair of sandals which I didn't wear because I took the advice of the people and remained American all the way. I wore shoes, socks, shirt and so forth. Whenever a great number of people were attracted to us, I considered this a good opportunity for an interview. As you know, you talk to one native and there are five standing around you — they will surround you. If they speak your language they will participate. They won't interrupt when someone else is talking, but when he is finished each one will get into the act; this is wonderful.

And then I did the Rotary Club routine; there are Rotary Clubs all over the damned place. I was taken to one meeting which happened to be taking place in a town where I was. In the hotel where I was staying they had the Rotary International. I looked it over very carefully to make sure