Verges wanted somebody from Pakistan on the board. He said "I'm certain that the Mulana Bashani Kaan will agree".

(That would be Mulana Abdul Hamid Bashani)

That's right. He's sometimes called Kaan as a title of respect.

He's a 70 or 80 years-old man. He's called the Red Mullah, sort of like the Red Dean of Canterbury.

He's the leader of one of the East Pakistan parties. He had been to China and was quite pro-Chinese. He was more than willing. But he had absolutely no contact whatever with the magazine.

(Did he come in to replace Hamza Alavi)

Yes.

(How long did Hamza Alavi work with the magazine)

You would have to check the issues of the English edition. He was there until slightly before we dropped Rosalind Ainslee. That would be May of 63. right up to spring of 64.

(Did Hamza Alavi do anything actually) or did he just found

He got manuscripts and so on. He actually did the work that Phombeah never did. But that was all. And it was sort of contra coeur with him because he did not agree with the thing. He had the idea that the magazine was ansort of open forum,rostrum for his debate between all sorts of revolutionary movements. But when it became very obvious that Verges wanted it to try, at that time, at least, to stay with the Chinese line, it particularly because of xhna feelings about the situation in Pakistan and he wasn't happy. Also on the question of India, He felt that the Chinese position vis-a-vis India wasn't just, and he didn't like the hook-up between Pakistani the growing friendship and actual solidarity between Pakistan and China.

(So he was through amicably. What is the present relationship between Alavi and Verges)

I doubt if he has any at all. He is very active here in London with Pakistani groups. He has money. His wife's family has money, his own family has. It wasn't a question of money for him.

(Has he continued to be active in AfroAsian things)

He's an academic. In fact The Socialist Register published last year by an article on Imperialism by him. He is active around the London School of Economics. He is known to the academic Left, friends with the boys who do Left Review and so on. His only practical work would be working with Pakistani groups for instance during the last election