(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

The value of having NOSENKO present when GRIBANOV made a visit to Geneva about 7 February, a visit known to CIA only through NOSENKO;

- The potential value to be derived from NOSENKO's in-place spotting of CIA recruitment targets among the Soviet representation in Geneva;

- The necessity of making arrangements, acceptable to NOSENKO, for his defection and resettlement.

In a three-and-a-half hour meeting on 26 January NOSENKO emphasized that although he agreed that it was necessary and useful for him to remain in place until GRIBANOV visited Geneva, he wanted to defect as soon as possible thereafter.

On 28 January NOSENKO reported that GRIBANOV might not be coming to Geneva after all, for KGB Chairman Semichastnyy was apparently reluctant to permit him to travel beyond Vienna. NOSENKO said that he would probably have definite information on GRIBANOV's trip by the end of the week.

On 30 January NOSENKO said that there appeared to be little likelihood that GRIBANOV would visit Geneva or Paris. [From 7 to 10 February 1964 GRIBANOV was in Paris, where he was seen on the street with a Soviet identified by NOSENKO as a KGB counterintelligence officer.] Therefore, he wanted to defect right away. He cited as reasons the emotional strain of any further delay and the fact that he and his case officers were wasting their time working against the local KGB Legal Residency, which had no worthwhile or promising targets. He also felt that nothing of value could be obtained from the Soviet delegation because "Tsarpkin himself doesn't know what he will say until he is told by Moscow the day before". CIA handlers, however, delayed the defection for one week by obtaining NOSENKO's agreement to assist in an audio operation: CIA proposed to install listening devices in the offices of the KGB Legal Residency, and NOSENKO said he would check certain physical aspects of the delegation buildings. As the best time for the defection, he suggested Saturday morning, 8 February, because he probably would not be missed until the following

0001594

TS No. 197124 Copy 10