nothing about this. LACKLEN said that certainly with the large numbers of refugees that have come to West Germany in the past 15 years, there must be some means of getting documentation. LACKLEN said if WIROGUE would see officially ask him for German recognition that he would forward this request to Washington. LACKLEN made it very clear that we here in Germany could make no commitments, could do nothing on this matter or make another move on this case until we hear from Washington. WIROGUE said he clearly understood this and asked for German documentation in exchange for his Austrian passport, etc.

5. Later in the conversation WIROGUE mentioned he had a moral obligation to carry out his assignment for the Congolese army here in Europe and said he must give them some information by aid withing three weeks. LACKLEN asked WIROGUE how would a German recognition affect his dealings with the Congolese army. WIROGUE said he must return to the Congo for two or three days to conclude his contract with them. He would require his Austrian passport for this.

6. Throughout the conversation WIROGUE used the words,"if the service does not have anything for me." It is LACKLEN'S opinion that WIROGUE believes it quite possible that KUBARK may not have an assignment for him and that if we can provide him with usable recognition documentation he might be effectively terminated. The one problem still unclear, however, is how to obtain his agreement not to return to the Congo. The matter that we retain his Austrian passport will prevent him from returning to the Congo, but it will be very desirable to find a plausible reason by which we can make him see he must not return to the Congo.

7. LACKLEN requested and WIROGUE agreed to remain in the g apartment until the pass could be obtained. LACKLEN arranged for a maid to come in and cook his meals. French magazines were provided. It is believed he will be content in the apartment through 24 May.

8. Throughout the meeting WIROGUE continually expressed his views on the Congo, documentation procedures and techniques, etc. LACKLEN suggested that he had very useful information that might be of its interest to an expert in these fields and asked if he would be agreeable to talking with someone. WIROGUE said he would be very pleased to do so. LACKLEN made this pitch as a contingency by which we might tie up WIROGUE for several days in "important" debriefings and delay him his pressing for an immediate solution. We might also describe delays as being caused by Washington being away, something of which he claims to be very familiar with. During these debriefings it would be possible also to learn the extent of his knowledge of KUBARK operations, personalities, etc. LACKLEN believes WIROGUE has quite an extensive knowledge of KUBARK. He has been handled by many people, in many places and in many ways.