Description, access, hours of availability, the opposition, pros and cons as to suitability — it was all there. He just didn't like to write out that upon which he could report orally.

10. In writing reports on the two counter-surveillance exercises, he dashed those off in jig time. No pause for thinking, no pause to look up at the ceiling or cut the window. Just straight writing, including paragraphing. Mind and pen were as one. Some thing for his oral analysis before and after each meeting — no pause to think, to review, to reconstruct, to reorganize — just an If/then-type printout.

11. The instructor sets down this reluctance on our hero's part to write out certain things, not to degrade him, but to alert desk and field officers that if they must have a certain report by a certain time, and they want it in writing, they must be firm. For example, after the second meeting in the developmental series, the instructor said, "I must have that report first thing in the morning. Do you want to take time out from this afternoon's training session to do it?" And, as already reported above, FHOE preferred to save the training time and he encouraged "I will make time to write it". In this case, time was of the essence because TELOUIST had to see the report before the next meeting. To sum up this item: then FHOE feels that an oral report is adequate he finds it a little difficult to bring himself to find time to make a written report. Told definitely that he must write & report and given a deadline, he meets the deadline and the report is everything it should be.

12. His reports on his recruitment meetings, Mr. Smith said, were excellent. So jumping to conclusions, no padding, no misinterpretations, to conclusions.

13. The surveillance,tens captain, reading FMK's report on his actions during the countersurveillance exercises, marveled at the completeness, total accuracy of description of the surveillance FHOE had made, including their area (but always made each ten an inch or so shorter than the actual height - which FHOE admitted he does accurately), and the total recall of every move, every street crossing, every escape direction. (In the first countersurveillance exercise, Syring on FHOE without a moment's prior notice, he made one of his two Surveillance. In the second one, with plenty of time to prepare, he made all three of them. These were two different tens from the New York WOBONE J. Concluding his admiration of FHOE's reporting, the surveillance tens captain said to the instructor, "You should be very proud of him".

14. In both exercises, the surveillance tens criticized the rapidity of FHOE's movements. He walks very rapidly from place to place, then spends time to browse in a book shop. Then off again at a high rate of speed to his next stop. They also criticized his looking both ways while crossing a one way street. They felt it made him appear