MEMORANDUM FOR: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FOR POLICY COORDINATION

SUBJECT: NCFE

1. For quite some time the staff officers of this division concerned with utilising the facilities of the NCFE and with exploiting the Albanian, Bulgarian, and Romanian emigrations have been aware of a lack of adequate coordination between our own activities and those of the NCFE staff. In conjunction with those AT Division officers responsible for handling our relations with that organisation, we have attempted to explore the problem in order to find a solution which could be considered realistic and practical.

2. The difficulty lies not only in the communication system between OPC and NCFE, which does not always transmit, at exactly the right time, the right ideas from one organisation to the proper individuals at the right level on the other. Although we have maintained very close contact both informally and through formal channels, only too often we have not been in a position to learn why NCFE staff officers have made a given decision in regard to some emigre organisation in which we had an interest; and on the other hand, our desires and needs have not always been fully understood or accepted in New York. Again, it has happened that we were ignorant of developments that closely affected our operations until it was too late for us to make our influence felt, and, correspondingly, it must be admitted that we have ourselves pushed ahead with courses of action without adequately briefing the NCFE. The most extreme case in point known to us concerns the Romanian emigration, where we and NCFE are now pursuing conflicting policies. The upshot of this has been the gradual development of a situation wherein OPC is supporting an organisation, the NCFE, which is not fully responsive to it.

3. This situation is not regarded by us as reflecting any fundamental inadequacy in NCFE, or as presenting any insolusable difficulty. There exists a problem in staff interrelationship which can and should be resolved by a reform in our organisational approach. The goal toward which we believe we should work is one where OPC communication with NCFE would be channelled directly along a single high-level line which would firmly tie in APC's office with that of the head of the other organisation. Ideas, suggestions, information, etc. would flow, in the regular channels, up from the OPC working level to APC's office for review and transmission to the top office of NCFE, and flow down from there through NFE's usual channels to the proper individuals in its operational machinery. Personal contacts between individuals at a lower level in the two organisations would frequently occur to supplement this usual channel, when security permitted, but should be in the hands of responsible personnel who understand the OPC policies involved.

L. As the first