in the Sov Embassy. S stated that he was on friendly terms with an official of the Sov Embassy. TANG commented that this was unusual, because Soves make friends with nobody. S stated again that he had no other way of calling his relation with the Soviet official than a personal friendship. In reply to TANG's question S stated that he preferred not to mention the name of his Soviet friend and TANG asked what position did S have. S replied that as far as he knew the Soviet official was quite high up (so). TANG continued his questioning: what was the nature of their relationship with the Soviet, was it a business type relationship; how often did they see each other; where did they meet. S stated that he never transacted any business with the Soviet and they meet about twice a month for a dinner or lunch in various restaurants. S added that the Soviet plays tennis every week-end and that he (S) sometime goes to watch him playing (Note: the latter statement is not true). TANG asked did S play tennis and he answered negatively.

6. At this point S asked was he interested in meeting his Soviet friend and TANG stated that he was. Then, S asked if TANG what should he say to his Soviet friend. TANG commented that this was a good question and he told S that he would think about it. Consequently, he asked S could he pass by on Monday or Tuesday (Aug 4 or 5) and S said he would.

7. In reply to F's question S stated that he intended to tell LOG exactly what transpired on his meeting with TANG and that he planned visiting TANG on Monday so that he would be able to tell LOG did TANG decide to meet LOG.

8. S told S that he was going too far in pleasing LOG and was getting in a deeper and deeper mess by getting involved with the Kat Chinese; it was obvious from the attitude of Mr. TANG that he read him through and was taking his time to find out could he benefit something out of the whole scheme. Therefore, S should also take it easy and not rush to see TANG on Monday, i.e. before seeing LOG; further, he should stick to his previous decision that it was rather dangerous to be meeting with LOG often.

9. S felt that LOG would press for a meeting with S as soon as possible once he got to know that TANG had opened the possibility of wanting to meet with LOG. P considered this to be possible and impressed on S that