Keel 72-KICO-26

14.2 contd.

(Protectorate). Mejia said that they fight to the last man against this. Mejia will phone VKG. It is extremely important that Radio Habana deny that Mejia is involved in this, as well as the name of the group (which is Communist). Can give this as source of someone in Mexico. They should not mention names nor 14 de Julio nor Juan B. or anyone. This does a tremendous damage.

Didn't he say anything about the situation inside (country)? No, because their call was limited to 3 minutes.

Did Cordero see "Excelsior"? Yes. Did "that" come out? Yes, came out in headlines and has about 4 columns...reads it to VKG.. that is, the heading. VAGhas not received his paper yet.

VKG thinks they should write up a bulletin for the newspapers. The Dominican exiles should sign it. In today's "El Día," they give a lot of space to them (the exiles here who gave out declarations the other day). They mention all four. "El Día" published about Bosch, a little mixed up by Marcio, but in general is good. Mentions their bulletin, etc.

VKG is going to call Habana right now. VKG will take the points off recorders and type them up and clarify them (about mentioning names) with Habana. VKG thinks that Mejia should write up a bulletin for newspapers - stating this is information received by relatives etc. over the phone. For Mexico press.

Mejia said that VKG can tell Habana that the only way the people in Dominican republic now have a way of finding out about international situation is via Voice of America and Radio Habana. The enemies are using this propaganda of Radio Habana. They should deny about Mejia and about fighting outside. Fight is in the city. Don't mention the hills...

VKG is at home writing today. In case VKG has to go out, he will leave phone where he is. Mejia might phone VKG today at noon. Should have his recorder ready in case he calls. VKG has it ready. (MO is Millo Cordero.)

17.0 In. WO with VKG, who answers..WO operator..insaudible...about his call to Habana (the price?).

17.2 In. WO asks VKG, who answers, for said, Casta. Casta takes the phone. WO is Santa...C. will get off today...

17.7 Out to 09. VKG with operator. Saya he is reporting in for a call from Fundora of Radio Habana.

18.0 In. Person in Cuba is not in right now. They will call back a little later for VKG.

After 1050, 2 May

18.2 Out to 31-06-06. VKG with Jovan (Miric), who answers. VKG tells Miric about Mejia's call - gives him data...as noted in previous conv....The news given out by Radio Habana (VKG interjects his note) that there are guerrillas in the mountains is not true. This has been denied by 14 de July Group. Radio Habana said that one of the Directors of 14 de 0x July Group talked to VKG and said this and 14 de July Group has denied this.

Miric asks about yesterday's speech (Pidal's speech). Suppose that he should call "Prensa Latina." VAGheard the speech. It was

Kee172-RICO-26