1. Questions: Does USEP plan to extend tighter and constant management control over this project, as against the present system of hands-off until end-audit, or is this impossible because of regulations? If the latter is true, who has the power to change the regulations, and is it possible for them to be changed within the context of overall USEP policy?

Short of involving itself or its staff in the actual implementation of projects or in voluntary agency operations, USEP maintains a continuing scrutiny and review of every project and contract into which it has entered. Information developed by field officers in the course of this review is passed to the Chief of the Escapee Program Division concerned, who evaluates the material and discusses it, when appropriate, with the local agency director. Subsequent to this evaluation and discussion with the agency, the material is forwarded to OFSEP which makes a second analysis and, if indicated, discusses it with the agency's European Director. There is no policy of hands-off until the end-audit is made. End-use-audits are an integral part of the review of projects in order to determine whether or not the supplies and services are reaching the escapees.

In the light of the preceding paragraph, the latter part of the question becomes academic; however, USEP policy in this respect is flexible and can be adapted to any situation warranting a modification of procedures.

2. Questions: What is the interpretation of "local settlement"? If a man is earning a distinctly marginal existence, which means an unhealthy and unhappy existence, is he automatically ruled out? Who calls the shots on this, USEP or the agencies?

Local settlement is not predicated solely on economic factors. Rather, local settlement depends upon a variety of conditions obtaining in the case of a particular family. Consideration must, of necessity, be given to the jobs of the principal wage-carners to determine whether or not they are working in an occupational area most suitable to their desires, background and ability; to their wages to determine whether or not their earnings are sufficient to meet the needs of their families; to their housing to determine if it is adequate; and other factors which must be considered in connection with a family's first integration into the local community, including its own attitude toward such integration. It is not the policy of USEP to place a man or a family on an ineligible or inactive list as a locally settled case if he is earning a distinctly marginal existence. The decision of local settlement is made by the Chief of the Escapee Program Division concerned and only after a careful analysis of the situation obtaining in each particular case. Usually the Division Chief's decision is based upon the recommendation of the voluntary agency as analysed and evaluated by USEP officers in the field.

Question: ...