9 Nov. 1950

We are very anxious to have the pixxel photo-book finished as fast as possible.

Signed as you alone can do it, this book will be one of the most carefully written and effective shots we can fire at him. My understanding is that you are now engaged full time on this project. As your present assigned job with the corporation. Is that also your understanding?

If so, please let me know (1) that the photo-book is our first concern, and (2) what progress you have made to date. I am預望will prepare a preliminary report of all work now in process, and just before the end of the year. You will be justified in continuing the present arrangement. Please see the photo-book again, let me emphasize the great enthusiasm we have for this product, and our complete confidence that you will find an enormous following among those who are not yet convinced. It will have your own brilliant, creative, informative and incisive touch when completed.

no OPC man in NY/00 now: trying to get one Ray says only way to handle it is (1) fully sterilized, as above OR (2) hand-carry * NY/00 are not supposed to be SP details, so anything sent via 800 [pending getting an OPC man up there] would have to be sterilized anywhere. SECRET

秘書室

9 月 1 日 的 信 件

...and he's sure he's going to kill us.

...that you are now engaged full time on his project ... our present assignment with the corporation. ... Is that also your understanding?...

I'll be back in a few days, and then we can discuss the matter further. In the mean time, please forward the files pertaining to Mr. X's case, and send the necessary reports of my activities. I hope to be able to start working on them shortly. ... but first I need some time off. ... and as far as I know, no. ... so I'll try and get started as soon as possible. ... but I'm afraid I won't have much success until after New Year's Day. ... and even then, I'm not certain that I will be able to finish the book in time for publication. ... but I'll try. ... and I think that, given sufficient time, I should be able to complete the book by Christmas. ... but I'm not entirely sure that I can get enough writing material out of New York before that time. ... if I don't, I may have to go back to Los Angeles and try to get some inspiration there. ... but I don't think that will be possible until after New Year's Day. ... and even then, I'm not entirely sure that I can get enough writing material out of LA to finish the book by that time. ... but I'll try. ... and I think that, given sufficient time, I should be able to complete the book by Christmas. ... but I'm not entirely sure that I can get enough writing material out of New York before that time. ... if I don't, I may have to go back to Los Angeles and try to get some inspiration there. ... but I don't think that will be possible until after New Year's Day. ... and even then, I'm not entirely sure that I can get enough writing material out of LA to finish the book by that time. ... but I'll try. ... and I think that, given sufficient time, I should be able to complete the book by Christmas. ... but I'm not entirely sure that I can get enough writing material out of New York before that time. ... if I don't, I may have to go back to Los Angeles and try to get some inspiration there. ... but I don't think that will be possible until after New Year's Day. ... and even then, I'm not entirely sure that I can get enough writing material out of LA to finish the book by that time. ... but I'll try. ... and I think that, given sufficient time, I should be able to complete the book by Christmas. ... but I'm not entirely sure that I can get enough writing material out of New York before that time. ... if I don't, I may have to go back to Los Angeles and try to get some inspiration there. ... but I don't think that will be possible until after New Year's Day. ... and even then, I'm not entirely sure that I can get enough writing material out of LA to finish the book by that time. ... but I'll try. ... and I think that, given sufficient time, I should be able to complete the book by Christmas. ... but I'm not entirely sure that I can get enough writing material out of New York before that time. ... if I don't, I may have to go back to Los Angeles and try to get some inspiration there