changes come about, let us be careful that we do not ruin and that we do not set back our program by taking precipitous action, without plan. Suddenly, it came almost as a jarring note, he said--well perhaps we're not ready to act yet, but whatever we do, we've got to do it reasonably so that we don't lose the revolution as such. I don't know whether he had reference to the fact that maybe in Cuba the revolution did not work because certainly he was very pro Castro. I think that there was a kind of note of wariness in his talk, and it is interesting.

I suggested to the ambassador that it might be a good idea for him to set up a meeting with Guillermo Moscoso with the older Jose Napoleon Rodriguez Ruiz who was the (rector) of the University, and possibly ask this younger fellow, the Dean of the School of Economics to come along and try in effect to have Moscoso say, "Look, I know you probably disagree with a lot that we're doing and you are very skeptical about the Alianza para Progresso; you're very skeptical about the United States per se. Maybe in many senses you're right, maybe in the past you had reason to feel that there has been Imperialism, but we want to indicate to you that we have a change of attitude and just give us a chance and I need your counsel and you're an economist and I want to know. I realize that we may disagree, but I wanted to meet you anyway." I think that there is a possibility that a person in his frame of mind and I say this is only a possibility and it may be very minimal as a possibility; but there is a chance that we may be able to recreate some kind of tie with him so that he is not as bitter and as antagonistic. I do not think, at least from hearing that lecture, that evening that he is entirely beyond the pale; and bear in mind that there were no Americans, there was no one in the audience (that I could detect at least) who were not from El Salvador itself. I realize that there may be various opinions with respect to this, but I did suggest it to the ambassador. He thought it might be a good idea and he may very well do that.

Apparently the father, Jose Rodriguez Ruiz, Sr. (Napoleon), is a person who is approachable. He is not as far to the left as his son. He is a liberal, but he is not considered a Communist. There is, I understand, something in the Embassy about him, but apparently it has been checked out and it is felt that he is not a Communist. In any event, there has been an invitation extended to him to come to the United States. I think, as a matter of fact, that with many of these people that if they were to come to