made by taxi: father had to make many rounds. They got an one-family house with a garden of about 1000 square meters. David and his brother went to the "Lycée Hloche".

6. In Viroflex David learned to know a boy, Jean ADAM, 6 months older than he himself. Jean was the single son of the director of the perfume export house O.L.M. David had a fight in woods with Jean after he had got a stone drown by Jean on his head. They were good friends later.

Jean had friends: two brothers ARFIELD, one's first name was Jack, and their nice looking but loose minded sister Maud. When competing in springing from a swing, Jack broke one of his legs. David and Jean peated him on a chair, carried to the porch of his house and run away.

David and Jean grounded a "secret club". They built an Escimo igloo and made fire in it. The igloo took fire and ignited the surrounding field and forest. The boys fled. The fire-brigade had to battre the fire. David went home. He did not say anything to his father about his part in the brand: he explained his red face map much running when playing. Later the police came. David's fault was detected, his father had to pay the damages, he had not enough money for this.

7. David's father had, by this time, given up taxi driver's job. He was working on different inventions. He was sure he had discovered petrol fields in France, but he was not believed. He inventend a device for authomatic replay off records; he asked for 90% of the intake but was offered 40% only. Father had a movie projector with which David was not allowed to play. Thus, David conspired his own projector and showed it to the father. Father was thrilled, and allowed David to use his (father's ) projector. David did, and broke it.

8. In Viroflex, neighboring to the house where David lived, resided ten single Georgians who had made some resistance to the Russians during WW I or after this. David used to visit those men, he was something like a mascot of theirs. They had a dog and an ape. They taught David some small trick:

Six of the men were working as taxi drivers for the subsistence of all the group. One stood at home, cooking for all, and one, Aakhutza TCHELORASHWILI, was the boss. David remembers some names or nicknames of them: CHOGHOU, SACHIKO, GARGARETHELI, SERGO (died), COLA.