KOREAN CONTINENT COUNTRY

DAMASCOU, in company of a younger son not identified by name, had planned to emigrate from Egypt to join her son Nicolas in the United States. However, prior to the publication of these plans, Angelika DAMASCOU suffered a stroke, exact details concerning which are not known, but she is reported as of this writing still to be paralyzed and obviously unable to travel. No further information was available on the possible future emigration plans of Angelika DAMASCOU nor has there been any identification of otherbrothers of Nicolas DAMASCOU and of Anastasia DAMASCOU.

On basis of the reported filing of an application for a United States Visa in July 1956 at the U.S. Embassy in London by Anastasia DAMASCOU, our representatives in London were requested to initiate a case of British Consular Indices in the names of Nicolas DAMASCOU and of Anastasia DAMASCOU. We advised that as of late July 1954, they held no traces on Nicholas George DAMASCOU or his brother in England, and theDamascous were considered so checkered their possible residence in London during 1956, based on the reported visa application date. We also advised that they held no traces to either Nicholas George DAMASCOU or the DAMASCUS as on the closer examination of George DAMASCOU.

3. It is suggested that the indices of the Department of State Visa Section as well as the indices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Department of Justice, may contain further detailed information on the current immigration status, whereabout in the United States, and also the contents in the United States Office of Nicholas George DAMASCOU and his brothers, of Anastasia George DAMASCOU and her brothers, and any other members of the family who may have applied for entry visas from abroad.

With regard to Juste SIMONA Casares, mentioned in above correspondence memorandum of 17 July 1961 to a contact of Nicolas DAMASCOU, it is suggested that the indices of the Department of State may provide additional information on his activities during his service at the Mexican Embassy in Washington, D.C.

5. The information reported above is for the internal use of

KOREAN CONTINENT COUNTRY