with Mr. Robert R. Mullen as being close and cordial. Mr. O'Malley stated that Mr. Mullen was in the habit of confiding to him information concerning other Mullen business contacts and projects. In response to a specific question, Mr. O'Malley stated that during the period of his contact with the Mullen Company dealing with the Free Cuba Committee, Mr. Mullen told him the Howard Hughes Organization was a client of the concern.

3. Mr. O'Malley reiterated his previous statements that Mr. Hunt was referred to his office for placement assistance through the Office of the Executive Director, then Colonel L. K. White. Mr. O'Malley stated that in view of Mr. Hunt's interests in the public relations field, it was thought advisable to put Mr. Hunt in touch with Mr. Robert Mullen for the purpose of gaining the benefit of Mr. Mullen's guidance. Mr. O'Malley recalled, after the initial meeting, Mr. Mullen mentioned having met Mr. Hunt some years previously in Paris, France. Mr. O'Malley's office arranged interviews with various organizations including Reader's Digest and the Kennecott Copper Company. Through the offices of the Mullen Company an interview was arranged with the General Foods Corporation, a Mullen client. Mr. O'Malley stated there was disappointment that Mr. Hunt had been unsuccessful in "selling himself" during any of these interviews and that no job offers had resulted. In response to a question as to whether or not executive level interest was still being shown in Mr. Hunt's post-employment placement, Mr. O'Malley recalled that Mr. Richard Helms, then Director of Central Intelligence, was listed as a character reference on Mr. Hunt's resume and that Mr. Helms signed a letter of recommendation to the Kennecott Copper Company on Mr. Hunt's behalf. Mr. O'Malley recalled being contacted in the last month of Mr. Hunt's Agency service by Mr. Mullen, who stated that a decision had been made to expand their operations. In view of this expansion, Mr. Mullen had decided he would himself offer Mr. Hunt a job. Mr. Mullen had stated that he was interested in having Mr. Hunt begin work immediately. However, Mr. O'Malley recalled that Mr. Hunt completed retirement formalities and actually started work for the Mullen Company approximately a week to 10 days later.