Conclusion

The exco co. station and the leaders Mexico ask agree that the product of the LIEAT project measured at the expenditure of secrecy assets in terms of personel, time, security risks and funds will justify its removal. The information produced by this operation has contributed materially and substantially to several prioritized objectives of the exco city station's delayed Mission directive.

Progress of the Operation

Definite progress has been made in reporting on the objectives of the LIEAT project; however, all LIEAT objectives are of a continuing nature and are not designed to be fully achieved. For this reason, no statistics can be cited as to the percentage of coverage on each objective. A general indication can be derived of the scope of the project by realizing that approximately 15,000 pages of summary text have been obtained from LIEAT during the past year. An average of 23 simultaneous coverages on a 24 hour per day basis has been maintained during this review period. Generally, those coverages may be frozen down as follows:

Soviet Embassy 8 lines

Czech Legion 2 lines

Polish Legion 2 lines

Anarcon

Communists 3 lines

Remainder 8 lines

Planning for the Future

During the coming year Station capabilities will be expanded to permit monitoring approximately 30 lines. Basic coverage of Soviet, Czech and Polish activities will be continued to the maximum extent possible and assets and capabilities will be main- yained for exploiting important targets of opportunity. At the present time the Station believes that 30 lines are about the maximum load the technical agents assigned to LI-FAT can properly handle and protect. The station is currently preparing plans for submission to headquarters which call for the establishment of a similar but separate and compartmented LI-FAT-type operation. Such a project would have new agents not previously associated with or knowledgeable about LI-FAT.

Performance of Agents

The station has reported that in general the performance of the LI-PAT agents has been good during the past year. However, some of the agents connected with the group based on the family