RECEIVED

2K 18-106 NON-PRESIDENT LOUIS E. CULLUM (Give complete address, including street and number) BUSINESS OF OCCUPATION

Full Name BUSINESS OF HOME ADDRESS Banker

Judge

Broker.

Not employed.

Jones Gilly, Jr. V.P. Whitney National Bank, N.O.La.

Judge H. T. Testorfield Court of Appeals, New Court House Bldg., N. O. La.

Fred N. Ogden American Bank Bldg. N. O. La.

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualities &amp;7 Yes No

Indicate "Yes" or "No" answer by crossing X in proper column. YES NO

Are you a citizen of the United States? X

Do you advertise or have you ever advertised, or are you now: or have you ever been an officer of any corporation that advertises the merchandise at the (agreement) of the United States by force or influence? Yes No

Within the past 12 months, have you habitually used intoxicating drugs, tobacco, alcohol? X

Since your birth have you ever been convicted of armedrobber, etc.; or if not conviction, or have you ever been charged with such crime for the commission of any law enforcement or ordinance (excluding minor traffic violations for which a fine of $5 or less was imposed)? Yes No

Have you received any penalty or for all to remain for misconduct or misconduct service from any position? Yes No

If your answer is "Yes," give in item 38 the name and address of employer, and state reason in each case.

Do you receive any currency from the U.S. or D.C Government under any government act or any pension or other compensation for military or civil service? Yes No

If your answer is "Yes", give in part 38 reason for retirement, that is age, disability, or by reason of voluntary or involuntary separation or other reason, amount of retirement pay and time until retirement act and rating, if retired from military or civil service.

Are you as official or employee of any State Territory county, or municipality? Yes No

If your answer is "Yes," give details in Item 39

Did the U.S. Government pay in cash or otherwise any relative of your by death or marriage with whom you live or have lived within two years prior to death? Yes No

Have you served in the U.S. Army, Navy, or Marine Corps? Yes No

Are you a disabled veteran? Yes No

Are you the unarmed widow of a veteran? Yes No