COLIN: Cuba

SUBJECT: Alleged Bioterrorism of Melchoir Trillo, Cuban Merchant Marine

1. A contact of this office recently reported the information presented below.

2. I had a conversation with some relatives who survived from Cuba during October 1963. During the course of the conversation I informed on the behalfence of Melchoir Trillo ́s姐, a former close friend of my family. From my relatives I obtained the following information and impressions concerning Trillo and members of his family.

3. Trillo is the second or third officer aboard the WINS ship "La Plata". He is classified with the CCI. This Classification arises from the unjust imprisonment of his father, Melchoir Trillo de Fezajlio from September 1959 to October 1967. He was convicted for "counterrevolutionary activities" by the COC. Subsequently his father was released and at the present time is in Mexico visiting for a vice to enter the US. During the time of his father's imprisonment Melchoir was planning to leave the island by classified means but was dissuaded by his family.

4. Trillo remains in the Merchant Marine because of the privilege obtained as an officer and because of the opportunity to travel. In his trips he fulfills items which are seen in Cuba and gives them as gifts to his family. Part of these gifts are then sold or bartered in the black market for foodstuffs and other necessities.

5. Trillo has two sisters who are married to merchant marine officers. Two other Trillos妹 are married to Melchoir Laroilles. He is a government secretary who works in classified foreign trade activities. He has one child, four years old. Among her close relatives, the is openly anti-COC. The other sister is Lilia Trillo Horta. One of these merchant marine officers is a captain but I don't recall him once.

6. Melchoir Trillo is about 23 years of age, intelligent and an introvert. He is not married. Though it has been about nine years since I have seen him, from what my relatives told me I believe that Trillo would be willing to cooperate against the COC. During the fourth week of October the "La Plata" was supposed to be at Elilsao, Spain undergoing repairs.

-end-

LOT-1

Identified species

CUBA

CONSERVATION AREA

DISTRICT OF LA PLATA