CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION SECRET RYBAT PAGE NO.

this lead, but even this was of value to the trainees. One trainee was required to make a pretext telephone call, another team of two made a neighborhood check, and the remainder were divided into teams to check with Transito, the Ministry of Defense, the Social Security Institute and the Metropolitan Police. Except for the last team, all picked up some information of value, and the information and its significance in terms of the projected investigation of PEREZ was discussed with them.

5. The performance of the class as a whole was remarkably good. The three DFS men, because of their previous training and experience, were able to absorb and understand the lectures and reading material much more quickly than the others. None of the others had any previous training or experience in intelligence or security work. However, they were keenly interested, actively participated in classroom discussions and field exercises, and all prepared their written work in an acceptable manner. The instructor reviewed all written work with them, as well as plans for meetings, etc., and this proved most helpful. Somewhat unusual for Latins, all students were punctual; there were some very small and unimportant delays, but for the most part these were due to the exceedingly difficult traffic situation in Mexico City or to other reasons apparently beyond their control. No student was absent from classes during the entire training period, and no student was late for more than 45 minutes or an hour.

6. In summary, the instructor and the Station feel that the training objective was accomplished, and that the trainees, although not yet experienced operators, have a sufficient enough understanding of the basic tradecraft principles and techniques to permit them to begin operations. They are all intelligent and alert men, and except for LOPEZ y LOPEZ all have an Army background. CHANTRES is quite imaginative and resourceful, but also quite cautious and concerned about the possibility of flaps and compromises. He gets along well with all his fellow workers, and undoubtedly has real leadership qualities. TREJO is somewhat talkative, opinionated and argumentative, and may have trouble supervising others, but he, too, demonstrated considerable imagination and resourcefulness. GARZA, the youngest of the Army group, appeared to be the most pro-American, is very imaginative, and possesses considerable drive and energy. On one occasion he had the instructor out to lunch at his home, where he lives with his wife (they have no children). He commented on numerous occasions about his many (almost annual) shopping trips to San Antonio, where his wife has a number of close relatives. GARZA, it is believed, would probably be the most susceptible to development and possible recruitment of the group.

7. Except for the remarks in paragraph 6 above, no individual assessment will be forwarded herewith. The instructor has prepared a memorandum on each man, including the DFS group, setting forth his observations and opinions, as well as any information he was able to obtain on the trainees.

8. MYLECHRAINE used the name "Sr. Tomas" with the trainees; so far as is known they did not learn his true name, nor were they aware where he was living in Mexico City. Likewise, they are not aware that he has served previously in Mexico. There were no incidents involving security during the training period, and no other incidents or events that should be reported.

Willard C. CURTIS

SECRET RYBAT

FORM 864 1431 53a USE PALINDROMIC EDITION

CLASSIFICATION NO CONTINUED PAGE NO. THREE

RYBAT

NO

CONTINUED

PAGE NO. THREE