COORDINATION OF INFORMATION

J.I.C., meeting, May 12, 1942 - Statement of Mrs. Clare Luce

I Background

Mrs. Luce travelled to the Middle East and Far East via the Trans-African ferry route, visiting Damag, India, and the Middle East. She had extensive opportunities for formal and informal conversation with the major military and political figures, as well as various operating airmen, soldiers, and correspondents. She carefully distinguished the quality of her sources, indicating where her views were based on observed facts, official statements, or gossip.

II Burma and China

Mrs. Luce arrived at Lashio at the time of the visit of Chiang and Madame Chiang. Their intervention was required not only to facilitate cooperation between the British and General Stillwell's Chinese forces, but also to enforce discipline on the Chinese generals nominally under Stillwell. It was rumored that a major opportunity to defeat the Japanese was lost at Tongou due to the unwillingness of the Chinese generals to obey Stillwell and attack. The arrival of the Chiang's was immediately known to the Japanese who bombed the headquarters area for the first time in force. Many days later, which Mrs. Luce saw immediately after the main bombing attack early in April, was leveled and deserted, with two to five thousand dead left in the ruins.

In a long conversation with Madame Chiang great bitterness was expressed against the British. Madame Chiang went back to Hong Kong, the Treaty Ports, and the Epistemwar, ending up with Stillwell's failure to accept Chinese assistance in Burma. Madame Chiang indicated, however, that she would not accept a negotiated peace under any circumstances with the Japanese, recalling the Japanese occupation of Banking. Under questioning by Mrs. Luce stated that she did not believe the Japanese would move in force against China. All Intelligence sources in Chiang's believe that the Japanese will move against Russia before June of this year. As for India Mrs. Luce stated that a full-fledged invasion by land forces seemed unlikely in the immediate future, but that bombing attacks on the Calcutta area were very likely -- these designed to exploit the political instability there and the concentration of Indian industrial strength.

In general Mrs. Luce believes that the British in Burma fought as well as their resources permitted. The R.A.F. was bombed out of Hengchun early, leaving the main operations without air protection. The British claim that their radio directional finders were subordinated by the Burmese Fifth Column; elsewhere gossip stated that the finders had been withdrawn prior to the Japanese attack. The one hundred British tanks proved ineffective as the main highway, on which they could operate, was flanked by forests through which the Japanese filtered. The presence of American technicians in the Burma oil fields probably guaranteed thorough destruction. Elsewhere there was "no earth worth scorching". The British General Alexander expressed the general belief that the failure in Burma was, in the long run, unimportant; that after the defeat of Hitler the Japanese could easily be