Office of Research and Reports which put its major resources at our disposal. ORR's geographic research area freely gave us the time of trained cartographers and interpreters. Without their skills, and the endless hours they applied those skills for us, our operations would have been most difficult. ORR's economic research area contributed less only because we asked for less economic intelligence was not as vital as geographic intelligence to this operation. In addition, the major economic contribution was recognized and commended in my 7 June 1954 memorandum to you.

Foreign Broadcast Information Division which monitored Guatemalan and related broadcasts with more than its usual care, and, among other special activities, arranged a direct wire service so that our field headquarters unit received the monitored broadcasts immediately. The entire division turned to its task with such unity that singling out for commendation the work of any of its people is impossible.

Foreign Documents Division which gave us translations quickly and in the priority needed. Its service was the more remarkable for its lack of a Western Heroldere unit. Initiative, flexibility, and willingness were substituted for this organizational lack.

The National Bureau which provided a wide variety of services we requested, and on its own initiative proposed other useful services. It re-developed collection of Central American intelligence information by its network of domestic field stations, it carefully matched the southern ports of entry into the United States on a one-hour 'lay basis, it provided us with commercial news clipping services and the texts of news broadcasts, and it located, surveyed and interviewed in many cases interviewed Guatemalans within the United States in whom we were interested.

CIA Library, especially its Book Branch. All components, however contributed. Its clipping service was reliable, alert, and been to render maximum service. The Information Section promptly handled numerous spot requests and gave resourceful assistance well beyond the confines of its routine duties. The Book Branch surveyed periodical and scholarly literature meticulously, and thus uncovered much information useful to a psychological campaign.

Graphics Register whose Photo Branch and Film Branch both gave services much beyond the normal course of duty, and showed ingenuity in locating and preparing special materials.

FRANK G. WISNER Deputy Director (Plans)