though we have no confirmation of this from S/V). In such a situation KUDEK was able to offer S/V an opportunity to, in effect, begin anew, get out of a hole, rebuild his own self-esteem, and perhaps even build up some credit toward an eventual return to PARIS under conditions which he would find bearable.

28. It is interesting that in his long conversations with ROCICAST he should raise the question of his motivation as if to reassure CDYONE that he was "on the level." He protested that we must not think that he had taken on this job just to "get out of a hole" for three months and explained that he wasn't really in a hole. He claimed that his debts to his brother-in-law were not a pressing matter at all. (However, during his L'EVITAT examination we are told that the area in which he reacted most strongly was that concerning personal obligations, especially financial. We were proba- bly said that the past two and a half years, and what he was indeed under some obligation, financial or otherwise, to certain of his revolutionary associates of the past two and a half years, and what caused was an outpouring of all the small and not so small debts he owed virtually everyone he knew. Foremost among these was the debt of some $1,500 to his brother-in-law. Whether or not he feels pressed to repay it as important as the fact that there seems to be time when it weighs heavily on his mind.)

29. Giving S/V the last word, the following report from ROCICAST on his 14 June conversation with the Agent should be given careful consideration: "It was clear that he was telling me, without spilling it out in words, that he had made up his mind to cooperate with us because, or partly because, he had decided he wanted to be on our side. He even used expressions like 'our ride'. I had the feeling that he did not want to say outright that he was changing his political orientation for fear that we should not believe him, but that in fact he might very well be doing so; I think there was something genuine in his protestation that he wasn't with us 'only for the money'."

MARKETING & GUIDANCE:

26. The least that can be said of S/V in summarizing his relationship with his MUEK contacts so far is that he is not docile and passive. It appears to be a self-starter with a sense of what is necessary to get an operation off the ground. From his account of his work for DEN C it would appear that he can honestly claim a great deal of credit for putting the English edition into business.

27. To date S/V has expressed no reluctance to undertake his current mission nor to consider other missions for KUDEK which might work a hardship on him or place his person or reputation in jeopardy. His responsiveness, in fact, encourages us to believe that he will accept assignments which permit him to move easily in those revolutionary left circles which are natural to him and which comprise, in effect, his natural target. He has, of course, made a case for working out of Paris, Rome, or Geneva rather than Algiers or Djekarta, but this was prior to his entering into a formal relationship with DENOK.

28. ROCICAST feels that he has been able to establish a good degree of working rapport with S/V and perhaps even some degree of personal rapport. They have had some half-dozen meetings so far, including three working sessions in Paris. ROCICAST has stressed to him the vital importance of good security habits, not the least of which involves such personnel behavior as will keep his out of compromising situations (in respect to his work for KUDEK).

29. S/V has been on time for all his meetings with ROCICAST and has complied well with instructions; he submitted without hesitation to the L'EVITAT and agreed to work with S/V (accepting the risks involved In disposal of the working materials). S/V has not failed to remain ROCICAST of the probable cost of his upkeep and operational activities while in Algiers and has been assumed that ROCICAST 'thought for the $20.00 per di