Case No: 67378

"upper middle class" with one son, about twenty-five years of age who is married and resides out of Ohio, although he is presently staying with his folks because his wife is in a hospital in Columbus with their newly arrived baby. Informant stated that she knew nothing but good relative to SUBJECT and his family and that he is truly a patriotic American.

On 2 April 1952, Mrs Thomas REEDER, Apt. "B", 2506 Neil Avenue, stated that she has known SUBJECT and his wife as neighbors and that they are fine people, respected in the community and are conservative in their living and habits. They have one son, Ed, who is presently staying with them. SUBJECT, according to informant, is "homey" and does not drink or have any bad habits to her knowledge. She considers him a one-hungred percent American.

On 2 April 1952, Mrs. P.W. HOMSHER, Apt. "C", 2590 Neil Avenue, stated that she has been acquainted with the SUBJECT and his wife for about a year as neighbors. She knew little about them except that they are nice people and well thought of in the neighborhood. They are quiet, do not engage in many social activities. Informant confirmed SUBJECT's employment and added that she knew of nothing of a derogatory nature regarding the SUBJECT or his family.

Mrs John R. SNOWBALL, Apt. "A", 2596 Neil Avenue, stated that she has known SUBJECT and his wife just three years or since the time they moved into the building, three years ago this month. She stated that she liked them very much and knew of no finer people. They are respected in the community and are quiet and conservative. SUBJECT neither drinks or carouses and is a "hombody", except that he plays a great deal of golf with her husband. Informant stated that SUBJECT's son Ed is presently with SUBJECT coming here from West Virginia for the arrival of their newborn youngster. She added that SUBJECT has a fine poistion with the Research Foundation as Assistant Director, and is a through American.

REFERENCES:

At Columbus, Ohio:

On 3 April 1952, Mrs Harvey BROWER, 2268 Summit Street, stated that she purchased the premises on which she now resides, from SUBJECT about twelve years ago and although she did not know the ---- family except for the real-estate transaction, she had heard many good things about them from neighbors that used to live