MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Conference of JBIII, Shub and Sims, Aug. 25, re "STALIN" photo book.

(1) Some 202 photos were examined; the best, about 67, obtained by Shub in NY, the others furnished by CIA Graphics; plus some magazine articles with photos, supplied by Jim Williamson.

(2) Sims is to do utmost to get clearance by CIA Graphics for maximum use of their photos by Shub: clearance, if possible, for Shub to take the photos to NY (probably not possible); and/or duplicates minus CIA markings; and/or lists of the sources from which CIA got them. / Failing these, I can make descriptive list of the CIA photos. It should not be difficult to duplicate most of them in NY agencies, and the Shub pictures are in any case the kernel of the book //.

(3) Length of book. Not much discussed. More important to set the tone and decide the main theme. Thirty-five pictures would almost certainly be too few; 150 might be OK.

(4) KHFUNNY? Sims to clear with Mr. Thompson and Millard whether the "Stalin" photo-book could be done under KHFUNNY, which reads: "5, b. That the purposes of this project / animal photos, with satirical captions, in many languages / be approved in principle and a sum of $40,000 be appropriated for the development and distribution of similar photobooks at the discretion of Chief SP."

/ Anyhow, let's get on with the book and, if neces sary, amend KHFUNNY or write up a new project, later /.

(5) Book to be prepared by Shub, working in NY. Period of 6 months work by Shub, as co-author - with David Shub of biography of Stalin, to begin after completion of work on photobook.

(6) Shub to approach publisher as private citizen; to hold copyright, take royalties, for transmission to the account of KHFUNNY presumably./ Previously CIA's legal eagles are equipped to handle the income-tax angles of this overt-covert set-up./ Book to be published under signature "Boris Shub".

(7) Collaborator for Shub in lay-out. JBIII will give Shub a list of possible helpers. JBIII, mentioned Dick Lyon; "See Kittner; ask him for a good layout man; the best is the New Yorker's man, but he doesn't specialize in photo media; you want a Life-type man, they have better layout than Look.

"Pay him on a one-shot basis, a fixed fee. Tell him he gets a certain amount down, and the same again if the book is published."

/ Jim Williamson says he would be glad to help on layout, if there is difficulty getting anyone else /.

Shub and Sims, Aug. 25, re "STALIN" photo book.

JBIII, Shub and Sims, Aug. 25, re STALIN photo book.

Shub in lay-out, JBIII will give Shub a list of possible helpers. JBIII, mentioned Dick Lyon, See Kittner, ask him for a good layout man, the best is the New Yorker's man, but he doesn't specialize in photo media; you want a Life-type man, they have better layout than Look.

Sims is to do utmost to get clearance by CIA Graphics for maximum use of their photos by Shub: clearance, if possible, for Shub to take the photos to NY (probably not possible); and/or duplicates minus CIA markings; and/or lists of the sources from which CIA got them. / Failing these, I can make descriptive list of the CIA photos. It should not be difficult to duplicate most of them in NY agencies, and the Shub pictures are in any case the kernel of the book //.

Length of book. Not much discussed. More important to set the tone and decide the main theme. Thirty-five pictures would almost certainly be too few; 150 might be OK.

KHFUNNY? Sims to clear with Mr. Thompson and Millard whether the "Stalin" photo-book could be done under KHFUNNY, which reads:

"5, b. That the purposes of this project / animal photos, with satirical captions, in many languages / be approved in principle and a sum of $40,000 be appropriated for the development and distribution of similar photobooks at the discretion of Chief SP."

Anyhow, let's get on with the book and, if neces sary, amend KHFUNNY or write up a new project, later /.

(5) Book to be prepared by Shub, working in NY. Period of 6 months work by Shub, as co-author - with David Shub of biography