(4) You will initially report to this organization, upon assumption of cover status and thereafter on an annual basis, your rate of cover compensation. Any changes during the year will also be reported. This organization will pay your basic contractual salary (initially $33,260) until such time as reports indicate cover income in excess of that set out in sub-paragraph two (2) above. You will thereafter be paid at your full rate of compensation less anticipated earned cover income based on the last report. Adjustments, if any, will be made following receipt of the yearend report. Failure to timely submit reports may result in a delay or suspension of contractual payments due you hereunder.

(b) Other Cover Emoluments. With the exception of earned cover income, emoluments (including benefits in kind) received from or through your cover activities are the property of the Government and will be disposed of at such times and in such a manner as the Government may prescribe.

5. Taxes. (a) As an employee of the Government, you must satisfy your Federal tax liability on the taxable income paid to you under paragraph three (3) above. Such income may be paid you by or through a cover facility. Because of cover, operational and security considerations, the Tax Committee of this organization is authorized to make certain determinations and establish procedures which will result in the full satisfaction of your Federal income tax liability on said income. It is specifically understood and agreed that such determinations and procedures, whether oral or written, constitute an integral part of this contract and are legally incorporated herein by reference.

(b) You will not be required to bear the expense of foreign taxes on income paid or guaranteed you by the Government under paragraph three (3) above. You will be reimbursed for such foreign taxes paid by you, consistent with your cover.

6. Allowances. You will be entitled to: (a) Living quarters allowances in conformance with regulations of this organization applicable to its appointed personnel. In the event you are furnished quarters by your cover facility or the Government you will not be entitled to the living quarters allowances herein indicated.

(b) Cost-of-living allowances in conformance with applicable regulations of this organization including, but not limited to, a post allowance or, if applicable, an equalization allowance in lieu thereof, a supplementary post allowance, a transfer allowance, a home service transfer allowance and a separation allowance.