SL

performance in terms of the contract between them. Rowton reminded LIRING/4 that he contract had terminated as of 15 May, 1968, and could be extended only on the condition that she would be able to make the trip. He added that he felt he could pay her for the period 15 May until 15 June, 1968, but that would have to constitute a final payment unless LIRING/4 could commit herself to future production. Rowton added that in addition he would have to deduct the 1,375 pesos he gave to her as a travel advance inasmuch as this money was not used for the purpose intended.

5. LIRING/4 replied that, much to her regret, she could not make any firm commitment regarding the trip at the moment. She stated that she was attempting to maintain friendly relations with the LIRING personnel but had to be cautious in the light of LIRING/3's admonition to her to avoid contact with the establishment ("la casa grande" as he described it). She then stated that she had attended a play on the evening of 7 June at which she met socially with LIRING personnel in the audience. She added that LIRING/10 greeted her cordially and that she spoke briefly with LIRING/9 and LIRING/13 as well as LIRING/16. LIRING/4 also stated that she had learned from LIRING/17, who had just returned from an unexpected TDY that their mutual friend "Echemenaia" had been called up on the carpet for the inferior job he had done during his last commercial mission to Mexico City. LIRING/4 also reported that she had been given a very brief note from her friend Yolanda hand-carried by LIRING/17 in which Yolanda wrote that she as still hoping that LIRING/4 would be able to make the trip.

ROWTON COMMENT: Rowton feels that LIRING/4 will make the trip to PBRUEN with in the next two months or sooner, provided she is assured that LIRING/3 is resigned to his fate and that everything has been done to support his appeal. Rowton has told LIRING/4 that he can give her only minimum financial support in the future, and that only on behalf of LIRING/3. Rowton feels that LIRING/4 will have great difficulty supporting herself even on a subsistence level during the next month, and will probably reconsider her decision regarding the trip. Rowton feels he should not put any direct pressure on LIRING/4 in the light of her personal situation.

SECRET, Wallace B. Rowton