5) Incorporation of inexperienced personnel to the preparation of "Alta Regalia", (top-quality, hand-made) cigars, which affects the finish of the hand-crafting cigars with the result that undersized, oversized, or too heavy cigars are produced.

These and many other irregularities take place today in our industry, without failing to mention that the climax of all this situation is caused by the lack of cigars for national consumption, something definitely unprecedented in the history of our country.

Trade Aspects.

The Cuban Communist regime faces great difficulties in its efforts to make dollars through tobacco exports, and some of them have been pointed out already.

Nevertheless, I believe that the chief trouble is represented by the market limitations suffered by Cuban tobacco today. Castro has been unable to convince his Iron Curtain "friends" to purchase the volume that was formerly absorbed by the U.S.. He has only persuaded the USSR, Czechoslovakia, and East Germany to buy a total of approximately 5,000 M.T. The truth, however, is that these exports have been made with distrust, as there have been reports that Cuba's "friends", after buying this tobacco, re-export it to hard-currency countries at lower prices than those established by the "Empresa CUBATABACO" for the free world market.

I may cite a specific instance of this. Late in 1962, the Polish enterprise ROLIMPEX bought approximately 600 tons of tobacco. The contract specifically prohibited re-exportation by the Poles, and provided that any legal difficulties that might arise would be submitted for arbitration. After the deliveries were made to ROLIMPEX, reports began to arrive from the Free European market that Cuban tobacco leaf was being offered at a much lower price than that established by the Cuban exporting enterprise in its sale of tobacco to Free Europe. At first, it was thought that this was only a maneuver for lower prices by the European importers, but, as time passed and CUBATABACO could not place any sales, the reports, which were still coming in, were given more credence. As a result of this, I was sent to conduct an on-the-spot investigation in Europe, and, sure enough, I discovered that the Poles were indeed re-exporting our tobacco, with complete disregard of their signed agreement with Cuba. The violation was reported to the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Trade, which instructed CUBATABACO to institute proceedings to recover damages from the Poles. Cuba sued for $31 million and the Poles, having being caught red-handed, offered a settlement of $50,000 which was accepted. The payment was made in dollars, out of the Polish-Cuban clearing.

This "international solidarity" practiced by Communist countries kept Cuba for a long time (1962-1963) from entering Western European markets.

Dumping as practiced by these countries, the lack of adequate stocks for the Europeans' taste, difficulties and delays in deliveries (due to shortage of ships) have made the Europeans shy away from buying larger quantities of Cuban leaf, and, many European importers have learned that Cuba is not a reliable source of supply.

Due to the above stated reasons, the Communist regime can barely place 2,000 M.T. in Western Europe, for an annual revenue of about US$1,500,000.