4. AMFAUNA-14 tried to dispose of the letter she had just received from AMFAUNA-1 by leaving it on the desk of a fellow employee together with some potatoes and a carrot for cover, but the men would not let her. She did, however, manage to destroy a page from her notebook containing telephone numbers.

5. At the DSE headquarters in Villa Maristas, AMFAUNA-14 was turned over to a militiaman who had her strip and performed a body search on her. She was fingerprinted and photographed and her biographical data were taken down, after which she was locked in a cell which had an adjoining private bath. Nothing else of importance happened for the rest of the day.

6. During her four-day detention period, AMFAUNA-14 was handled by the following DSE officers:

7. Francisco ABAD: AMFAUNA-14 believes that this is his real name. He did not introduce himself, but she saw the name on her release papers which he signed. He was born about 1918 and is about 5'4" tall, weighs about 160 pounds, and has a fat build, aquiline nose, greenish eyes, dark skin, grey-brown wavy hair, rough laborer's hands, and two teeth missing from the lower jaw. He smokes both cigars and cigarettes, his manner was soft and kindly, and AMFAUNA-14 believes he is probably poorly educated. He is married, but AMFAUNA-14 did not learn whether he has children or what his address is. He wears civilian clothes and drives a black 1956 Pontiac with a grey roof. Discussing this man later in the AMCOG household, AMFAUNA-14 was told by Pedro CARRILLO (who is a brother of Justo CARRILLO) that Pedro knows ABAD. According to Pedro, ABAD is part Jewish and an old Communist who worked in the Havana Underground on behalf of Fidel CASTRO during the Batista period. Pedro CARRILLO thinks that ABAD may now have some regrets about the course he has taken.

(b) "Carlos" aka "Samuel": AMFAUNA-14 does not know his true name. He was born about 1942 or perhaps a little earlier. He is about 5'6" tall, weighs about 150 pounds, and has a muscular build, drooping eyelids, light olive skin, wavy chestnut hair with a widow peak. He is a nervous pacer, and walks with his head bent forward and tilted slightly to one side. An expression which he frequently used was "O.K." pronounced "OKAH" with the accent on the first syllable. He told AMFAUNA-14 that he had been a student in the Commercial School of Havana, that he had worked clandestinely under the Batista regime, had been arrested by Col. Esteban VENTURA Novo, had been released due to the influence of his father, and had gotten out of the country with the aid of the Mexican Ambassador to Cuba, coming then to the United States. He drives a 1959 black and white Chevrolet Corvair, wears civilian clothes, and carries a pistol, sometimes a .45 and sometimes a .38. AMFAUNA-14 believes him to be a 100% Communist. She thinks he may have been somewhat better trained than Francisco ABAD and may have been somewhat superior in rank, although this was never clearly evident. There seemed to be a little professional jealousy between the two men. If she told one man something which she had been unable to remember for the other, the second would show signs of jealousy or resentment. "Carlos" subsequently told AMFAUNA-14 to phone 61-4319 and ask for "Samuel" when she wanted to reach him. She phoned him at this number about ten times in all. The phone was always answered by the same woman, except for once when a boy answered and then called for his mother to come and take the phone. AMFAUNA-14 would ask for "Samuel" and the woman would invariably reply that he was not there. AMFAUNA-14 would then ask the woman to take a message for him to please call "Dolores." The woman would always reply "Yes, Comrade." Discussing this person later within the AMCOG household, AMFAUNA-14 was told by Israel (PADILLA) that he thought "Carlos" was Samuel RODILES.

Comment: The physical description of "Carlos" does not match that of Samuel RODILES Plana. Telephone number 61-4319 is listed in the 1962 Havana telephone directory to one Maria Antonia