6 May, 1958

Subject: LILING/4 Report of Contacts with LILING Office.

1. On 3 May, 1958, LILING/4 reported to Boston that she had revisited the LIKING offices the preceding day and noticed that the black telephone was replaced in the middle office ( where she herself used to work). She stated that she could not be certain that it was the same instrument and that it was replaced by one of the LIKING employees, but it appeared that way since she had not seen the instrument there on her visit on the previous Friday (26/4/68) and LIKING/9 had commented that the telephone would be replaced in the middle office.

2. With regard to LIKING/3's current situation, LILING/4 reported that she had again talked to the Mexican Consul in Guatemala City by telephone on 2 May, 1968, and was reassured that LIKING/3 was in good health. The Consul informed her that he could visit L/3 on Thursdays and Sundays, and would be glad to pass any letters that L/4 might send to him for L/3. The Consul also commented that the Mexican Selections Interiores had introduced him to take up L/3's case with the Guatemalan Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He added that he hoped with this pressure to persuade the Guatemalan government to deport L/3 within the next ten days.

3. LIKING/4 then reported what she described as a very disturbing conversation on 3 May, 1968, with Sergio Valdez. She related that Valdez had come to see her in the morning to apologize for not having any money to lend her to help her meet expenses. He explained that he had not been paid by the Revista Foro? and was very short of funds himself. L/4 continued that she would have to appeal to all her friends and those of L/3 for some money to tide her over until L/3 returned. She then regretted that she had not been able to locate "Sr. Harris" but if and when he came to Mexico again she would have to "renew diplomatic relations" with him. Sergio Valdez then according to LIKING/4, laughed and said that this reminded him of another nasty rumor that he had heard. He then revealed that Raúl Moreno had recently told him that a certain Gonzalez of the Spartaco Club had told him (Moreno) that LIKING/4 had been fired from the LIKING offices because she had been providing information to the FBI. LIKING/4 knew that he had learned this from the LIKING "service" officer. Sergio Valdez also mentioned that a "girl who worked in the zona rosa" who knows Teresa or Carmen Lozada had mentioned that Sr. Harris had offered Carmen Lozada the sum