SECRET-7 a

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY. (Continued)

Attempting to volunteer for service in the U.S. Armed Forces he was turned down as being overweight. He then approached the U. S. Red Cross, was accepted, and sent immediately to Sidney, Australia as manager of the U.S. Officers' Club in that city. Subsequently, he served in New Guinea, and in Leyte and Manila in the Philippines.

After two and a half years overseas he became eligible for discharge and made application to return to the United States. He went directly to Washington D.C. upon his arrival to operate there the War Service Bureau of the American Optical Company. The Bureau handled that company's business relations with foreign governments and aided implementation of U.S. Army, Navy and Air Corps contracts.

With the war over and the War Service Bureau about to close, he refused a position with the American Optical Company Sales Division, to re-enter the Transportation field. He joined a newly-formed airline called Transair Inc., at that time one of the leading charter companies.

Due to the uncertain position of charter lines within the aviation industry he decided to accept an offer made to him by American Airlines to go to Europe as District Traffic Manager for Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg with headquarters in Amsterdam. He remained with American Overseas Airlines until he had an opportunity to transfer to Trans World Airline which made it possible for him to return to Paris as Special Sales Representative, covering large corporation, government accounts and the motion picture industry. He has now been with Trans World Airline in Paris for fifteen months.

For verification of his employment history the following persons are offered as references. Both are familiar with his business career and have known him personally for years. As is indicated by the above he has been employed by both.

Henry S. WOODERIDGE Wardman Park Hotel Washington, D.C. Formerly General Manager of Raymond-Whitcomb Inc. Now Assistant to the President, American Optical Company.

Warren Lee PIERSON Chairman of the Board Trans World Airline, New York, N.Y.

SECRET Authorized Staff only