SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2. In June 1968, the West German Interior Ministry prepared a 50-page study of the prospects for banning the NPD entitled "Considerations Regarding a Ban of the National Democratic Party." The study was well prepared and carefully written. It is still considered the basic Interior Ministry paper on the NPD and is being studied by senior officials of both the federal and state governments. It avoids giving an opinion on the prospects of obtaining a court decision against the NPD, but from the content of the study, it is clear that the authors believed that the courts would probably reject a government proposal to ban the NPD. (Field Comment: If the study is still considered current, it is unclear how it fits with Benda's November 1968 statement that there was sufficient evidence to obtain a ban against the NPD.)

3. The study summarized the case which could be brought against the NPD as follows:

It could be shown that there was a similarity between the NPD and the National Socialist German Workers Party (NSDAP) which has been outlawed.

It could be argued that the goals, and parts of the party platform, of the NPD are contrary to the principles of a free democratic state.

The study concludes that a sufficiently strong case could be presented to prevent the case being thrown out by the courts without a hearing.

4. The study lists the following points which the NPD could be expected to use in its defense:

The party could prove that it has given firm instructions to its members not to engage in rowdyism or violence.

It could show that a sizeable number of former NSDAP members have been forced out of the party as part of the Selbstreinigung (self-cleaning) process.

It could point out many features of its program which are in accord with democratic principles.

It could show that its elected representatives have worked with other parties and have not disrupted the Landtag (state diets) and other elected bodies in which they participate.

It could point out that other political parties have many ex-Nazis and ex-communists as members and could claim that the majority of the 28,000 NPD members are not opposed to the concept of the Federal Republic.

It would charge that the government's charges were one-sided, unfairly presented, and out of date.

It would claim that not all of Professor Ernst Anrich's points were included in the party platform. (Field Comment: Anrich is a former university professor from Darmstadt whose proposals were apparently more extreme than those incorporated in the party platform.)

It could claim that the increased violence (Verrohung) of the political climate in West Germany is the fault of the New Left and not of the NPD.

5 4 3 2 1

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM