/19/

and for which he is not necessarily being paid. He acts out of principle, with no special reason. He helped the French prisoners despite the fact that he had sympathy for the Germans. However, his sympathy for the Germans was based on the fact that some Georgians had relatives in Germany and he preferred that the Germans would defeat the Russians.

78. Another reason he helped the French prisoners was that he felt that they were suffering and because they were suffering, he wanted to relieve them by helping them return to their country. Thus he was bent on nurturance. He always stands ready to help someone who is in need.

79. Subject's motivation for affiliation is positive, spontaneous, voluntary, and intense. He likes the Americans but finds it a bit difficult to analyze this sentiment. He feels the Americans have made certain political mistakes but they reflected a fundamental and basic sincerity which he likes. He understands the United States has political interest but he is willing to go along out of admiration for the sincerity of the Americans. He is not looking for special compensation. Generally, he is quite willing to do what is asked without rational reasons. In other words, his motivation is typically emotional and is understandable in terms of his character organization. He feels that a person is capable of doing anything for love of nothing. He is inclined to put things on a personal basis. He doesn't belong to any community. He feels his early years in Georgia have had no effect on his way of thinking or on his way of perceiving life. He likes the liberty which exists in America and the fact that people are treated as individuals rather than as numbers.

80. Subject's motives are genuine and are compatible with his outlook on life. They are not necessarily original or sophisticated but they are personal and therefore bona fide. Furthermore, Subject is really on the shelf in Gap. He is controlled in his movements and is restricted in his aspirations and consequently is unable to realize his freedom and to develop himself as an individual. Consequently, the assignment represents a unique opportunity for him to rise above his present restricted level of existence.

81. Subject is a very sensitive person and he attaches great importance to events of life.