Subject: Anti-Wilson Protests in Cuba Issued by the FBI

Report No: FMS-977 Date of Information: 9 February 1957 Place Acquired: Havana, Cuba Date Acquired: 12 February 1957 Evaluation: Para 1 - C-2 Para 2,3 - Poo. Source: Controlled American Date of Report: 23 February 1957

1. A one page minuscoped sheet entitled "A Que Vienen Mr. Nixon" was written and edited in the office of the Federation Student Union (FBI) at the University of Havana. At least several hundred copies were run off on the photocopier machine owned by the Faculty of Commercial Science and were distributed throughout the university grounds by Armando MIRANDA. There was also a street demonstration in the near vicinity of the University. This sheet was about the only real result of the FBI planning which took place during the week preceding the Nixon visit. These offensive plans included a street demonstration against the visit.

2. The minuscoped sheet asks the question, "Why did you come, Mr. Nixon?... To study the unimportance of power by Batista?...To spread the official story of dividing away our natural resources to United States neropoliticians?...So support the treason of Batista against Guatemala and reveal him one of the Carpentan dictators?... Let's regard to the above, the underigned students protest this visit which interferes in our internal affairs and which infringes our dignity even more than the defiling of the statue of our heroes by the Yacare soldiers and of Cuban women."

Luisa Perez Machado

Pedro Garcia

Juan Salvador Perez

Pedro Garcia

R. Santley Tejeban

Eufalio Duran

Realidades Vivas

Henry Torres

María Luisa Vivas

Philippe B禅

Pedro Carrero

Telemocomunicaciones

Culto.

The sheet then concludes with the note: "The press, radio and television under the orders of Batista and the North American Press have repressed these declarations."

Field Comments:

1. The elandestine communist publication Carta Semanal of 16 February 1957 asserts 7000 copies of the sheet were distributed.

2. The elandestine communist minuscoped newsletter Ponsa Confidential of 15 February 1957 quoted in excess to the FBI sheet.

Classification CONFIDENTIAL

TEI: 84 01-00 2/3 1/54 01-00