10. AREA AND QUALITY (Area Type of Area is J) (If new, also indicate why new): Jade has been added. Other: Jade

10. LANGUAGE FACILITY (Give tests when ability warrants and rate below): Linguistic Ability Basic Fluency Potential for Improvement Achievement for Language Development Achievements for Potential Limitations Scoring by

SALARY REQUESTED 03-7

12. ACCEPTABLE STATION COLUMBUS - E.C. DELEGATES IN U.S.A. RECRUITAS

Preference Limitations

NO

LOW

MID

HIGH

HEALTH Good

14. FORMS GIVEN Cancer App. 1 Muscle Reticulitis UVA (if required)

15. EVALUATION AND RECOMMENDATION (Appearance, manner, personality, maturity, motivation, flexibility, intelligence, emotional stability, qualifications for intelligence work, career planning, overall impression, pertinent unfavorable factors)

Keenan is a really impressive fellow in all respects. His appearance is immaculate, there is a youthful charm about him, his discourse is articulate and nicely paced, and he has a very congenial disposition. He has reached a #9# satisfactory level of maturity and discretion, I have no doubt. He has humility and poise. He is now at a critical juncture in his life--just out of service, with an optimistic outlook on life, and anxious to enter into career employment. His attitude toward gov't. and CIA in particular is entirely favorable. After our initial interview he wanted some time to think it over, and to have other interviews. He called me within a matter of days, saying he was ready to make formal application. Both he and his wife are enthusiastic over the JOT program. She is an attractive young lass who has lived most of her life in S. America where her father is an engineer for CMC. She is bi-lingual. Keenan asked searching but discreet questions about conditions of employment, career development, and the like. He is familiar with the security environment, and anticipates no difficulty adapting himself to our requirements. Note his steady progress in the Navy. He appears to be a natural for career training. He is a likeable fellow, full of curiosity and ambition, and I believe he has a good mind. Participation in the mission of the agency appeals to him very strongly. Presently not employed, he is prepared to seek temporary work if available, or simply to wait out the processing period. His interest is centered wholly in this application. In fairness to him an early decision on eligibility is advised. I regard him as a wholesome, disciplined, energetic fellow, with real potential for us. Self-administered tests will be forwarded soon.

RECOMMENDED FOR OTHER/NOT

17. TESTS To be tested in Madison 16 Feb 1957 OTHER/NOT

TO BE TOBE TESTED IN MADISON-16 FEB 1957

SERIAL NUMBER

23. SERIAL NUMBER

Ltt Corp</