because, as a member of the MD, this was considered as equivalent to military service. Nonetheless, in response to my query, Subject admitted that this was unusual as his activities were of a kind which were performed by old women particularly since during this period, from October 1941 to September 1942, all able-bodied Soviet males were drafted into the Soviet army. During this period Subject lived in comparative ease, being assigned to Suzdal and Klin, and other towns. According to Subject, he wore an MD uniform but wore no insignia. He admitted that "favored treatment" was bestowed upon him and his family when the MD assisted him in evacuating his first wife and son from Moscow in August 1941 to beyond the Urals. (His son by his first wife reportedly died on 11 October 1943 of diabetes.)

In September 1942, Subject received an appointment to the Moscow 2nd Military Infantry Institute from which he graduated in June 1943 and upon which he was given the grade of Corporal in the Soviet Infantry. In response to my query, Subject again admitted that this appointment was highly unusual as his background did not lend itself to this, as appointments were made out of the various military branches, and as this implied that, as a foreigner (American), he was fully and completely trusted by the Soviet punitive organs who had cleared him both for this training and the institute and for promotion to officer status in the Soviet Army.

1. Initially he was sent to Alatev on the Volga, then to Orel where he was assigned to the front lines in August 1943. He was given a platoon of infantry troops in the 415th Infantry Division of the Soviet Central Front. However, in October 1943 he was wounded; he was hit in the left forehead by a German bullet. He was operated on in a field hospital and then transferred to a Moscow hospital after he had recovered sufficiently. He was reclassified after his recovery and found suitable to continue in military service with the limitation that he should not serve on the front lines (goden vtoroi stepeni).

Because the wound failed to heal completely (he has a very obvious scar, with approximately a 1" depression, on his forehead), he "asked" to be assigned to a warmer climate. The Soviet authorities, he states, complied and in January 1944 dispatched him to Tbilisi where he was placed in a special officer's camp; he was hospitalized again, had osteomyelitis complications, and ultimately discharged from the Soviet military forces. However, Subject provided several contradictory stories as to the date of discharge which at various times he indicated occurred in May 1944, then in July 1944, and even in August 1944. (NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story bothered him as it was obvious to the undersigned that Subject had somewhere become confused in this aspect of his background.)

SECRET.