principal himself or his heirs has the legal right to revoke a trusteeship even in the mishandling of funds. Based on a review of pertinent documents and a discussion with Mrs. Evie Vidal, who is probably more knowledgeable of the facts and nuances of this problem than anyone else, I have listed below some recommendations for your consideration:

A. In line with recent JMWAVE recommendations, payments to all principal dependents (wives who have not remarried) be reduced by 30 July, or as soon as feasible, to a flat $100 per month and all minor dependents reduced to $25 per month with notification that all payments will cease 6 months from date of initial reduction. All secondary dependents, such as dependent parents who receive separate checks of not more than $50 per month, should be continued at the present rate until the final termination date for all dependents.

B. Such adjustments as recommended above should be uniform and across the board with no attempt to evaluate each case on an individual basis determined by such factors as outside income, need, etc. This would not only tend to create an undesirable security hazard but would complicate the phasing out of an already complicated situation. Furthermore, individuals who have made an effort to raise their standard of living by augmentation of their income would be justified in feeling they were penalized for having more ambition than some of the lazy pensioner types. Once we attempt to play the role of Solomon as to who is the most worthy or the most needy, we lose sight of the fact that all dependents are equal as widows whose husbands died for the same cause and we could expect no end of recriminations. Neither should there be any distinction as is recommended in some instances by JMWAVE that payments should cease because dependents happen to reside in Cuba. They are as entitled to the same benefits as those fortunate enough to reside in this country. The exception to this may be justified in those isolated cases where it is evident that nothing has been heard from such dependents and they have never received any benefits from the money paid for their support. In these instances payments to trustees should probably be terminated immediately if such action is legal.

C. In the case of the known prisoners, two courses of action could be pursued. Either cut the present dependency payments in line with that proposed for dependents