13

CONTACT REPORT

FROM : Samuel J. KARTASUK

SUBJECT : Rafaël VIDELLA Rule; contact with, on 29 January 1969.

1. KARTASUK left his car in a parking lot in the Zone Ross and walked to the vicinity of Sanborns on Reform and Fiber. At 14:55 I called the language school where Subject teaches and was told that he had not yet arrived for class. I called again at 1:05 and was informed that he was already in class. At 15:05 I began waiting in front of the Language School for Subject to come out. He came out at 16:10 and we walked towards Sanborns. I invited him to go to La Mansion Restaurant on Insurgontes Sur but he said that he had a class scheduled from 16:30 to 18:00. We went to the Sanborns bar and had a drink. I told him that I thought that two girls I had previously met were going to meet me at the La Mansion at 17:00 and that I wanted him to go with me. After some discussion he decided that he could postpone the class until Friday, but would have to wait until 16:30 for the pupil to arrive, in order to inform her. We left the bar at 16:30 and encountered the student by the magazine stand. Subject made his excuses, and we started walking to his car. (Subject had not wanted to miss his class, and after some discussion in the bar, he offered me his car in order that I might go to La Mansion and get the girls. I told him that I also wanted to eat, and that there was a possibility that the girls wouldn't show up. He finally consented after some consideration).

We arrived at La Mansion shortly before 17:00 and went inside, leaving the car parked in the Restaurant lot. After sitting down and ordering drinks and a steak, I told him that I would like to discuss a few important items that had a lot do to with his future. (I had mentioned during the previous meeting that I had some business to talk to him about). I began by telling him that in our relationship I had neglected to mention something important. I told him that my meeting him in Acapulco was not an accident. I had gone there for personal reasons and that was not an objective. I had gone there for personal reasons and that my meeting him in Acapulco was not an accident. I had gone there for a specific purpose of meeting him after considerable planning. Subject just saw there with a clean, annualized look on his face, and asked me if I were the .33.