Case No: 67378

8 April 1952

in this part of the community. She stated that everyone seemed to have a good word for both SUBJECT and his wife and she knew of nothing derogatory in the regard. She added that Mrs John MONROE, 2262 Summit Street, knew the SUBJECT and his wife.

On 3 April 1952, Mrs John MONROE, was interviewed and stated that she had known the SUBJECT's wife since they were youngsters living in Hilliard, Ohio and that she has known SUBJECT since he and his wife married nearly thirty years ago. The ------'s were wonderful people and well thought of by everyone. SUBJECT was for- merly employed by Arch Alder's Chevrolet Garage in Hilliard, Ohio after which he returned to Ohio State University. He was later em- ployed by O.S.U. in some capacity, becoming Assistant Director of the Research Foundation. Informant suggested another person that was acquainted with the ------'s, Mrs Harry MYERS, 6500 Dublin Road, north of Columbus, Ohio.

On 3 April 1952, Mrs Harry MYERS, was interviewed and stated that she had known the ------'s and that they were very close friends. She knew of nothing derogatory regarding SUBJECT and stated that she considered the ------ family as the highest type of people. SUBJECT's son, Ed, is engaged in some type of Engin- eering work, believed to be in Detroit, Michigan

AGENTS NOTE:

It was determined that Arch Adler, SUBJECT's former employer, and personally known to the writer, is presently confined to a hospital and not available for interview,

Norman ARMENTROUT, Manager, Alder's Garage, Hilliard, Ohio stated that SUBJECT was the best mechanic they had ever had in the garage. Informant stated that he has heard Mr. Adler make this statement many times since SUBJECT left in 1937. He further stated that SUBJECT and his wife had a fine reputation and were patriotic Americans. Informant had attended high school with SUBJECT's son Ed, whom he described as a first rate fellow, who displayed that he came from good people.

CREDIT AND CREDIT REFERENCES;

At Columbus, Ohio:

The records of the Ohio Credit Bureau, 83 S. 4th Street, examined on 7 February 1952, revealed that SUBJECT arried Helen SEnRET"}, {"bbox": [1003, 2521, 1501, 2609], "category": "Text", "text": "SECRET"}]