The following day, 14 April, Logvinov came to Subj's office. He asked Subj how his trip (to Europe) had been and specifically asked if Subj had seen Ginette Palacel Porter. Subj replied that he had found out that Ginette and her husband were vacationing in Italy.

Loginov asked what impressions Subj had received in Europe on France's backing out of NATO. Subj answered that he had spoken to some Frenchmen, including George Laguere of Air France, who considered in general that de Gaulle was not wrong, but that his way was too drastic, that he was annoying everyone, and that France could not be isolated.

Then Subj made his break-off announcement to Loginov, saying But- I'm sorry to tell you that I'm not going to be able to work with you any more. There are several reasons. Loginov asked if anything had happened. Subj replied he had reasons. Loginov asked what they were. Subj said he was tired; he had a lot to do; and frankly he was plain disappointed- there had been big deals planned, nothing happened, and he was doing just junk. Loginov asked if that was Subj's final decision. Subj said yes. The Soviet then asked if they could talk it over. Subj said certainly, any time. Thereupon it was agreed between them that they would meet half an hour before the expected arrival at Lexico Airport of the INTURIST group coming to Lexico. They would meet in the restaurant.

Subj told Loginov he had traveled with Amb Bazarov, and that they had become very friendly. And he asked Loginov if he reminded that he saw the Amb again. Loginov said not at all- but not to call the Amb at the SovEmb or use the phone for any calls to the Soviets.

As stated in para. 1 above, the INTURIST delegation did not arrive on 19 Apr., and Subj who knew of the postponement did not go to the airport, and consequently missed his meeting with Loginov.

3. Subj, in his customary way asked "Did I do right?". The C.O. said it was fine if Loginov got the no-nonsense idea that Subj was through. The C.O. told Subj to wait until the Soviets get in touch with him again, and to have their second meet, at which Subj again makes perfectly clear that he is through. He is to remain friendly though, and is free to do anything he wishes re establishing contact with the Soviet Ambassador. Subj said he would under any circumstances postpone his meet with Loginov until at least the night of 23 Apr when the INTURIST delegation is scheduled to arrive.

COPIES MADE F.I.I.