April 9, 1963

Dear Sir,

This is to acknowledge your thanks receipt of your letter of March 6, 1953. The executive board of our foundation has read and considered your proposal and we find your contemplated activities not interesting. Your idea of reviving an anti-totalitarian news- line seems a highly desirable activity with which to initiate your group's activities. Our foundation, as you have been told, is more than willing to assist accredited groups such as yours in devel- oping and carrying forward a genuine anti-totalitarian program.

While we are most interested in seeing your group successfully launched the Foundation's aim of its activity, would of course be continuous upon receipt of as complete details as possible on the personnel, resources, and aims of your group, and the board's appro- val of the group's objectives and program.

In order that the board may arrive at definite conclusions con- cerning any assistance we might be able to provide, we request that you furnish the following information:

Submit a report, as you suggest, setting forth your plans for revival of the magazine and include information on your resources and the amount of assistance which you would like the foundation to supply.

Inform us so to another your group is, or could be, in a position to formulate a program of additional anti- Communist activities. We would like all feasible infor- mation including an estimate of probable costs.

Since your group is very evidently composed of in- telligent and high-minded people such as yourself, we believe that it might have the capacity, if eventually devicing into an organisation which could well become the focal point for anti-Communist activities throughout Chile and might be the vehicle through which aid could be channelled to other worthy civic, social, businesses or re- ligious organisations which also may be aware of the Comm- unist message and which may wish to combat it actively. Your views concerning one possibility would be welcomed by us.

In order to further the work of your group, will it be possible to obtain finance, if necessary locally from business, social and civic organisations? Such support is obtained in many instances, in other countries, by reliable organisat one engaged in efforts similar to those which you have embarked upon.