PLEASE BE SURE TO READ ATTACHED INSTRUCTIONS BEFORE COMPLETING ITEM-19

10 EXPERIENCE (Mark with your PRIME position and work back)

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? (X) Yes ( ) No

Dates of employment (month, year) From May 1961 To present time 的政治 والعначة (مது மார்தை) Exact title of position Political Officer Number and kind of employees you supervise 8 - 10

Classification Grade (If in Federal service) GS-14 Place of employment (City & State) Washington, D. C. Kind of business or organization, (Manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.) U.S. Govt

Name and address of employer ( firm, organization, etc.) Department of State Name, title, and present address of immediate supervisor Thomas Linthicum

Reason for wanting to leave: Desire to re-enter Foreign Service

Description of work: Analysis of political and economic reporting from Embassies and Consulates in Latin American countries; preparation of special studies based on these reports; conduct of official business with representatives of Latin American Governments in Washington.

Dates of employment (month, year) From June 1958 To May 1961 政治 والعماز (مது மார்தை) Exact title of position Vice Consul & Consul Number and kind of employees you supervised 1 (Secretary)

Classification Grade (If in Federal service) FSR-4 Place of employment (City & State) Nogales, Mexico & Dept of State Kind of business or organization, (Manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.) U.S. Govt

Name and address of employer (firm, organization, etc.) Dept of State, Washington, D.C. Name, title, and present address of immediate supervisor Consul Gen Robert Martindale Consul Gen Terrence Leonhardy

Reason for leaving: Accept employment in the Department

Description of work: General duties of a Foreign Service Reserve Officer at the American Consulate in Nogales. Handled a considerable number of protection cases, maintained extensive contacts in the state and national governments, handled political reporting for the consulate. Transferred to Department in July 1959

Dates of employment (month, year) From July 1954 To May 1958 政治 والعماز (مது மார்தை) Exact title of position Foreign Affairs Officer Number and kind of employees you supervised 2 (Secretary & Clerk)

Classification Grade (If in Federal service) GS-12 Place of employment (City & State) Washington, D.C. Kind of business or organization, (Manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.) U.S. Govt

Name and