Do Not Reproduce

"the new land project" sought to establish a tax shelter on one of the out-islands of the Caribbean by forcefully taking over the island and establishing a government there. Mackem is supposedly involved in the paramilitary training of forces who would participate in this adventure. According to Dyckman, the paramilitary training supposedly was to take place in Georgia, where WER BELL is based.

8. On 31 August 1974, Mr. (Roussos) met with Mr. K. Michael Absher, who at that time was AC/E/GC, and told him that WER BELL was leaving for Athens on 31 August to sell arms to the Greek Government. WER BELL wanted (Roussos) to be his advisor in this venture and to go to Athens. (Roussos) told WER BELL that he would check with CIA before giving him an answer. WER BELL asked (Roussos) to see if the Agency was in favor of such an arms deal or not. Mr. Absher strongly advised against (Roussos') getting involved in this deal. (Roussos) told Mr. Absher that he understood and agreed not to get involved. (Roussos) said that WER BELL would probably call him from Athens and he would give WER BELL a final negative reply.

9. On 22 July 1974, the FBI reported that WER BELL may be in possession of a one-line note from former CIA Director William Colby stemming from a chance meeting with the Director at an OSS alumni dinner, reading something like "Good to see you again." This note was apparently used by WER BELL to suggest that he and Mr. Colby were good friends. This information was passed on to Mr. Colby on 9 August 1974.

10. According to reporting from several Stations, WER BELL and Arthur L. Smith (a cohort of WER BELL's) were in several Central American countries during August and early September 1962. Their principal activity appeared to be contacting officials of the governments of Guatemala, Nicaragua, and El Salvador for the purpose of obtaining recognition of a de facto Cuban Government in exile called the "United Organization for the Liberation of Cuba." In discussions with Nicaraguan Government representatives, WER BELL claimed the proposed Cuban Government in exile had the support of 90 separate Cuban exile organizations and 186,000 Cuban exiles. WER BELL offered a representative of the Nicaraguan Government $100,000 to obtain that government's recognition of the Cuban Government in exile. The group claimed to have its headquarters at 1025 Connecticut Avenue, NW, in Washington, D.C. While in Guatemala, Smith claimed that the group had a man in the Department of State in Washington, D.C., whom they pay $6,000 per year "to keep them advised."

7/1PJ