director; two teachers, sisters Adenolselles CASTAGNIET; Frehel PEINE - one of the neighbors in the dormitory; De BASSONPIERRE, a pupil of a higher class, was shot during the war as a "collaborateur"; an other pupil: Le CUDONEC. The pupils wore navy-type uniforms with a coat of arms on the sleeve showing the letters "ND" (Notre Dame). Of the events he remembers that he could not climb a pole because his arms were too short, he could not hold himself tight. Once he saw a blood-stained chair in the school's dining-room: the director had shot at and wounded during the night a thief. Once his hair got twisted or pinched between the bars of the bed; he thought that somebody was under the bet and was pulling him on hair. The family lived at that time at Rue Poussin, later at rue Quai de Tokio, which is now called Quai des Etats-Unies. He and his brother were taken to the school normally by taxi on Sunday night, and brought home on Saturday after the lessons.

3. In connection with the change of the living place he changed to Lycée Montaigne, Rue Guynemer, when he was 7. He attended the 8th grade, the grades being: 12-the lowest, 1 - the highest. There he remembers a teacher Mr. DIREMERA (pronounced -m爲ə), who had yellow spots on his hands. He is dead now. He had a son. He also remembers a girl in this school, Genevieve DRUMOND, who was sitting immediately before him. He liked the girl very much, but did not dare to show his liking, sauf by pulling her on hair. They went together to this school up to the 7th grade.

4. The next school was "L'Ecole Communale", Rue Littree, corner Rue Vaugirard. David's brother went to the same school. David remembers a teacher Mr.SATARELLI whose nickname was TETINARD. A pupil SANTEX was good in gym. The father of a Jew had a curiosity shop, the boy's name was Joachim. At this time David's father had already given up his hosiery shop and was working as a taxi driver of a company-owned car.

5. When David was 8 or 9 years of age, the family moved from Paris to VIROFLAY, some 3 km from Versailles. The move was