(Summary of Case)

the two items of information. He said that the need for money was his immediate motive for contacting CIA, although in the ensuing discussion he also expressed dissatisfaction with the Communist regime in the Soviet Union.

NOSENKO met CIA representatives four more times in Geneva in June 1962. With the second meeting on 11 June, his earlier expressed reservations disappeared almost entirely. He answered most questions put to him on KGB organization and operations. His knowledgeability was almost exclusively limited to the KGB Second Chief Directorate (responsible for counterintelligence and security within the USSR). NOSENKO seemed to be what he claimed to be: a KGB officer in a sensitive position with knowledge of important KGB operations.

NOSENKO returned to Moscow on 15 June, having promised to do everything within certain limits to collect information on matters indicated to be of interest to CIA. The only restrictions he placed on his cooperation were his absolute refusal to permit operational contact with him inside the USSR and his request that no mention of his collaboration be communicated to the American Embassy in Moscow. He promised to notify CIA via an accommodation address when he came to the West again.

NOSENKO again accompanied the Soviet delegation to the Disarmament Conference in Geneva in January 1964. Since last meeting with CIA he had been promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel and had become the Deputy Chief of the largest department in the Second Chief Directorate. At the first of the new series of meetings on 23 January he announced that he had decided to defect to the United States. He cited as reasons his continuing dissatisfaction with the Soviet regime and the fact that he probably would have no further opportunities to travel to the West in the foreseeable future. Although he implied that he wanted to defect as soon as possible, he agreed to remain in place in Geneva while arrangements for his reception were being made in Washington. NOSENKO had brought a large amount of new information, much of it in scribbled notes, on KGB operational activity which he had collected in the 18 months since his last meeting with CIA.

0001276

TS No. 197124 Copy ___