of Revolution I can do it in 48 hrs. Lots of people want Rev out of business. Question

Question is where does Verges get the small sums necessary to keep going. He's paying at least 5 progris a day. plus the penultimate price. Deldueca printed No. 12. It is a high powered firm. What terms of agreement?

13th issue has gone back to off-set press, the old printer. I don't know why.

I should have spent more time in Paris. I don't want to overplay my hand. The last thing I should have done was recognize need to question people systematically.

In Paris only important contact, Valdes, Spanish. Gave someone info on Span groups. Claimed they asked Cuba for money and got turned down.

It is always someone else, like Pico or Sine or Jules.

Verges always indirect. doesn't want to ask anybody for money- a cultural probably through Juan Areocha, press, attache, Paris, former sector of Carlos Franqui, editor of Rev. Areocha is very anti-Communist, hipped on persecution of homosexuals. Not necessarily one himself. Very interesting.

SINE

I did not see Franqui. I don't know where he is.

I was getting enough info for personal needs. but didn't want to overdo it. I do need a better story to travel around on.

Grippa generally was busy, lot of people around, obviously delegations, there was a calistrophe, from where I don't know. Something had happened. He is rather vague.

Hard clash between Grippa and Verges came on question of money. After many months, Verges went to Brussels, talk ended abruptly. I said he went too far, laid down political line, etc. I rejected." But this came only after an exchange over the source of funds. Grippa asked nx Verges unless he was getting his money, and Verges got baffled. axs: Delegate general said Grippa didn't believe any of the stuff Verges said about me. Predisposed to oppose - Verges. Verges will not confide to anyone - even Andersson where the money comes from. Verges and Algerian money. Did he just say, just tell them, that he got the money from the Chinese? Did he get it from someone in Algeria but he is afraid of disclosing.

He wouldn't tell the Chinese at Bern the source of his funds. Q: Verges debts total $30,000? A: Now he must have cleared away at least the big debt with the original French printer. I said 30,000,000 francs or about $60,000. Cashier confirmed that it was about that amount. Cashier and I and my wife worked out the estimate. I don't remember the breakdown.

Minty Printing, photographs, paper, rent. We said between 30 and 40. (all loans)