DISPATCH

PAYBAT SECRET

TO Chief, SS (ATTN: Matthew L. CARSON)

NFO Chief, SK (ATTN: Sherman G. CUSICK)

Chief, HK (ATTN: Leonard F. SACKRITT)

FROM Chief of Station, Germany

SUBJECT ADMINISTRATIVE Handling of a Soviet Defector

ACTION REQUIRED See below.

REFERENCES

1. I suggest that the story of ARLADLE, from the moment he walked into the home of Martin K. HOODLIN until he was safely under ALBAHA custody in the United States, deserves compiling, analysis, and publication in the form of an operational Aid. It richly illustrates the many problems which must and can be surmounted, and could be highly instructive to Chiefs of Station in all countries where the next Soviet defector might appear.

2. Here is the Frankfurt contribution (written at my request) to such a compilation: a cliffhanger from start to finish, but also a commentary on the many types of problems which can arise, and the fact that it takes hard work and skillful improvisation to solve them. It was a cliffhanger both before and after the Frankfurt chapter (I nominate HOODLINE for a medal for his part) and ought to make excellent reading.

3. The handling of defectors obviously is not a new responsibility to the German Station. The (ALBZORF facility which exists primarily for the receipt, establishment of bone fides, debriefing, and resettlement of defectors has existed here for the last decade. Nor is the movement by black evacuation of operational personnel a unique task for us to perform. We have accomplished this many times by use of our own integrated COMMIT facility and also by the furnishing of alias documentation to the person of interest and accomplishing the transport via scheduled MATS flights. The significant points which made the ARLADLE case unique may never again in their entirety be duplicated but in part they may well be, and therefore should be enumerated:

A Soviet diplomat, and member of the NIS, stationed in a non-satellite but politically sensitive country, which at the time of ARLADLE's defection was under considerable Soviet pressure.

The fact that the actual circumstances concerning his lot of defection were such that an immediate decision by the NIS on the same had to be made to take advantage of the opportunity.

The fact that little alternative could be given, under the facts as described in (a) above, except to believe the defector's statements and acquiesce in his demands, i.e., he possessed information of a significant and perishable nature and would disclose it completely only upon arrival in the United States.

The fact that once the commitments in (c) above were made every reasonable effort had to be made to accommodate the defector's demand.

In order to accomplish all this an untried method of evacuation, i.e., black evacuation via commercial aircraft had to be accomplished in order to successfully proceed with the undertaking.

4. A retrospective analysis as to how this case commenced, and the unique factors connected with it as enumerated above, lead me to suggest for Headquarters study what I refer to as "findings" and "areas of study." What I have labeled as "findings" in effect represent facts which, if not present, quite probably would have deprived us in Germany of participating successfully in the movement of the ARLADLE family. The "areas of study," on the other hand, represent either answerable questions or matters in areas wherein operational discussions may well take place to see if some type of school-book solution can be devised.

5. I will elaborate below, where appropriate, on some of these "findings" but will first record them: n w12 atr