CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION SECRET DISTRIBUTION SYMBOL AND NUMBER

In connection with the prisoners' campaign (paragraph 5(a) below), 10,000 copies of the Prisoners' Message were printed, attachment No. 6; 5,000 copies of a letter to Chilean President Eduardo Frei, attachment No. 7; 5,000 circular letters to Latin American Identity A organizations, attachment No. 8; and 5,000 copies of a circular letter to AMSPELL Dolegates, attachment No. 9.

Radio Propaganda

AMSPELL continued its regular radio operations consisting of a 15-minute program Tuesdays through Saturdays on AMTHIGH, and a 15-minute program broadcast every Monday over WMIE and several Latin American stations.

Press Releases

Miscellaneous press releases are included as attachment No. 10, under separate cover.

Other Activities.

The prisoners' campaign got off to a slow start. The Identity B meeting in March, which was supposed to have been the kick-off of the campaign, did not produce the expected results. Identity C was on a Latin American tour and was unable to attend, and Identity D, who had promised to push the prisoners' cause at the meeting, limited himself to pleas for Cuban Identity E prisoners. The letter written to Chilean President Eduardo Frei (attachment No. 7) by AMSPELL members imprisoned on the Isla de Pines was forwarded to the AMSPELL delegation in Santiago for delivery to the President. The Chilean elections, followed by the earthquake complicated this plan and the delivery of the letter was delayed. (See paragraph 2-d above for information re propaganda printed by AMSPELL in connection with the campaign.)

In connection with the 13 March anniversary of the assault on the Cuban Presidential Palace, AMSPELL issued a press release (attachment No. 10), all publications contained appropriate editorials and, in addition to full coverage on the regular AMSPELL radio programs, additional radio coverage was obtained on JMHOPE and AMTHIGH with a special interview. The AMSPELL publication re the anniversary is attached under separate cover, No. 11.

The AMSPELL delegation in Mexico participated in the tribute to Venezuelan workers (CTV) organized by the Cubans residing in Mexico City. (See attachment No. 10 for pertinent press releases.) Activities of other AMSPELL Delegations including publications and press releases are included under attachment No. 12.

B. FUNDS EXPENDED

Operational expenses 10,224.46

Salaries 5,650.00

Additonal printing expense (prisoners' campaign) 2,100.00

TOTAL-17,974.46

C. FUTURE PLANS

Implement the Reference B decisions.

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN