NO-178-65

Chief, Contact Division

Attn: NonSov Sien Area

5 May 1965

3. Mr. Butler mentioned yesterday that, inasmuch as he was again revising the questionnaire, he would welcome our suggestions about additional topics. We suggested questions designed to elicit technical information about the station and its equipment, such as descriptions (manufacturer, type, model) of transmitter, receiver, antenna type and power, frequencies and frequency range, reliability of equipment, normal and emergency power sources, remote pick-up arrangements, etc. We stressed of course that none of these topics should be introduced into the questionnaire unless Mr. Butler was convinced of their suitability for his immediate purpose as well as for the long-term propaganda aim of his organization. He stated that our suggestions were entirely proper and, in his opinion, were reasonable requests that would not arouse the station manager's curiosity. We pointed out to Mr. Butler that, while information about key personnel and their political orientation, etc., about the station's administrative policies, etc., was of prime importance to us, these subjects obviously could not be introduced into the questionnaire. He agreed that it would be better to elicit such information in another manner, as he had done with Dr. Miqueo-Narancio, but because of his very heavy responsibilities, he did not have time to develop similar sources of information in each of the other 15 countries.

4. It occurs to us that you or a possible consumer could assist us by suggesting other appropriate topics for Mr. Butler's consideration in the revision of the questionnaire. We shall appreciate whatever help you can give us in this regard.

5. In the meantime, as soon as all of Mr. Butler's current correspondence has been properly filed, we expect to extract the appropriate information from the folders and to present the material in a series of 00-B reports.

LLOYD A. RAY

DABrandao/gn

Enclosures

cc: Services Branch