brighten the effect. S.g., you might show photos of the taking over ("vol- coming back") of Latvia and/or Est. & Lit., and then add that "...since 1945 the USSR has been expanding at the rate of 65 sq. miles (or whatever it is) per day," (Since 1989, I think it is 65 sq. mi per day. Can dig it up, —and let me know any other research you might want to have done). Then juxtapose it with Stahl's statement (1942) about "not wanting an inch of anyone else's terri- tory". / And throw in "This is my last territorial demand" of Hitler, if it wouldn't clutter things up/.

Items. Alongside the frontispiece quote from Lomin, re "any deception", underneath it you could put Hitler's famous quote about the "big lie". Just because the idea of making the whole book a Hitler-Stalin parallel has been shalved, is no reason why you shouldn't draw the parallel wherever you see fit, if it heightens the effect.

More re: not telling the whole story, namely:

The Problem of the Big Lie.

Your telling the story of the Wicked Uncle, and heaven knows this is an important a "episode" in it, hard to see how it could be omitted entirely. And yet to deal with it is a problem. It is just the sort of problem that has been leading me to think you've got to lean on Text to do part of the job. I.e., the book is a PHOTO-book, and the pictures are the piece de resistance. But the beauty of really effective photos is that they heighten the effect, and carry you through patches where, unavoidably, no really arresting photo is available, —in which patches, I'd say, you're going to have to be content with an ordinary photo and lean at that point on your caption. Which doesn't worry me too much, because, after all, anti-Stalinist literature (and your own malicious mind) are充分not lacking in pittry & sizeling texts, such as alone will make the given page readable and memorable. (S.g., to pick at random a mediocre example: "If the U.S.S.R. is a democracy, then Leavemorth Prison is a democracy"; nothing to write here about,