HOMA-27030

PERSONALITY, CHARACTER, HABITS:

Although Subject acted as a guard at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico, he appeared to be fairly well educated and was not subservient to any of the other Soviets, with the exception of Counselor Boris Aleksandrovich KAZANTSEV (201-028975). On one occasion Subject was reported to be helping the daughter of Commercial Counselor Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO with her arithmetic homework. On another, Subject was asked about methods of producing metal wire, a subject on which Subject was well informed as a result of his having once worked for a wire factory (1).

Subject had a tape recorder at home which he liked to listen to. He also occasionally went fishing with other Soviets (1).

Subject told "Boris" /paragraph 7c above/ in Moscow to build a large garage, because he was bringing a big car back with him. He also asked whether "Boris" had bought a refrigerator and TV for the apartment. On another occasion he was negotiating for a can of paint to take back to Moscow with him to repaint "the Moskvich." Subject and his wife were both buying watches just before leaving Mexico. (1). /From the above it appears that Subject was fairly well-off financially, for a guard/.

CURRICULUM VITAE:

(date unknown) Subject reportedly had worked at the Serp & Molot wire factory in Leningrad (1).

28 August 1962 Subject, accompanied by his wife and son, arrived in Mexico as employee of the Soviet Embassy. Subject replaced Vyacheslav Aleksandrovich YEGOROV (201-273431, suspect GRU/. (2) In Mexico City Subject and his family lived at Tacambaro 4, reportedly in Apartment 5 in January 1963 and in Apartment 4 in July 1965. (1).

22 July 1965 Subject's wife and son departed Mexico for the USSR (5).

4 August 1965 Subject departed Mexico for the USSR (3). Subject is believed to have been replaced by Ivan Petrovich KARCHIN (no Station traces.)

INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION: Suspect RIS.

The Station has no real evidence of Subject's intelligence affiliation; however, because Subject appears better educated than his duties as a guard would demand, because he seems financially better off than other Soviet guards, and because of his apparent association on an equal footing with Soviet officers, he is considered suspect RIS. It is further noted that Subject's predecessor was suspect GRU.

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY: Unknown.

NON-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY:

In Mexico City Subject primarily handled the main Soviet Embassy telephone (1) and also took guard duty at the gate (3). Subject took messages for other Soviets, notified them of meetings, and contacted them for appointments with each other. He also occasionally drove one of the Embassy cars on errands. He kept a ledger of the telegrams sent out by the Embassy and notified other Soviets when cables came in for them (1).