4. It should not be forgotten that a person tried both to rent and buy Limesa properties earlier in the year after we owned them. So far as we know, a check on this person was not productive of suspicious data, but the question arises as to how thorough the investigation was. Possibly the name the man gave when making inquiries was false, meaning that in effect the right person has never been investigated at all. Knowing that the targets have in the past shown some interest in the Limesa buildings, it is not beyond the realm of reason that this man was sent by them. The story he gave for wishing to rent the house--because it was handy and close to a certain school--is identical with the story used by the Station to cover rental of Licalla almost next door.

5. Even granting that the true ownership of Limesa has not been discovered by the targets, they have various recourses through which to establish the identity and activity of the occupants thereof. The following possibilities suggest themselves:

Enter into litigation with Limesa owner over exact boundaries or other pretext, demanding property be surveyed. On court order, Limesa could be inspected thoroughly.

Undermine target side of Limesa walls, leading to possible condemnation of property by local government or necessity various repairs, etc.

Sabotage of electricity (causing fire) or water or sewage, necessitating entry into Limesa of outside persons, who could be infiltrated by target agents.

Ramming by vehicle, with similar results, police, firemen, etc.

Complaint to medical authorities on filth, refuse, etc., leading to inspection by health authorities.

Various other approaches might be discussed.

6. One general recommendation can be made: sensitive material should be used and kept in a crypt, and a good one, rather than in the relatively insecure special room now planned as the operational room.

7. Beyond this, every effort should be made to see to it that the operators have good cover. The idea of clothing them in local clothing is excellent and shows right thinking in that direction.

J. C. KING Chief, Western Hemisphere Division