SUBJECT: Clarard Joseph CHARLES

secretary. Through a misunderstanding, however, Charles did not attend the dinner but went to New York instead.

4. Charles is travelling, according to Dryer, with a Texas geologist named de Mareschillet. de Mareschillet is associated with Charles in a business venture in Haiti and is trying to arrange a meeting for Charles with Vice President Johnson.

5. On 3 May 63 Jim Balog telephoned to advise that he had had a five-hour session the previous day with Charles and that he had obtained both personality data and views by Charles on what the United States should do in the current British situation. Balog advised that he was transmitting the information to Washington. Upon arrival, copies of the talotypes were transmitted to ACSI (Mrs. Natlack), W Division, and the Latin America Branch.

6. On 6 May 63 Maxo Stuntz, Support Branch, advised that W Division wished to speak to Charles and Balog who asked to arrange an appointment. Mrs. Natlack telephoned at approximately 1715 to advise that she had just received a telephone call from Mrs. de Mareschillet asking assistance in obtaining hotel reservations in Washington. Upon being told that we had no special means of obtaining reservations, Mrs. Natlack stated that she would check with the State Department Protocol Office to determine which hotels would admit Maxo guests. Mrs. Natlack finally made reservations at the Alba Towers. A shock with Jim Balog revealed that he had arranged for Charles to meet the W representative in the lobby of the Willard Hotel, Washington, D. C., at 1200 noon on 7 May. Attempts to reach Mrs. Natlack that afternoon were unsuccessful. At 0830, 7 May, a call was made to Mrs. Natlack to confirm that Charles would be in Washington on that day and that arrangements had been made for a : meeting with an Agency representative for 1200 noon. Mrs. Natlack retorted that both Mrs. de Mareschillet and Charles had called her that previous evening to confine a 12:00 luncheon appointment with her. Mrs. Natlack was concerned that CIA and Army should not be working at these purposes. She had received authorization from ACSI to meet Charles at lunch and felt that it would not be politic for her to withdraw from her appointment since Army considered her the point of contact with Charles. Maxo Stuntz inferred W Division of the conflict and pressed on the suggestion that the W Division representative might meet Charles and Mrs. Natlack at noon and that Mrs. Natlack offered to withdraw shortly thereafter. The W representative declined the offer and requested that a meeting later in the afternoon be arranged. Mrs. Natlack believed that due to conflicting instructions, she had been placed in the middle in the situation from which she could not gradually withdraw and requested that someone accompany her.

[CONFIDENTIAL]