5. Mr. Tyler expressed concern, in which those present concerned, that the University was making plans for expansion without having definite information regarding the number of acceptable students who would be available in future years. Of the several hundred applicants who were rejected last year, there were few, if any, who would have been admitted under any circumstances. It was agreed that a survey should immediately be made to determine with as much accuracy as possible how many students can be expected to be available for the University in the next few years. It was recommended that Dr. Tyson get in touch with Mr. Lawrence Dawson of the Department of State regarding the number and academic caliber of institutes currently coming through the Iron Curtain.

6. It was understood that Dr. Tyson would forward to Washington in the near future detailed estimates covering:

Capital outlay required for the proposed expansion.

The operating budget of 1952-53 on the basis of 200 students.

(In this connection, it should be noted that Mr. C. P. Jackson has just returned from a trip to visit the officials of the Ford Foundation which he made for the purpose of proposing that the Foundation take over the FUE. The Foundation is giving this serious consideration but Mr. Jackson was reported unwilling to estimate how successful his trip had been.)

7. Mr. Tyler urged that a decision be reached with regard to capital improvement at Robertsport by the first of February. If delayed beyond that date, the University will be at the mercy of French contractors working on an emergency schedule to meet the opening date for the expanded University next Fall.

8. However, before any conclusions can be arrived at, it would appear most essential to carry out the survey of available candidates referred to in paragraph 5. above. Furthermore, Dr. Tyson is arranging to bring his detailed plans to Washington on 22 January, after which it will be possible to make a more detailed report as to the costs involved. At this meeting, the point raised by DP/P regarding the increased dangers of penetration by Communists will be discussed.

E. GATES LLOYD Deputy Chief Psychological Staff Division

DCPT/MUL

Distribution: Address - Original; FT/CIO - 1; DCFT - 1; RI - 2