(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section (January - July 1962)

As Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section NOSENKO said he was responsible for planning and coordinating all KGB activities against American (and British and Canadian tourists in the USSR as well as for supervising the operational work of fifteen subordinate case officers. He had no deputy, and he did not indicate who assumed his duties in his absence. He required several months at the beginning of 1962 to "get the feel of things"; "there were no accomplishments" on his part in the initial period on this new job. In mid-February 1962, within a few weeks of his transfer, he began preparations for his assignment to Geneva with the Disarmament Delegation. This involved discussions with the Eleventh (Soviet Delegation) Department of the Second Chief Directorate, as well as with case officers responsible for the investigation of one particular Soviet delegate to Geneva, SHAKHOV. NOSENKO claimed that his preparations for his trip were only part-time and in addition to his other regular duties. He spent his early weeks talking to case officers, reviewing reports of the section's activities during the previous two years, and discussing plans for the coming tourist season. He proposed a study of representatives of foreign tourist firms in Moscow with an eye to their recruitment by the KGB, a proposal which was accepted. [NOSENKO elsewhere attributed the proposal to his earlier assignment in the Tourist Department in 1958-1960, which he alleged resulted in the recruitment of FRIPPEL.]

NOSENKO'S Agents

NOSENKO claimed that when he transferred to the Seventh Department he brought with him the agents which he had been handling in the American Department Embassy Section:

[Arsene FRIPPEL] departed from Moscow in early 1961, but NOSENKO claimed he continued to be the Second Chief Directorate case officer since [FRIPPEL] had no contact with the KGB in New York City, and that he met [FRIPPEL] twice in the USSR in 1963. According to NOSENKO,

265

5/3R

0001536

TS No. 197124

Copy 10