VI. 22 Apr 76

New York: Through Gustavo Marin I learned about a general coordination of ABDALA with persons of other counterrevolutionary groups to create a more concrete and stronger program of terrorist actions. It is in this manner that ABDALA directly participated in the founding of the so-called Cuban Front of National Liberation (FNC), whose fundamental objective was to carry out terrorist acts. The talks on the founding of the FNC were held by the ABDALA leadership and Orlando Bosch, Dr. Vásquez Leyva and Dr. Humberto Fontana. I was introduced to a counterrevolutionary by the name of Octíerres, a militant of ABDALA who directly participated in the revolution against the Cuban Consulate in Madrid, Spain. A powerful explosive was placed at the entrance of the Cuban offices in Madrid, causing severe material damages. The offices were totally destroyed and the rest of the offices were seriously damaged as well as other floors of the building where the consulate was located. Present at the time of the explosion were the Cuban consul, his wife and other officials.

Knowledge of plans of terrorist acts against Venezuelan tourist offices in Puerto Rico: These acts were carried out by Juan de Dios who resided in Puerto Rico. They were developed in reprisal for the temporary detention of Orlando Bosch in Venezuelan territory and were of course made known to the CIA by me. Nothing was done to stop them. The CIA also knew of and coordinated through ABDALA a public event in New York City when a terrorist act was to be carried out against the building of the Cuban mission to the United Nations using molotov cocktails. This was called off by the CIA through officer Brackenhouse when some contradictions arose in coordinating with the FBI on how it should be done.

The CIA knew of attacks by persons residing in Miami against Cuban fishing vessels in international waters in which leader Gustavo Marin directly participated, Ocar Sanchoa, a CIA informer, also took part.

Knowledge by the CIA and coordination of terrorist activity against the Cuban Embassy in Montreal, Canada; In this second attempt, the ABDALA group, which was going to use me as liaison, was given a certain quantity of explosives. I must explain that this was not carried out because the required prior coordination with the KONP, the Canadian authorities, was not made, even though the coordination with the FBI had been made. In personal conversations held with FBI agents, the NSA--this is the National Security Agency--and representatives of the Justice Department at the federal level, which took place in the Federal Building of the southern district in the City of Manhattan, the possibility of controlling the activities of those terrorist groups inside U.S. territory was discussed. However, despite the talk, we realized that, the CIA--did not interrupt the activities in these terrorist programs, in conversations with the ABDALA leadership, I learned of possible attempts on the lives of certain individuals in exile who had defrauded the counterrevolution. This book placed 3 months before the death of the notorious counterrevolutionary leader Jose de la Torrente. I also learned about the attack on the Hispano Warehouse in New York City because it was sending goods to Cuba. This was carried out by ABDALA milibande佩德όndo Perúsaella. The activity was authorized by the CIA to determine how far the ABDALA terrorist apparatus would go. By then, Bob (Dyusin), a CIA officer who supplied explosives, was participating in the operational program with ABDALA, Bob (Dyusin) now works in CIA programs related to Chile.