SEC

nothing more positive he can take the approach that he considered the U. S. Government tacitly approved his plot since it obviously know about it and did not take any action against him.

For the record, it can be flatly stated that neither by statement nor by implication has the Central Intelligence Agency indicated to anyone that it approved or was supporting the plot. On the contrary, those who queried people they knew were con- nected with our Agency concerning possible participation in the plot were told that it had no U. S. Government backing whatsoever. Some of the plotters attempted to contact this Agency through various intermediaries, and the intermediaries were told that the Agency wished to have nothing to do with the undertaking and that any information concerning violations of U. S. laws should be passed to law-enforcement agencies, particularly the Bureau of Customs and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Technically, therefore, the Agency has stayed clear of the plotters, and we would be in a position to state that we had no connection with the plot and had given it no encouragement or backing of any sort.

As a practical matter, however, if prosecution were pursued, Macferror, and perhaps other defendants, would probably claim that they had CIA backing and some might even believe it to be true. This might well lead one or more defendants to seek a subpoena duces tecum for an Agency witness and the Agency documentation on the subject. As noted above, the witness can testify to the fact that the Agency had in no way participated or encouraged the activity. If it proved impossible to quash the requirement for production of documents, however, we would be faced with a situation where we would almost certainly have to claim the documents were privileged on the grounds of security. Aside from the sensitivity of the reports and their possible compromise of sources, we would have the problem of identification of our personnel under cover and of protecting the sensitive cover arrangements.

The same is true to a lesser extent of action against Macferror in connection with violations of his parols. In view of the flagrant and numerous violations which were actually known to and reported by Government agencies without any punitive action resulting, it would appear that he could make a plausible claim that the Government had at least winked at, if