DISPATCH 8-5-C-R-E-T RYBAT PROCESSING

TO: Chief of Station, Leopoldville X

FROM: Chief, Africa Division

SUBJECT: Operational/WIROGUE/1

B. LEOP,0478, dated 17 December 1960

C. DIR-17181, dated 10 December 1960

1. A dispatch had been prepared outlining the various administrative and operational details pertinent to the WIROGUE project. Receipt of reference B negated its value and we prepared this one in its stead. Suffice it to say that all steps outlined in reference A were accomplished and he was dispatched with the specific instructions outlined in paragraph 2 of reference C.

2. During WIROGUE/1's association with the undersigned, the subject of a vehicle was raised by him. He stated he needed one to accomplish his mission. It was suggested to him that under the present circumstances in the Congo it would not be wise to consider such a purchase until he has discussed it fully with you and received your concurrence. If he did purchase a vehicle after receiving your approval, then he would have to do it from his own funds and not use funds made available to him to establish his cover business. Obviously he has violated the suggestions.

3. While WIROGUE/1 was in the employment of REDWOOD, there was a communication channel set up between him and his family. This was an arrangement with a letter drop in Sao Paulo. He would write a letter, post date it, and give it opened to the Case Officer who would pouch it to the COB, Sao Paulo for mailing. Letters to WIROGUE/1 would come to a post office box in Sao Paulo where it would be serviced by ALIEMETER-2 and pouched to the Case Officer. We leave it to your discretion, as to whether or not you wish to continue this type of arrangement. Nonetheless, under separate cover, attachment A is a letter for WIROGUE/1 which was received through this channel.

4. I am sure that WIROGUE/1 will undoubtedly want you to set up a similar arrangement through Germany for him so that he may communicate with a female acquaintance of his in PRIME. We are not adverse to the idea of his having such a channel, but only on the condition you are able to ensure

ROUTING RW

PID/CSL

FRN

DIV AF/W/2

MU D. Niesciur

AW A/CAF/W

<