CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/TRY BAT

OEPA-1058

3. RODIGAST reports that Identity A is charming, highly female, definitely intelligent and something of an "actress" in that she is often willing to tell people what they want to hear; indeed, this is what she did at the public discussion mentioned above. At the same time she is committed to the civil rights movement. You will note from the biographical data which we are forwarding under separate cover, that she has worked in civil rights activities before and at one point assisted in the organization of a march led by Dr. King. RODIGAST, who is a personal friend of the family (she is divorced and has a teen-aged girl) in addition to being the representative of her publisher, has gotten to know her very well over the past years. He reports that she is basically a loyal, moderate and anti-Communist person who comes from a middle class family in Detroit where her parents were active in the anti-Communist activities of the United Auto Workers. At one point RODIGAST had proposed her for possible use since she might be able to gain access to North Vietnam. This was rejected, however, because she was thought to be too moderate, respectable and pro-American to be of interest to the North Vietnamese.

4. All this has been altered by her recent involvement in the SNCC activities, and it is now RODIGAST's opinion that she offers what may be a unique opportunity to obtain the collaboration of someone in a position to report on the attempts by Communist, Castroist, and radical forces to influence and use the civil rights movement. Through her involvement in SNCC she has developed contacts with various groups which are flirting with SNCC such as the French Vietnam National Committee, Vietnamese student groups and the Che Guevara Circle—all targets of WOFIRM.

5. At the moment she is the most glamorous figure the SNCC returns to the US this Spring, Identity A could easily develop into a leading public representative of SNCC. Another candidate for a leading role in SNCC following the departure of Identity B is the Marxist oriented Identity C—although she is somewhat shy and prefers to operate behind the scene. Thus we can envision a situation where Identity A might become most influential, if only by default.

6. RODIGAST is convinced that Identity A would be willing to collaborate with her government but stresses that the approach to her would require great skill and must be done by an individual with whom she could feel rapport. He reiterates that she is sincerely anti-Communist, and that she does not share the beliefs of the militant black racists, although she certainly is a convinced advocate of the civil rights struggle. RODIGAST suggests that any approach to her must stress respect for her commitment to the civil rights movement. This approach should emphasize that Communist exploitation of the movement is in the interest of neither the movement nor the nation and should request her collaboration in reporting on foreign (and only foreign) attempts to exploit the situation. As an alternative to this direct approach, we believe that consideration should be given to the desirability of merely stating that because her activity in the civil rights movement she has been thrown into contact with Vietnamese, Cubans, etc. of interest to WOFIRM and on whom we would welcome reports. This line has the virtue of having less blow-back potential should our approach be declined and we would hope that once a relationship with her had been established she would volunteer information on SNCC and its foreign involvement. Reinforcing the approach RODIGAST suggests that she be offered a small payment of, say, $200 per month to assist her in meeting the obligations of living abroad. This payment will

SECRET/TRY BAT

XX PAGE NO.

2 of 3

CONTINUED: