To the foregoing he received the following reply:

" Czechoslovak currency (program) is continuing in a restrained manner. We are prepared to take credit if it doesn't happen. Munich representative did not advise us postpone until after mid 7th. Went ahead on Munich information gathering friends local rep. But we had their best advice and blessing on this one."

9. According to the foregoing teletype exchange, RFE Munich were not advised until after mid-day Monday, 7 January 1952, of the contents of OPC's cable of Friday, 4 January 1952, suspending the action pending further instructions. It would also appear that OPC, Munich, advised RFE to proceed.

9. The undersigned would like to point out that none of the three outgoing cables (OUT-9/90, OUT 97623, CNT 93033) quoted above, were coordinated with the Psychological Staff Division who have the primary responsibility for all matters concerning EC/E and RFE. Had we known about the decision to suspend on 4 January 1952, we would have been able to advise RFE in New York in plenty of time to call off the operation. In this connection, a subsequent message from Munich states that RFE does not consider that their overseas staff is subject to commands of OPC stations, the command channel running only from NCPE New York.

10. DN/P's memorandum of 16 January 1952 on this subject refers to the Director's recommendation that RFE be prepared to play this theme either way, taking credit for either having prevented the reform by premature exposure if nothing is done, or having warned the people in time to protect themselves if their currency is devalued. As indicated in Griffith's message of 2 January 1952, RFE was aware of this double approach from the start, and has been taking the "to prevent it" line in the occasional references which have been made to the currency problem in the past three weeks.

11. To avoid such confusion in the future, it is recommended that:

Before a theme is referred to RFE overseas for exploitation, or even brought to their attention for consideration, it be given to PY Division not only for review here in OPC but also for discussion with the interested people in RFE's New York office.

All cables