23. REFERENCES - List three persons living in the United States or Territories of the United States who have NOT related to you or to whom you have been biographical by your qualifications and fitness for the job which you are applying (Do not list names of superintendents listed under Item 16 (E) (i.e. D).)

FULL NAME BUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION

Buford Ellis Farmers &amp; Merchants National Bank, Abilene, Texas Bank Pros.

Dr. H. A. Richardson President of Hardin Simmons Univ. Pres. of Univ.

Mrs. J. H. Robnett 1738 Q St., Wash., D.C.

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding past character qualifications etc.? Yes No

Indicate 'Yes' or 'No' answer by placing X in proper column

25. Are you a citizen of the United States? X NO

26. Do you advocate or have you ever submitted or are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence? ... If your answer is "Yes" give complete details in Item 4a X YES

27. Within the past 12 months have you personally used alcohol, smoking tobacco, or other drugs? X NO

28. Since your 10th birthday have you ever been under the influence of an alcohol, drug, or other substance or has your over been ordered to deposit bail by the courts of any law (alcohol regulation or conditions including minor traffic violations for which a fine of $25 or less will be imposed)? If your answer is "Yes" list all such Names under Item 21 (be sure to also list all previous Names under Item 21) X YES

29. Have you ever been discharged or forced to resign for cause conduct or unscholarly story service from any institution? ... If your answer is "Yes" give in item 28 the name and address of employer date and reason in each case X NO

30. Do you receive an annuity from the U. S. or D. C. Government under any retirement plan for any pension or other compensation for military or naval service? ... If your answer is "Yes", give in Item 28 reasons for retirement that are age optional during life by reason of voluntary or non-voluntary separation after 5 years' service amount of reduction and pay and under what retirement act and rating at retirement from military or naval service X YES

31. Are you an official or employee of any State, Territory, county, or municipality? ... If your answer is "Yes" give details in Item 24 X