to the Subject's handlers because he indicates that he will abide by firm authoritative decisions even though he objects to them.

Whereas the Subject was attached to his mother, his sister was identified with his father. The sister followed her father to Georgia out of a spirit of affection and sacrifice because she felt that her father needed her. The Subject regards his sister as a tributary of his father's mistakes. The sister taught languages in school and at the time of Stalin the children would say: "We have done this and that thanks to Stalin!" She would reply: "You are individuals and you have done this or that without Stalin!" As a result she was arrested and sent to a concentration camp but with the change of regimes she obtained her freedom and returned to her job. It would appear that the sister is an individualist like the Subject.

The sister's husband had emigrated to France at a much later date and apparently could not adapt himself and regretted having left Russia. He returned to Russia and the Subject believes that because he had served in the German Army he was sent to a concentration camp in Russia. Subject regards the intellectual level of his brother-in-law as that of his sister. The brother-in-law also had an inferiority complex and this may have been an additional reason why the Subject had rejected him as a brother-in-law.

The Subject's brother, who is an architect in Gap, appears to be an independent person who is conservative and more conforming than the Subject. The Subject does not regard his brother as having distinguished himself in extraordinary fashion. It is of interest that the Subject may be jealous of his brother and states that his brother has been more successful but in his own sphere and in terms of his own standards. It is of interest also that the Subject's philosophy is not to accept the fact that he has been unsuccessful but to try to explain his lack of success by the process of introspection and self-analysis. This emphasis and orientation as regards obtaining a greater knowledge of himself is typically a neurotic and represents his need to love himself and to rationalize his failures. The Subject feels that his brother is jealous of him whereas it is likely that both are jealous of each other. It is also likely that the Subject and his brother were rivals for the mother's affection. For example, the Subject feels both he and his brother loved the same type of women.