SECRET HUMA-19843 -1042

(5) LIFEAT/EXILE

LIFEAT coverage in this area has been most rewarding in providing leads to the contacts of Juan Jose Arevalo Bermejo, former Guatemalan President. Spanish Republican Exiles were covered for approximately one-half month in August, at which time it was decided that the coverage no longer provided sufficient leads and information to justify continued LIFEAT effort.

(5) LIFEAT/American Communists: Group in Mexico (ACGM)

This coverage is at the request of the local office of ODENVY and the processing of take in this area is done by that office. One of the most interesting items provided from this coverage was the fact that the American Communists Albert MALTZ and Margaret Larkin MALTZ had separated and that Albert MALTZ would probably reside in the U.S. with Margaret remaining in Mexico. Concerning the LIFEAT coverage of the ACGM, the local office of ODENVY wrote on 23 August 1962: "This office feels that the coverage mentioned is quite valuable and many useful leads are obtained from this coverage, particularly with regard to travel in and out of Mexico of American Communists who are in contact with individuals on whom coverage is maintained".

B. Processing of Take

No change from that noted in reference A.

C. Liaison

No change from that noted in reference A.

D. Security

During the early part of August 1962 a group of "coyotes" was uncovered in the telephone company in Mexico City and a number of arrests were made. This group had organized a unit including linemen, centralmen, installation crew, warehousemen, and workers in the office responsible for providing service to new clients. It was the purpose of the "coyote" group to provide service, for a price, to those individuals whose requests for installations had been turned down by the telephone company due to limited availability of cables and contacts. (Note: The company generally keeps a certain number of "spare pairs" in each cable for its own use in providing special service, company phones, and for rerouting during repairs to other cables. It was these spare pairs and contacts which the "coyotes" used to provide illegal phone service.) This telephone company within the telephone company would also collect monthly fees from their "subscribers". When the story came out, the telephone company had special police stationed in each central and spot checks made of linemen and crews to prevent recurrence. It was therefore necessary for the LIFEAT linemen to refrain from any clandestine activity for a period of almost four weeks so as not to be accidentally picked up as a member of the "coyote" group. LIFEUD-1 has reported that the situation is now back to normal with the special police details and special checkups terminated. No compromise of the LIFEAT operation resulted from the above incident.

E. Technical

In addition to re-supplying LIFEAT with audio recorders (as reported in reference A), the Station has ordered ten new dial tape recorders for the project. Funds for this purpose were included in the latest Project Renewal Request (forwarded by reference B).

F. Coverage

During the month of August 1962, LIFEAT covered a total of 15 target

LOG # 53a LIFEAT Dcline: OFFICE LINE SIGNATURE AND DOB IN IT CLASS# SECRECY SECRET XX PAGE NO TWO