14-0006

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET OSMA - 2C117

12. On the morning of 6 June AMAUTO-1's wife called SAMKO and, in English, said that her husband would pick him up at 1400 hours in front of the hotel. At the appointed hour, AMAUTO-1's official vehicle pulled up in front of the hotel driven by a chauffeur. AMAUTO-1 greeted SAMKO in front of the hotel and after exchanging a few words, they departed for a nearby restaurant. (SAMKO was too preoccupied to make note of the name of the restaurant. We decided against any surveillance during the AMAUTO-1/SAMKO meeting to avoid alerting AMAUTO-1 and/or his staff that the SAMKO visit to Madrid was pre-planned.)

13. At lunch SAMKO and AMAUTO-1 again reminisced. They discussed the following:

A. In one of his references, AMAUTO-1 said that men like him are needed in Cuba and noted that he would probably die fighting for Cuba which is young and aggressive, but that some day it will be a great country; that he has been fighting all his life to relieve the oppressed and repeated that he will die fighting. (It is interesting to note SAMKO's reaction here to AMAUTO-1's statement. When SAMKO first visited AMAUTO-1 on 31 May, he was certain that under the facade of being a devoted revolutionary AMAUTO-1 was indeed a capitalist at heart, but at this meeting SAMKO modified his comment by adding that it appears AMAUTO-1 is truly a communist who maintains strong convictions of the righteousness of the revolution. The above comments by AMAUTO-1 produced the peg on which SAMKO could have questioned the veracity of AMAUTO-1's statement on freeing the oppressed, but he was not specifically instructed to maintain a polemic argument on the rights and wrongs of the revolution because we felt this objective was secondary to the re-establishment of a relationship between these two old friends. A future meeting might include the exchange of an objective appraisal of the revolution as seen by SAMKO.)

B. AMAUTO-1 proposed that SAMKO act as an intermediary for the sale of Cuban sea food in the United States. He explained that the Cubans have a large fishing fleet in the Canary Islands. The fish caught is processed in the Canary Islands and can be shipped to the United States as a product of Spain, not of Cuba. AMAUTO-1 added, "SAMKO, you're like a father to me, please think about it (the agency)? AMAUTO-1 explained that SAMKO could earn about $200,000 a year in commission based on sales of $2,000,000. SAMKO said he would think about it, but privately to SACODER he said that he had no intention to disturb his retirement with a fishy business.

FORM 53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION XX PAGE NO 8