LIONION PROJECT RENEWAL

A. Current Objectives: This Project is a technical, currently primarily photographic, surveillance operation against the Cuban Embassy and Consulate in Mexico City. Its original objectives, still current, include furnishing photographic coverage during daylight hours of the Embassy and Consulate entrances; furnishing a control point for dispatching physical surveillance teams against persons associated with the target; and furnishing a listening post (LP) in readiness to monitor and record technical audio penetrations of the target. Two new objectives added during the Project year include assisting Station Mexico City to build up individual dossiers on target officials; and affording an observation post for Station activities involving direct contact with the target. These new objectives are in consonance with Priority A, Objective 1 of the current Related Mission Directive for Station Mexico City.

B. Changes: There have been no changes in personnel and none are contemplated during the coming year. Headquarters is assuming the task of developing some of the film exposed under this Project. LIONION-1's pay was increased $40 per month effective 15 March 1965.

C. Intelligence Production: The Project is not designed to produce disseminable information. It produced thousands of excellent photographs during the year which were shared with Headquarters and Station JMWAVE. Information on the comings and goings of target personnel and visitors to the target have been incorporated into many Station files, principally the dossier files. No precise statistics are available, but at least 100 exposures are made daily during target working hours.

D. Effectiveness: The Project is considered highly successful and essential by the Station. In addition to the excellent photographic coverage provided, LIONION-1, the Principal Agent, has developed into a first-class asset for other operational duties. The Project Basehouse was essential to mounting and monitoring the Station's attempt at recruitment and subsequent harassment of a sensitive target employee. The Case Officer in charge of the attempt sat with LIONION-1 for several weeks observing the movement pattern of the target employee. LIONION-1 manned one of the radio dispatch posts used to control the physical surveillance of the target employee while near the Basehouse.