30 October, 1967

Subject: Report of LIRING/3 Suspect Affiliation with WOFIRM.

1. LIRING/3 reported to Rowton at 0900 on 30 October, 1967, that he had finally managed to have a private talk with Rodolfo Reyes Cortes, his Mexican chereographer friend, on the afternoon of 27 October, 1967; and that, in the course of conversation, Rodolfo Reyes had revealed to LIRING/3 in confidence that the reason why the LIRINGS had assumed a rather cool attitude toward LIRING/3 over the past year. Rodolfo Reyes explained that the last time he was in Havana he had heard rumors, among his friends in the Mexican colony, that LIRING/3 was working "either for OFIRM or the Cubans". Rodolfo went on to say that the origin of this rumor, as far as he could ascertain, was the fact that LIRING/3 had made two trips into Havana for no known specific reason and at his own expense. Rodolfo Reyes, indicating that he himself did not believe the rumors or, at least, did not care whether they were true or not, commented to LIRING/3 that other members of LIRING/3's profession were naturally jealous of the success of anyone of their group and were always quick to draw their own conclusions.

2. LIRING/3 commented to Rowton that, although this news had shaken him and LIRING/4 badly at the time, neither of them cared particularly what the LIRINGS thought of them, since their own conscience was clear. LIRING/3 added that it was important, however, to continue to develop his commercial activity in Chiapas ( especially since Rodolfo Reyes' home is by coincidence located in San Cristóbal) so that word would gradually filter back to the LIRINGS that he actually did have financial resources outside his art production. LIRING/3 continued that obviously the LIRINGS did not have any specific proof or they would long ago have cut off all contact with him as well as LIRING/4. He concluded that since the LIRINGS had certain suspicions, they naturally warned all his friends and former contacts (including, of course, Arnol Rodriquez) to avoid close contact with him until their doubts could be resolved.

3. In reply to Rowton's query LIRING/3 stated that Rodolfo Reyes and Carmen Molina (separately) had commented to him that they were favorably impressed by Rowton and did not voice any suspicion of Rowton's bona fides (as a Greek leftist businessman). Carmen Molina, in fact, had gone so far as to show some irritation that LIRING/3 had not introduced her to Rowton previously since she was anxious to develop some sort of lucrative business