SECURITY INFORMATION

TPSA-1142

COMMENTS (Con'd)

activities and personalities and his grasp of the various revolutionary movements and figures has been freely shared with the Station Chief. These "briefing meetings" represent an intangible contribution to the over-all performance of this Station. Subject is eager to expand his operations, and, if headquarters approves the removal of present operational restrictions, it is believed he can be given further responsibilities, particularly in the recruiting of additional sub-agents. This Station is presently interested in accomplishing a parallel penetration of the Communist Party, in expanding routine investigative coverage, and in developing additional sources on political movements. It is believed that subject has potential in each of these fields. However, as reported previously, HUFINOID is beset with financial problems which undoubtedly detract from his full working efficiency on matters of interest to us. His GI subsistence is currently terminated during the school vacations and a certain portion of his time is devoted to odd jobs in an effort to augment his income. The former Chief of Station recommended an increase from 1,000 to 1,500 colones in July, 1951, a recommendation in which the writer concurred. However, in the event current operational restrictions are removed, it is desired to recommend at this time an increase to sixteen hundred (1,600) colones per month. The additional one hundred colones per month is suggested in view of the fact that subject has borrowed money in recent months to meet hospital bills, and because he has been aware of and probably counted on the raise recommendation of the former Chief of Station. Further, if the restrictions are lifted, it is desired to utilize subject's time to the fullest advantage without the handicap of his having to seek other outside employment.

In an effort to evaluate more accurately subject's agent-handling ability, the writer monitored a specially arranged 45-minute contact between HUFINOID and HUFAHIST-2. From a concealed vantage point less than three feet from the participants, the writer was able to hear and see HUFINOID's handling of this sub-agent. The results were worth the effort. HUFINOID demonstrated complete control over the discussion, exhibited a natural ability to elicit desired details, and issued instructions in a commendable manner. It appeared that subject has the complete confidence and loyalty of HUFAHIST-2 and that his working relationship with this important sub-agent leaves nothing to be desired.

SECURITY INFORMATION