3. What is the procedure after a tourist applies for a Soviet visa? Do you know at what tourist agency or in what foreign country Oswald applied for a visa to the USSR or bought a tour to the USSR? Who was the Soviet Intourist representative in that country who took Oswald's visa application to the Soviet Embassy?

9. You stated previously that Oswald was not considered a defector. If he was not a defector, then what was he?

Note: If the KGB did not consider Oswald to be a defector, then it is possible that Oswald was known to the KGB long before his arrival in the USSR as a tourist and Oswald was assured that when he arrived in the USSR he would be given Soviet citizenship or at least a permanent residence permit. Although he would be a defector anyway, it could be that Oswald did not like the word defector and the KGB decided not to call him a defector but, let us say, a volunteer. The Soviet Constitution states that the USSR grants the right of asylum to all foreign citizens "who are persecuted for safeguarding the interests of the working class or who are persecuted for scientific activities, for national-liberation struggle." (Article 129 of the USSR Constitution of 1936.)

10. You stated previously that "since about 1960, every Soviet ambassador can give a visa in three to five days. If so, what was so special for the Soviet government that the ambassador would be personally involved in issuing a visa to Oswald?"

Note: It is known that in 1957 the Soviet government adopted some measures to improve travel for foreign tourists in the USSR. They mostly concerned currency exchange. The 1957 regulations said nothing about visas. Nosenko should be questioned about the 1957 decision of the Soviet government to determine if he is not mistaking the 1957 decision with that of 1960.

11. You stated previously that since about 1960, every Soviet ambassador can give visas in from three to five days. The available information published by the Soviets unmistakably states that a visa cannot be obtained in less than seven days (in some cases it takes five to seven days). Following are excerpts from a book entitled Moscow, A Tourists Companion, published in Moscow in 1969, and from the magazine Soviet Life, May 1978, p. 59. Soviet Life stated that "visas are issued within 10 days of receipt of application at a Soviet consulate."