January 28, 1963

9:30 P.M. L-49

Dear Call:

This sounds funny but in order to keep the subjects in separate letters I am starting this one. I want to get this one out to give you a chance to look it over before you come. During my visit up north we talked about contacting some professors. I told you there were two or three in this area. I did not have a chance to get close to any of them until last Friday. Here it goes:

Last Friday night (Jan. 25) my wife and I attended a meeting to commemorate the anniversary of the birth of Jose Marti. It was quite cold and not many people attended (the act was not well organised either). After the meeting one of the Cuban couples talked us into staying at a bar before going home. It happened that Dr. Agustín Guitart (the university professor that looks most promising) had gone with them to the meeting. What luck! I accepted with the condition that Dr. Guitart would come along too. He couldn't turned it down. I have been trying to get close to this man for some time and never had the opportunity before. I could not get as much information as I wanted but this is just a start.

Dr. Agustín Guitart was a well known professor of Physics in Havana. He was a professor at the Instituto de la Vibra(a very large public high school in Havana) for many years before becoming a professor at the University of Havana. Dr. Guitart is about 5' 5" and slightly on the heavy side. He has a little bit of grayish hair and a small mustache. He looks to be about 50 years old.

His home address is (from the phone book): 4009 Elba St., New Orleans, La. phone, 82 2-2815. I believe he lives there with his wife, daughter, son-in-law and grand-children. His son stays there some times. I believe he is going to school somewhere. His son-in-law is a Cuban lawyer called Edmundo Robaina.

Dr. Guitart is now teaching Physics at Xavier University of Louisiana, a colored university located at 7325 Palm Street, New Orleans, La. phone: 1U-8-6646.

He looks very anxious to do something to help fight the Communists in Cuba. He goes here attended most of the meetings in New Orleans since his arrival here a few months ago. (By the way, he and two other university professors were sitting together at the meeting Friday night).

He arrived in Miami from Cuba in February 1962. He spent one or more days at Opa Looma. I don't know what date he arrived in Miami but he mentioned he left Opa Looma on a Friday or a Saturday.

I believe Dr. Guitart's wife is a sister or very close relative of Sara del Toro. Sara and her husband Anador Odio are in prison in Cuba now. Anador Odio was a Carlos Prío son some years ago and was also anti-Batista. Anador and Sara were both close to the Castro family in 1959.

OVER—