In addition, his father later returned to Georgia because he wanted to die in Georgia. Although the Subject can appreciate his father's point of view he is unable to forgive his father for having admitted his defeat by returning to Georgia to die. Although the Subject does not regard himself as a Georgian and is certainly not regarded as a nationalist, he is a competitive individual and may be motivated for affiliation in order to compensate for having experienced what he regards as defeat at the hands of the Soviets. To substantiate the validity of the presence of this attitude in his personality he offers the example that when he was committed to prison he was not bothered by the prison life but by the fact that he had made a wrong calculation in associating himself with an unreliable partner and consequently was arrested and imprisoned. For him, therefore, the first day in prison was worse than all the others. According to the Subject, the sense of defeat together with the competitive urge to balance the score is the primary factor in his personality and life experience. In addition to these, as was mentioned above, he is highly self-confident and optimistic that he will succeed despite the hazards and odds. It would appear that these attitudes are important as regards his motivation for affiliation, management and utilization of his services.

Because the father had provided himself with certain monies the family was able to live comfortably and even optically upon its arrival in France. However, the vicissitudes of life brought the family progressively to financial difficulties and later to material degradation. The Subject is of the opinion that this loss of economic status had a marked influence upon his way of thinking thereafter. Whereas the family had previously lived in an artificial, feudalistic way it was not brought into more direct contact with reality and, although this was not necessarily a bad influence, life was tough. The Subject's early loss of economic status is important as regards his selection for affiliation because it also constituted a loss of social status which is more primary in Subject's personality. A review of the Subject's life history reveals that he has always responded to material incentives in his various schemes and ventures. However, in terms of his personality, material success is a short-cut method of attaining social status. Consequently, it may be concluded that his drive for social status is more basic than his need for financial status.

From an early age the Subject was non-disciplined and in the school situation he constantly rebelled against the authority of those teachers whom he felt did not regard him as intelligent or pay him attention.