(2)

to get at the door handle, and that I had no idea who they were etc. I was sufficiently scared and put the car in reverse, backed up and took it down and parked it out of sight. I explained that I had climbed over the back wall and so on. They were quiet aware of the problem since they had observed, or thought they had observed, people hanging around the house all day. They pointed out to me too, that when their 18 year old son, Bill, was riding on horseback he encountered two men who had just arrived in a white Camaro driven by a middleaged or younger blond lady. They got out of their car and walked up to my house. One of them, he said, was carrying a pipe and the other one was carrying a screwdriver. The son asked if he could help these men but they rushed him off saying that he couldn't. The two men peered in the front gate and stayed around, hanging around for quite a while until a blue Chevrolet appeared and two people got out of it and went inside the house. While these people were inside the house, the two men outside hung around near the house.

LIIUFF-1

After spending sometime in the house, reported to me two men came out and there was some confusion going on around the car and they couldn't seem to be able to start it. Finally, the two men who had been inside two men the house left and the other/got in the car and left. None of the family was exactly sure what was going on except that there was confusion around the car. Eventually all the people left one way or another.

I said that I was very concerned about these people hanging around my house. That I didn't like the idea of people being inside my house and I LIHUFF-I wanted to call the police. Mrs. said that she had called her husband and he was coming right home, and that he had some very good contacts in' LIMPURE and he would probably be able to help out in this matter. I agreed to wait until he got home and that I would go and get my car and bring it back home, which I then did. I spent the rest of the night with the LIHUFF-IS visiting and as quickly as possible I moved the conversation away from this to other completely unimportant things. I decided in the LIHUFF-1 presence of, that there probably was not any reason to get concerned about this, that it was probably just some students trying to make me look foolish or something on that order.