the Soviet Ministry of Agriculture, warned that winter wheat seedings throughout the country were endangered as a result of the dry fall.

Says one Radio Free Europe report: "Thus it seems conservative to submit that only if 'Cyrano' weather conditions prevail throughout the Soviet Union could the ambitious 1968 farm campaign be achieved, which is highly unlikely."

At the Institute for the Study of Soviet Russia

A degree of stagnation is even greater than many Western observers had projected, says one Radio Free Europe report.

Stagnation in theylvanous technological in-

dустрия, there is no possibility of the Soviets complete their main targets." Targets call for a rise in total farm output of nearly 10% this year alone. Yet Party Secretary Leonid I. Sedov has himself admitted that gross farm productivity increased by only 10% in the last six years.

Each a degree of stagnation is even greater than many Western observers had projected, says one Radio Free Europe report.

I am not very optimistic.

Stagnation is evident. Peasants on 37,800 irrigative and 10,000 state farms lack incen- tives, since they receive only the residue of revenue after state collections. Weather is grim. Distribution is outdated. Decisions are made by distant bureaucrats.

On the wide plains of the Ukraine, rutted wagons track connect isolated collectives, where the horse still is common. In Siberia, farm plots carved from scrub overgrowns lie under snow most of the year. In Kazakhstan, where land stretches to far horizons like the sage brush country of the American West, strong winds blow topsoil from "virgin lands" agricultural plots.

Statistics for 1950 show the Soviets har- vested only 11.4 bushels of wheat an acre com- pared with the U.S. average of 28 bushels an acre. Yields haven't changed much since, and similar yield gaps exist for corn, sugar beets, cotton, barley and other products. Farming still exhibits a third of Russian families. Crop land Productivity about 600 million acres, some 50% more than in the U.S., yet Russia must import grain.

This is promising considerable soul search- ing in the USAR. Blasts from hinterland of- ficials are surprisingly candid.

In Volzhgrad, one official complains: "On the farms in the region there exists an acute shortage of field tractors and grain combines. For every 2,500 acres of cropland we have two crawler-type tractors, and for every 2,500 acres of grain crops, only three combines."

From Bashkira, a productive farm repub- li in the Urals, comes another complaint: Of 820 collective farms in the republic, only 150 are fully electrified. Of the inhabited centers in the republic, which has a population of more than 3 million, 60% don't use electricity at all.

Vasily F. Garhuzov, Soviet minister of finance, recently reported in a confidential document: Agricultural capital in the Soviet Union averages $2,200 a man, whereas in the U.S. it averages $11,000 a man, or five times larger.

Flight From the Land

A flight from the land currently is accentuating problems. From all parts of the country come reports of peasants abandoning farm life for the supposedly gay life of cities, even though the cities may be only Novosibirsk or Baku.

In the Pskov region, L. S. Gustov, party secretary, complains that in the last seven years the number of able-bodied farmers in his area has been halved from 200,000. Says he: "If the loss continues at the same rate, in 10 years there will be no able-bodied farmers left." He complains that in his area, wages

II