mobilization into the French army, but he felt the authorities took an awful long time to make a decision in connection with him. Because of this, he joined the Foreign Legion and left immediately for North Africa feeling that thus he was becoming a member of a famous unit and at the same time fulfilling his obligations toward the French military service.

In the beginning he was satisfied but later he was of the opinion that France was an incoherent mess, and he bitterly regretted that he had become acquainted with people who obviously did not know what they wanted.

This experience did not have a great influence on his character except that it expressed a profound dislike for irresolute persons. This indicates that Subject is an impatient fellow who desires immediate action as regards his interest. He is impatient with postponement and unless he is dealt with promptly, he may satisfy his interests elsewhere. However, in the current instance he has no alternative and he is forced to go along with normal procedures which he may regard as a waste of time, but will accept.

29. Subject feels that he married because he regarded marriage as necessary to build a family and to make a home. He feels his marriage was a mistake because, even though he understands the value of the principles involved, principles which were inculoated by his father, it is ridiculous to marry just for the sake of principles without the necessary sentiments. He feels that at the time he was merely abiding by precepts of his father without thinking of the possible consequences. However he soon discovered, in fact, a family did not represent anything at all, and that creating the family was aggravating the incoherence and the division of society. In view point getting married meant building a wall around himself. It also meant that instead of finding a partner who complemented him, all that he obtained from the partnership was a ________ reflection of himself.

He feels that the so-called spiritual intimacy is a fallacy. He claims that, sexually speaking, women are necessary but he fails to say why it is necessary to build a separate world with it.

30. As was explained above, the reasons for his marriage are connected with his family education. He does not regard his marriage as a complete flasco. He regards his wife as very nice. He thinks he was nice, too.