Kool 72-AICO-31

6 May 1965

14.2 contd.

long way off so will advise him tomorrow. All right. That is what VAG needed.

Has VAG seen Roberto? No, VAG has not been able to locate him "in that place or his other place." Yes, he goes out sometimes.

Did VAG pick up the tickets? No, VAG will pick them up tomorrow. Alberto did not have them (with him) today.

15.0 In. NO with VAG, who answers. (VAG recognizes NO's voices.) NO asks what in new. Nothing. VAG has lost contact there(Dominican Republic). One can't phone there unless in U.S. Can't they talk with Bosch in San Juan? Yes, but "these people" have not been able to talk to him. NO was phoning about the installation of Casafino since AP lost the info. NO was trying to locate them (to get info).

How is NO's health? Fine. Much better. When will they talk? When VAG likes. Who is covering CEPAL? A lot of people. VAG says they are expecting a declaration from (Mexican) gov't, for tonight - then is a rumor that it will break with O.E.A. VAG thinks it is too beautiful to be true. NO thinks it is possible - at least have it as a rumor. Handle it as an inside rumor go ha ha not to have exterior reactions. The President's declaration in CEPAL was good, but it is late.

When will they see one another? VAG says it is hard this week. Could see one another next Monday, NO will phone VAG at noontime on Monday.

NO says that VAG should advise NO any good contact. Yes. They will publish it.

16.0 In. Marcin (Majia Heart) with VAG, who answers. Greetings. VAG is busy writing against the Yankees.

Mark talked to Casafino yesterday. Mark has some news, but the most important of them can't be published. Casafino is also going to call Mark today at 1700. Ask to borrow VAG's recorder so they can record this conv. Sr. Arredondo (ph) could come by for it. Of course. If VAG wants to ask any question, let Mark know. What is Mark going to ask? Casafino is going to phone Mark because - according to what "we talked about yesterday, he will designate probably Milio Cordere here and we (Mark) as Amb. in the United Nations. Moreover, the things they have pending that they want us to do here," Doesn't Mark have anything which is not published? They would have to talk ab because - has not read the newspapers. Doesn't know when it has been published. - Mark should say what Casafino said and VAG will see. Mark will tell VAG everything after he talks to C. the second time. Virginia going out now. Or VAG could go over there @when conv is to take place). VAG has to go out. It should be in a few minutes. Where will it take place. Has Heriberto Prieto 1421, apt. 10. VAG will go by there. Mark offers to pick him up - since they are going for recorder. Fine. Will be there in 3 minutes.

17.0 In. Irina with VAG, who answers, for Inge (Rico). It takes the phone. Greetings...Irina had to go out... can go another day to see about dresses...children...Can see one another today...

17.5 Out to 46-66-93. VAG with Beschaps, who answers. VAG says Kool 72-AICO-31