AD No. 963 12 April 1964

Kennedy for Chief, W/A/Arsenic

En(Export Industrial)

3. Emeiral of (Energica) Culinary Passport in Alias for the by AUSTRAL-1 - AB Caa Es. 697

4. All Emigration dated 5 April 1963, same subject

1. Kennedt beweist für was es estimated is information are the following two documents issued in Allen for AUSTRAL-1 (Energica) II:

Culinary Passport Es. 650 and U.B. Immigration and International Form I-94 (included in the passport, page 9). Also furnished herewith is a travel itinera in which AUSTRAL-1 should be briefed before it applies for the Argentina visa in New York.

2. In keeping with agreements made by ED/AN, the Medical Office is preparing for direct delivery to W/A, the International Documentation Certificate is also to be used with the above documents. This certificate should be obtained for security as to use, place and date of issue. It is also understood that AUSTRAL-1 will have received a new ride allow for the transportation prior to departing from the U.S.

3. ED/AB prepared this above Energica passport on the strength of information that (BIOGRAPH) would instruct an Argentine Consular post in the U.S. to place a visa in the passport. The document was prepared in copy and sent from date of request because of operational urgency. The requirement specified use of a (Central American) passport. To avoid placing a long, time-consuming simulated itinerary in the passport, it was given a recent issuance date, which necessitated issuance on the basis of documents issued early one year earlier (the most recent one available). This short itinerary also would seem to make application at this time in the U.S. for Argentina visa somewhat unusual. Given we are informed that AUSTRAL-1 can obtain his Argentine visa without (BIOGRAPH) assistance we wish to obtain the documentation provided for this program, and agreed to by Mr. Febrini, a matter of record. This confirms discussion with Mr. Febrini. A telephone check with the Argentine Embassy by EL indicated that a (Energica) transfer in the U.S. can obtain an Argentine visa in this country.

Excluded from a

banning and

declassification