HMM-4-3992 KAPOK-492

16 January 1956

Page 2

apparent to all concerned that his decision was based upon loyalty to this Station and dedication to the fight against Communism. It is hoped that this unselfish and devoted act of LIPSTICK-21's will be made a matter of permanent record.

3. The reason for LIPSTICK-21 to move from very comfortable quarters at less rent into cramped quarters at a higher rental needed some explanation for his friends and relatives. There is a very fine private school approximately one block from this house which LIPSTICK-21 had often mentioned as the best in the city for his children, and consequently he told everyone that the reason for moving was to be as close as possible to this school so that his children could attend. It should be noted in this respect that, in reality, LIPSTICK-21 had been sending his children to one of the best public schools in Mexico City at no cost. Under the present circumstances, he will have to pay tuition at the private school because it is the only decent school in the area and it provides excellent cover for his residence in the area. It is requested that Headquarters authorize this Station to assist LIPSTICK-21 in the payment of his children's tuition for the above stated reasons. Approximate cost of the tuition would be $20.00 U.S. per child per month, or a total for LIPSTICK-21 of $20.00 US per month. Authorization is requested to assist LIPSTICK-21 by payment of $30.00 U.S. per month.

4. The house is one of a series of one-story houses that extend from the LIMERICK building to a four-story apartment building on the far corner. The fronts of the houses are all directly on the sidewalk with the doors opening onto a one-step stoop. The backs of the houses and the walls of the back patios all abut the compound of the LIMERICK installation. The rear windows of the house face a patio which ends in a brick wall. This brick wall is not as high as the roof of the house, ending about four feet below the level of the roof. There are stairs which ascend from this patio to the roof where the maid's quarters are situated. About halfway up these stairs one can turn and obtain an unrestricted view of the LIMERICK compound. However, the maid's room offers the best operational possibilities since it provides concealment for the observer and his equipment, plus a more advantageous view. LIPSTICK-21 told his maid that she would have to sleep out at a local pension since he needed her room for his radio experiments. This is a plausible story since LIPSTICK-21 is known to be an enthusiastic radio amateur.

5. The maid's room has a door that faces across the roofs in the direction of the LIMERICK installation and one window which faces across the house roof toward the street. A view of the LIMERICK compound is obtained by an observer who is back in the room looking through the partly opened door. Some better method of observation will be worked out which will eliminate the security hazard of a door partially opened at all times of operation.