A-278 Page 8

B. Contacts with Special Interest Groups:

1. On 26 October (FMI) ARIFF, a labor, information contractor that he had found an article in the "Dievque Scandinavische Saison," which suggested the names of one, Lijozov, or a person to assist people with the type of problem ARIFR had been handling for RIFRA. (Comments: The newspaper advertisement read as follows: "Sliena Ud. alqun prozentsara direktoral?" So do I infer, Maksim Taduba 598. Ing. Diaz" (Do you have any registration number? I will arrange it for you. exco taduba 5-9. Eng., please. In order to get KIVIRA and KOIMAKOCT have been having discussions concerning migratory matters.)

2. AL. Ossissi Bradley, and Rev. N. AMOSON, first mentioned to meet for lunch on 31 October. It was requested meeting somewhere other than their usual place since there were such couples, etc., there, and he didn't like... anyway, Zitong replied that they would meet "alone" at the usual place. (a. article in the 24 November issue of Enigma listed the A. Ossissi Bradley as attending the inauguration of an art exhibit by Diego Rivera. If Ossissi is believed to be associated with the individual previously reported as (E) MIAMI Yonkerly Bradley, there is no record in station files on MIAMI.)

Mauricio de la Serna was in contact with Kivaram on 12 October. (see MLL-2055)

4. (FmI) ARIFF contacted MARNAMOV on 23 October and suggested that they get together for a chat and a drink. They arranged to meet that afternoon at the old place.*

5. On 27 October' Nizolos (probably ANTONIO?) called David Ares, son of Mexican Communist artist David Ares and St. Arnoes. On 28 October ASARO was in contact with Hatver P. ILROV of the Soviet Commercial Office (see MII-2062).

6. On 30 October Sergio Vazquez, leftist journalist, attempted to contact NASMREVIZH or ALROV. On 27 October he conference with NASMREVIZH (see MII-2065).

C. Miscellaneous Contacts

1. On 20 October (Lc.) (FMI) JUROSC lejba contactirajte s vodami of the Commercial Office on behalf of Lejba. Uzdelno delo: see Bogomoletz scrnn.

2. On 20 October NASMREVIZH attempted to call Maksim Taduba, Setomavor, indicating that he had left a visiting card at his home. SECRET-50-4-1-303

SECRETS, 50-4-1-303