SUBJECT : Tests of Modified Sights for 7.62 Belgium (FAL) Rifle REFERENCE: Memo for Red, dated 23 May 64, Subject FAL Silencers/ Sights, from

1. On 2 June 1964, Mr. Donald R. Dunn, TSD/ED and the undersigned went to Isolation to test a modified sight and a telescopic sight developed for the 7.62 Belgium (FAL) Rifle in answer to reference a). The tests were performed with the assistance of Mr. James Barb and Mr. Glen Winstead, Isolation.

2. The first tests were conducted with a Williams Peep sight modified to fit an aluminum block which was mounted in place of the standard FAL rear sight. The Williams sight has a larger diameter peep than the FAL sight and has a wider range of elevation settings as well as more positive control over both elevation and windage. The main purpose of the test was to establish a point of reference on the aluminum block to match the graduations on the Williams sight and allow the sight to be set visually for the desired range once the weapon was zeroed.

3. Firing commenced from 100 yards at a silhouette target using the hood of a jeep as a rest. Both underloaded and full load rounds were used. Light rain which gradually increased in intensity during the day served to complicate the procedure. The test results at ranges from 25 yds. to 130 yds. using the Williams sight are summarized in Attachment I. Exceedingly erratic results were obtained throughout the tests and one attempt to duplicate the 100 yd. zero resulted in a different setting later in the day.

4. A 2X scope of Japanese manufacture equipped with aluminum mounting rings front and rear to fit the rear gas port and rear sight mount respectively then tested. The scope was attached to the rifle with difficulty and attempts to zero it were frustrated by the inability to determine where the rifle was shooting. The mounting moved while attempting to adjust the elevation knob and it was determined that the mount could not be attached firmly enough to insure in retaining a proper zero. The test with the scope was aborted.