(FOUNDATIONS OF NOSENKO'S CLAIMS)

Of course, I wanted to come abroad with some sort of 'baggage', that is, with materials which could be useful and necessary for you. In this entire period up to January 1964 I tried to collect information which would be of the maximum value for you. My assignment to the position of Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department in July 1962 gave me a greater opportunity than before. But at the same time this assignment almost excluded the possibility of a trip abroad and it was only with great difficulty that I was able to get away for the trip in January 1964. It was necessary to convince my superior CHELNOKOV and then to ask CHELNOKOV to convince others. In this I advanced many reasons: that I had not spent all the money (in foreign currency); that the medicine which I bought for my daughter had proven very successful and that I needed to buy some more medicine to carry out one more series of treatments; that this trip would not be a long one and that since I was already the Deputy Chief of the Department I would not be able to travel abroad any more and so, therefore, this trip would probably be my last. Of course, all this was said at convenient moments and outside of work. Things were easier with the Eleventh Department (which deals with trips abroad) because I was on good terms with the KGB officer who covered Switzerland, besides which when I came back from Geneva in 1962 I had brought him a number of presents.

The publication in 1963 by the foreign press of the VASSALL case put me on my guard since in the newspaper Times it said outright that the English learned about him thanks to the Americans who learned about VASSALL in the spring of 1962. Fortunately, the leadership of the First Chief Directorate, as I learned from my colleagues, came to the conclusion that here the Americans had been helped by GOLITSYN. But at the same time the First Chief Directorate was not completely sure of this. But the publication in the American press of Alsop's articles on the CIA alarmed me extremely. This article in one spot said plainly that as far as is known the KGB does not have any sources in the

G001289

TS No. 197124

Copy _______