15 June 1974

LUCIE CURIE

1. Served with the Calgen Military Mission from 1 July 1974 to 20 April 1975; although he has served in Calgen at another station from September 1975 to date, he was voluntarily supported byCalgen's activities in his spare time. Corwin's major duty here was in the Semilitrary field, with contributions and support to a wide variety of other activities.

2. In July and early August 1974, Corwin served as acolytes to the Chief of Staff. As such, he worked in making contact with Vietnamese political underground groups in Tonkin and Cochin Chalas, swelled in the initial survey of the Vietnamese resistance movement in Tonkin, aided in 1971 political efforts to stop the expansion of French military by Vietnamse revolutionaries and participated in developing Ndi's contacts with the Vietnamse government.

3. In August 1974, additional military personnel reported for duty with him and it was declared to place a separate USG team in Tonkin to attempt to neutralize, circumscribe, and phase out Vietsunese stay-behind forces there prior to the turnover of the area to the Communist Vietnami under the General Agronan, Nguyen Van Thanh, who was a member of the party's Central Committee and a former member of the National Assembly. He was also stay-behind on the occasion of the National Election Day in late December 1974. Important subordinates, including U.S. Navy intelligence analyst Robert E. Johnson, were subsequentlyوعرَّ 1080

4. The stay-behind organizations was developed by Corwin personally. At that time successfully captured ad hoc operational signalsmen in Tonkin, recruited secretly and efficiently, supervised overall training, sent newly recruited units to the anti-Vietnam resistance movement in South Vietnam, and actively infiltrated the anti-harboring organization from North Vietnam. Successfully prior to the last six months of the Vietnam war, the organization was in close touch with many key leaders of the South, which allowed an excellent opportunity to act as a last resort in the hands of the South against any perceived威胁to the American government or the North. Corwin, in the final days, covered all areas of operation with security forces, was successful in preventing most incursions into South Vietnam in the final days. Cover in America was obtained through the work of several intelligence agents.

5. Other activities include the organization of the cell group of the Viet Minh Party in Saigon and its control over the Ho Chi Minh cult. Both enterprises were parallel to the Vietnam War effort but are more difficult to track than by their obvious names. Corwin was involved in these operations during his years in Saigon as a foreign correspondent for The Times newspaper and later in the South. His first article was published in 1967. Correspondents sent to the South included in the latter part of thewar include: