indicates that several other persons, low ranking military personnel, militia men and civilians were also executed on similar charges, without fanfare. It is also the general consensus of opinion that the "purge" will continue at a rate that no one can yet determine.

No one ignores that there has been and still are very hostile feelings between two groups within the President's family and close associates. One is headed by Colonel Dominique and his wife Marie-Denise Duvalier, and another is led by Mrs. Yvon St.Victor, the President's private se- cretary and confidante. The names of the President's wife, Simone, his son Jean-Claude and his younger daughter Simone, are being mentioned as being part of the first group. In the second group, Mrs. St.Victor's brother, the present Head of the Department of Tourism, Mr. Luc-Albert Foucard, who is also married to one of the President's daughter, is among other names such as Henri Siclait, head of the Regie, Minister Lebert Jn.Pierre, etc. mentioned to be siding with Mrs. St. Victor. So far, the President has shown signs that he favors the latter group. The ramifica- tions of both groups extend to people who were considered the most fanatic supporters of Duvalier himself. The fact is that none of the remaining so-called strong men of Duvalier in the militia, the Tonton Macoutes or the Army know for sure how the president feels towards them and are very much concerned about their own future and survival. In other words, confusion and insecurity are wide spread amongst Duvalier's followers.

I believe that in spite of the actual confusion and sense of insecurity prevailing in government circles, there is no real organized opposition as such against Duvalier at this moment, except for what I will point out later in this paper.

There is, however, strong anti-Duvalier feelings in the middle and upper classes of Haiti, representing only a small percentage of the whole population. A segment of the population to be taken into very serious consideration is the one made up of the people living in the slum areas,

...of three Blancs, two mulattoes and one black woman. ... Her sympathizers, is also an indication of her stable shift towards a

...