SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost effectiveness in the use of personal space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

The period covered by this report encompasses the middle portion of the Subject's first tour as a Case Officer. His performance during this period has been balanced in that he has shown the kind of intelligence and maturity necessary to successfully carry out clandestine operational activity. He has also shown a weakness which he will need to overcome in order to achieve his full operating potential.

The Subject has turned in fine performance in the overall management of a very important and sensitive audio operation which has been under his care since the pre-installation phase. His sure and careful handling of all succeeding phases of this operation led to a secure, uncomplicated installation, the recruitment and training of support agents, and the dissemination of valuable intelligence information. Subject's natural fluency in the Spanish language has been especially useful in this operation. His handling of this installation has been of a high professional caliber throughout.

The Subject is also responsible for the management of a project targetted against the subversive left. His handling of this project has been good; he is a good agent handler; knows how to target his assets against objectives of most importance; and, his knowledge of (Continued)

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE 30 Oct. 1970 SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE /s/ Daniel Flores

BY SUPERVISOR

MONTH THE EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION If this report has not been shown to Employee, give explanation

DATE 30 Oct. 1970 OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TRUDD OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE Robert L. Farnbrink /s/

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I agree with the ratings. This has been a good year for Subject, one which has given him a rather unusual opportunity to learn many facets of the work of this organization and one in which he has shown a very satisfactory level of accomplishment. Shortly after his arrival in Guayaquil he became, for a short time, the Acting Chief of Base, and through that period and the ensuing change in Base Chiefs, he showed &amp; professional maturity we felt to be exceptional for a young officer on his first tour. He had worked hard and intensely for improvement in the quantity and quality of his operational production, and he has collaborated very effectively with the other officers (Continued)

30 Oct. 1970 /s/ John D.NUDDE