the Polish and Russian delegates. The committee on which they were represented, amended it. However, later on not the amended text which was adopted by the Congress but the original draft was released to the press, thus creating additional resentment.

8Yergin was not in a happy mood when he left. A public meeting had been arranged for him and Schyler where they read their papers in full. However, they did not like the way they were treated insofar as speaking time at the Congress meetings was concerned and Max made remarks to the effect that now the Communists will say they had been Jim-crowed since they had to present their case in a special meeting. They also mentioned the fact that the permanent committee elected by the Congress does not contain any representative of the colored race. It would, of course, have been difficult to appoint one of them to the committee since the representation of the United States was limited on purpose so as to create the impression of American domination. However, the right of cooptation granted by the Congress to the permanent committee should be used to introduce as soon as possible in the committee intellectuals from India, Japan and other non-white areas.

9Some of the papers read at the Congress were excellent, for instance those of Prof. Muller (Schiller's men) and Arthur Schlesinger to name only a few. As far as the future work of the movement initiated by the Congress is concerned, certain things should be taken into account to make possible the full use of existing possibilities which are quite favorable. 1) Representatives of Asia and possibly Africa should be drawn into the work of the committee. 2) All due respect for literary fame, the organs of the new movement should not become a platform for the peculiar ambitions of certain individuals whatever their gifts and talents. 3) While among the intellectuals it will probably be impossible to avoid discussion of so-called ideological problems, the purpose of such discussions should not be the struggle of rival ideologies, but the finding out of the points and areas where advocates of different ideologies may meet for cooperation in the defense of democracy against totalitarianism. 4) Establishment of contacts with other movements engaged in the struggle against totalitarianism, especially in the labor movement. 5) Better organization of the work of future congresses and conferences.

10The Congress undoubtedly reflected the progress made during the last year as far as the attitude of European Intellectuals in concerned. There is no trace of neutralistic attitudes in the resolutions of the Congress. The same cannot be said of all the speeches. However, no openy neutralistic speech was made at the Congress. The only paper advocating a neutralist attitude was withdrawn by its author, the Austrian physicist, Thyrring, when he heard of the Russian attack on Southern Korea. I wouldn't say that people like Rousset and especially Silone are quite clear about the present world situation, particularly as far as military defense against Russianies concerned, however, they usually refrained from any openly neutralistic statements.