Yes, that's what he told Vergesit and me. Naturally, he wanted for publication. Phombeah brought in Babu. Babu had no real connection with the magazine except on these two occasions. He gave me an interview which was printed in the last issue - in both issues of Revolution, and that was all. Then he went off to Indonesia. That's history. The merger was being made between Tanganyika and Zanzibar and it was basically partially behind his back although he knew that it was going to go on and he was not at all opposed. He felt that it was a good thing. We found it difficult to understand why he felt it was a good thing, but he thought that in Tanganyika the chaos was so great and the lack of defined goals, the growing needs of the masses there would be such a community which had its hand on the floor business and also the big-time fibre plantations and what-not were an especially vulnerable target group, that, [Julius] despite all of his humanism and his Catholic religion wouldn't be able to put up much resistance. I think he was quite right. That's what happened. That is, Zanzibar which is taking over Tanganyika into Tanzania. There was a struggle between Babu and Handa, but that seemed to calm down to a great extent. I think that's over now. I've heard different things.

I don't know.

One of the things that this fellow Curtis Cabe of the Atlantic monthly proposed to do - he has more proposals than he has dollars- unfortunately, is that we try to go to Zanzibar. No one has even done any (reporting) really of any particular note. I probably could get in. No one has written anything about Zanzibar since the revolution. Don't know whether that is possible or not.

Zanzibar

(There was a great deal of noise at the time of the revolution about Babu's relationship with Kato Liaroy, the NENA man.)

Well, yes, it's true he has worked for them. And after he informed them of what he was going to do, they - - - that was about two or three days before the revolution. They had given him a small amount of money, but not much. . it wasn't their money - - the Zanzibar revolution, because he was out of the country at the time. He knew what must be done. But for instance, the bringing in of- - the fellow - - Okello which was an incredible thing to do. the former police corporal from @ Uganda. I have the feeling that he was by no means all powerful , that it was a coalition of forces, the revolution was popular in the sense that the overwhelming majority of the population was represented among the revolutionaries who turned against the Arab and Indian propagandists.