3.c It is not clear what this source is trying to cover, but presumably he is trying to indicate that A/1 is hoarding the AMWORLD money he has been issued for his personal use. Anyone who knows A/1 knows that the last thing he will ever give up is his magazine and radio broadcasts. The ability to make speeches and have them printed and see his picture reproduced is the top requirement in his makeup. The next most important requirement is the capability to travel and hob-nob with Heads of State and other officials at which he excels. These two attributes are of considerable value to the Agency, as witness the fact that Mr. Fitzgerald has insisted on retaining these capabilities for A/1 to use in behalf of the Agency. They are certainly more important to him than money, as such, concerning which he is incredibly naive and disinterested. He is notorious for having to have somebody else go around with him to be sure he has necessary documents and money, otherwise he would never have a dime in his pocket. I checked further on this point with A/4 at our last meeting on 27 June and he said there was no evidence of A/1 pilfering the till, the problem if any was simply honest mismanagement. We should remember that A/1 has been paid a salary, with HQS agreement and at our suggestion for that matter, of £1,000 a month. AMWORLD/2 made it a point to deposit the check in A/1's personal account every month, and A/2 maintained de facto control of the account. A/1 told me this incident because he was amazed to find when A/2 left for Spain and turned the records of the account over toA/1, he found that he had 4 or 5 thousand dollars in the bank, the most he had ever owned in his life. In addition to this salary, it should be remembered that A/1 is a co-author of the "Bay of Pigs" book, which was worth several thousand dollars to each of the 4 co-authors.

Note: This line of reporting has been going on for at least the past 2 years in the case of A/1 and is typical of the incessant gossip and character assassination within the Cuban exile community in Miami that has been going on for the last 5 years. While certainly no paragon of virtue or of efficiency, it will take more than this to convince me A/1 is a crook. In the first place, AMJAVA/4 would be the first one to put the finger on him if he started misappropriating MRR funds or otherwise playing games that would hurt the movement. In the second place, A/1 is too disorganized to be an effective crook, even if he tried, and it would show up in more concrete form than this report.