TRSA-950

a business which he is enthusiastic about and is a more natural place for Humanist-2 to make unobserved contacts. It also supplies Humanoid with a more accessible spot and efficient means to photostat mail intercepts and return them to the post office in time instead of computing back and forth from his home in the suburbs of San José.

Therefore, it is suggested that Humanoid's semi-weekly contacts with Humanist-2, instead of being cancelled, be changed to a weekly letterdrop, and a live contact once a month to take care of salary payments and briefing. This letterdrop can be effected by Humanist-2 passing by the photo shop at night and dropping his messages through the slot in the door usually used for after-hours delivery of films to be developed. The film drop will be into a padlocked box, accessible only to Humanoid.

Regarding Humanoid's contacts with Humankind-1 and Humankind-3, these are conducted in a thoroughly safe manner. Mail extracted from postal channels by them is deposited in an envelope and placed in a post office box. It is checked daily by Humanoid, and if anything is there, it is removed, photostated, and returned by him the same day. If anyone is noticed hanging around the post office boxes, Humanoid does not go near the box and returns later when the way is clear.

Another factor has arisen since the last dispatch which has made this post office operation more secure in that the Director of the Post Office is now beholden to Humanoid. In a recent legal squabble noted in the press which was raised by a local Communist complaining about the government confiscating his mail from abroad, the government desired to prove that this mail was Communist propaganda which they had a right to confiscate, and the President therefore requested the Director of the Post Office to furnish samples to prove this point. With this "heat" on him, the Director made a frantic appeal to Humanoid, who was able to procure these samples for him, which satisfied the President, and for which the Director was truly grateful. Therefore, no trouble is expected from this intercept operation as long as the present personnel are being used, and ample warning will be given Humanoid in advance of any change in the present attitude.

3. Since it is believed that there is more to be lost than gained by dropping contact with these agents, the above modifications of these contacts are respectfully submitted for headquarters' consideration and decision.

Eugene T. Roddy

Page 2