from a Spaniard (Nicanor FERNANDEZ) in Buenos Aires, urging MIRC to go to Buenos Aires to arouse anti-Castro sentiment of the people, insomuch as some Argentine action against Cuba appeared imminent. (FERNANDEZ said he had already written MIRC a letter.) MIRC says, "Of course, I cannot go. I have the Consejo meeting on the 10th. Furthermore, I am going to New York on October 11th or 12th for the SIP (Société Interamericana de France) meeting and have been allotted 12 minutes to address the meeting."

10. MIRO to attend Homage to LACERDA (Brasillian who Precipitated QUADRROS' resignation) on October 15

Dr. MIRO said he planned to remain in New York City (after 11 and 12 October SIP meeting) until October 15th to attend the homago for LACERDA, the Governor of Guanabara province in Brasil. MIRO probably will stay at the Park Chambers Hotel, but will advise Clark of his location.

I commented that I would probably remain in Washington next week in view of his plans, but that I might go to New York City to meet with him; if so, I would get in touch with him and arrange a meeting time and place through Clark.

II. Propaganda Commission

I asked Dr. MIRO about his ideas on the future organization and structure of the Propaganda Commission. He stated that it is out- side the Consejo and not under his direct control, although the Council accountant has been passing funds to it. He said CARRILLO had resigned as head of Propaganda and that he would like CONTE AGUFRO to handle it. He claimed that MESTRE had not done anything with propaganda.

12. MIRO's Views Relative to Supreme Court Justice or PRIO being Recognised as Head of a Provisional Government

I asked Dr. MIRO if he believed that there were many anti- Castro Cubans (both in and out of Cuba) who favored PRIO, or the head of the Supreme Court to be the provisional president if a government were to be established on Cuban soil. Dr. MIRO declared that the revolution is a fact, and that practically nobody wants to go back to any former regime. The people in Cuba would resist any such possibility. He do-