STUDENT EVALUATION RATINGS

ABOVE AVERAGE AVERAGE Below AVERAGE NOT OBSERVED

Security consciousness

Ability to work with and get along with others

Ability to follow instructions

Maturity of judgment and common sense

Initiative

6. Resourcefulness and independence of judgment %

Tactfulness and sense of discretion

Cooperativeness

Sense of discipline

Imagination and creativeness

Amenability to constructive criticism

Attention to necessary details

Observant and careful in the collection of facts

Political sophistication and awareness

Interest and enthusiasm for proposed assignment

Motivation for clandestine activities

Ability to relate theory to practice

STUDENT'S COMPARATIVE EVALUATION TO OTHERS TRAINED FOR IDENTICAL OR SIMILAR ASSIGNMENT

ABOVE AVERAGE [X]

AVERAGE [ ]

BELOW AVERAGE [ ]

INSTRUCTOR'S COMMENTS

VAIVADA is a reliable, stable individual possessing a quick, alert mind. He was mature, serious and purposeful in his approach to training. His interest and attention remained at a high level throughout the instruction. In general, VAIVADA has the background and the desire to perform in a professional manner. The trainee possesses the ability to apply himself completely. He recognizes his shortcomings and was completely amenable to constructive criticism. VAIVADA zealously tries to find solutions to pertinent questions and problems. He analyzes facts and details thoroughly. He wants to know his job and, in any given situation, tries to learn as much as possible.

During the training, VAIVADA showed no signs of restlessness with the more routine aspects of clandestine activity. He is practical minded, adept, serious, willing to "dig in and do the grubbing." The trainee learns quickly and shows excellent promise for progressive improvement within the field of covert work. He carries out instructions and assignments in an efficient manner. VAIVADA possesses a calm, tenacious attitude. It is felt that he will develop steadily as a skilled and competent operator. He should become an increasingly valuable asset to this organization. His overall performance was