27. This enabled Subject to proceed through the control point, but instead of returning to Berlin Subject proceeded back to Paris. Here Subject remained for several months without doing any kind of work. During this time, while in a bar, Subject was talking to the barman, who told Subject about her brother who was a prisoner of war in Germany. Subject told her that it wasn't very difficult to get out, and said that he would try and see whether he could do it himself. Subject asked her for a photograph of her brother, and he had the intention of using it on a passport. However, all this came to nothing because Subject was not properly equipped at this time.

28. It was at this time, in late 1943, that Subject saw how easy it was to go back and forth between Germany and occupied France. Since he had a passport Subject was not stopped between the two countries, and in order to insure free travel he made himself a permanent travel order. This he obtained through Georgian friends, who were working in various German ministries. Subject's knowledge of photography was very helpful.

29. Subject's friends, noticing that he seemed to go back and forth at will, began to charge him with small commissions. He would take coffee and various other foodstuffs, which were scarce in Germany but easily obtained from Spain, through devious channels. Subject would either deliver or sell the products to certain individuals in Germany, and would keep a certain percentage of the money for himself. Subject quickly became aware that he could make more money if he could obtain the items himself. Subject made contacts with various individuals who were engaged in making trips back and forth from Paris to the Spanish border. They would bring back coffee, tea, American dollars, and various other scarce items. Some German soldiers were unwitting members of Subject's black-market operations.

* 30. In order to do this work successfully, Subject had to become acquainted with the various passes and travel orders issued by various German departments. Subject set up a laboratory, complete with photographic enlarging apparatus. He photographed and enlarged visas in order to be able to reproduce the exact outlines and lettering in the visa. Then he would reduce them to the proper size and transfer them on to the proper documents.