7. Subject was a non-disciplined child and was in constant rebellion against his teachers whom he felt did not discriminate intelligent children or pay him sufficient individual attention. Apparently his rebellious behaviour was his way of getting attention. He felt his teachers were too distant and automatically unpleasant. He engaged in practical jokes and was an activist in the school situation. As a result he was kicked out of one school after another and has a history of attending 18 different schools. The least that can be said of this strange behaviour is that he was undisciplined and has always refused to abide by the conformist attitude of his peers. On the contrary he has always felt compelled to do those things not normally done by others. The 18 schools, generally speaking, represent frustration, the seeking of an aim to pursue, and the hope that his ideal would crystallize and materialize. Subject is rather abstract in this respect. Generally, it would seem that his ideal is first of all material and perhaps also moral comfort and security. However, he has always regarded his society, through his disappointments and mortifying experiences, as a wicked and selfish in its majority. Since he felt society was selfish and mean, he expressed his dissatisfaction in the form of aggressive and destructive behaviour. Apparently Subject was a precocious child and he experienced disillusionment in his family and in society. It is as if he suddenly discovered to his great disappointment that there was no Santa Claus.

8. At first Subject felt his disillusionment was unique and peculiar to his particular life experience, but he soon discovered that his discontent was characteristic of others. He experienced this fighting attitude within himself and he reflected it in his non-conforming behaviour.

9. His mother reacted to his behaviour with over-affectionate solicitousness. She wasn't actually able to determine the reasons for his internal distress, but she was aware something was taking place within him. The mother was apparently a marked conformist who insisted that Subject abide by the social order. She took him to a psychiatrist because of his behaviour problems and because she did not advise him of what she was doing and got him to a psychiatrist on a subterfuge, and because Subject did not agree with the psychiatrist's conclusions, he did not benefit by this experience. This indicates to us that in handling Subject it