probably does not want L/3 to help his ("Rónulo's") faction and have done everything possible to isolate L/3 from his normal social contacts. Rónulo added that the only important point in the whole affair was that there were "certain elements" among the Guatemalan revolutionaries that might believe the LIRING charges and possibly do harm to L/3 and or his wife. Rónulo urged L/3 "to be careful" and for that reason did not encourage the idea of a confronta- tion with Carlos Vega at this time. He continued that if, however, L/3 insisted he would be glad to have it out with Carlos Vega to find out who had sent him to provoke L/3. Rowton agreed that little or nothing could be accomplished in pursuing this matter.

L/3 continued that when he told Rónulo that he felt frustrated and helpless in the face of the LIRING action, Rónulo told him that it was a good revolutionary, have courage and patience in confronting these problems. He continued that he himself hoped to continue to see L/3 and he was sure that things would work out. He stressed that he and his faction value the friendship and loyalty of individuals such as L/3 whereas the LIRING establishment is interested only in groups and organizations that can further their own interests.

GUIDANCE/INFORMATION given to agent:

Rowton encouraged L/3 to continue his efforts to find steady employment since he was most vulnerable to both the LIRING agents as well as FAR in the matter of his financial resources. L/3 told Rowton that he had already been promised an appointment to some teaching position by Xavier Espinosa, private secretary to Yañez, the Secretary of Education. L/3 commented that Espinosa is at heart a "good progressive" and has been very sympathetic to him since his return to Mexico. L/3 also stated that he intends to look up Heracleo Zepeda in the hope that the latter can place him somewhere in COHASUPO or arrange a job with his Chiapas newspaper ( "Renovación").

Rowton also urged L/3 to continue to elicit information from "Rónulo" concerning his faction of the FAR and any knowledge he might have concerning the independent operations being planned by FERCHEN in Guatemala.

Wallace B. Rowton