NOTE: Script for meeting with Valentin DATE OF REPORT: March 24, 1969

Reason for meeting. I find it very difficult to talk on the tennis court. Last Saturday was no exception. We are either playing tennis or subbing by a group of our friends. There is something I've wanted to say to you, to make clear, for several weeks, and the only way I could be sure of having your undivided attention, in private, was this lunch.

Dr. Gomez' luncheon, your offer of money. Several weeks ago, at Luis Gomez' house, you offered to give me a large sum of money if I could help you and your ami-bossy. You made this offer in front of a number of our mutual friends.

I realize that your offer was not entirely serious--but not entirely an jest. The more I thought about your offer, the more it bothered me, the madder I got. But you did was put me in a very embarrassing position. You suggested that I commit treason against my country, and you made the offer in front of our friends. The fact that I chose not to create a scene could have been interpreted by our audience as possible interest in your offer.

Not interested in your offer. In the event that you have any doubts, let me make it clear that I am not interested in your offer. I find the offer offensive and provocative.

Affection for Val. Both my wife and I like you and Alexandra. And my boys like Dmitri. We would like to maintain your friendship with you. But you are seriously jeopardizing the t friendship.

Uninterested in politics. I am not interested in politics. I realize that this is your business. Well, that's your problem, not mine. I am a business man and devote all my time to business. Even so, I don't have time to learn all there is and all I need to know about doing business. Any spare time I have I will devote to learning more about business. I cannot afford the time to prepare myself for political discussions with you or anyone else.

Avoid religion and politics. Even when a discussion touches upon something about which I think I know enough to comment, I will not discuss politics or religion with friends. I do not believe it is possible to pursue those topics without Offsetting someone. There are too many other things about which one can talk safely, tennis, geography, girls, etc. Furthermore, I am a Jew in a foreign country. I am grateful for the hospitality of this country. It is a wonderful place to live--a wonderful place to work. I will try to even more carefully