22 December 1966.

SUBJECT: Contact Report/LICOZY-5 22 Dec 1155-1245, Subj's office

1. The C/O dropped by Subj's office on 22 Dec, after having delivered a Christmas gift of liquor to Subj's home the previous day. Subj was very appreciative of the gift.

2. Subj showed the C/O the reservation card for travel of Soviet Georgi Visko and his family, Nina, Irina and Marina. They're booked for departure from Mexico for 25 Dec by Air France, for Paris. Paris to Brussels, where Visko has four days of business, and continuing flight Brussels to Moscow on 30 December. Visko had visited Subj in company with another Soviet who Subj was told was Visko's successor: (from the latter's card) - Victor M. Ivanov, Consejero Comercial de la Embajada Sovietica. The invite was contained in a Summer'sgraatengeneem in the form of a

3. Subj stated that he had received a letter from Sidney Weintraub, U.S. State Department official now in Chile, inviting Subj to visit him. /Comment: Weintraub formerly stationed in Mexico and later in Washington was the subject of interest by the Soviets in Mexico, who had Subj try to maintain contact on his Washington trip/. Please forward this information to Gerald F. Gestetner in Santiago.

4. Subj said he had received a firm invitation from Mr. Hawking (phonetic), Mgr. of Air France in Mexico, to go on the inaugural flight of Air France to Red China, possibly in April 1967. Subj was competently neutral about his going, but asked the C/O if we had any interest in his taking the trip to Red China. The C/O said we would let him know about that.

5. The C/O asked Subj to have the door to his office closed, so that we might discuss a serious matter. The C/O said he wanted to explore frankly the status of Subj's relationship toward the Soviets. The C/O stated bluntly that there was a feeling "higher up" that Subj had not achieved a sufficient degree of cut-off from the Soviets, and that his posture of friendly compromise weakened his stance. In reply, Subj mentioned the two elements that went into his attitude toward the Soviets:

re the financial gain from associating with them, Subj said that had fallen to such an insignificant level that it had no effect in his dealings with the Soviets. And he said that level would sink even more when the Soviets inaugurate Aeroflot flights from Montreal and New York (the Soviets do not handle bookings on Aeroflot through agents).

his personality (the C/O had asked if it were possible for Subj to become cool or even unfriendly toward the Soviets); Subj said he could not change his personality. In the past year he had cooled off noticeably, having resisted all cooperation with them, avoided them, put difficulties in the way of meetings, etc. But it was against his grain to be unfriendly toward people with whom he might be thrown into association. He cited proudly that he was not beholden to the Soviets for anything, and never went out of his way to seek anything from them; for instance, he had been told that Panel Yatskov had brought back caviar for Subj on his return from the Soviet Union - but Subj made no move to call Yatskov (when and if Yatskov calls him, he will see him and cannot understand how he could be unfriendly to Yatskov under such circumstances).

6. The C/O mentioned to Subj the latter's equivocal reply of "maybe" when Loginov had asked if Subj would report the name of the CIA chief in Mexico if he knew it. Subj replied that he had told Loginov that the latter was crazy