21 March 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Security Staff, Office of Logistics FROM : Chief, TSD/Security SUBJECT : Identi-kit

1. Attached to this memorandum is a copy of an article appearing in the February 1960, issue of "Science and Mechanics" magazine, Page 2 reflects a comment to the effect that the U. S. Intelligence under wrote the development of the Identi-kit to the amount of $87,000.

2. TSD/EB under RD-177 and under the (SARWORT) Program has invested $82,531 into the Identi-kit. Chief Hugh C. McDONALD, who is mentioned in the article, is a cleared TSD consultant. He was initially briefed by Mr. ANDERSON, TSD/EB. The Agency sponsored Mr. McDONALD's visit to Washington and arranged his trip to Honolulu, Hawaii, all in connection with the development of the Identi-kit. The Townsend Corporation, working with McDONALD, has built a number of these kits and will advise the Agency of those sold to foreign powers, etc. Mr. Courtney DWENS, Sales manager of Townsend Engineering Corporation, is a TSD/EB cleared source and understands the Agency's interest in the Kit. Townsend has also opened a school for Identi-kit users. Three persons from TSD have attended this school.

3. The TSD project engineers are very dubious that McDONALD disclosed classified information to unauthorised persons and speak highly of him. They have especially noted his eagerness to assist us on various crash-type projects of an unclassified nature.

4. Therefore, we have no desire to alienate his feelings. Nevertheless, I would suggest that Mr. JONES, during his forthcoming visit to the West Coast, interview Mr. McDONALD to determine, if possible, the reason for inclusion of U. S. Intelligence interest in the attached article, whether or not CIA was mentioned during his interview with the author and to further brief McDONALD if necessary. Furthermore, the Identi-kit is expected to receive considerable publicity as the sales program is stepped up.

5. A copy of this memorandum is being forwarded to FSD (Attn: Robert SWINDMAN) to determine whether or not any other components of the Agency are or have used McDONALD (possibly contacts or SED).

James P. O'CONNOR Chief, TSD/Security

Distributions

Orig & 1 - Addressed w/att 1 - Phys. Sed. Div. (Survey Br.) * 2 - Para. Sed. Div. (Mr. SWINDMAN)

SER#1