FORM CLASS DATE REVISION

AEM-53 Sep 24, 1968

DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION USE PREVIOUS EDITION, REPLACE IFN., SITTING SEAT AND NOTICE ONLY CONTINUED PAGE NO

TO Chief, WII Division

INFO The following action is required by: A. J. Mark X 1

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT LIEMPTY/LIENTRAP/LIEMPTY-10 Security E.C. X

ACTION REQUIRED Note: If connection is lost and coordinate center is not available, the station will be instructed to establish a local contact for information only and continue monitoring the situation. If appropriate, the station will be informed of the need to establish a local contact.

REFERENCE(S) 1. At 1110 hrs., 20 September 1959, while on an operational assignment, LIEMPTY-10 and the LIENTRAP vehicle were temporarily detained by the Servicio Secreto de Mexico (Mexican Secret Service). LIEMPTY-10 was held under unofficial custody for approximately 26 hours before his release was obtained. There follows below an account of the more important details pertaining to this incident.

2. LIEMPTY-10 was instructed on 17 September to case the area surrounding the Theatre Iris, located at Donceles 36, preliminary to undertaking a photographic surveillance of all persons entering and leaving the theatre between the hours of 0930 and 1200 hrs., 20 September. In this instance, the Station's target was a pro-Cuban rally sponsored by the Circulo de Estudios Mexicanos (CEM). The Station had received information that many of the leading Mexican and Central American Communists would attend this rally and that this was an opportune time to establish which ones did attend and to collect their photographs. The Station did not know that the Mexican Secret Service would also be covering this meeting for the purpose of preventing a Communist-inspired demonstration.

3. The Station was advised at 1730 hrs., 20 September, by Raymond H. GERENDE (ps), the Principal Agent who handles LIEMPTY-10, that L-10 was being held by the Secret Service. Immediately following this notification, Allen W. WARE (ps) was requested to contact Philip K. TESSAROLO (ps) and request him to implement procedures through a criminal lawyer to effect the release of L-10. TESSAROLO was contacted and briefed at 2200 hours and immediately began attempts to locate a reliable criminal lawyer. However, as sometimes happens in an emergency situation, his two most appropriate contacts were out of town. It was not until the following morning at 0700 hrs. that TESSAROLO located another reliable lawyer who agreed to handle the case.

4. Since GERENDE was known to L-10 and since the Station could not be sure how much L-10 might be forced to tell the Secret Service, GERENDE was given the following instructions:

A. To disconnect immediately the LIFEAT/LIVERY lines in the base where he and his wife were living and to move all equipment to another safe location. It was believed appropriate to take this precaution even though L-10 did not know the location of the LIVERY base, the telephone number of the base, or even that GERENDE was living at a place other than his mother's residence in another part of the city.

B. To collect and deposit with his Case Officer any compromising papers presently in his possession.

C. To make a security inspection of the outside photographic lab at