Report on Distribution of Der Monat through an Exemplary Outlet

1. This describes the distribution activities of a single outlet, with connections primarily but not exclusively to students in the Soviet Zone. Since December 1949 the outlet has been supplied 1115 single copies and several hundred separate articles. At first single issues were supplied in numbers of 100, but because of rapidly increasing demand was later increased to 150 copies. However, the popularity of Der Monat has spontaneously led to a broader range of possibilities and a total of at least 300 copies per issue has been requested. To provide a total of so many copies from number 8/2 to 16 inclusive will mean a further delivery of 1575 copies. A few copies of numbers 5, 6 & 7 have been delivered as well as stapled single copies of George Orwell's "Animal Farm" and other articles taken by breaking up these same issues. Distribution has been free of charge and this has been emphasized to the contacts. It has been decided, however, to permit contacts to ask a nominal East Mark price when distributing a copy to an employed person. This would help cover the travel expenses of contacts to and from Berlin.

2. Reactions to Der Monat delivery through this outlet has been overwhelmingly encouraging. Each copy is said to change hands "at least" eight or nine times and as many as twenty times is considered usual. The result is that Der Monat has become widely known among students in the Eastern Zone. It is reported that it is even read openly in the mess-halls; SED students procure it and read it, although when on their own they are said to be more secretive than the non-communist organized student. Certain articles have become widely known, particularly Orwell's "1934". An explanation of where the magazines come from is given in the following terms: they are bought for 50ZOM students by the Free University. It is generally accepted in the Soviet Zone that the Free University is the source of "anti-communist student agitations" etc. Persons connected with the Free University who come in contact with East Zone students state that they are being continuously asked for copies of Der Monat, in the sense of "I've been getting it seventh hand; I'd like to get it first hand."