Very dear "Eduardo"

We were starting to asking us if you were still on this planet or on the moon.

Since your little word, sented right after your departur we were without news. I had never receive any from your first letter and was a little mad after you because Loulou told me that Athico had news from you and you were in South-America. I ignore completly if Nathela has receive your letter but I will Wright to her. I ignore also where live the others people and I will be glade if you can give them adress.Already 10 month since you are gone.The time past with an incredible speed.Beside Nina's marriage, which was very well, nothing interesting,

Nina and Bernard have found an apartment very close from our house, Boulevard Auguste Blanqui, corner rue de la Sante, the building which is standing behind the gas-station. You see ?

TIFI and Annick are still with us but wish to find some place to go.

Yesterday evening the whole family was together plus Loulou and Magy to celebrate my 45 springs and just this morning a letter from you. It was lucky your letter was still in one piece when I screamed 'a letter from you'

You can be sure to receive news from the whole family and we thank you for your love for us.

My august husband had catched again a double-pneumonia and that will keep him until september, therefore that plonge us in difficulties to the neck...and you may imagine with which happyness I have read your letter. You are certainly the only one to be like that in our world. God bless you and sa must take account for the remission of your offences...Alleluia !

I have stop this letter yesterday evening.Cdile and Magy were here, we had diner together and went to the movie.James Steward was starring.

What say next,you know our life,nothing is change.I am waiting impatiently another letter of you to tell us what are you doing. That will be so nice if you could be here for the end of the year .Until then I kiss you lovingly.

COCO

Paris 24 March

Dear Old

I hope you have received my letter . Since then a sensation event happen . Born march 14 th,a 4th daughter for Atchico, name Sophie.As you ask me ,I have send to him your address ...and my congratulations.

moment...

Yesterday Loulou stop by us few minutes to tell us that him father is going very bad and that can be lung cancer.We are hoping it is not.

Little Manana,Ramaz cousin,give birth to a beautiful baby ,boy,is name is Christophe.Tnose are the latest news.

This is Nina'S adress ;

Madame Monestier 159 Bd.Auguste Blanqui. Paris 13

Nelly is working as salesmaid since Monday in a linin-cloth shop very expensive one corner rue Miromesnil and St.Honore.

I am writing in the kitchen because the heating is off and today after few sunny days it is cold and rainy.

What crime have I done to live such life.

Speed us a letter and tell us what are you doing.Your first letter had never arrived.

I am waiting impatiently news from you and until then

I kiss you lovingly.

COCO