(Do you know anything about the formerly dissident PDP of Montreux, The Pro-Chinese Communist party of Switzerland),

They've got it wrong. There's only one pro-Chinese Communist party and that's the so-called Naxxur Parti Comuniste Suisse, started in Verve, not Montreaux, Verrey, or Nestle's headquarters. Headed by Gerard Builliard, a small businessman who has become a member of the PLP, that the Communist Party. When to Albania last year, summer, as a tourist, and sold the Albanians on the idea of supporting a breakaway Marxist-Leninist party, he came back to Switzerland and with five people formed this Swiss Communist Party, which grew to be an enormous one. Banker Andersson was at first, but when the Chinese took a more hostile view on it in Berne, he went along, and he may have received some money from the Chinese, I don't know. But we know that he received money from Albania. He became increasingly quarrelsome, he was very much worried about Andersson because Andersson was being printing his newspaper, too late. He owned this offset press in Lausanne. Andersson also was recruiting people for the group and he has more connections inside the Communist party, the PLP, than Guilliard did, since he had been only a recent member. The Lausanne group became larger than the Verve group. I don't know what happened after that. But then, relations deteriorated rapidly and both the Albanians and the Chinese realized that they had made a drastic mistake. Builliard then phoned the Albanians and the Chinese in Berne and told them what if he didn't receive 3000 francs by a certain time of day that he would denounce Andersson to the police. Obviously, he didn't receive the 3000 francs and he went to the police. Apparently, they knew more than Builliard about him. Then he got a delegation and went to the Federal Council, request to the Parliament in Berne, and they made an open public statement that this foreign agent, this Swedish national, who had taken advantage of Swiss hospitality, he expelled. The Federal Police came in. They banned and there was the general blowup. Revolution. They didn't get very far, except that now it is suspected that he is more or less subsidized by the Swiss police, that he is keeping going and his group, is down to about 15 people, according to Andersson.

He obviously has a small amount of money which he is not getting from later the Chinese. He told Andersson, he proposed that Andersson retire from politics if he would be paid the sum of 5,200 Swiss francs, The reason for this was he wanted to keep the mismeograph machine that (Andersson) he had given him and he was deducting from I think he wanted 7,000 francs altogether, for his exit from politics,