CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION PRIORITY SECRET DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO OELA-42,750

his material; to the London Station, however, it appears to be not only rather massive but detailed as well. He do not doubt that he will be caught out from time to time on facts, and perhaps interpretations as well. But the totality of his information - and the whole performance was without notes - is astonishing.

5. Several points should be noted. First of all, a conscious effort was made to show GIBSON that his comments on the American scene were not being made a matter of record. (I took notes during our talk, and always stopped making notes when such a topic came up.) This is, as KULPA noted in OELW 1903 of 12 February 1965, an area of sensitivity with GIBSON. The only times that GIBSON really became emotional were when he talked about the American scene, his involvement, and the involvement of his close associates. And he kept reverting to the topic, and his involvement in it, throughout our conversations. We did not share KULPA's impression that GIBSON's dissatisfaction with the state of racial relations in America makes him generally anti-American. He does say that he would not like to be living in America for the coming year; but in the context of one who does not wish to be caught up in a period of growing violence, which GIBSON appears not to believe to be the solution to the problem. He states: "I can understand how they feel that way, I can recognize the problems, but I sure don't know what the solution to the problem is." His judgments on Negroes in the front of the racial struggle (Walter Bowe, Malcolm X, etc.) reflect not only an intimacy with the problem and a genuine concern, but also a generally reasonable and real understanding of many of the forces at work. GIBSON tends to condemn individuals - he spares no sympathy for the FBI, understandably - but he does not appear to condemn the United States as a whole, nor even the United States Government as a whole. At the same time, he makes no phoney protestations, either.

6. Regarding Cuba, GIBSON showed a similar emotional involvement (he acknowledges "my pro-Castro bias") but, withal, manages to give a more balances portrayal of the situation than many rabidly anti-Castro commentators. (Cuba, and Cuban matters, were also similarly low-keyed by me during our talks.)

7. Where GIBSON really comes into his own, and really astonishes with the breadth of his personal information and understanding, (and largely, it appears, without the same personal involvement and bias) is in African affairs (especially in left-wing fields), European Trotskyists and Communists and their general milieu, and Chinese-oriented international front organizations. Similarly he appears to be informed on certain ChiCom efforts at subversion and propaganda in Latin America.

8. Rather as if reading our thoughts, GIBSON offered to recruit himself. He didn't get too specific, and neither did we. But he did make it quite clear that he would be willing to collect information for us, knowing only that we were ODYCKE, probably suspecting that we were KUBARK, and probably equally doubting (because he knows the difference( that we were ODENVI. His motivations can be compiled from his own words. He has for some time been unable to find a suitable job here in London, He has economic pressures working on him - now exacerbated by the fact that his wife has caused her brother to withdraw some of the support that he had been providing. Venal? Opportunistic? Or someone who has a wife and two kids to support, and no job for the past eight months? GIBSON acknowledges that he has become somewhat bored with the " retro-biology" of chasing petty ideological differences, the kind that make factions of six members or less. At the same time, he acknowledges that he has to have a job, and that his access to and knowledge of these persons and groups are marketable commodities. His preference, he says, would be to have a nice quiet journalistic or public relations job here, but his efforts to find such a job have been fruitless. How, obviously, can one of his background and talents better employ them than as a collector and reporter of information? He says that he would like public relations or press work for the UN, perhaps, or an ODYCKE