In the name of an international sponsoring committee, invitations to the Congress were extended to prominent intellectual, cultural and labor figures of the Western World or in exile from communist-dominated Eastern countries. The complicated task of gathering together these widely-scattered individuals at the site of the Congress required the closest coordination with and cooperation of official and private United States agencies and individuals of many nationalities. The delicate matter of covertly financing the travel and expenses of delegates for example, had to be accomplished with the assistance of three American committees with established interests in international affairs. An enormous amount of organizational detail was handled in Berlin and elsewhere on the continent and in the U. S. under OPC sponsorship and direction.

Provision of interpreters, press and radio coverage, an elaborate book display, accommodations for personal comfort and security of the delegates and facilities for the official business of the Congress, were among the problems which had to be solved.

OPC is particularly grateful to the State Department which, through the office of Mr. Bruce Buttlea, rendered exceptional and sympathetic cooperation throughout the progress of negotiations and arrangements. This cooperation extended to letters from the State Department to invitees, backing up Committee invitations, a general

(1) The Committee included such names as:

Bertrand Russell, Arthur Koestler, Great Britain; Charles Pliianier, Belgium; David Rouseat, Andre Gide, and Andre Malarix, France; Haakon Lie, Norway; Ignazio Silone, Italy; John Dewey and Arthur Schlesinger, U. S.; Carlo Schmid, Germany; Dennis Rougement, Switzerland.

The meeting of the International Executive Committee of the Committee on Organization of the United Nations (OUN), also known as the General Committee, was held at the request of the Executive Committee of the Committee on Organization of the United Nations in New York City on November 23, 1965.