CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH SECRET HMMA-34792

in South America accepted the book but would not send (LINLUCK) his share of the sales, which was to be used to repay WOFIRM the cost of publishing the book. In the late fall of 1967, (LINLUCK) spent six weeks in Guatemala where he reached agreements with the Guatemalan Defense Minister, Rafael ARRIAGA Bosque, whereby the Defense Ministry was to pay (LINLUCK) U.S. $4,000 for the right to publish 10,000 copies of his first book. The U.S. $4,000 was to be paid by (LINLUCK) to WOFIRM as partial reimbursement of the costs of publishing the JMROD book. During the visit to Guatemala, (LINLUCK) was told by ARRIAGA and other Guatemalan government officials that he could expect a consular appointment by the summer of 1968.

Headquarters and the Mexico Station were agreed that as soon as he could organize LIANCHOR and find a suitable replacement, (LINLUCK) should be terminated and leave Mexico. Following the receipt of the LIANCHOR project approval in early 1968, the LIANCHOR case officer told (LINLUCK) that he was expected to find a replacement meeting WOFIRM approval and be ready to turn the operation over to his replacement by the end of March, 1968. (LINLUCK) proposed Identity-4, who had shown the most interest in the LIANCHOR press service and had been the first to submit articles. By accident the case officer was forced to listen to an hour's conversation between Identity-4 and (LINLUCK) after Identity-4 came to (LINLUCK)'s home, interrupted a meeting between the case officer and (LINLUCK) and the case officer sat trapped in a separate room unbeknownst to Identity-4. From the conversation the case officer observed that Identity-4 was actually a political rightist, believed (LINLUCK) to be an LNHARP agent, had grandiose plans for using LNHARP funds to mushroom LIANCHOR into a continent-wide anti-Communist movement and was married to a neurotic woman who had hired a private detective agency to check on her husband's activities. (LINLUCK) was instructed to quietly ease Identity-4 out of LIANCHOR, to cease holding group meetings of LIANCHOR writers and to try to prevent further contact between Identity-4 and other members of LIANCHOR.

Identity-5 was selected as the next candidate to replace (LINLUCK) as P/A. Identity-5 was technically, linguistically, intellectually and professionally well qualified to head LIANCHOR. During the period of development and assessment of Identity-4 by (LINLUCK), Identity-5 wrote an excellent article on Soviet intellectual piracy. However, Identity-5 proved difficult to contact and control and turned out to be leading a personal life which would have detracted seriously from his ability to administer LIANCHOR. (LINLUCK) was told to keep in touch with Identity-5, but to look for still another candidate.

In early April ARRIAGA Bosque was exiled to Miami. With the Station's concurrence (LINLUCK) went to Guatemala during Easter to confer with Guatemalan President, Julio MENDEZ Montenegro, and the new Defense Minister concerning his own future. The President said he had not forgotten (LINLUCK) but would not be able to give him a consular post until the outset of 1969. The President also said he would not be opposed to (LINLUCK)'s returning to Guatemala and entering politics.

SNCILSG00005B

2312543000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000