8. On 20 September the Argentine Ambassador attempted to contact KUZNETSOV who was busy at the time with the Norwegian Charge d'Affaires. He wished to know the time of the Soviet dinner on 27 September as the Venezuelan Embassy was having a ceremony from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. on the same day, and he would like to attend both functions. The Soviet invitation was for 8:00 p.m., so the Argentine Ambassador decided he would go to the Venezuelan ceremony first, and arrive a little late for the Soviet dinner.

9. On 21 September the Secretary of the Cuban Ambassador informed Albert Alekseyevich MATVEEV, Attache, that she had just talked to the Cuban Ambassador who was ill, and would like to postpone their luncheon date for that day until Thursday or Friday of the following week. They decided on Friday, 28 September and MATVEEV said that the Soviet Ambassador would also like to invite the wife of the Cuban Ambassador to a motion-picture showing that same day. After checking with the Ambassador arrangements were made for 7:30 p.m., Friday, 28 September. The Cuban Ambassador and his wife, and Francisco DOMINGUEZ Correa, Second Secretary of the Cuban Embassy, would attend.

10. Plans were made for KAZANTSEV and DOLENGEZ of the Cuban Embassy to meet for lunch on Wednesday, 26 September. However, KAZANTSEV later cancelled the date upon learning that they would have an opportunity to see each other at the Soviet Embassy.

11. On 25 September KAZANTSEV talked to Francisco AJILIAR, Counselor of the Salvadoran Embassy, concerning some records which KUZNETSOV had sent to AGUILAR. The latter put off a proposed meeting with KAZANTSEV, suggesting that he contact him the following week.

C. Relations with other Iron Curtain Missions

1. Appointments were arranged between CHUKASOV and Bedrich PISTORÁ, Minister of the Czech legation, for 3 and 10 September.

2. Plans were made between Boris AUTILIN, employee of the Soviet Embassy, and Lubomír BLAZÍK, Czech Cultural and Propaganda Officer, for a volleyball game to be held at 10:00 a.m., 9 September, at the Balneario Olímpico.

3. On 7 September Bedrich KUBES, Attaché of the Czech legation, made arrangements to stop by the Soviet Embassy on 10 September to discuss some motion pictures. Although the Soviets had no special representative for motion pictures, KUBES was told that either Leohid Ivanovich BOLESHEV, Commercial Counselor, or Aleksey Danilovich HAHYSKII, Assistant Commercial Officer, could help him.

50-41-294