DISPATCH SECRET/RYBAT MMA-18571 RYPAT 4163 REDACTED FLE NO.

TO ADP Chief, WH Division

FROM AEP Chief of Staff, Mexico City

BASIC Examples of Marxist Textbooks used in Mexican Schools

ACTION FOR CITY, see paragraph 3 below.

REFERENCE

PRIORITY

Attached are copies of e. "Provincia de Cultura Económica" (Segunda Edición-1963) written by (Marxist) Francisco FARRERA Vildes and, as can be seen on the inner first page, approved by the Textbook Commission of the Ministry of Education as the textbook in beginning economics courses in Mexican public schools.

Note: i. This book is pure Marxism. Pages 17, 43, 46 and many others distinctly praise Marxism and condones capitalism and colonial countries (particularly England, the U.S.A., and Russia).

II. Also attached is a copy of the work presented by this team.

III. This book and its Marxist contacts has been called to the attention of INTENSOR, LIEBGO and others by CCI. To date, there are no approval of this textbook but has been withdrawn. The approval of this textbook has been withdrawn. The approval of this textbook has been withdrawn. The approval of this textbook has been withdrawn.

"Cuba, Despedida de América", written by (Marxist) Ramón RAMIREZ Gómez, who is one of the main important professors of economics in the School of Economics at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (U.N.A.M.). This book, which is pure Marxism, places Castro's Cuba, Communist China and Marxism and socialism in the U.S.A. This book was published officially by the统一Economic Union of Mexico in 1961 and is used in the School of Economics there.

Note: Ramon RAMIREZ Gómez was one of the professors primarily responsible for expelling Luis Felipe COELLO Macaya and Callejon VELÉZ Pelayo from the U.N.A.M. because they took part in anti-Castro, anti-Communist activities on 26 July 1961 (see HMMA-17935 and HMMA-18497).

Another textbook which is Marxist and which has been the subject of considerable publicity recently is "La Unidad de Trabajo y Estudio" by Miguel O. CARDOUNEL, Professor at the Escuela Normal de Historia, Cuba, 1960. This book was one of the issues that provided a mass demonstration against the leftist policies of Governor Eduardo LIVAS Villarreal of Havana, Cuba. (See MKII-0842 and MAXI-0815.)

It will be recalled that on the evening of 11 January 1962 Thomas A. BRET requested copies of the two (2) tracts listed in paragraphs 1 and 3 from CGI. He wished to compare using files in his possession four copies and (2) possibly to send them to Comité Sanador and Comité Popular.

It will be recalled that on the evening of 11 January 1962 Thomas A. BRET requested copies of the two (2) tracts listed in paragraphs 1 and 3 from CGI. He wished to compare using files in his possession four copies and (2) possibly to send them to Comité Sanador and Comité Popular.

Wuward C. Carilo