LYLE STUART AREVALO "ANTIKOMUNISMO EN AMERICA LATINA"

Early in the spring of 1962, here in Mexico, Arévalo told me that Stuart was prodding him about getting another of his books translated, to take advantage of the publicity around "The Shark and the Sardines". I was already far beyond speaking terms with Stuart and therefore declined to have anything further to do with him. About three months later, Arévalo told me that Stuart was going to publish "Antikommunismo en America Latina" and that a young American student, married to a Mexican, Angela delli Sante Arrocha (who had written "Arévalo, Fensador Contemporaneo"), was doing the translation into English. Early in 1963, Arévalo told me that the translation hadn't been satisfactory and therefore Stuart had obtained a re-translation, by Charleton Beals.

When Stuart was here in Mexico in June, he told Dr. Osegueda that he was very happy about the way the book was selling.

Inasmuch as Stuart has paid Arévalo only 10 percent of moneys received by Stuart on "The Shark and the Sardines" sales (in contrast with some book contracts in which the author receives 10 percent of the money represented by number of copies sold multiplied by the retail sales price) I would assume he is no more generous with "Antikommunismo". I can ask Dr. Osegueda the exact terms, but I haven't been able to see Osegueda this week.

I know of no affiliations of Stuart with foreign political parties of government. His attempts to get close to Fidel Castro in 1960 were motivated by a desire to exploit the journalistic advantages of an interview. His original interest in "The Shark and the Sardines" was apparently motivated by money-making interest and by the hope that he might spark a sensation - exactly what he did manage to do with his outrageous advertising. He seemed to calculate that there might be libel suits possible against the firms and the newspapers he could provoke to attack him.

I am sure you have it on file, but I will enclose a copy of Arévalo's original contract with Stuart. It was superceded by another in November of 1961, granting Stuart certain rights with regard to other foreign language editions of "The Shark and the Sardines" and, I believe, establishing that Stuart should have first option of other Arévalo books translated into English.

Information about Stuart's dealings with Arévalo and whatever others could be obtained WITH GUILLE from Eileen Brant, who was his editor at the time of the

Published by Costa Amic, 1962. Financed by Als Radical Revolucionario de El Salvador.

£S COPY

GC:1

Included from autograph

Grossing and

designer/cover