unusually adept at investigative technique, has the ability to balance risks involved against value of information to- be obtained, and is thoroughly familiar with the geography and political trends in Costa Rica. To date, subject has confined his activities mostly to cutout and direction; however, it is believed that with additional freedom he could successfully engage in spotting, recruitment, general inves- tigation, and independent reporting.

Subject has discussed his desire to send his wife and two children to his family in the United States late in October for a 60-day visit. He would then like to travel to the United States himself in late December for a brief visit with his parents in Illinois. This would be his first visit home in several years and would provide an excellent opportunity and cover for headquarters contact, either in Illinois or Washington, at which time formalities and necessary training could be accomplished. (NOTE: This planned trip of subject may temporarily interrupt contact with Humanist-2 and Humankind, as a suitable interim cutout has not yet been developed; but experience has shown that production from both sources practically dies out over the Christmas and New Year holidays in this country.)

3. In connection with Paragraph e. above, it is to be noted that the travel plans of subject's wife have been complicated by advice from the Embassy Consular Section that the Immigration authorities at the port of entry into the United States may demand a $500.00 U.S. bond in substantiation of her intent to return to Costa Rica after the 60 days. This station is therefore considering advancing subject U.S. $500.00 in order to enable him to present the bond if it is demanded and to obviate the possibility of his spending several hundred dollars in travel money for his wife to a port of entry and return to Costa Rica if entry were denied. This money would not be used by subject for any other purpose and would be returned to station funds after successful entry of his wife into the United States.

4. In view of the fact that this Station has no basis for comparison with regard to possible salary figures which might be offered subject if career agent status is approved, no recommendation in this regard is being made. However, it is pointed out that subject has worked for the organization for almost four years, that his efficiency has been excellent, his grasp of intelligence requirements above average, his potential attractive, and that his present position in the operational structure of this Station is of major importance.

5. It is requested that this Station be advised if you are interested in considering subject for career agent status. If so, please advise whether contact will be had with subject while