0 November, 1956.

Subject: Review and Assessment of LING Operation.

A. Background, Character and Assessment of LING:

1. Living (Subject) is a 26-year-old Mexican artist of the Diorama School and an existential existentialist oriented toward the philosophy of Jean-Paul Sartre, with relatively strong leftist political convictions. He has produced a fair amount of painting and had relatively good success in murals both in Cuba and Mexico, but has not succeeded in selling one of his works, despite numerous exhibitions, sponsored by the Mexican Government, classic arts organization (bellas artes). Because of his family, educational and environmental problems, Subject is still being appreciated for its intrinsic worth by the Mexican government and tends to blame his official convictions for this lack of substance. Subject, however, has, as he himself asserts, no "saliency of bitterness or resentment," although he frequently experiences the "armish, "creelowness and banality" of the existentialist, out to be not really relevant to degenerate into a technik either in his personal or artistic life. Subject has confided to Rowton that he has no real friends and that he has withdrawn from society, the floaters of which are error "sceptic." He enjoys the prospect of travel, especially cheap, "to reveal his art" but also to an extent from the responsibilities and limitations of the social life he has been forced to lead in Mexico.

2. Shortly after he met Rowton, in April, 1968, Subject confessed that he felt himself at a critical point in his artistic life. He indicated that he felt the paradoxes inherent in his motif-photography overwhelming him and depress him, and that he neededed friendship with Rowton, an experienced foreigner whom he felt he could trust implicitly. At one critical point, Subject quit his rather tedious job with the Ministry of Education (teaching art in a public school) with the comment that "everyone must make personal decisions and take risks, and I have decided to throw my lot in with you (Rowton) for better or worse, and so have quit the job since it was interfering with my availability". This he did without knowing any more about Rowton than his name, which technical surveillance revealed he did not accept as a true name, and with no guarantees of future financial support from Rowton. Rowton, in his conversations with Subject, has been careful not to reveal any data concerning his personal life and background, including his permanent or local address, providing Subject only with the number of a telephone answering service, and using the safehouse rented by Subject as a principal point of contact. Subject has accepted money from Rowton, at first only for previously approved expenses, and subsequently for his personal use, but has accepted Rowton's initiative in this matter, and made no demands on Rowton for remuneration for services rendered. He has been meticulous in accounting for funds and shown no reluctance to send receipts presented to him by Rowton (with his true-name as nature). Subject has confessed (and shown) an almost complete lack of experience in business and intelligence work, but has accepted Rowton's guidance, where required, without heritance.

ad. #16 HMM-A-30585

US COPY

204-798301