been no formal audio product from Project LIONION since July 1968 when the transcription of the LISANPAN/DOG traffic was terminated. As reported extensively in HMA 36553, 19 February 1969, the Station has been unable to activate LISANPAN/BAKER since 16 January 1969. A qualitative analysis of the LIONION product is discussed in paragraph D below. The Station is unable to evaluate the worth of the pulse camera operation since the bulk film, undeveloped, is pouched directly to Headquarters. The cost of this portion of the operation is minimal, however, since it is limited to the cost of the film and development at Headquarters. The camera works automatically and requires only minimal maintenance.

D. Effectiveness

1. Project LIONION is considered by Station Mexico City as essential to its PERULEN operations. It has consistently proven highly effective and responsive to Station requirements of both long and short range nature. LIONION-1, the Project's only full time agent, continues to furnish on a timely basis, information on the personalities and activities of the target personnel. LIONION-2 continues to backstop LIONION-1 and substitute for him when he is away from his post. At the age of 70, she is not able to man the LIONION base full time, and her sight is failing. She is able to photograph visitors, however, and live monitor the LISANPAN/DOG traffic. LIONION-2's role as a backstop to LIONION-1 insures continuous coverage of the target during daylight hours, five days a week. LIONION-1's more than six years of experience working on the same target continue to produce an increasingly complete and accurate identification of the staff and visitors to LIONING. These years of experience have developed an agent knowledgeable of WOFIRM operational and security requirements who will often bring to the Station's attention those matters which he feels are of immediate interest without having special requirements levied upon him and without waiting for the next regularly scheduled meeting with his Station contact. He has on numerous occasions notified the Station of the presence of suspect PERULEN security types. He has also frequently passed along operational leads of use to the Station in other aspects of its PERULEN operations.

2. The addition of LISANPAN/DOG to the LIONION basehouse has noticeably increased LIONION-1's ability to identify new visitors to the target and at times, determine the nature of their business. The LISANPAN/DOG product was channeled to the LIONION basehouse by carrier current from LISANPAN/LISASH on 10 April 1968. Since its primary value is as an aid to LIONION-1 in identifying LIRING visitors, its product has not been recorded