1 January, 1958

Subject: LIRING/3 Report of Address of Mario Mendez, aka "Rómulo".

1. LIRING/3 reported to Rowton at 1000 on 1/1/69 at the Robin Restaurant that he had not succeeded in seeing the Chief LIRING as he had hoped the previous morning since the latter did not appear at his office by 1000, when LIRING/3 had to leave to make the contact with "Rómulo" at his apartment. LIRING/3 continued to Rowton that when he arrived at his apartment about 1015 he found a note from "Rómulo" asking him to come to the following address on between 1130-1200 the following day (1 January, 1969):

Calle Coahuila 221.

2. Rowton therefore made another date with LIRING/3 for that same evening at 2100 at the Robin Restaurant in order to get L/3's report of this meet-ing. Rowton showed LIRING/3 the two pictures passed to him by the Station of persons suspected of being "Rómulo" and the fat colleague. LIRING/3 told Rowton that he could see no resemblance to either person, but he felt that the photo of the stoic person corresponded to the description of the "Pavel" he was supposed to meet. He recalled that at the time the León Barrios brothers told him they would arrange for "Pavel" to contact him in Mexico City upon his return, they showed him a rather poor reproduction of a picture of Pavel that had appeared in the local press following a gunfight that Pavel had had on the border while crossing into Mexico.

3. Rowton then expressed to LIRING/3 his grave reservations concerning the proposed travel of L/3 to Guatemala in the company of his new FAP friends. Rowton pointed out that such a trip would be extremely risky for L/3 personally with little hope of any worthwhile production for Rowton. LIRING/3 agreed and said that he felt he would have to continue to stall, even at the risk of alienating the affections and confidence of his new contacts. Rowton suggested that L/3 tell them that before he could possibly consider such a return trip he would have to visit PERUEN with his wife and child to get them settled there so that they would not again be exposed to the difficulties they suffered during his last trip - financial as well as psychological. This would give L/3 at least another month before he would be faced with the trip. Rowton added that L/3 should offer to do "everything possible" in Mexico for his friends, reviewing for them his knowledge and experience of the border areas, his service in the navy as well as his reasonably good knowledge of photography.

4. Rowton then stressed that L/3 should assume that everything, at least in summary form, that he discussed with the FAR officials he was in contact with would directly or indirectly be reported to the LIRING office, and that hence he should "play it straight" with both sides. W. B. V.