MEMORANDUM FOR: C/10

ATTENTION : Miss Stern

SUBJECT : Material for Transmittal to RFE.

1. Forwarded horowith is a list of persons who are considered to be acceptable script writers for Albanian material to be prepared for use by RFE. It was originally intended to forward a list of persons not considered suitable, but it was later felt that this negative approach might allow some unacceptable persons to slip through. You will note that this approved list consists of only 30 names. If RFE proposed to use any persons not on the list all that they have to do is submit the name of the proposed script writer so that we may check our files for any information on him. Immediately upon receipt of the name of a person we will reply, stating whether the person is (a) unacceptable now, (b) may be used one time only, or (c) may be used and added to the approved list.

2. Of particular interest to us, and something we consider worthy of RFE's attention, is the recent use of Ernest Koliqi for the preparation of a script. Mr. Koliqi is a member of the HKI, a political organization which has been unacceptable in the past. Mr. Koliqi is further unacceptable as an individual by reason of his past. From the condensed information available on him it appears that he "cooperated with the Italian Minister to Tirana in preparing the Italian occupation . . . returned to Tirana (he had long lived in Italy as he does now) where he held the post of Minister of Education 1939-1943. Member of the Albanian Fascist party."

3. It would seem that the use of Mr. Koliqi for the preparation of scripts is subject to serious question. In this script for February 22, page 2, he states "a much better presentation of the various literary phases . . . is the anthology entitled The Albanian Writers published in 1941 by the Minister of Education." (Note that he was the Minister of Education during this period under the Fascist government.)

4. There are other specific examples of possibly doubtful persons having been used in the preparation of scripts. Dimiter Barati, a Zogist official then Zog was in power, a Fascist official when the fascists were in power, and now reported to be a Communist stooge, was used on several occasions. Zef Shiro, formerly, and possibly still, editor of the Fascist magazine "Albania" was used for the preparation of a script on January 5.

5. As was agreed in a