Blauvelt engineering firm for whom he worked from January 1963 through July 1964. In 1964 Subject found work with Harold J. SUDEN, 60 Broad Street, Red Bank, New Jersey, as an engineer working on the planning and designing of sub-divisions, grading, construction developments, etc. His immediate supervisor is the township engineer of Marlboro Township, New Jersey. His present salary is $700.00 per month.

In April 1963 Subject married

Bella MINCHERG see MILSTEIN

a Polish Jew who had come to the USA from Poland in 1949. He has two sons by her previous marriage(s). Subject and his son now live in the home of his present wife.

Comments and Assessment:

Subject speaks native English and passes for a middle class American. His Russian is likewise native.

According to Subject, his objective in life now is to work for the US Government. He states that he has submitted Forms 57 to a number of the US Government agencies (he did not elaborate). In applying for the position under AIDPICC, Subject asked for $10,000.00 per annum which is his asking price for a position with the US Government.

According to Subject, his present position is excellent with great potential for going into partnership as soon as he becomes a licensed engineer. However, he states that he is not interested in making money (despite his request for a $10,000.00 salary) but in "fighting Communism" as an employee of the US Government.

Subject admitted that he was a firm and strong believer of Communism which, incidentally, was the reason why he remained behind in the USSR when his parents returned to the USA in 1937. He states that he continued to be a firm believer of Communism until approximately 1958/59 when he became "disenchanted with Communism". Subject denies that he was a member of the Komsomol or that he had to join the Communist Party, this despite the fact that he became an officer of the Soviet Army and despite the fact that he was accepted to study at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. Despite his alleged "disenchantment" with Communism, Subject spoke in flattering terms about life in the USSR, about the "democracy", about equal opportunities, about the excellent "educational system", et cetera. Subject admitted that