DISPATCH

TO Chief, OP NO SUBMIT TO: DATE 19 October 1961

FROM Chief of Station, Leopoldville RE: CHECK ONE MARKED FOR INDEXING... NO INDEXING REQUIRED

SUBJECT - REQUEST FOR DOCUMENTS

ACTION REQUIRED - Help! Guidance re model (para 5) INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HO. DESK ONLY

REFERENCES

1. On 2 October 1961 WIROGUE telephoned Lester R. SALVACK and said that he had something important to discuss with him. WIROGUE requested SALVACK to come to his house in Binza, a suburb of Leopoldville.

2. WIROGUE had two requests. The first was to ask "Dan" to forward the two laissez-paissezs which WIROGUE states he turned over to Dan and never got back. Wirogue was quite emphatic that he needs these documents. SALVACK suggested that Wirogue write a note stating exactly what he wanted and give it to him to forward. Wirogue did and the note is forwarded as a separate cover attachment to this dispatch.

3. WIRGUEL then showed SALVACK a model of a one man submarine on which he had been working in conjunction with a Belgian engineer (Identity #1) who is also a Congolese Air Force advisor. He claimed that this submarine would be capable of speeds up to 100 kilometers an hour on short runs, and would have a cruising distance of 500 kilometers. The model, being built to 1/7 scale, is approximately half completed, and, of course, has never been tested. Wirogue said he had discussed this model and his plans fully when in headquarters, and had made a full report concerning all details. SALVACK said that (1) he was not an engineer and (2) was in no position to make any promise or commitment. All that he could do was to report that the model was in the process of construction and to further report that Wirogue wanted to make sure that the test got it instead of the Communist bloc.

4. Wiroguel expressed full willingness to show the model, and gave his companion explain it fully, to anyone SALVACK wished to bring to Wiroguel's house. SALVACK made no commitment other than to report the conversation. (It should be noted that Wiroguel had never mentioned this item before to Station personnel, and told Salvack that neither he nor his companion had said anything to anyone in The Congo concerning it up to this point.)

5. If Headquarters is willing, the station suggests that the COACH attaché be put into contact with Wiroguel concerning this item. He could conduct any necessary tests or experiments. Because of Wiroguel's past, however, and the nature of his documentation, the Station requests Headquarters guidance and approval prior to taking any action.