LETTER OF AUTHORIZATION FOR

1. Effective 17 JUN '54, this Letter of Authorization will define your relationship with the United States Government while you are on detail from the United States Army to another Governmental organization (herein-after called "this organization").

2. In recognition of the special mission to which you have been assigned, it is hereby agreed that the following rights, restrictions, and obligations will be in force during the period you are performing this particular mission for this organization:

(a) It is specifically understood and agreed that you are a member of the Armed Forces of the United States and that you are entitled to retain from either the U. S. Army or this organization, only the salary, allowances and other benefits which are commensurate with your military grade and post of assignment.

(b) As you will be assigned by the United States Army on bona fide military FCS orders to Indo-China, you will receive from your parent military service your base pay and longevity, and the allowances applicable to the designated unit to which you will be assigned.

(c) It is contemplated that you may be furnished transportation to and from your permanent post of duty overseas by your parent military service. In the event that such transportation is not so furnished, you will be advanced or reimbursed funds by this organization for said travel and transportation expenses and for authorized travel within your operational area. You will be entitled to per diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of this travel in accordance with applicable Government civilian travel regulations. All travel, transportation and per diem provided you under this paragraph by this organization must be properly authorized, and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to payment and accounting in compliance with the regulations of this organization.

(d) In conformance with the Joint Travel Regulations, this organization will advance or reimburse you funds for the travel and transportation expenses of your dependents and your household effects from your present area of assignment to any place in the United States which you may designate. If authority is granted for your dependents to join you at your permanent post of duty overseas, this organization will advance or reimburse you funds for the travel and transportation expenses of your dependents and your household effects subject to the emergency restrictions of your parent military service, from the place so designated by you to your permanent post of duty overseas, and, upon completion of your assignment with this organization, from your permanent post of duty overseas to Washington, D. C. Your dependents will be entitled to per diem in the course of such overseas travel in accordance with applicable Government civilian travel regulations. The expenses incurred in the movement of your dependents and your household effects from said designated place in the United States to your permanent post of duty