However, EPI Germany has advised OFI that a form has been devised to determine this information and that this form was presented to the agencies, for their use, on December 7. They have been asked to report on all persons assisted.

(b) Question: What, if any, project exists to relieve TB incidence among this group?

Supplemental aid is primarily designed to help escapees maintain or recover their health. All agencies know that evidence of poor health, supported by advice of a doctor, authorizes special food supplements. USEP funds can and have been used to provide better living conditions also. The Tolstoy Foundation and APRF have spent $7,550.45 on suppl- ements. Food, including additional food at the three special installations. No figures are available as to the exact number of TB Soviet escapees who have been assisted.

(c) Question: How many people have received jobs through the efforts of the agencies?

(1) Through the Kairosralautern project, 40 Soviet escapees have been placed in jobs and private housing found for 17 of this number.

(2) During the recent review of agency cases, about 50 Soviet escapees proved to be employed. In some cases, agency participation was apparent; in others, not. The degree of agency aid in finding these jobs would be difficult to pinpoint.

(3) There is also evidence that 20 to 50 escapees have enlisted in Labor Service Companies as "other nationalities". Here again, agency participation is difficult to determine.

(d) Question: How many have been enigrated through efforts of the agency?

According to the October reports, the Tolstoy Foundation has obtained 94 visas for escapees, in addition to 432 visas under Section 3(c) of the DP Act. For the rest of the fiscal year they estimate that they will obtain 110 more 3(c) visas and 55 others. APRF, which has just started resettlement activities, expects to obtain 15 visas under Section 3(c) and 15 others.

(o) Question: Is there any vocational training or other educational program?

(1) There are three vocational training schools available for escapees, with unused space in all three, at Munich, Ingolstadt and Berlin. Training expenses plus complete care and maintenance are paid

for ...