Even though he admired and sympathized with the Germans he claims he would not have harmed France. All this is rather complex. However, it is possible to understand his motivations according to his basic principle, which involves a vague desire to help others who need it. He also expresses pride in doing the outstanding and the difficult. The material reward is not an ultimate end in itself. His emotionalized ideals are not expressed clearly in terms of politics or nationality. This comples of motivations will also be discussed in terms of the Subject's participation in the bank robbery.

Although the Subject was satisfied, on the whole, with the technical efficiency of his gang and although he was pleased with the freedom of movement and his apparent security, he was arrested because of carelessness or a slip, not in the actual functioning of the gang, but rather on the part of one of the men whom the gang was helping. Consequently the Subject was arrested by the Gestapo. Because he was considered by the Germans to be a very important prey he played along and led the Germans to believe that he was more important than they had figured. He hoped that such a tactic and belief on their part would bring him certain advantages. Although he realized that he could have been shot for only half what he had done and that it may have been disadvantageous for him to exaggerate his part he claims to have done so in order to mix the tracks, to confuse the German authorities and to avoid "fingering" certain partners whom he made appear as negligible in the scheme. He played this game as long as he could but his end gradually drew near. However, he is an imaginative fellow and he hit upon the idea of claiming that he had invented a very interesting motor that would run without gas. The Germans, of course, could have profitably used such a machine at this point in the war and consequently took his offer into consideration and postponed his execution. As a result he bought time and shortly thereafter was liberated by the Americans. Through this experience the Subject has learned that it is very important to know the weaknesses of authorities and to play these weaknesses against one another. His emotions correspond to a joy of being the sole master of the situation. He feels that if he were to find himself in this sort of a situation-again that he would act in exactly the same way. This behavior is typical of that of a con man. He has the capacity to control a situation in his own interest and to imaginatively talk himself out of rather tight situations. This is an outstanding characteristic of his personality and consequently should be noted by his handlers.