it was up to him to stall.

10. At this point S asked F would we help him out if he got in troubles on account of his association with LOG. F replied that he was trying to instruct him how to keep out of troubles and it appeared that S did not care much about what F was telling him. F reacted quite strongly to F's statement by saying that F was wrong, or at least incorrectly interpreted S attitude; as far as he (S) is concerned as he is willing to discontinue meeting with LOG immediately, if we tell him to do so. F answered that if we wanted him to drop LOG we would had told him to do it. Nevertheless, S as an American is certainly aware of the fact that the US Service and, consequently, the US security is getting nothing out of S collaboration with LOG; in view of the fact that LOG will remain here only about 2 months more we felt it would be the best to leave the matter take its normal course and find its natural end; we were and continue to be interested in keeping him out of trouble, but to achieve this the most important thing was that he carry out our instruction as he received it; we badly need that S fullheartedly comply with our instruction; if S' association with the KGB (sio) continues after the departure of LOG we would probably be willing to continue our relationship with S only if we were able to count on his sincerity and complete complying with every instruction he may receive from us. S stated that it was clear to him that he could not count on any help from us if he got himself in trouble by acting on his own. F left it at that.

11. As the working part of the meet ended about 1040 hrs S stated that he was broke and did not anticipate to be in a better financial condition for two additional months. S turned this theme one way and the other until he came out with the request for about $50.- Dollars. F answered that he would look into the matter and we left the INN Le Club and started walking. S, was obviously fearing that the meet would break up and he would go home without any money, and S complained that the place (the INN) was good for writing purposes but the food was lousy (true) and no drinks were served and that if he was not broke he would have invited F to a brandy. F reacted by offering a brandy. Once at the bar S asked F could he give him some money this evening. F felt it would serve no purpose if he stalled more and he gave $3500.- and obtained a renegint for the same.