WIROGUE, former REDSOX Agent Candidate and AF Division Agent, has been quitclaimed and resettled on the local economy. This dispatch covers the WIROGUE case from May 1962 to March 1964.

Subject arrived in FRANKFURT/MAIN on 22 May 1962 and immediately made telephone contact with CABEZONE. He had been guaranteed a meeting with a Fran KUBARK representative who, he had been told, would explore KUBARK employment possibilities for him. He in the meantime would be attempting to market a telephone answering device which he had invented, and conduct an investigation into the disappearance of 30 million francs which had been misappropriated by members of the Congolese Defense Ministry. KUBARK's reasons for establishing contact were dictated, however, by the need to relieve Subject of his KUBARK supplied false Austrian passport in the name of Reiner, the need to institute or suggest a course of action which would encourage him to establish himself as a contributing member of society and, above all, prevent his return to the Congo.

Subject was met by Stephen R. LACKLEN and Roscoe MOSIEN and put up in a safehouse. He was relieved of his documents under the pretext that they were to be photographed and he would not need them for the time being since he would be given an identity document for use during the period of time he would be in KUBARK custody. LACKLEN explained that as an administrative officer he was interested only in taking care of his immediate needs but soon however he would be introduced to one who's business would be to work with him in an attempt to resolve his problems.

Since it had been decided that Subject was primarily a resettlement problem, Orme K. DARONNAT of HARVARD was introduced to Subject. DARONNAT told Subject that he would be working with him during his stay in Frankfurt while we were awaiting word on whether or not his services were needed by the Government. Subject stated that his greatestwish was to work for the "Company". If this was not to be, he hoped he would be helped to legalize and immigrate to South America. He emphasized his obligation to complete his mission for the C.D.F. and claimed also he had to return to the Congo to conclude his contract even if we decided to employ him. C. O. told him our first order of business was to establish the need for his services and in the meantime he could attempt to market his invention.