6. A. An article in Hoy of 28 January 1953 reported that Subject was a member for the Juventud Ortodoxa of the presidium of the Congreso Martiano, por los Derechos de la Juventud and published a photograph showing Subject at the speakers' table. Another article in Hoy of 3 March 1953 reported that Subject and several other youth leaders appeared at Hoy offices with a declaration signed by the Consuelo Permanente of the Congreso Martiano. The Congreso was described as Communist-dominated by the writer of the memorandum to the Visa Section dated 9 November 1955.

B. Subject described the Congress as an opposition maneuver against the Government in which many Cuban youth institutions participated, including the Communists. He said that he, himself, participated in the Congress strictly as a representative of the Juventud Ortodoxa in opposition to the Government and in no sense as a collaborator or sympathiser with the Communists. Regarding the visit to Hoy offices, Subject said that the group in question visited many newspaper offices, not just that of Hoy.

7. Subject prefaced his remarks by stating that he had recognised the Communist danger as early as 1950. He brought several documents purporting to show his attacks on Communism. The documents are attached, and pertinent extracts therefrom are set forth below in translation. Subject requested that the documents be returned when need be then no longer existed.

8. Extracts from "El Pensado Político e Ideológico De La Juventud Cubana", dated 1 July 1950, signed by Max LFSHICK Menéndez, Ciro PUNARTEA Dias, Oscar CRUZ Mir, Salvador LEW, Omar DURGES, José SALAZAR and Joaquín SALOMON:

(1) (page 13, criticising BATISTA's collaboration with the Communists) "Around the middle of 1937, the Communist Party, alleging as a public pretent that BATISTA has ceased to be the center of the most reactionary forces not only is returning to legality but also is lending to the regime in power all its political booking and is mobilising the working masses in his support."

(2) (page 11, more criticism of BATISTA and his collaboration with the Communists) "The first general elections held following the promulgation of the new Constitution, to which BATISTA went as presidential candidate of the old political forces and of the Communist Party, served only to 'civilise' in its exterior aspects the power which that man had been exercising over the country for more than five years...".