Keel 73-KICO-27

From 1250, 2 May (Sunday) to 0620, 3 May 1965

Miric 2.0 Out to 31-06-06. Victor Rico Galan (V -VKG) with KKKKMAX XIMNAME, who answers. VKG is not clear about something. VKG heard Fidel's speech yesterday. VKG wants me to know: "Mexico established that at the latest May 10, Fidel asks the Commission to submit to the meeting(members) a report on the progress of its works, including its conclusions and recommendations which it considers appropriate, at the latest of 10 May of 1965 and decides to celebrate a session of the meeting (?) the 11th (of May)." Was this the plan of resolution? In the plan that Sinova said there is no date mentioned. VKG says Mexico's proposal is dated, but on the other hand, an AP cable from Washington stated that the O.B.A. suspended its sessions inde- finitely tonight. What VKG wants to know is whether Mexico's proposal was approved? No, it was not approved. It was stated that it would be taken into account and their next session would be scheduled after the Commission submits its report. But if the time limit set by Mexico is not approved, the Commission can extend this and give its report in a year. Yes, in 5 years, if they want. VKG was not clear on this. Everything was left open. There is no time period or any limit on the decision. The decision was to send this Commission, with Miric comments is very strangely made of (the members are strange).. VKG says it is a group of gorillas. Yes. When they submit their report they will see (what happens).

VKG is now writing and wanted to ask Miric about this.

2.2 In. Rosa with VKG, who answers. Sra. (Diener) called Rosa. Sra. Diener takes the phone. Sra. D. had planned to go by Club to see if Sra. Walther is there. Sra. Walther took the magazine by when Rosa was not at home....It does not matter...They must have gone to club...About sending a machine with Sra. (somewhere)....

2.7 In. Miric (r) withVKG, who answers. Airic just heard the newscast. m. says there are over 9.000 soldiers there (in Dominican Republic) now. Troops continue to disembark. The actions of the civilians is mindbending practically finished, that is, that is official text. These troops are supposed to protect the O.E.A. Commission. The U.S. troops have taken over all the combat lines of Messina, to continue the fight.

3.7 In. WO, calling for Elizondo, asks Inge, who answers, for VKG. Inge asks if this was Caso calling? Yes. Aren't they going over there? VKG said he would go by there at noon-time. Did not rea- tion it. Will put VKG on.

VKG takes the phone. Says he can't go because he is waiting on his call from Santo Domingo. Radio Habana pulled a real boner. They made VKG their correspondent in this message (of Dominican Republic). VKG has been without sleep for 2 nights. Can't call through the U.S. since they don't put his cell through - since it goes through New York, so VKG has to wait on calls from there. Not a boner, but good. Yes, it is good. VKG has to write the editorial and article today too. They will see tomorrow at the office of "Siempre." Fine. MO is ToBIO.

Keel 73-MICO-27