9. The spotter is supposed to turn in a list of potential recruits and write a recommendation for each person. The prospective agent or informer is then called in and an offer to cooperate with the KGB is made. Source never heard anything about money being mentioned, but the KGB does offer help in the advancement of one's career. The initial assignments are very simple: The agent or informer just has to keep his eyes and ears open and to report anything that smacks of anti-government or illegal activity. Who can refuse such a call to patriotic vigilance? And if one does, he might well be classified as an enemy of the state and end up doing the lowliest physical labor rather than enjoying a promising career.

10. AKSENOV also told Source that the KGB usually opens a file on a Soviet citizen who corresponds with anyone abroad. After this, his telephone conversations are monitored and periodically recorded. And finally, KGB agents and informers who come into contact with him will be asked to report on him.

11. Source once asked AKSENOV what the KGB would consider its greatest accomplishment. AKSENOV replied that the discovery of a secret agent (illegal) would be first on the list, followed by the discovery of an illegal printing press. Without printed matter a revolution cannot take place, according to AKSENOV. Third on the list is the discovery of the illegal possession of a rifled weapon, such as a rifle or pistol. This last item would not be considered particularly important in itself, but a KGB officer can do very well for himself if he plays his cards right. He must time the discovery of the illegal weapon with a public event involving the visit of an important Party or government dignitary. Thus, in the eyes of his superiors, his discovery is tantamount to thwarting an assassination attempt. Any one of the three accomplishments would lead to automatic promotion, a medal, and tenure for life in the KGB.

12. Traces: (SE/SAG/OP routinely uses the following sources in tracing: Soviet GICS, Soviet travel, IP Main Index, OCR and SE/SAG/OP branch index. These traces should not be construed as being extensive or complete and any recipients of this report with an active interest in any of the subjects should run full traces of their own.)

There are no Headquarters traces on Anatoliy Aleksandrovich AKSENOV (para 1).

II

*AKSENOV, Anatoliy Aleksandrovich

SEX: M POB: USSR CIT: USSR OCC: KGB official LOC: USSR, Minsk

Known to Soviet emigre 201-0948382. In charge of KGB unit in Yubileynaya Hotel in Minsk.

Victor F. Zimin

SE/SAG/OP

SE/SAG/OP: Isabelle H. Domes:ek