Journalistic - AGV-3.5

Naturelly, there are many intangibles involved with operating over long periods (almost years in Cuba) in one place, and then travelling back and forth between areas of previous assignment (Costa Rica), and least but not least, cultivating communists in all these places. The question becomes, How through thorough are these people? Does a Cuban CP character communicate with a Guatemalan or Costa Rican along lines of security, of movement of Americans in these areas, and actual approaches made ? Probably not, at their best, the administration is hapazard. A typical example: Once, in 1953, when I was leaving Costa Rica, I made a couple of cold approaches - one was with woman communist, a leader in the Union de Mujeres Carmen Lizara. I walked away from her house - she evidently got a taxi right behind me - and she went straight to the headquarters and reported to Manuel Mora. But she couldn't describe me - had the story so confused (the approach story) as to render it useless to them, and absolutely nothing ever came of the incident. (By the same token, it would have been a different story in Cuba.)

Although, even in Cuba, there is not persistence or perseverance in investigations. I was working with a municipal committee youth communist - he is a translator and did a story for me in Spanish - and he was visiting my home (twice) while I went to his apartment about four times. I gave him my business card (Dellas Corporation) and some time later a SIM net picked him - searched his premises - and among other things, turned up my business card. He was queried on it and stated that he was simply translating for me. Now this boy is a known communist, although they could get nothing on him at this time - but such an incident/have provoked at least a casual surveillance of me or my premises. Nothing can of this incident either - and the station down there would know.

Lastly, the mission up to the Sierra Neestra hve security implications. Not so much concerning communism, but its reasonable to assume that Cuban security people will come up with my name as having been up there. However, with the pictures published, perhaps an article later, there should be enough cover as a writer to neutralize any hazard there.

Past employment (with us)

Conpany or foundation: Scholarship from Panamerican Foundation at University of Florida at Gainesville, from July 1954 to June 1955.

Then the national cover set up last year (May 1957) was the Public Surveys Institute, General Polling Service, 532 Fidelity Union Life Bldg., 1511 Bryan street, Dallas, Texas. This arranged so that any mail or telephone to the above corporation would confirm my company connections and could even be used as a credit reference if necessary. This arrangement was quite satisfactory.

SECRET!