NO FOREIGN DISSEM

UTG-8473

The use of five islets facing Santiago de los Caballeros City for a military base. (SIC.)

Authorization for MDC personnel to move into and out of the Dominican Republic in a clandestine manner.

Transportation of MDC war materiel from Miami aboard Dominican Air Force planes.

Batista expressed enthusiasm regarding Folch's proposals, and stressed the necessity of acting immediately, including sending MDC personnel to the Dominican Republic. He directed Angel Hernandez Rojo, second in command of the military department, to prepare a plan to operate from the Dominican Republic, and Placido Barbeite Freyre, chief of the military department, to prepare an estimate of the cost of the plans in order that the necessary money can be obtained.

Although Barbeite agreed with Batista regarding the need for preparation of operational plans and an estimate of the cost, Batista's initiating immediate action. He felt that it wasbatista opposed Batista's advocation of initiating immediate action. He felt that it was Inadvisable to attempt the implementation of the plans until Balaguer's reaction is known. Hernandez' views coincided with those of Barbeite. Hernandez' views coincided with those of Barbeite. The meeting ended without a solution to the disagreement.

At the meeting Batista reported that dissension exists within the MDC in Puerto Rico, particularly between Armando Palacios and San Juan and Numberto Perez. Hernandez' position and military chief respectively.

Palacios stated that Perez does not report to the president on military plans and activities. However, Barbeite defended Perez' action with the argument that the military matters do not really fall under the scope of responsibility of the president.

The military department of the MDC set forth its views in a document dated 29 May. This document included the following points:

Discontent is becoming evident because of the lack of activity which, in turn, results from the lack of funds. The sum mentioned is $10,000.5

No change in United States policy regarding action against Cuba from the U.S. is anticipated. A base of operations outside of the United States is considered to be so vitally important that the military department would be willing to operate an illegal base if the resources were made available.

The condition of the boats is such that the MDC has no sea transportation. The boats are described as follows: