In the course of the lengthy discussions WIROGUE let it be known that he was not very happy about the treatment he had received from the Americans--that he felt he had been dropped, and it appeared obvious to C.O. that if we had no further work for him he was threatening to tell his story to the French authorities--a story which he presumably feels we would not like the French to know about. It should be stressed that at no time was the "blackmail threat" bluntly presented. It was merely that he wished to advise us of his plan to leave for Paris this date with this intention in mind and that he wished to determine if we had any "objections".

C.O. refused reviewed with WIROGUE the considerable efforts which had been made to assist him in establishing a new life here in the FEDREP-- a new life story, legal documentation, the nepoxia bank opportunity to look for employment for a period of more than a year while receiving subsistence from us, etc. C.O. told Subject that he obviously had a good mind and was in good health and that-if he was unable to find some type of employment in the thriving West German economy that appealed to him there and satisfied him--he would probably be unhappy wherever he goes. C.O. discounted Subject's belief that "intelligence work" was the only thing for which he was suited. C.O. as expressed the view that he should get his head out of the clouds and his feet on the ground--that he should find a job, however mental, and throw himself into it. At this point WIROGUE said that at one time he had told Mr. Murmann of his desire to become a driver or chauffeur but that Mr. Murmann told him he could find much more suitable employment. With a certain amount of disbelief C.O. pursued this topic with him telling WIROGUE that-if he were was really serious khaxha in believing that this kind of employment would be satisfying to him, that it was the first sensible thought he had expressed in the course of the discussions and that C.O. would determine whether it would be possible to assist Subject in obtaining a West German drivers' license (Subject indicated that he had a Congo drivers' license when he arrived in Frankfurt although it was issued in another name). While Subject pretended to have a genuine interest in obtaining such employment-- and used this to refute C.O.'s accusation that he only wanted to start at the top and considered most kinds of honest employment as being beneath him--C.O. is highly skeptical of Subject's motives. WIROGUE was told to call Macgillivray Mac (this is the only name which C.O. gave to WIROGUE) on the following day (Thursday, 1 October) and C.O. would then let him know whether he could help him obtain a West German license. WIROGUE was quick-to-point-out that