people of the world towards our desperate calling may be some day achieved and that they may stretch their friendly hand to our patient, but erect, people. For the better understanding of the labor accomplished we will synthesise the main steps taken by this section in the develop ment of the mission the DRE has assigned it.

ORIGIN OF THE SECTION OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

The Section of International Relations was created by the National Executive of the DRE in the months of November-December 1960. Luis Bosa Dominguez, ex-President of the Faculty of Science of the University of Havana, was appointed for its direction on January 1961, Mr. Eduardo Munis was ordered to come to Miami and was assigned the coordination of the DRE's labor in Latin America. Mr Munis arrived on the 8th of February, 1961.

THE FIRST STEPS

Before Muniz's arrival at Miami, the DRE's activity in the international ground was so limited that it lacked importance, even thought had sent a Delegation to the Chancellors' assembly which was held on 1961 in the city of San Jose Costa, Rica, and had also sent a Delegation to Central America for the purpose of establishing contacts with student leaders in these countries. On the last days of February 1961, a DRE Commission composed by Ernesto Fernandez Travieso, Tere- sa Valdes Hurtado, and Eduardo Muniz was sent to Washington for the purpose of delivering a letter written by the DRE as genuine representation of Cuban Students to the President of the United States John F. Kennedy. This letter was handed to Mr. Richard Godwin (se ignore if it ever reached President Kennedy) It stated the basis and ideals which moved the DRE to fight the Castro regime and the common inspirations which led it together with the rest of Latin American Students towards the achievement If social justice for the people of our continent.

Despite all this - and for motives which have not yet been given to us - during February, March, and April 1961, we were entirely restrained in the development of our labor because of the poor admittance given to our plan. Our labor was reduce to the sending of some propaganda to Latin America, to the organizing of files of contacts and organizations, and to the maintaining relations with them by mail. However, at the beginning of March 1961 the first three DRE De- legations in Latin America were stablished : Costa Rica, Venezuela , and Mexi- co. These Delegations practically, received no economic support for more than five months (they subsisted almost only by their own means) and so its labor was reduced to the least.

GIRON INVASION: NEW OUTLOOKS

New possibilities in the Latin American ground were disclosed when, on the 17 th of April, the invasion through Playa Giron was defeated by the Communist forces, demonstrating thus the mistake which the administration of the United States had performed in not relying upon continental publick opinion which had been skillfully influenced by Castrist propaganda. An objective glance on the