or of the degree of this cooperation was never raise aga n. At the very start of the second meeting, on 11 June, he said: "I am tortured all the time by a single thought. Everything now depends upon you, only on you. The slightest careless move by your people and it will be the end of me." Although he sometimes voiced moral compunctions, from this point on NOSENKO expressed his primary personal concern as being his own secu- rity vis-a-vis the KGB.

Attitude Toward Defection

While willing to meet with CIA representatives during future trips outside the Soviet Union, which he estimated would occur about once a year, NOSENKO in 1962 refused to consider defection except in circumstances where his personal security would be endangered. His devotion to his wife and children and the probability that the KGB would take reprisals against them if he fled were, he said, the primary considerations behind this refusal. (Without elaborating on the reasons, NOSENKO said on another occasion that he would not want to leave the USSR even on a permanent KGB assignment and accompanied by his family.) Other considerations included his widowed mother's dependence on him and his love of Russia and the Russian people, as opposed to the regime. For these reasons, NOSENKO said, he could not defect as PETROV, GOLITSYN, and KHOKLOV had done.

Motivation

NOSENKO told David MARK on 9 June 1962 that he wanted to contact American Intelligence because he was in trouble over the loss of KGB operational funds, for which he had to account prior to his imminent departure for the Soviet Union. His KGB career would be ruined if he was caught misusing this money, NOSENKO added, and because he had nowhere else to turn, he was willing to sell two items of information to MARK. The amount needed to cover the loss was 900 Swiss francs, or about $210, and this was the price asked for the information.

NOSENKO'S statements of motivation to his CIA case officers during subsequent meetings are given below:

9 June 1962: In his first meeting with a CIA officer NO-SENKO asked whether MARK had relayed the reasons why he wanted to meet with American Intelligence. He then very briefly repeated what he had told MARK concerning the loss of his operational funds. The case officer remarked that there must be something more to it, upon which NOSENKO said that this was not, in fact, his main motivation: "I have been working in this business for a long time and I know what I am doing. I have heard more than is written [in the newspapers]. A reorganization has been started in the USSR. In short, they have begun to do away with the ministries and the sovnarkhozy. But this is premature. Right now our agriculture is falling apart at the seams and our industry is at the point of collapse because this re-organization, this innovation, is too early. And this is not just me, a young man, talking. I mingle with ministers, with my father's friends, and I hear what they are saying. And how much does a worker earn? 600-800 rubles in old money, now 60-80. And he doesn't sense any improvement [in his position] within the total population. These are empty words only. We have exceeded the United States in per capita production of butter and milk. But how can it be said that we have surpassed you when they are