of a second, also of interest, which he will proceed to discuss to the confusion of the first. This problem was perhaps compounded by the fact that Subject was uncertain as to the type of information of interest to KUBARK. He grasped quickly, however, the type of information which would be of most interest to us and it rapidly became less difficult to get to the meat of the subject we were discussing. Further contact and debriefing of him will become progressively less difficult.

4. We are consolidating the information obtained from Subject from our two meetings with him on 2 and 4 May below for reporting convenience.

5. Basically Subject is able to supply specific information of interest on only five personalities. He knows and was acquainted with many other personalities in the Cuban government, but his relationship with them is not close enough to enable him to provide information in sufficient detail or depth to allow valid assessment as to their susceptibility to a recruitment or other operational approach.

6. Information on five Cuban government officials, well known to Subject is set forth below:

Esubio AZCUE, born about 1912, is presently employed as a consul at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. AZCUE is a long time friend of Subject. They met during the mid-1950's when both were involved in revolutionary activities attempting to bring about a democratic socialist regime in Cuba. AZCUE is married to a Spanish woman and was involved in the Spanish revolution. He was a very close friend of Manolo CASTRO who was reportedly murdered by a group of Communist left wing revolutionaries which included Fidel CASTRO. About 1952 AZCUE was living in France and is believed to have been arrested by French authorities on charges resulting from his involvement in smuggling penicillin and other antibiotics into France. Subject believes that AZCUE has about five children. During early 1961 while in Mexico City, AZCUE was contacted by Subject in order to obtain advice re the advisability of his defecting from the Castro regime and requesting political asylum in Mexico. As a

SECRET,

GROUP-1 Included from automatic downgrading and declassified