the guard has been instructed by the person on the other side of the interphone to show LIROCKET-1 to the classroom. (Except for two occasions, the Soviets have always used the first room on the left just inside the main entrance to the main building for Subject's classes.) When the guard does show LIROCKET-1 into the classroom, he leaves the gatehouse for between 1 and 3 minutes (depending on whether he opens the classroom windows). The guard has been alone in the gatehouse about half of the 60 times he has shown Subject into the classroom, and has consequently left the gatehouse unattended for 1-3 minutes on approximately 30 occasions.

7. Offices Off the Reception Room. There are two offices off the Reception Room. The first office is known from other sources to be used for visa interviews. The second office is presumably used for the same purpose. The first office opens directly into the Reception Room. The second office is at the back of the first office and is entered either through the first office or through an outside door. (LIROCKET-1 has never seen the outside door used, however.) One or both of the offices were occupied by Soviets about 20 of the roughly 40 times LIROCKET-1 was in the Reception Room prior to mid-January 1967 (usually on Monday and Friday mornings between 0915 and 0930). The Soviets frequently left the door to the first office, and somewhat less frequently to the second office, open when they were present. The first door or both doors were sometimes also left open when no Soviet was present. When the door to the first office or the doors to both offices were open and LIROCKET-1 sat opposite the door to the first office, he could see about a quarter of the interior of the first office and a small part of the interior of the second office. Although official Soviet visa hours are only on Tuesdays and Fridays (from 1100-1300), LIROCKET-1 saw Soviets in both offices with about equal frequency on Monday and Friday mornings. From what LIROCKET-1 could see, the Soviets rarely seemed to be busy with desk work, but confined themselves to looking over newspapers, opening mail, chatting with each other, etc. Frequently Soviets went into one of the offices for just a moment and then left. Since LIROCKET-1 has begun going to the Embassy about 1530 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, however, he has always found the door to the first office shut and both offices evidently empty. (COMMENT: This is probably explained by the fact that the Embassy lunch break is from 1400-1600).

8. LIROCKET-1 recently had occasion to visit Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV (201-285412), the Soviet Consul, in the first office from approximately 1830-1900 on a Thursday. At this time he found LOGINOV doing paper work and a stack of 30-35 passports on his desk. LIROCKET-1 also recently stepped into the first office to see LOGINOV at 1830 on a Tuesday, but LOGINOV was just leaving and LIROCKET-1 did not stay. LIROCKET-1 has never been inside the second office. His sketch of the second office is based on what he has been able to see from the Reception Room and the first office. In order not to seem curious, he purposely did not look around the first office when he was in it and consequently does not know what kind of furnishings, if any, are on the far side of the first office.

9. From January 1966 to January 1967, LIROCKET-1 was in the Reception Room on 8-10 occasions when other non-Soviet visitors came in. The Soviet interviewer ushered the visitors into one of the offices and closed the door to the first office on about four of these occasions. On two occasions, the Soviet interviewer ushered the visitor into the first office and did not bother to close the door. On four or five occasions, the Soviet interviewer came out into the Reception Room to talk with the visitor in LIROCKET-1's presence. In each of the six or seven cases in which Subject was able to hear the conversation, the Soviet and the visitor were discussing visa matters.