(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - June 1955-January 1960)

Seventh Department operation: by NOSENKO's other statements, she was not a "tourist" and she would have been the target of the Moscow Oblast KGB because of her intention to marry a Soviet citizen.

While NOSENKO's participation in the attempted recruit- ment of the targets he describes, even where not confirmed, is not disputed, the evidence suggest that he was an English-speaking specialist in sexual entrapment, not a counterintelligence officer responsible for the identifi- cation of foreign agents among tourists or for the develop- ment, recruitment, and exploitation of agents for the KGB.

Nothing NOSENKO has said indicates that there was any material change in his duties and responsibilities after he was allegedly promoted to Deputy Chief of the American- British Commonwealth Section. The evidence is that he was more active, but not that he had any administrative and supervisory responsibilities.

Knowledge of other Seventh Department American Tourist Operations

NOSENKO said that upon his return to the Seventh Depart- ment in 1962 as Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section, he reviewed the section's activities during his two-year absence, e.g. January 1960 to January 1962. In the course of that review he made written notes of the section's operational targets during that period notes which he brought to Geneva in 1964. (See p. 319.) NOSENKO could not describe the operations other than to say that he recorded the target's names and such details as he could acquire at the time of his review. Eleven of the operations included in his notes were those against Bernard PECHTER, Patrick PRESSMAN, John RUFE, Gerald SEVERN, Sofia SHATTAUER, fnu KARLOV, Norman FISK, Ralph MATLAW, Marvin KANTOR, Ob Michael GINSBERG, and William TARASKA: All were from the period 1956-1959 and six of the eleven individuals were identified by the KGB as homosexuals. All of these cases are described in Annex B.

GOC1415

TS No. 197124 Copy 10 S/BR