Date: Feb 23, 1953

Memo to: E.E. (cc: Munich, Frankfurt)

From: Cieols (Wassiliew) (3. Enserstr., Berlin Wilmersdorf Germany)

Dear Abe:

I am sorry that I must bother you with my personal problems, but since I don't know what to do under the present circumstances I am begging you for understanding.

As you know I always had trouble with "the other side". If somebody works in this field he must be endangered after a certain time. I believe I told you about the calls in Russian and about the spies who are constantly around me since about 1951. I am used always to be on the alert and to look around me carefully, this is the only thing I can do. In addition to that I bought a dog in the summer of last year.

Since about four months the attempts of the East to get have increased. I had several rencontres with them and have informed the police. But since we have so many people here in Berlin who have good reasons to feel endangered they cannot watch everybody constantly and the person in question is more or less left to his own measures.

Last Wednesday night I ran into a situation which would have meant the end for me if a friend of mine had not happened to be with me. This way they did not dare to because they are accustomed to see me always walking alone; and cars and helpers disappeared (not around). I have reported my situation again to the police, they promised to do what they can, but it is so that I have to work out something that makes it a little more difficult for them to complete their plan.

With friends who work in the same field and who know about these things I have worked out the following: I must sell my dog and buy a sharper one. When I bought him in July last year the situation was completely different. I did it merely as a measure of precaution not because I had proofs of the danger I was living under. For this purpose he is good but not for the purpose for which I need him now; he is not sharp enough. They have already calculated my dog into the plan. I absolutely need another much sharper one. But I must tell you frankly that even if I sell my dog I would not be able to buy the new one, because they are terribly expensive. Then I have decided that I cannot go to the office and come home alone anymore. I can move from one of my friends to the other for a certain time but not constantly. A friend of the Committee will pick me up every morning and bring me home at night in his car. In the meantime I'll talk to Mrs. Wolf of Arbeiterwohlfahrt, who has an office car and arrange with her that her driver pick me up. But this will take some time until I have reached her and discussed the matter with her.

Please don't believe that I am hysterical, on the contrary. But now it is so that I not only feel endangered but I have knowledge of their intentions and I am sure I would not get out again, once they have had hold of me.

/s/ Cisela