of the park and continued their discussion. At this point the source noted for the first time a person of Cuban appearance sitting on a nearby park bench who remained in the area through the entire meeting. The source suspected this person as being connected with counter surveillance of the meeting.

Espinosa instructed the source to prepare in report from the answers to the second portion of the list of questions furnished to the latter on May 13, 1969. The answers in report form are to be placed in an empty cigarette package and dropped at 11:00 AM on August 20, 1969, or August 22, 1969, behind an iron gate fence at the northwest corner of Bronx Park East at Allerton Avenue, from two to five feet north of the concrete store pillar which anchors the fence. The source is to return to the drop site at 1:00 PM to check if the drop was covered. Two dates for the pickup were provided in the event there were too many persons in that area to risk covering the drop.

Espinosa asked the source if he would be agreeable to go to Miami for a month in an effort to contact friends and associates of CIA. The source stated he was not, in view of his family and employment obligations, but agreed to go for a short period, possibly three or four days. Espinosa told him that while in Miami, the source's mission would consist of determining current activities of the CIA, identities of any new CIA teams, identification of Government vessels currently in or out of service, new principal agents, CIA instructors, and any CIA activities including the deployment of Cubans to South American regions for CIA operations.

The date agreed upon on which source will go to Miami is August 25, 1969, but the source will indicate to Espinosa in the report to be left at the next drop that he will delay his departure until Saturday morning, August 30, 1969, in order to pick up his next pay check, and will not return until Tuesday morning, September 2, 1969. The source was instructed by Espinosa to meet him following his return to New Jersey at 11:00 AM on September 17 or September 20, 1969, at the intersection of Gun Hill Road and White Plains Road, New York, at which time results of the Miami mission will be disclosed.