SECRE!

17 January 1966

Case 46,632 - Dr. Jose Angel BUSTAMANTE O'Leary: Background Information/ Professional and Personality Evaluation

1. On 12 January 1966, our representative called on Dr. Augusto Fernandez-Conde at his office in the Florida State Hospital, Chittagoochee, Florida, and discussed the requirements of Case 46,632 with him. He has most cooperative, have his wholehearted attention to the subjects for discussion, and provided a considerable amount of pertinent information.

2. Dr. Fernandez-Conde has known Dr. Jose Angel Bustamante O'Leary since their undergraduate days in the late 1930's at the Facultad de Medicina, University of Havana. After Bustamante's graduation in 1939 and Fernandez-Conde's graduation in 1940, their professional contacts still continued although their political persuasions were quite different. From 1951 or 1960 to August 1961, Fernandez-Conde had little or no contact with Bustamante, and since August/1961, when he left Cuba for permanent residence in the US, Fernandez-Conde has had no first-hand knowledge of Bustamante's activities. The information which he provided on Bustamante is presented below and is dated between the late 1930's and 1950/1960.

3. Dr. Bustamante was born about 1911 in Havana and has lived there all of his life. He never knew his father. He made his home with his so-called aunt, who was locally believed to be his natural mother. His aunt is no longer living. The uncertainty about his ancestry has constantly plagued Bustamante, and Dr. Fernandez-Conde suggests that it may be one of the motivating factors in his personality.

4. Dr. Bustamante is married to the former Maria Luisa Rodriguez-Columble, a native of Barracoa, Cuba. It is commonly believed that Maria Luisa is part Negro. Lending credence to this statement is the fact that Maria Luisa kept her mother completely in the background and never brought her to Havana where she would have become known to Maria Luisa's and Jose's friends. Dr. Fernandez-Conde suggests that Maria Luisa's excessive concern over her antecedents probably motivates her aggressiveness in seeking high social position in the community. Her brother is Dr. /fnu/ Rodriguez-Columble, a child psychiatrist, who is a well-known homosexual.

5. Dr. and Mrs. Bustamante have two children, both of whom have been enrolled in the best Roman Catholic private schools in Havana. Their daughter is now about 18 years old and is described as being a pretty, healthy teenager. Their son, Jose, Jr., is about 19 or 20 years of age and is very effeminate in manner. Dr. Bustamante is known to have been worried about his son's personality problems when the boy was nine years old and his classmates taunted him as being a sissy. In the intervening years, Jose, Jr. has become a homosexual and has been under the psychiatric care of, first, his father, who was not successful in treating him, and more recently of Dr. Carlos Acosta-Nodal and of Dr. /fnu/ Soraeyui (now deceased). On many occasions, Dr. Bustamante complained to our SECRET