Let us cite as last example a CIA proxy which bears the initial letters B.I.A., considered to be the alias of the Chilean military junta and whose last known village is the absence of former Chilean Foreign Minister Organic matter in Washington. The CIA was organised by Walter Ries, a former official of Hitler's SS troops who designed the gas chambers for the Nazi concentration camp.

CIA SOCIALIST TRUST OF MERCENARIES FOR US

España: Domestic Service in Spanish 23/24 OCT 1976 FL

[Text] Cuba today demonstrated before the United Nations the recruitment of mercenaries in Western Europe and the United States and their use against national liberation governments and legally constituted governments.

The Cuban delegate to the U. S. Commission on Social, Humanitarian and Cultural Affairs, Miguel Alfaro, declared that there are reliable reports on the increased recruitment of Mercenaries as a result of the changes that have taken place in the political panorama of the African Continent.

Alfonso demanded the creation of international mechanisms that would forbid such activities and offered the cooperation of the Cuban Government in attaining such a goal. The Cuban delegate stressed that the PRC, the United States, France and Great Britain have maintained a growing pace of capital investment and a flow of technologically advanced arms to South Africa.

Miguel Alfaro indicated that the manner and the means with which the peoples struggle for self-determination have not been delineated in the UN Charter or in international agreements on human rights. Restricting the peoples from using the means at their disposal—including armed struggle—in the face of the violence unleashed by those subjecting them would practically amount to keeping them at the mercy and benevolence of those oppressing them. Alfaro pointed out.

The Cuban delegate added that Puerto Rico has been transformed into an appendage of the North American economy. It is impossible, Alfaro said, to pretend to be defenders of self-determination in Zimbabwe and at the same time practice colonialism in the Caribbean and noncolonialism in other places.

SAVANNA HARKS AT IMPERIALISM'S HIRING OF MERCENARIES

España: Domestic Service in Spanish 0000 OCT 20 Oct 76 FL

[Alberto D. Faria commentary]

[Text] Imperialism headed by the United States has increasingly resorted to the recruitment of mercenaries to attack legitimately constituted governments or peoples struggling for freedom. Let us recall, for example, that in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia the CIA recruited what it euphemistically termed irregular forces to assist it in its efforts to crush the massive insurrection of the Indochinese peoples in the area occupied by the enemy.

Against the legitimate government of Patrice Lumumba in the Congo, a government de- termined to end the terrible economic and social situation of the African population caused by the greedy actions of the mining transnationals and centuries of colonial exploitation, the imperialists also used mercenary armies. The former Belgian Congo, known today asaire, continues to pay the consequences of these actions of imperialism.