FITNESS REPORT

Joseph S. Piccolo, Employee #025658

SECTION D - NARRATIVE COMMENTS (Continued)

The two countries which Mr. Piccolo helped survey represent widely varying operational and social environments. In both instances, however, the Station Chiefs cabled Headquarters at the end of the field aspect of the survey complimenting the team on the thoroughness and understanding with which they conducted the survey, and commented on the usefulness and practicality of the team's recommendations. It should be noted that these cables had considerable impact on DIO management and were used widely in the extension of the survey program into other areas.

Although Mr. Piccolo's field exposure has been exclusively in the Latin American area, he has a widely varied operational background, having served in varying operational capacities in several stations, and he is perceptive in his understanding of operational realities. His personality is positive and outgoing, and in most instances he is able to initiate very quickly a responsive dialogue with fellow officers. He is adaptable in outlook and reads quickly and with understanding; qualities almost indispensable in an activity of this kind. In sum, Mr. Piccolo approached both Surveys with enthusiasm and a sense of responsibility, completed his written report (he had a different partner in each case) promptly and accurately. He undoubtedly would have been engaged in a third survey except his temporary tour ended and he was assigned permanently elsewhere in the Staff.

In his duties in the Special Operations Branch, Mr. Piccolo has excelled in his management responsibilities in the sense of both getting the work out of his people and in getting along with them. He is on good terms with all of them. He has shown good CI mentality and a thoroughness which is essential to good CI work. His dedication to his work is shown by his punctuality in the morning and his presence in his office well after five most evenings. His production as operations officer has been steady and thorough for both of the projects for which he has responsibility. Unfortunately, he experienced a period of ill health following a hectic TDY; however, he returned to duty at the first opportunity and resumed his duties with vigor. His versatility was recently demonstrated by his participation in a joint meeting with representatives of a foreign service over a period of several days and evenings during which he proved fully effective in achieving Agency objectives in a liaison and social environment.

The most impressive aspect of Mr. Piccolo's performance and one deserving special mention in this fitness report is his ability with the written word. It is fully accurate to say that the survey reports to which he contributed were much better written than were those of his peers. He has the ability to describe an operational situation in terms which are at the same time meaningful, concise and easy to read. It is a pleasure to read his material and to compliment him on this ability in this report.