5. Repayment. It is recognised that your failure to make, for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appropriate.

6. Negotiated Benefits. (a) (i) If, in the performance of activities under this agreement, you incur an injury or illness which is not the result of your gross negligence, willful misconduct, or intemperate act, the Government will provide medical, surgical, hospital, transportation and disability benefits in such amounts and under such conditions as the Government in its sole discretion deems proper provided, however, that such benefits shall not exceed a total of $5000 for the same injury or illness.

(2) If you die in the performance of activities hereunder and your death is not the result of your gross negligence, willful misconduct or intemperate act, the Government will pay the sum of $5000 to your beneficiary(ies) less any amount paid to you under sub-paragraph (1) above if such injury or illness resulted in your death, provided that said beneficiary(ies) is acceptable to the Government at the time such payment is to be made. An acceptable beneficiary hereunder is an individual to whom payment by the U.S. Government can be made without conflicting with its avowed principles and ideals.

(b) Outstanding performance by you under this agreement and your fulfillment of obligations hereunder is an efficient manner will result in the Government undertaking your resettlement in an area mutually agreeable to both parties, to the extent deemed appropriate by the United States Government.

7. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U.S. Government, you hereby recognise and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by this organic attitude to evidence this relationship.

8. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefit normally incident to an employee status.