MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Domestic Contact Service

SUBJECT : DCS Case 47540 - Contact with Louis A. Brun/Clelland Joseph Charles

1. On 29 July 1969, Station Port au Prince advised that Clelland Joseph Charles had passed a list of nine questions concerning the Haitian economy to an official of the United States Embassy in Port au Prince. The list of questions was written in English in standard U.S. Government format and, although sterile, appeared to be intelligence requirements. Charles told the Embassy official that he had just finished a "big job" for the Pentagon and implied that the list also came from the Pentagon. The Embassy official suspected that Charles had passed a copy of the list to the National Palace.

2. On 2 August, a representative of the WH/Haiti Desk contacted Mr. George Musulin, Operational Support Staff of DCS, and learned that the DCS office in New York had briefed Mr. Louis A. Brun and had orally passed a list of CIRL requirements to Brun concerning Haiti prior to his trip to Haiti during the week of 21 July. Mr. Musulin speculated that Brun had probably noted the DCS requirements on paper and then had passed a copy to Charles upon his arrival in Haiti.

3. For a number of years, the United States Government has been aware of the political ambitions of Charles and his alleged plotting to overthrow the Duvalier regime. In 1967, this rather open plotting led to his imprisonment for over one year. Also, since May 1968, Charles has been trying to obtain support from the United States Government for his plots but he has been consistently rebuffed. Charles is not held in high esteem by U.S. officials and his motives are highly questionable. He owes his position in Haiti to his relationship with Duvalier and his ability to successfully manage some of the more notorious financial rackets of the regime. Charles enjoys no political following and even the "plots" with which he is associated are viewed with considerable reserve. For example, we have never been able to confirm that Charles was involved with the "military junta" formed in May 1969, as he claimed. In February 1969, the

201-357029 Charles left flt.