Charles Duvalier, Secretary of Commerce & Industry, and a good friend.

Acting Prime Minister, retired colonial, former French military attaché in Washington.

Col. (Fna) Honorat, now an actor in the Brazilian Embassy, Port-au-Prince.

Col. H. de Lencina, retired officer, "a good and honest man."

Former Ambassador Joseph D. Charles

Dr. Emile Saint-Lot, former law professor; president of Haiti Senate and National Assembly in 1957; former ambassador to France, now in exile in New York (pt. 12J, 392 Central Park West at 100th St., tel. U.S. 5-5115). Charles called him a "player," that is, an opportunist, but anti-Duvalier.

Col. (Fna) Chana

5. Charles initiated that he had many other prominent supporters who are violently anti-Duvalier and who are ready to back "my government." He has just passed his 40th birthday (he was born 21 Apr 1923 in Consiges), who makes him eligible for the presidency in so far as the constitutional age requirement is concerned. In case he did not become provisional president after Duvalier's overthrow, he would be satisfied with the post of Secretary of Finance & Economic Affairs. He said the present secretary, Mr. Harvey Boyer, has leftist tendencies, and his wife is definitely a Communist.

6. Charles added that as he is of "100% black origin" (he is very black), he would be qualified to become president. He said that only those who are in this category can become president.

7. Charles said he would need the "moral and economic help of the US Government and people" to transform Haiti into a true and prosperous democracy. He said he would need about one year to put into effect his "plan for the economic and social development of Haiti," which, among others, has these salient points:

Creation of a balanced economy adopted to Haitian conditions

Development of industry and exploitation of natural resources

Modernization of agriculture

8. Charles would like to present his plan to US officials for consideration. He said about 90% of Haitians are against Duvalier, who maintains his rule by keeping the militie strong. Des M. Duvalier no longer has funds to pay the militiamen but allows them to "live off the land." Charles believes that in the event of an anti-Duvalier uprising, the army would kill the hated militants who are responsible only to Duvalier.

9. Once Duvalier is finished, Charles would suggest that as a goodwill gesture toward the Haitians, who are overwhelmingly pro-US, the US construct the promised airport and thus create jobs. Another way to bolster the economy would be to encourage tourists.

10. Charles hopes the Dominican Republic will not invite Duvalier's Haiti. He believes the Dominicans could easily defeat Haiti's army and militia but an invasion would cause the Haitians to rally around Duvalier in defense of their country.

11. Before leaving Port-au-Prince, Charles worked out a telephone code with his wife, Sophie. On 30 Apr 63, he called her, and she told him "not to rush home," which meant that his life might be in danger if he returned to Haiti now. In view of this, he told the Haitian consul in New York that he has to stay a few days longer to buy parts for machines used in his Haitian small enterprise.

12. Charles gave the following date concerning his career: He went to parochial school; in 1935, was graduated from Lyceum Goffrend, Consiges); taught in rural schools after his father's death in 1937, and also supported his family by working aswhal storer, timkeeper, plantation supervisor and

SECRET CONTROLLED DISCLOSURE NO DIARY ABOARD

HARRIET described BOYER as being AND CARRYING Consuls TO the KNOX ISLAND Island