This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S. Code, §§72 and 776, the transmission or dissemination of which is any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

COUNTRY People's Republic of China REPORT NO. 00-3-24/16221-73

SUBJECT Background Information on Frank COE, Sol Allar, and Dr. Eans MUELLER DATE DISTR. 13 June 1973 NO. PAGES-1 REFERENCES DC3 Case 56,929

DATE OF INFO. May 1973 PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE May 1973 Peeking

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US Citizen; Businessmen who have visited relatives who reside in China

1. Frank Coe has received a promotion within the rank of the Ministry of Finance; however, the specific position to which he has been promoted is unknown. When the US devalued the dollar, Coe determined Chinese policy regarding the devaluation. It is speculated that the People's Republic of China (PRC) will be taking a more active role in the world money market and that Coe will be in charge of that operation. He recently was given a new home that is extremely large and beautiful. It contains approximately 25 rooms with two large courtyards. The interior is beautifully decorated with paintings and artifacts. The house is comparable to the home of Madame Sun Yat-sen, which would also tend to indicate that Coe has become a person of prominence.

2. Sol Allar, who has acted as a financial advisor to the PRC for a number of years, had a lung removed in 1972 because of cancer and he is making a satisfactory recovery. He has been able to work only a few hours since his operation, but outwardly he appears healthy once again. He recently traveled to East Taiwan with Dr. George Bates to inspect the island, but it was mostly a rest trip for Allar. Allar's wife, Pat, is teaching higher education at the University of Peeking.

3. Dr. Eans Mueller, head of the Medical School, University of Peeking, was granted a visa from the Japanese Government to travel to Japan with his wife. Mueller's wife is Japanese and she has been permitted to travel to Japan, but it took ten years before they could travel together. They brought her mother back to Peeking with them and she is now living with them. Mueller stated that there is continuous pressure on him to increase the production of medical doctors, and he is finding it difficult to find qualified students to enter the medical school; this means qualified educationally and by Party standards. He feels a cut in curriculum time would be detrimental rather than beneficial, so he continues to advocate a five- to six-year course of study.

- end -

U D.

E2 DPST CL 3Y 007622

S 20

NO DISSEM ABROAD

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the eligible components of the USA member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically directed in accordance with paragraph 8 of DOD-117, it may be released to those components of the Department and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS, it should not be transmitted to organizations or persons, including consultants, under a contractual relationship in the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator.

FILE IN 201-169934