I. Funding and Accounting

A. Headquarters

(1) Will payroll Subjec's compensation (and allowances) authorized deductions.. (Specify allowances as applicable)

(2) Will allow a PCI travel funds and audit accounting which is to be submitted by Subject when accounting complete.

(3) Will advance funds and receive accounts for operational fund. His first accounting will be upon moving into permanent quarters, and initially quarterly thereafter, unless activity warrants more frequent accounting period.

B. Station

Will provide only emergency support as needed.

C. Cover

(1) Subject has no legitimate cover from which through agreement with KUBARK he would receive payments.

The problem. Subject will have $50,000 in cover income from writing. But should it not cover him from writing, the event he should at some future time receive cover income from other sources, it would be affect.

(2) Paragraph 7 entitled OFFICE is in question with contracting office as to what is intended as Subject's only income from cover activities apper to be income from his writings. Subject is under impression income from writings not to be refundable.

II. Terms of Contract and Additional Items

(11) Allowances - Subject was informed that allowances were subject to fluctuation as a result of Standardized or KUBAK regulations changes.

(IIa.) Subject was advised to notify Headquarters of changes in his family status as such changes would effect allowance being payrolled where rates are determined by Subject's family status.

(12) Receipts Subject was advised that a receipt is required where practicable or a certification in lieu of receipt should be submitted for all reimburseable expenses in the amount of $15.00 or more.

(20) Travel Subject was briefed in general regarding reimbursable incidental expenses and travel entitlements in regard to his proposed itinerary. Among the points covered were the following:

A. Per Die rate's applicable to Subject's proposed itinerary

B. Areas baggage provisions when economy/tourist flights are used

Ceouf I Includes from automatic downgrading and geocoding facilities.