8 JAN 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Operations, DD/P SUBJECT : Project LIABILITY (Renewal) Will - Mexico

1. The attached project, originating in Will Division, is presented for renewal for the period 1 December 1959 through 31 November 1960. The project provides for physical and photographic surveillance operations in support and exploitation of other Mexico City operations, particularly those targeted at Soviet personnel and installations.

2. Authority is requested to obligate $34,910 from the DD/P-Will Division operating budget: $49,430 for fiscal year 1960 and $26,420 for fiscal 1961, subject to the availability of funds. These sums include $31,910 compensation for five contract agents (three of whom serve as principal agents for segments of the project), and sixteen support agents; $3,500 for vehicle maintenance and commercial carrier travel; $7,500 for operational equipment: $5,000 for maintenance of three safecrates; $2,000 for additional safehouse, post office box, and vehicle rental; $1,000 exchange commodities; $2,000 "key" money, broken contracts, etc.; and $2,000 for the purchase of information, documents, payment of bribes, etc.

3. The attached renewal request, prepared in the Division and supported by a project review prepared in the Field, reviews the activities of the project during the past year and present a detailed breakdown of the funds requested. The project operates in three segments: (a) Contract agent Oliver G. SCANTLING is an independent asset who is used to follow-up and exploit operational information on target personnel and installations, to case various installations of interest, acquire property, etc.; (b) a photographic surveillance team, under principal agent Raymond H. GENEVINE, utilizing three houses or apartments and one photo truck; and (c) a physical surveillance team under principal agent Simon D. CLACKETT, consisting of three trained members at the present time. The attached renewal request reviews the activities and accomplishments of the project in terms of these three segments and in relation to project objectives. SCANTLING's contribution to the collection of operational information pertaining to Soviet personnel and installations is regarded by the Station as unique. He also