Terrorist Plot by Rightist Cuban Exiles See

By Joanne Omalig Washington Post Foreign Service

CARACAS, Venezuela, Oct. 19.—Venezuelan police have uncovered what they believe to be wide-ranging planes by right wing Cuban exiles to carry out terrorist attacks in the United States and other nations, according to a newspaper report here.

The respected Caracas newspaper El Nacional said today that the alleged terrorist acts by anti-Castro agents included the killing of Orlando Letelier, the former Chilean ambassador to the United States, in Washington last month, and the bombing of a Cuban airliner off Barbados Oct. & The plane crash killed 78 persons.

Venezuelan police have already arrested a group of anti-Castro Cubans including right wing Cuban exile leader Orlando Bosch, in connection with the Cuban plane crash. At least 14 persons have been arrested by Venezuelan security agents and about 30 other Cuban refugees called in for questioning, according to United Press International.

[In Washington, sources close to the investigation of the bombing death of former Ambassador Letelier have said that Bosch is wanted for questioning. Bosch is not, however, regarded at this time as a target of the Letelier investigation, the sources said.]

El Nacional said that the rightest

Cuban terrorist plans were discovered in a raid on a private home in Caracas during the investigation of the Cuban plane crash. The reported terrorist acts were planned to take place in the United States, Venezuela, Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, Guyana, Panama and Colombia, the newspaper said. Past acts related to these plans included the bombing of Guyana's consulate in Trinidad and Tobago, according to the newspaper account.

The wide-ranging terrorist plans reported by El Nacional today were the latest development in a broad investigation in several nations of the Letelier killing, the Cuban plane crash and other incidents.

Letelier, a former ambassador to Washington, foreign minister and minister of defense in the government of the late Chilean President Salvador Allende, died Sept. 21 when a bomb exploded beneath his car as he drove along Washington's Embassy Row.

(In Washington, sources close to the Letelier investigation said Tuesday that they expect Bosch to be returned to the United States and to be questioned about Letelier's death. A State Department source said the United States is urging Venezuela to return him informally as an undesirable alien rather than to go through formal extradition procedures.)

(Bosch is the leader of a rightist

anti-Castro umbrella group known as the Coordination of United Revolutionary Organizations. He is wanted in Miami, Fla., for a parole violation stemming from his 1969 conviction for attacks on Polish and other foreign ships.)

ORLANDO BOSCH ...detained in Venezuela

The Caracas newspaper El Nacional has previously reported that Cuban exiles arrested in Caracas have implicated two brothers—identified only as the “Novos”—in the Letelier killing. (The paper’s reference was apparently to Ignacio and Guillermo Novo, who were indicted in 1963 on charges of firing a bomb at the United Nations. The indictments were later quashed on the ground that their constitutional rights were violated when confessions were taken from them. Guillermo Novo was convicted in 1971 in connection with a 1969 bombing incident and sentenced to 6 months' imprisonment and 5 years' probation. No more could be learned of Ignacio Novo.)

In Caracas this week, a high government source disclosed apparent links between the present Chilean military junta and the Cuban exile community in Venezuela. Critics of the Chilean government have accused it of taking part in the Letelier killing. Chilean officials have denied any link to Letelier's death and denounced his murder.

* The Venezuela government source says that the Chilean government has helped finance activities by rightist Cuban exiles against the Cuban government of Prime Minister Fidel Castro. "We've known it for years, but there's no way to do anything about it," the source added.

This and other sources also reported that Bosch was among six Chechens who recently made trip to Venezuela. Chile, A. Venzuela said his letters written to him by Bosch last January. The letters contain addresses of apartments to be used for parts of the Chi government.

According to Venezuela have issued twoURTIS: Bernardo Letelier and Freydo Lame, in connection with the Cuban plane crash, corresponding to information reaching from Venezuela. Board was carried an address book listing the members of the U.S. ambassador to Venezuela. One FBI agent stationed at the U.S. embassy here, a U.S. embassy spokesman said the ambassador did not know Bosch —also reportedly tested Positive for the bomb — had phone numbers.

(The Institute for Police Studies, Executive Education, last night told a group where Letelier worked until his death reported that it had been done by the FBI that FBI agents were working to Venezuela in connection with the investigation. Sources close to