(b) heighten the emotional effect. If you succeed in (a), it will automatically help win (b). And I should think it would help toward (a) to put in the points you were mentioning. Ideally, to make a flat, quiet, sober statement to the general effect, "At first glance it passes credibility that the rules of a great country would deliberately plan the mass-starvation of several millions of their fellow-citizens and potential arms-bearers. But this is exactly what they did, and they did it for two reasons (1) to break the political power of the peasants, and (b) to get grain for valuta for machine tools."

The same method would be good (I think almost obligatory) in doing justice to SLAVE LABOR. I.e., you just quietly state that, besides it may seem too nightmarish that a regime could keep 15,000,000 slave-laborers stock-like cattle, it's not the nightmarish product of an Orwell's imagination, it's a fact, and it is done for the following coaly throughout reasons...." Then quote, either in substance or, preferably, verbatim, from I Charge Justice, bottom p. 238, where Kravchenko's NEVD school-mate gives the said reasons for segregating potential trouble-makers and working them to death to get their products for 1/5 the cost in the free market. A verbatim quote is by no means essential (though I think quotation marks always liven a page) but I think the EXPLANATION, unblushing proffered by you, the author of the photo-book, is an almost essential ingredient. When you explain how the P.U.M.E.R. and the SLAVE LABOR go into sense, to the Kremlin itself, you have (a) enhanced the credibility, (b) gratified your reader, to whom, in many cases, in one or more of those things (the TRIALS, e.g.) may for years have been a source of passionalism, and (c) heightened the horror and the emotional response.

Of how "1984" builds up to quite a pitch of nightmare, but it is only by dint of a good deal of explanation and repetition. (There is a great deal more artistic tone economy in "Animal Farm", of course, and if you can make