Sujeet:

In office

1. Soviet Ambassador to Mexico on a trip on 25 August. He said nothing about any meeting with him, except for his meeting with Premier Yeltsin of Russia on 26 August. Before Subj had left for his trip he had written Yeltsin that the Soviet Ambassador in Moscow would be retained to Yeltsin's government and they had a short talk about incoherent statements. That was all. As far as I know that Yeltsin would be returning to Mexico.

2. The C/O asked if it was possible to get an appointment with the Ambassador. Subj said there had been no contact with him, and called in his employee who took care of him. A phone call from the Ambassador brought Subj the reservations for: Venezuela. Departing on 1 Sept 1966 Mexico/Paris via air finance, through to Nelson. Subj was about to ask Ormuelos to come to Paris. Subj was told him to let it pass for the time being that Ormuelos would tell Ormuelos to associate the C/O with requests concern

the affairs of the Soviet Embassy in New York City.

Subj's meeting with the Ambassador that evening (circled in red) had asked at some previous time about the employees in Subj's office, and asked Subj if there had been any continuously interesting or the Soviets in his employees. Subj said he knew of none. The C/O re-stated what he already knew: that Ormuelos handled Soviet travel, and Miriam also handled non-Soviet travel to the Soviet Union - and asked Subj if both were trustworthy employees. (Note: Subj has a file on Ormuelos, but no record of this - the C/O did not want at that time to call for Ormuelos's file asked by Subj. But a few questions respecting both employees, and said we would want to see it later at a later date, giving us reason that we wanted file information on Ormuelos and dealing with the Soviets.) The facts adduced on each employee at this meeting were:

David Ormuelos, worked for Subj about 5 years; Subj acquired David from another travel agency because David was efficient in tariffs. Subj called him a bit mixed up because of it. It was "left" and other times "to the right."

Miriam Ormuelos Matins (see Report this Subj 13 July 1966): worked for Subj about 2 years. Mother is American, from Akron, Ohio. Miriam had worked for Aeromave at the New York World Fair, after which she applied for a job to Subj. Chief commanded that Miriam is very Jewish - minded, and intensely interested in Israel, to which she has traveled twice.

3. The C/O reminded Subj that if he is contacted by the Soviets, he maintains his no-work stance with them. Subj nodded agreement.

PM P-271D