Elsa DIAZ Biart: Her family has been friendly with the AMCOG family for many years. They were school friends. She has a sister abroad and a brother who is in prison. Her father and mother seldom come to the house. A sister of her is a doctor of some farm. All she does is obtain medicines for the prisoners, thereby causing a lot of trouble for AMCOG-2, AMCOG-3 and the old man.

Joaquin SANCHEZ and his wife Sara: According to what I have heard, he is a travelling salesman for some laboratory. His wife is the sister of the wife of the old man's two nephews, Pancho and AMCOG-3 (sic). I have also heard that she is always trying to get medicine for her son who, from what I have heard, is abnormal.

Dr. Maria Dolores SANCHEZ Pessino: She lost both her father and mother when she was thirteen years old, and the AMCOG family took her in as an adopted daughter. The old man paid for her education. She is like a daughter to him, and like a sister to the nephew and niece. She works in the emergency hospital. She is not openly opposed to the regime, but nevertheless the separation from her brother and her relatives has greatly affected her.

Dr. Vicente LAGO and his wife Maria Julia: His brother Roberto LAGO, who died some years ago, was Pola's first husband. They have two sons abroad. From what I have heard, he devotes himself exclusively to his profession, and it is she who is most upset by the separation from her children.

Mercedes VALDES Chacon: A case very similar to that of STEFFANI, except that she is a woman who is a very good friend of AMCOG-2's husband, and is in the same situation with her relatives abroad. She is just one more of the many refugees in search of warmth and friendship, with no friends left in Cuba.

Julio BRAVO: A long-time friend of Pancho, all his family is abroad. He is another case of warmth and friendship, he uses the swimming pool a lot, he is alone, I have even seen him cutting trees with AMCOG-3, a typical case of an unhappy man, in the afternoons he plays chess with the old man, and I have never heard him say anything bad about anybody, not even about the situation, the only thing - as is natural - he misses his daughters and his wife.

Raquel CASAGRAN: The widow of the Director of Culture in the Grau Government, Jesús CASAGRAN, and sister of Raul LAZARO who was military aide to both Grau and Prió. She is very highly regarded by the family. I have never heard her express herself in any way against the Government; I would call her neutral.

Olga CRECENTE: Former wife of Jose María de la Aguilera, she comes to the house with her two daughters and her mother who is a cousin of Bra. Paulina. AMCOG-2 helped her a lot in hiding her husband during the Batista tyranny. I have also heard that AMCOG-3 helped her with her divorce. Apparently she does not sympathize with the Revolution, although I believe that it is out of spite against her husband. Her mother's name is Leopoldina SANCHEZ Vda. de Crecente, and her nickname is Nonga.

Hilda FEO: Cousin of Armando FEO who is a close friend of Frank PAEZ and of José MÁQUERO the husband of Polita. She is another case of family warmth, because after all her family had left she came to the house in search of friendship. She has wanted to leave Cuba many times, but was never able to. This is her principal obsession and that of her mother as well. She has been coming to the house a lot for the past three years, and has become a very good friend of the family. Although in reality it was her cousin who was a better friend