SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS

complete and literate. Despite his relative isolation as a NOC, he is well aware of priority objectives, concentrates his efforts in these areas and does not waste time on operationally marginal activities.

As is normal in a NOC situation, subject has no supervisory duties with BHERALD personnel but his cover job provides supervisory responsibility. Subject is meticulous in presentation of financial accountings and his operational expenses are modest. There are no administrative problems related to this project.

SECTION D (cont'd) REVIEWING OFFICIAL

level; in point of fact, it would, in the writer's opinion, merit a solid "S", but no more. Recognizing that such ratings are perforce subjective, and that the rating officer has a closer, almost daily experience factor, nonetheless, the reviewer simply does not believe that the written record of the NOC's accomplishments on the specific targets will support an "0" rating at this time. Even accepting the limitations which the cover situation imposes upon the NOC, he has still not performed in a manner which would correspond to the literal definition of "0".

Other than this divergence, the reviewer shares the laudatory comments set forth in the narrative on this NOC. He is all the things the rater has stated and more: highly intelligent, versatile, linguistically extremely well qualified, and professionally experienced in his cover role. He has begun very well to utilize this new cover position on the Organization's behalf, and it is quite accurate to note that the NOC landed this particular plan (in terms of competition for the cover vacancy) solely on the basis of his own demonstrated talents in the cover context.

In sum, this is an experienced, effective NOC, whose new cover affords him an expanded natural access to a host of the Station's primary targets; he has begun to exploit this access in a sound, logical fashion, and the period ahead should further document the utility of his key situation to our operational programs. In fairness to all concerned, it is simply too early in this new position to attempt a definitive judgment of the depth of access which can be derived from it.

Comments by Chief, EUR France:

Although concurring with an overall rating of "S", I consider the "0" ratings for specific duties numbers one and two to be somewhat high and I recommend an "S" for both. Casasin certainly has maintained his cover and we anticipate he will be able to preserve it in his new job. He has just begun to initiate contacts with Soviet personnel of operational interest and it remains to be seen how effectively Casasin can exploit this situation.

Frederick A. Allner, Jr. C/E/F