CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH SECRET ACL-431

of their own accord later on, either deeming him not worth keeping because he is not a professional airman, or because he will have done something to antagonize them. Also, the Station or Headquarters may deem it advisable to ease him out of this job, as Headquarters has suggested in Ref A, after he has provided an entree for putting some instructors on the scene. We believe this situation represents a worthwhile gain, however, if WIROGUE does obtain the contract as presently constituted.

9. Attachment C provides some information concerning Paul Arnold PIERROTT and the Congolese Air Force which was provided by the Air Attache, Leopoldville, and which has already been reported through their channels. PIERROTT is obviously trying to develop a training program and build up the Congolese Air Force from several sources at once, and if several of these sources provide the desired aid it is debatable if his own program (with WIROGUE) would become very extensive or even be implemented. It is also possible that WIROGUE's role in the training picture could shift at any time. We feel that at this time we can only go along with developments as they occur and try to realize the maximum benefit from the situation. Headquarters will be kept informed of any changes in the situation, and be provided more specific data when available.

10. In all fairness to WIROGUE, it should be pointed out that until recently the station has not had the time to properly target WIROGUE. As he appears to be untrained in KUTUBU and KUCAGE operations, he requires a great deal of case officer time, an item which is in short supply in this station. We believe WIROGUE may develop into a worthwhile asset, if the time and attention he requires can be spent on him, however. The station is taking the appropriate steps in this direction.

Lester H. Salback, Lester II. SALVACK

16 March 1961

Attachments: 3, h/w

Distribution: 4-Eqs, w/attach

FORM 1057 53a (42) USE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLACES FORM: AUG. 51, DEC. AND DEC. 69 WHICH ARE OBLIGED TO BE IN SECRET CLASSIFICATION SECRET X continue PAGE NO. 3 of 3