Project Review

Attachment to HMM-A-10198 KAPOK-1401

Czech Personnel Reports:

HMM-3164, Activities of Zdenek NVITA and HMM-3238, Travel of Czech Legation personnel, are examples of the type of reports made from the personality and activity information acquired from LIFETAT coverage of this installation.

HMM-3262, Cocktail Party at Czech Residence, is an example of the reports from this source on diplomatic activities of this installation.

Spot Reports on Czech Legation Activities:

Reports on a spot basis which were of interest included:

1981-3954, Czech Concern over Possible Expulsion from Mexico. HMM-5126 (Jul. 1981), Leon Jaroslawicz of Czech Legation (Commercial Corp.) AND JOSEF EXPOSITO

Polish Legation

Information on this installation closely parallels that obtained on the Czech Legation and the Soviet installations. The largest amount of information concerning the Polish installation has been procured from LIFEAT. An example of reports from this source is HMM-3161, Leon KILARSKI, Polish Commercial Attache. Another is HMM-3130, Suspicious Contact of Edward RUDSKI, Josef Isak GENSCHAFT.

Mexican Communist Party and Communist Fronts

A significant amount of information concerning the Communist Party in Mexico and the Communist front organizations in Mexico was obtained from LIFEAT. Information from LIFEAT has been invaluable in supplementing agent coverage of the front-organizations which exist here. Examples of this type of reporting are as follows:

HMM-3193 - Narciso BASSOLS and Family;

HMM-3176 - Travel of Pro-Communists

American Communists in Mexico:

One of the most extensive and productive coverages maintained through LIFEAT during this past year was directed against American Communists in Mexico. Most of these targets have been covered at the request of ODENVY and the production has been partially processed by them for the justification of one of their slots in their local establishment. A total of 381 reels have been the result of the coverage since 1 July 1957 until 25 April 1958.

Foreign Communists in Mexico and Mexican Communists:

LIFEAT continued to provide partial coverage of Eduardo MACHADO Morales, Venezuelan Communist, until the time of his departure for return to Venezuela. LIFEAT also provided some 50 reels of coverage on Diego RIVERA, well-known Mexican painter, until his death in November 1957. From this coverage it was determined that RIVERA was sufficiently concerned over the departure of the former Soviet Cultural Attache, Yuriy PAPOROV, that he arose from his sick bed in order to make the trip to Veracruz by car to insure that PAPOROV's departure was without incident.