DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION FORM NO.

TO: Chief, Africa Division. INFO: R.A.5 REDACTED

FROM: Chief of Station, East Africa R.B.-5 REDACTED

SUBJECT: Review of WIRGUE Project: to Date and WIRGUE's New Position in Complete Air Force DATE: 16 March 1986 RE: "43-1" - CHECK X ONE! MARRED FOR INDEXING NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ACTION REQUIRED: Support of WIRGUE as indicated by [handwritten note] (13) INDEXING CAN BE AUDITED BY PAPER DESK ONLY

REFERENCE(S): A: DIR-29127, dated 12 March 1951 B: ACLT-192, dated 17 November 1960 [Handwritten notes] MICROFILMED FEB 12 1965 DOC. MICRO. SER.

1. This dispatch is to inform Headquarters of the main developments and problems concerning WIRGUE to date, and to set forth in detail Station thoughts and plans concerning WIRGUE.

2. WIRGUE, in his contacts with Robert B. Guthman, and in the last two weeks with Lester E. Sulvack, has always presented a multitude of ideas which include a strong element of violence, mayhem or just plain larceny. In spite of being given a flat 'o,' he has permited in desiring a gun. When it was mentioned that these were hard to find, and that a pistol or rifle was in addition a la Group thing for the Congolese to find on a white man, he said that that was all right, a hunting gun would do. He even suggested the formulation of a special force of whites, with himself as the leader, naturally, to "right the Congolese in case of trouble." We concur with the description of WIRGUE in para 5. Ref 3. except for the mean to obtain the best results from him. On left to his own devices to implement this assignment, which can all too often create more problems than he answers. His security circumstances is not outstanding from an operational point of view. Control is seemingly bad when WIRGUE can talk over his problems at frequent intervals and discuss them with the base officer. The station has found it desirable to meet him with great frequency than ever before and to provide under-staffing (rather than over-matching), interest, encouragement but not of all guidance, and apply a steady checkrein to what are mostly rather mild issues. Attachment A is a clear example o. the type of activity WIRGUE tends to undertake if left on his own and the security risks he represents in such situations.

3. In addition, WIRGUE's attitude and responsibility to add money leaves much to be desired. Headmen's comment in letters a draft certifying WIRGUE's "propensity for financial mismanagement" is fully realized by this station. To recall The Ward's financial misadventures briefly, he spent his money lavishly upon arrival, rented an extra apartment he didn't need, beseeched several stores for which he was not yet prepared to use, had been, and sold at least three-cars-and-is currently driving a large Chrysler (in spite of being told at the time that it was far too conspicuous). Then having depleted the original $400 balance to him, he requested his $200 housing allowance in one lump sum. He now accrues to the fact that he will receive the housing allowance in "little dribbles" (his words) but still feels that he was told he would get it in a lump sum payment. He has little to show from his initial loan for setting up a business, or even if provided with all necessary equipment he could probably not follow through without additional financial blockage. The station finds out that no matter how much money he is provided, WIRGUE would likely to get into financial difficulties