If the 1969 federal election follows the pattern of the 28 April election, the same problems will arise in Bonn. With this kind of a breakdown of the vote, the FDP and the SPD together cannot form a majority, and a refusal on the part of both of them to join the CDU means that the latter cannot organize a majority government either--unless the CDU invites NPD collaboration, which it is far from ready to do.

A collapse of the grand coalition in Bonn either before or after 1969 and a return by the SPD to opposition positions would signify more than a passing cabinet crisis. In the past, parties tended to harden into intransigence, committed to particular ideological and material interests, and unable to reach pragmatic compromises with each other. In recent years, West German politicians have tried to break with this tradition and to work on the consensus principle. A failure of these efforts would have serious implications. If--as does not seem likely at present--the three major parties were unable to form a majority government, this might lead to severe instability and the discrediting of parliamentary government.

Bonn and Weimar

Many misleading analogies have been drawn between the Bonn and Weimar republics. One Weimar precedent may help, however, to

explain why some observers view the coalition problem seriously. In March 1930, another grand coalition with SPD participation collapsed over the question of cuts in unemployment insurance, leading to the formation of a conservative majority government under Heinrich Bruening. Bruening was later replaced by the reactionary Franz von Papen, who in turn was followed first by a wire-pulling general, Kurt von Schleicher, and then by Adolf Hitler. The worst aspect of the SPD withdrawal was that it made the parliament ineffective and powerless.

Once minority government was embarked on, supported by presidential prerogatives, there was no effective test for legitimacy except the will of Hindenburg by then susceptible and old. The Nazis ultimately came to power, not by a majority vote, but through the paralysis and impotence of the constitutional system and through intrigues in the presidential palace on the part of those, especially Papen and Schleicher, who thought they could "use" Nazi mass support.

In contrast to the 30s, the presidential powers now are far weaker, and aside from all the other factors inhibiting a recurrence, the Weimar precedent itself must influence SPD leaders in Bonn. They are completely committed personally to the present coalition. A decision to go into opposition is unlikely under Brandt and Wehner.

The absence of executive emergency powers is not of course without dangers. In a bitter parliamentary deadlock, an illegal assumption of power, perhaps by extragovernmental elements, might be the only way out.

Page 9 SPECIAL REPORT-31 May 68