Case 46,632

NO-16-66 17 January 1966

informant that his son was frequently involved in scrapes and had caused him a great deal of trouble. Dr. Fernandez-Conde suggests that Maria Luisa's attitude towards and relationship with her son may have a strong bearing on the latter's behaviour. He also suggests that Maria Luisa, but not Jose, Sr., is vulnerable where their son, Jose, Jr., is concerned. The subject of sexual aberrations came up several times during this interview. It seems appropriate to point out here that, according to Dr. Fernandez-Conde, there are many homo-sexuals among current Cuban government officials and the possible exposure as deviates would not serve as a threat to the security of these individuals. He states that homosexuality is given no importance in Castro's Cuba.

6. The Bustamante marital union has not run smoothly, to say the least. In 1945 or 1946, Jose, Sr. had an affair with Mrs. Infu/ Alvarez-Tabio which became a "public scandal," as the saying goes in Cuba. Mrs. Alvarez-Tabio attempted suicide and came very close to death. While Jose, Sr. is known to have had affairs with other women both before and since his liaison with Mrs. Alvarez-Tabio, the one in which he was involved between 1951 and 1960 (and possibly later) brought him the greatest amount of notoriety. Unfortunately, Dr. Fernandez-Conde cannot recall the name of this mistress. On one occasion, Dr. Bustamante and his Inamorata registered as man and wife in a New York City hotel. The lady's husband got wind of their whereabouts, had private detectives to obtain compromising photographs, and precipitated Dr. Bustamante's local arrest and detention on several charges. The latter put up bail, but subsequently fled the US before the case came to trial. When he was President of the Cuban Medical Association, Bustamante tried to use his professional influence to solve the problem of his being a fugitive from justice so that he could travel to the US with impunity. His efforts to exert pressure on certain important officials met with no success. The mistress was divorced by her husband and continued her relationship with Bustamante, as recently as 1960 and possibly later. She is reported to have become a "mental case."

7. During the course of this latter affair, Jose, Sr. and Maria Luisa, on a few occasions came almost to the point of divorce. But, by then he had become a man of some importance in the Castro regime and for appearances' sake they remained together. As recently as 1960, Maria Luisa spoke vehemently against Jose, Sr. in private, while in public she tried to make it appear that all was well in their menage. Dr. Fernandez-Conde has no first-hand knowledge of Dr. Bustamante's extramarital affairs since 1960/1961. From refugees who left Cuba in recent years, however, he learned that Dr. and Mrs. Bustamante still live in their large residence in Miramar, located on 12th Street between First and Third Avenue, Havana.

8. Dr. Bustamante obtained his medical education at the University of Havana and received his MD degree from that institution in 1939. He was one of the fifteen outstanding medical students in his class. He interned at the University hospital in Havana. His specialty is psychiatry and his practice has been in the psychotherapy area of that field. He used to be a follower of Freud but has since switched to the Pavlovian school. He continues to maintain SECRET