SECTION D

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and related consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section B, attach a separate sheet of paper.

I rate Mr. Randall's "outstanding" for Duty Number 1 (his principal responsibility) for this period. He had done an exceptional job of supervising, motivating, training and guiding his group in a remorseless and pressure-laden atmosphere, requiring both close attention to detail and constant alertness to broad operational and policy implications. The workload is larger and more complicated than anything I know of handled by any line operational officer with equivalent grade and responsibility. The preceding two fitness reports describe well the nature of the job. It remains only to be noted that Mr. Randall is the perfect man for the job, combining a remarkable match of leadership, operational savvy, legal and policy awareness and, perhaps most important, negotiating ability with both the Agency lawyers and legislative counsel, and the operating divisions in a bizarre situation that completely transcends the DO's need-to-know practices (Top Secret and compartmented, bigotted information must be reviewed) and yet requires the protection of our sources and methods. Dedicated, discreet, smart, and honest, Mr. Randall is very likely one of very few DO officers of his grade who could have handled this job from scratch, done so with virtually flawless output, and created a body of judgments and advice that is trusted, proven and amounts to de facto DO policy on how to protect our secrets. Mr. Randall also has major planning obligations within IMS, serving as a voting member of the PMC and three times a week with Chief, IMS and other (continued)

SECTION E

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION

9 months IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION (Write Report Profile) 5-6-7

18 December 1978 OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Deputy Chief, IMS

TYPE OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE James-B. Fletcher, Jr.

I HAVE OR HAVE NOT ATTACHED A STATEMENT CONCERNING THE SUPERVISOR'S EVALUATION OF MY PERFORMANCE. DATE

18/Dec/1978 SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

Federal P. Randall

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I agree with the letter ratings and the narrative comments above, particularly those in paragraph 1 of the narrative.

Mr. Randall is a dedicated, forceful, purposeful, dependable, disciplined officer. Although his personal preference would have been to do something else, he effectively manages and leads the Freedom of Information and Privacy Group of IMS--demonstrating a self reliant style which has brought great credit to work in this area in the DO and to himself. Mr. Randall's past several fitness reports attested to his talents and growth in this assignment.

As was observed in Mr. Randall's last fitness report, a new