JUAN LUIS mentioned to Rafael that he liked LOGINOV, and they seemed fairly friendly. It was at the end of this period that Rafael was introduced to LOGINOV by JUAN LUIS. After LOGINOV terminated his lessons he no longer visited the Institute. JUAN LUIS often sent his regards to LOGINOV via Rafael, and asked that LOGINOV come to see him. This was mentioned by Rafael, but LOGINOV continually told R-fael to "forget it", but did ask Rafael to return the regards. Rafael never questioned LOGINOV on why he did not go back to the Institute, but as far as Subject knows, LOGINOV has not been back. Rafael has had many discussions with JUAN LUIS but he has never mentioned any other Soviets in Mexico. As far as his politics go, JUAN LUIS is a confirmed Leftist in ideas but Rafael would not call him a Communist. Rafael believes that Juan Luis was merely a friend to LOGINOV and had no direct relations with him other than their association through lessons.

C. Andrea CATANO (P-13,546):

Andrea has mentioned to Rafael that she met CHERNISH (P-13,042) at the Space Exhibit while she was working there. She also met several other Soviets there. She became friends with them and invited them to her house for a dinner party on two occasions. Rafael, invited by her, went on both occasions. On the first occasions there was a Russian woman, blond, about 36 years old named VALENTINA (LNU) who spoke very good Spanish; a man named MISHA (LNU), supposedly an Electrical Tech from DUBNO Space Center near Moscow, about 37 years old and tall, who spoke excellent Spanish and who later wrote a letter to one of Andreas girlfriends in Mexico City (Not named); and BORIS (LNC). about 37 years old, thin, nervous but with a lot of vitality and personality. Boris spoke excellent Spanish also, and Rafael thought it very unusual that he drank American Whiskey and Coca-cola. (Rafael says this is unusual for Russians). Rafael thought MISHA a little suspicious, that he might be KGB (he knows that in cases such as this, no one is allowed to go anywhere with being accompanied by the KGB) because MISHA spoke excellent Spanish and seemed to be the only one who did not really fit.