I quitted tout the expenses of his recruitment section, and he said he had told Paula to eliminate that item since recruiting is now done elsewhere, but the military personnel in recruiting should be grouped in the military so that some form of intelligence agency could be maintained to provide information.

He affirmed that his military staff really consisted of three officers (Tarele, Dorsaiga, Pontagüilo) but that they had extension of office, transportation, etc., secretarial help. As for his Social welfare section, he said this had been established by C.I.A., and was necessary for dispensing medicines, etc., for Cuban refugees here.

He declared that he hadn't touched any of the expenses (inherited from P.D.) except operating expenses, in order to give him a margin of funds to meet additional urgent expenses.

He said, "I told Paula to eliminate all that could be eliminated; naturally he would have to consult with you." (Agency)

Relative to the Naval section he said he planned to eliminate their expense allowance but not the section itself, because he does: it essential for matters such as sending arms to Cuba, since they cannot be sent by air; and that an office is necessary for them but their expenses must be cut off slowly.

As for the Medical Section which had been created before, he said only two "utilidades" (casualties) remained and that the section was to be eliminated. He reiterated that these sections had been created by us (Agency) and that they could only be eliminated gradually.

He affirmed that there was left for his use only some eleven or twelve thousand dollars for matters such as attendance at the SIP and Iacencia affairs, and such minor propaganda affairs, but that he felt he should have restored to him the funds for propaganda (that had been going through Testre).

I assured him that it was certainly intended that the Propaganda Commission now function under him as the propaganda section of the Council and that if Testre was not considered to be its leader, that he should designate one more else. He declared that Testre was in New York, had talked toVARNA yesterday, and asked VARNA what he should do, to which VARNA responded, "Resign."

Niro then said he would like to put Coné Aruero in as head of propaganda but that Conte would not agree unless he took him to. Niro suggested that the staff which Testre had was very good but that Testre was no good because he wanted to spend the whole day at a swimming pool. He mentioned Angel del Cerro, Fermín Meláncó, Rubén Carlo Rurbaud. He said Angel del Cerro would be a good chief of propaganda, but that for this he would also like a good adviser such as Conte, who really is no good except to talk, but would like to be president. Niro said