EYES ONLY

up to a very attractive package. Such headliners as Niarchus, Onassis, Dave McDonald, and Howard Hughes are hard to come by. Fensterwald further referred to Maheu as the type who employed the technique of cutting the Government in just enough on his touchy operations to permit him to hide behind their skirts if he were caught. It is the opinion of the lawyer that, unless the Senator can be convinced to the contrary, he will proceed with plans on schedule.

11. Maheu's most active account and, at this time, almost exclusive client is Howard Hughes. In the past he did considerable work for Dave McDonald, former president of the United Steel Workers. So far as this office knows, the Agency never had any interest in either of these clients. However, it should be noted that the IO Division was granted a Covert Security Approval on 4 June 1959 to approach Maheu and advise him of the Agency's interest in international labor. Maheu claims he never became involved in any "bugging" operation for either of these accounts.

12. It is not believed that Maheu wants or expects us to front for him in the Onassis tap matter. As mentioned previously, to our knowledge this was not Agency sponsored. However, if exploited, it would probably eventually lead to exposing our part in the Onassis/ Niarchus feud. As it is a matter of court record, it could not be denied nor buried. Even though the details might be protected by a declaration that it involved classified operational information, it would set up a field day for the press and critics of the Agency.

13. Mr. Maheu is presently furnishing cover for a DODS staff agent in his Washington, D. C., office. In this connection, two of Maheu's employees have been cleared and witting. Other clearance actions noted were: CSA granted FI/Plans, Cover Division on 30 August 1954 for use under LPHIDDEN; CSA issued to NE Division on 7 October 1959 for Maheu's use in the United States and (Jordan) inasmuch as he may be employed by (the King of Jordan) to handle (Jordanian) public relations in the United States.

4

EYES ONLY