SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject is an exceptionally responsible and mature officer who also combines with these virtues outstanding ability in the fine tuning, analysis and direction of highly complex human cases. During the period under review he handled a most complex and delicate exploitation and termination of a high level ALSOBER penetration with CKPOLAR ramifications with a substantial degree of success. He has also served, in his capacity as deputy base chief, as counsellor and provider of guidance to case officers concerning virtually all of the Base's operations and particularly the more complex and difficult agent cases. His unusually keen intuition and perceptiveness have consistently helped the Base to avoid pitfalls and recognize important but obscure operational factors. His operational judgement is extremely sound.

During the period under review Subject has had an opportunity to demonstrate his ability as a supervisor and the results have been impressive. He is naturally careful and thoughtful as well as objective in his dealings with people and he adds elements of sensibility and sympathy as well which enable him to get good responses and inspire confidence. Case officers and other personnel tend to gravitate to him naturally seeking help and guidance and he gives of himself generously in these situations. He has shown excellent leadership potential also during the occasions on which he has taken over as acting base chief and has not been afraid to take

SECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS BY EMPLOYEE I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE 9 July 73 SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE /s/ Joseph Piccolo MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE 9 July 73 OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR Chief of Base TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE /s/ David B. McGrath BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL I concur in this excellent rating in all respects. The performance of this fine officer has been superior. He played a crucial role at the Base. He is a strong considerate supervisor with potential for growth. The failure to get out on the street and recruit during the past year (I am not familiar with previous experience) can be partly attributed to immersion in the complex, time consuming surfacing/disposal case, but must also be attributed partly to his personality (or at least his mood at that stage of his tour). Subject is perhaps more comfortable, or seemed to be during the rating period, handling going agents (indigenous and NOC'S) which he does superbly, (continued)

Date 9 July 73 Official Title of Reviewing Official COS Tyred or Printed Name and Signature /s/ Wilfred Kopolowitz

CONFIDENTIAL 14-00000