Chief, Contact Division ATtn: Index Branch Chief, Miami Field Office

Memorandum of Visit to Mitchell Warbell III 2211 Floridian Circle Coral Gables, Florida

1. In the evening of 24 July 1959 I received a telephone call from subject, who had been given my name and address by another segment of the intelligence community in connection with the possibility of his passing along late information concerning the assured impending flight of Batista to the US.

2. Warbell indicated that he spent a great amount of his time in the Dominican Republic and had extremely close association with leaders of the government, and also with General Jose Pedrana. He claimed to have been a former member of the OGB with service in China in WWI. Warbell is a soldier-of-fortune type who wears a monocle, drives a Mercedes-Benz, sports a most attractive blonde girl friend, and is a Big Spender. He also volunteered that he has a wife and six children living in Georgia.

3. Warbell told me that his principle source of income is in dealing with Cuban pesos, and said that he is associated in the business with a John Lipko of Los Angeles, a jazz musician who formerly played with the Jimmy Donny and Jim Garber bands.

4. [Lipko also claims to have been a member of OGB during WWII, serving in the Romania and Eastern European area. Lipko was basically engaged in making long-distance phone calls to Mexico City, Guatemala City, and Los Angeles during a part of the time I was with the group.]

5. Warbell gave me some information on Batista's plans, which is basically opposition, and furnished some other marginal information which is being forwarded, although in my opinion little evidence can be placed in anything he says. It is hard to evaluate what Warbell's motives are in connection with his desire to furnish information regarding Batista to us, but it appeared that he was also attempting to fish for information, throwing out a number of questions concerning the Biltmore Terrace Hotel, reportedly recently to have been purchased by Cuban interests with 9 million Cuban pesos. The penthouse reportedly has been completely redecorated, with heavy steel doors guarding the entrance. This penthouse suite has been fumigated to be Batista's intended headquarters once he arrives in the US. All of this has been written about in the gossip columns of the local papers.

6. Much as Warbell has my name and phone number, probably little can be done to prevent him getting in touch with me from time to time, but contact will not be initiated by no except by direction. The basic purpose of this memo is for the record.

JUSTIN F. CLEICHSUM

JFTO:CM

WTO,