U YEA

G-O-M-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

G-O-M-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

9 YEA

C-O-M-P-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba REPORT NO. 00-K-323/16570-67

SUBJECT Treatment of Antonio Cuesta Valle, Political Prisoner of the OOC DATE DISTR-9 Jun 67

NO. PAGES-2

REFERENCES LA CIRL C-DC7-53338

(356)

DATE OF INFO. 17 May 67

PLACE & DATE ACQ. ---17 May 67

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE: Honduran national, US resident, executive of a foreign airline. Through travels and contacts he keeps in touch with events occurring in foreign countries.

[This report was developed by an Air Force AFM representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1. My secretary recently returned from a 17-day visit to Havana, Cuba. Through conversation, with her, I learned of her visit and permission to visit her husband, Antonio Cuesta Valle, a political prisoner of the Cuban government.

2. Cuesta, who was active in an anti-GOC movement, was taken prisoner on 29 May 66 in company of four other men, while on an infiltration mission. While trying to escape he supposedly blew up his boat and as a result of the explosion he lost his left hand at the wrist. He was captured along with Eugenio Saldivar Cadena, and both are presently held prisoners at the Military Hospital in Marianao, Havana.

3. While in Havana she was permitted, on a daily basis, to visit with her husband in his hospital cell. She was permitted to visit alone with him on one occasion in a room that had several mirrors and for a period of approximately 15 minutes. The remainder of her visits were in the presence of her assigned escort or the guard assigned to her husband's ward. She knew her escort as "Infante," and he was always dressed in civilian clothes. He was most polite and courteous at all times. She was told what hours she could visit her husband by phone each specific day, and her escort would pick her up and take her to the hospital.

4. I was told that her husband has been given the best treatment available and that he had no complaints in that respect. He is suffering from advanced active cataracts and is almost blind. He has been treated by two Soviet doctors, but due to the language barrier proper treatment was not administered and the Soviets became very angry at the nurses at the hospital. Considering his background he is being treated like a VIP. He was told that a Cuban specialist is going to take his case in the near future. He said that his food is very good and generous servings are the order of the day. By direct order of Fidel he is furnished a box of the best cigars, and they are replenished each time the box becomes empty. During a Sunday afternoon he and his wife were taken to the beach, complete with a picnic lunch, in company of four guards that kept a distance of about 100 feet.

INFO MARIA NUEVEDA INFORMACION REPORT

U YEA </tr