28 July, 1967

Subject: Wallace E. Rowton Meeting with LIRING/3.

1. On the morning of 29 July, 1967, the day after his return to Mexico City, Rowton contacted LIRING/3 at his home and arranged for a meeting at the safehouse at 1130 that same morning. L/3 commented that he was greatly relieved that Rowton had returned safely since many things had happened during his absence and L/3 had felt uncertain about what he should do in the event Rowton had been delayed any longer.

2. At the 1130 meeting at the safehouse, LIRING/3 reported that he and LIRING/4 had accompanied L/3's half brother in his car to Sabinas, Coahuila, on the afternoon of 10 July (the day that Rowton had departed). L/3 related that immediately on arrival he had his half-brother introduce him as planned to the judge in Nueva Rosita, a small village near Sabinas. L/3 reported to Rowton that the judge is named Francisco Mario Valdez Hernández and is actually a "Juez Menor" but also a notario publico and an "agente del Ministerio Público", and, as such, has authority to issue important documents. According to L/3, judge Valdez, who gave the appearance of a homosexual, spoke openly about his ability and willingness to issue false documents and arrange for a passport for L/3 in the alias Alberto Zárate. He promised to take care of the matter for the sum of 2,000 pesos, but accepted a down payment of 1,500 pesos and gave L/3 a receipt for this amount "para el arancel de un pasaporte mexicano", addressed to Alberto Zárate Vidal. In addition LIRING/3's half-brother persuaded the judge to arranjar for the issuance to Alberto Zárate of an identity card showing that Zárate was an "actuario" of the Ministry of Labor, and for a driver's license, so that Zárate would have additional documents attesting to his identity.

3. LIRING/3 commented that he was certain that he could arrange for false papers for Rowton in the event the latter felt he could use such papers. L/3 continued that he and L/4 then proceeded to Nuevo Loredo and picked up the three Cuban passports that his half-brother had purchased on his behalf for the sum of 500 pesos. L/3 explained that although the persons to whom the passports were issued were dead they might conceivably be of use to Rowton in the future. He added that the hotel clerk who sold the documents to his half-brother had originally asked 1,500 pesos but apparently was glad to get the 500 when it was offered in cash on the table.

4. LIRING/3 continued that he and L/4 returned to Mexico City on 14 July