Talked to Cy Goodrich this morning about STEBONY. He feels that he is on the level with us, that he is legitimately disenchanted with the far left, that he sees himself as a loyal American, that KATZENBERG was incorrect in saying that STEBONY would find it morally repugnant to act as a political action agent but would willingly serve as an FI collection asset (which doesn't make a whole lot of sense.) STEBONY was not in the least reluctant to take the LOPUTTER; passed it apparently clean. The cover is admittedly a bit risley, but is supplemented by a connection with Tunisian L'Action for which he will do some layout work and writing. Cy believes that he understands perhaps better than he did the need for cover and attribution of income. Contract provides for $500 a month plus $100 non-accountable ops expenses plus $10 a day while in Algiers, plus $20 a day while in travel status, 1 June through 31 August, renewable for a two year period if mutually desirable and satisfactory, with 30 day termination clause. We have told STBONY JAGUAR of our recruitment of STEBONY - Cy does not believe that they are in direct touch with him, but that they are in contact with friends of his, particularly one PURCHANSY? or some such name. I asked Cy what STEBONY had been asked to do for us in Algiers, and he replied " to work himself into a position of access - to get information on factions and all developments in the conferences which have not been publicized." I asked if he had been given any requirements which dealt with strictly Algerian matters and he said No, that Rodigast had been told that we would send further requirements for the meeting tentatively scheduled with STEBONY in Aome or Tangier around 16 June.

I talked to Bob Wiley, who will draw up a list of requirements to send RODIGAST. Cy Goodrich and I agreed that I would open ops files on STEBONY, even though we have no project yet, and he will give me the contents of his soft file to include in it. He is also having the 20a file tidied up by RI and will have it charged to AF/1

NP