The Washington Post

6 December 1958

Red Asylum in Mexico. By Roscoe Drummond Foreign Communists Find It a Safe Operating Base

MEXICO CITY—Foreign Communists continue to Sud-Mexico an-easy and valuable base from which to operate—and they are operating on a large scale today.

Mexico provides not only a welcome haven when things get too hot at home —there are at least 100 Co. o in m. in- assist families from the United States here right now, but also a strategy, put from which to mount progressive activities through-ou, the western hemisphere.

Drummond

For years the Mexican government has given safe harbor for foreign Communists —as well as revolutionaries of the extreme right—on the theory that it was applying the respected and humane concept of asylum for those suffering political persecution.

Mexican leaders and intellectuals greatly pride themselves that their country offers asylum so freely and so unquestioningly and there is no evidence that the new government will change this policy in any important particular.

What Mexican leaders do but choose to recognize is that there is a vast difference between providing asylum for those who are persecuted and, providing asylum for those who use this privilege to prepare persecution against others.

2718 IN THE WAR THE GREAT SOUTH TRAFFIC OF POLITICAL ASYLUM IS BEING ABUSED HERE

The record is perfect—by clear on that.

For five years Mexico has harbored some 100 to 150 European Communist leaders assembled under the direction of the Soviet Embassy. They carried on subversion against their country from within Mexico and the dangerous rise of communism in Venezuela came front-services rendered while Mexico was making it safe for them to operate. They have now made their way back to Venezuela.

There is a group of at least 80 Guatemalan Communists who are doing the same thing and are waiting only the lonely moment to return.

Occasionally a foreign Communist violates his "asylum" so distantly that he runs afoul of the law here or elsewhere. This is what happened to Jose Manuel Fortuny, the Secretary General of the Communist Party in Guatemala, who has been operating freely here, for some time. He obtained a false Mexican passport to go to Moscow a few weeks ago, but this became known and had to be discarded. He started his return trip by way of Rio de Janeiro and was picked up by the alert Brazilian police for presenting another false passport.

THE ADULT United States Communist population here hovers around 200 most of the time. Once in a while a U. S. Communist, as in the recent case of Gus Hall, is given over to U. S. authorities. But this is a rarity. When Communist Albert S. Stern whose wife is Communist Martha Dodd Stern, was wanted to leave in the ble white Soviet party, she

sheltered safely here. They both made off for Prague, where they were lately by Mlle. Halkern, a former Boston University teacher who was also living here —and now all three are ready for future assignments.

Moscow maintains a busy and buliding embassy in Mexico City, one of its largest in the western hemisphere, to direct and energize subversive operations. There are 128 adults on the embassy list and 48 children. Wives do their embassy chores whether they are accredited or not.

The clandestine character of much of the Soviet embassy's role here is illustrated by its extremely tight operations. It does not permit itself to employ a single Mexican national to do even the most mental caretaking work. A Mexican isn't allowed even to polish the knob on the outside of the front door. It uses only ten non-Soviet employees and these are Communists imported from Spain. All ten speak Russian fluently.

Even the education of the children of the embassy staff is carried on inside the embassy, walls and no Mexican teachers are employed.

The Soviet embassy has men officers on its military staff among whom are three naval captains—this in a country whose navy is virtually non-existent. This staff is obviously more concerned with what military secrets it can procure from the United States than from Mexico, particularly since the hostler is so easy to cross by agents who serve the SovietVs in Mexico.