SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA

received a bank loan of $1,500 in Miami and has defaulted on some $800 of the amount. The final note on De ARMAS is that he received a general discharge from the U.S. Army with a notation that he had psychological and behavioral problems." The gist of the aforementioned FBI information has been passed to DEA Caracas. All agencies concerned agree that contact with De ARMAS should cease. De ARMAS again contacted S.A. Duncan in Caracas on 26 February 1976 and requested a meeting; he said that the request was not drug related, but concerned the "Cuban matter." S.A. Duncan advised De ARMAS that he was on his own and that DEA would not get involved. As DEA Headquarters is aware, De ARMAS reportedly left for Mexico o/a 26 February 1976. We have no subsequent reporting on his movements.

7. Three of the five aforementioned individuals are known to have had past connections: GARCIA Vazquez and JIMENEZ-Rojo were both former members of the UIR in Cuba at one time and MORALES Navarette, a former Cuban C-2 agent, was in contact with GARCIA in the United States during 1974-75. Although there have been allegations aimed at MORALES and GARCIA over the years accusing them of being Cuban agents and/or of narcotics involvement, these claims have not been substantiated and for the most part are based on circumstantial evidence or guilt by association, which happens frequently among Cubans. As MORALES has been a DEA informant since 1971 and, in fact, was rated as an "externely reliable" source by the Miami R/O; a desire on his part to continue this relationship in Caracas, we feel, cannot be construed as part of a provocation operation. A check of our records reflected no past intelligence backgrounds for LAZARO Alfonso and De ARMAS. While there is a paucity of background information in our files on Justo LAZARO, in our opinion he is attempting to extort money from the U.S. Government based on a poorly conceived idea of his own. The De ARMAS case appears to have been resolved satisfactorily for all concerned. All Agencies concerned agree he is unstable and contact should be either severed, or if unavoidable, it should be made with extreme caution.