His group at the university of G instant, whie no longer exists, so fgm I'm told. MlSRO KITAZAWA - 2D Muhammad Said Flat 91. Cairo gam, was the Japanese representative to the Afro- Assian Solidarity Confereee. . He used to pass through Paris quite regularly. I don't think he is there any longer. Was much interested in the magazine. He used to use the pseudonym of Walter Johnson sometimes.

Ab Karina Karina? was one of the leaders of the SWAPU group of Southwest Africa.

used to send in articles. I knew him personally from New York.

has been going back and forth between Peking and also East Germany and West Germany. He's playing all sides. on this Southwest Africa thing.

Corcugirziz (SWANU & SWAPU) is the head of Swan, the other Southwest Africa group. (Swan & Sway)

Thars, They have a unity. . once there was a struggle between Corina Korengizi Korina and Cochamoina. It was virtually eliminated. Karina is an American agent, and so forth. The Last story that I heard about Corina was that he was working for the Peace Corps in Bechuanaland. These are the stories that they circulated. Karina has been unable to hold up his end of it. He is kind of sulking. And violence hasn't helpt him at all. Karina has embarrassed people i over and over- - monomania for his work! Abdul Rahim KARIM (190a Finchley Rd., Lond w3) special representative now, in London, for Verges. He is in Singapore. His article on Malaysia, against Malaysia, was greatly appareicated by the Indonesian government and a large number of copies of the issue of Revolution which contained it were bought up and i twas later reproduced. We received from Indonesian Embassies all around sub- xxxiixiiixxxiii. orders for that issue. Subscriptions came from the UN, their missions to the UN, perhaps here in London.

Julian Academy of Science, P.O. Box 2 848, Accra. Mayfield, in Ghana doesn't use this address as often as he used to. because he is now editor of something called the African Review. It is a new magazine..

Now here's an interesting fellow- Mena, I aver quite figured him out. He is a Bush-Prom nationalist. in Amsterdam. He is close to almost all the Left parties. there. He pretends to be Marxist but claims that he is not involved in the Sino-Soviet schism. He doesn't want anything to do with that. That is the reason he never wrote anything for the magazine. though I did see him.

F. M. MOLL - Amstelkade 157, Amsterdam