Floreal CHOMON Mediavilla was born about 1950 in Camaguey, and, according to latest KUBARK information, is presently Charge d' Affaires of the Cuban Legation in Iraq. Prior to this assignment, CHOMON was First Secretary with the Cuban Embassy in Morocco. Subject described CHOMON as a sensitive, slightly effeminate individual who is relatively disinterested in politics. Subject feels that CHOMON obtained the position with the Cuban foreign service by virtue of the fact that he is Faure CHOMON's brother. Subject feels that Floreal CHOMON would also welcome an opportunity to talk with him if the fact of their meeting could be kept from the Cuban government. He speculated that any attempt to gain CHOMON'S cooperation would depend on the position Faure CHOMON has assumed toward the Castro regime. Subject feels that most of Floreal CASTRO's decisions are based on the attitude and opinion of his older brother Faure. If through letters from or conversations with his older brother, Floreal had obtained the impression that Faure was becoming dissatisfied with the Castro regime, he probably likewise would assume such an attitude and conceivably be receptive to a recruitment approach.

7. OPERATIONAL PROPOSALS: We are currently retracing the individuals listed in the preceding paragraph. Upon completion of these traces, it is suggested that a dispatch be prepared to Mexico City Station outlining all information on Esubio AZCUE including that supplied by Subject. This dispatch would also outline Headquarters' interest in perhaps using Subject in an operational approach to AZCUE. Mexico City Station would be asked to describe the extent to which they could support such an operation through surveillance of AZCUE, locating his present residence and other information relative to his current activities and political orientation. (Comment:) We discussed in principle with the Subject whether or not he would be willing to travel to Mexico City with a KUBARK case officer for the purpose of such an approach. Subject tentatively indicated his willingness to cooperate in such a venture but appeared to have some reservation to the danger that might accrue him. He pointed out that he has a wife and six children to support and soon expects to be joined by his father and mother-in-law who are currently in Miami. We attempted to reassure Subject that very little danger

GROUP I Excluded from automatic de classification and declassification.