CONTACT REPORT # 54

OPERATION: AMWORLD DATE TYPED: 6 Apr. 64

CONTACT: AMYUM-18

TIME AND PLACE: 0918-1100 Ers. 6 Apr. 64, 8/12 788

NEXT MEETING: Unscheduled

SUMMARY

1. A-18 was asked to provide the Case Officer with a sample of recent AMYUM radio programs. (Comment: P/W requested this. A Station contact is considering producing a "Monitor"-type program, originating in Miami, and broadcast over WRUL. All exile groups would be represented and it would provide a means for special broadcasts such as announcements of any successful AMWORLD ops, etc.)

2. Reports from Nacin Elias frequently mention an action group known as "M.L.B", one of whose leaders uses the war name "el Diablo". A report from Nacin dated 16 March included an appeal for help in exfiltrating "el Diablo" and some others who are in danger. A-18 has heard that six men of the M.IDB. have just come out. One of the men is said to be "el Diablo" (Comment: Confirmed by BARR 1883). After they have been processed and debriefed A-18 will have them debriefed by AMFAST-68 and Alonso. A-18 believes that this group is the source of most of the documents furnished by Nacin and are either the only worthwhile contacts of Nacin or are completely controlled by the COC. The latter theory is probably the correct one.

3. A-18 thinks that the captain of the Adelaide will eventually be replaced by Namine if he does not quit his post. He is still not enlisting the kind of leadership necessary for military This, of course, will necessitate finding a new captain for the Belerees. Of the three crewmen who recently left the Adelaide, two were having difficulties with the rest of the crew and one, Jose Cabanas, left after his brother had been fired by AMBIETY-I.

4. Guertler asked A-18 if AMWORLD-2 had received a security briefing recently reminding him not to discuss AMWORLD business. A-18 wanted to know if A-2 was still talking too much. The underwritten replied that quite a bit of information pertaining to AMWORLD was coming across his desk and that it appeared to come from AMWORLD-2. When sufficient details are available it will be called to the attention of the Consejo and AMBIETY-1, but in the meantime A-18 can remind A-1 to keep quiet about AMWORLD business.

6. Infiltration candidate Pablo Roberto PERMANENT Person, POAC