(under the name of Peter Fryer, published 1962. I can't remember the title. She speaks Portuguese. May be- apparently is connected with the

Troskyist group.))

The Portuguese, from what I understand, is going on - - I would like to get back to Algiers to see what is going on - Great (ferment - splitting - the Eldorado business was)

Just part of the iceberg that stuck up above the water. She was close to the Algerians. She produced this one issue. Then that flopped. She had been asked by Verges to go with me to Lausanne to be the joint editor of the edition in English. She refused because she wanted to stay in Algiers, stay close to her Portuguese group. She didn't think very much of me simply because she had set up the publication of the English edition (which) was supposed to have been done in London. And then suddenly behind their backs Verges arranges it Switzerland. The British Communist Party was very much upset about the whole thing. They had thought that they might be able to have something to do with it, that they might take it over. They had a woman who was working for us here, named Rosalind Ainslie, South African, a European woman from South Africa, who obviously - she works for East German News Agency - Agency here now - would have been their agent. It was even going to be incorporated here under her name. Verges was going to be the junior and silent partner abroad. Obviously he wasn't going along with that. This was the summer of 63. At the time of the break with Algiers, she was working as our correspondent here; (she) was extremely upset. She was holding £1000 of Verges' money. She didn't know which way to go. Harbi came here and talked to her. She whole thing fell through. Finally she chose the Algerians and then they dumped her. And she was forced to repay the money to Verges that she owed.

And so we then stayed on in Switzerland. We were perfectly content to stay in Switzerland. Out of the ... Verges wanted to move to Paris. He had little justification for a move to Paris. He was absolutely delighted when the Swiss expelled us. They gave us three months to get out. It really wasn't any expulsion. We continued it (the magazine). The editor and publisher were out of the country.

X Andersson had nothing to do with it. It was still being produced by Panguin,

Only the English edition was banned. That was to prevent any further publication (in Switzerland, presumably). That's why it had to be done