Priklyko then remarked something to the effect that Subj now didn't want to do anything for them -what with his bad health and being tied up in business-but that maybe in the future..... and then got very much into the present by sliding easily into the old grooves: he said "I talked/you several times about a man coming tourist to Mexico - what is the best way to arrange legal residence-could it be done through your office - he could be attached to your office-he doesn't have to work there."

//Comments: Subj explained to the C/O that he sensed the trap immediately, recognizing that this was the old bent of the Soviets on which he had furnished a wealth of information in the past. Subj reasoned that if the Soviets were fishing with the old bait, he would not rise to it eagerly because in view of his recent non-cooperative behavior it would only confirm to the Soviets that he was being controlled (by the AIS). He would not reject the insinuation of his cooperation out of hand and categorically, because that would not be consistent with his posture of remaining on friendly terms with the Soviets. Therefore he took the middle road, that of being non-committal or uncommitted, where the initiative of compliance was always in his hands. Paradoxically, Subj told the C/O that if the "policy" is that of complete rejection of the Soviets he should not have even met them; but following the policy of "hasta la muerte-amigos; pero hacer nada" he felt he was doing the right thing in stringing them along a barren path. Thus, without batting an eye he simply repeated what he had already told them.// Subj said he would have to consult Gobornaci/n- because he didn't know if his company had the required capitalization to place a foreigner in a job - but this being Mexico, anything could probably be done. //Comment: Subj remarked to the C/O at this point that the Soviets could not seriously consider using Subj's firm to "legalize" their man, because it would be a patent fraud to the employees in his firm, and he did not think the Soviets were stupid about such things/.

The C/O's summary comment to Subj's unspoken plea for criticism of his course of action was that under the concept of a "friends, yes; work, no" policy toward the Soviets he was doing a fine job of walking the tightrope.

5. The C/O asked Subj if there had been any travel arrangements for non-Soviets to the Soviet Union. Subj replied that Julio Rothenstreich, whom Subj characterized as a German Jew, and his wife, a Russian Jew, had left 5 Sept to New York en route to the Soviet Union. Subj said Rothenstreich had told him that he was friendly with the Soviet Ambassador in Mexico and represented "Russian firms" (sio). He was to remain in the Soviet Union 15 days and visit a few cities, Moscow, Kiev and Tolgaord- and then some cities in Europe, Vienna and Paris. Subj said that Rothenstreich's

COPIES MADE"}, {"bbox": [874, 2670, 1194, 2803], "category": "Text", "text": ""}]