SECURITY INFORMATION

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

SUBJECT: Henry Landowski

1. Attached is a detailed summary of the events surrounding the attempted utilization by Opc of Henry Landowski as a contract agent in Athens. Landowski was stationed in Athens by SS/PC with the cover of a journalist under contract with RFE to provide that organization with news of refugees coming into Greece from certain countries. Landowski was not integrated into RFE; he was associated with RFE under a contractual arrangement meant to provide him with a reasonable explanation for his income and office.

2. The relationship was not a successful one for several reasons:

Landowski himself was poorly suited for the assignment, and did not bring the necessary experience and skill required to maintain smooth working relations with RFE.

The Landowski assignment was not, in fact, compatible with RFE's decision to station a regular staff officer of its own in Athens. Since the functions of the two men appeared to overlap to an unreasonable degree, both were put in an awkward position.

RFE is not organised or designed to maintain covert relationships with contract agents notionally associated with it.

The liaison between CIA/opc and RFE was not, during the period under consideration, fully satisfactory in this instance. Quite minor problems became serious because of a lack of complete understanding between the two organisations.

3. This division concludes from the case that neither RFE nor (by inference) its parent, NCPE, is suitable for use as a cover instrument. An agent under cover is seen in the Landowski instance as raising staffing and organisational problems RFE has not been set up to handle. Because of the unsuitability of the arrangement, and because of the security risks involved, Landowski is being recalled from Athene, and will be disposed of as securely as possible.

GRAPIAN N. YAPSEVITCH Chief for Policy Coordination, SM

Attach: (1) 1. As stated in para. 1 Distribution: (See nr. 2)

SECRET!