CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH SECRET HUMA-31572

6. Subject was thoroughly debriefed upon his return from the USSR in early November 1966, at which time he continued to exhibit the same friendliness and cooperativeness noted in paragraph five. He reported that he was aware of no effort to assess, cultivate, or compromise him in the USSR. He provided information both on the formal proceedings of the conference and on individual Soviet and foreign participants, as well as on a Spanish businessman he met in Moscow. This information resulted in three Field Information Reports (HMM-10,870, 30 November 1966, HMM-10,871, 30 November 1966, HMM-10,875, 30 November 1966), one dispatch to Madrid (HMMA-30725, 1 December 1966), and a second to Santiago (HMMA-30749, 2 December 1966). Since furnishing information on his trip to the USSR, Subject has provided information on the travel of the Bolshoi Ballet in Mexico, on a Mexican traveler to the USSR, and on a Soviet student group which was slated to visit Mexico, but which for unknown reasons failed to arrive at the last minute.

7. The only Soviet Subject has recently been in contact with is LOGINOV, whom he occasionally sees on visa matters. According to Subject, their relationship during the past year has been strictly of a business nature and LOGINOV has shown no interest in extending it beyond this. Subject consequently appears to have little to offer in the way of an access agent to the Soviets in the foreseeable future. However, as the manager of one of five Mexican travel agencies representing Intourist and because of his apparently excellent contacts with key personnel of the other four travel agencies, he promises to be a useful referent on persons who book travel in Mexico to the Soviet Union and other Communist countries.

8. Despite the regularization of our relationship with Subject and his increased cooperativeness, we do not feel we are currently in a position to ask him to undergo an SGSWIRL interview. The relationship between the case officer and Subject at this time is essentially one of equals in which Subject is voluntarily assisting INFORT out of ideological motivation. It is true that his strong business interest in maintaining friendly relations with INFORT and INPURE provides us with a degree of control, but we feel that at present it is better left as a form of tacit control than brandished even subtly. It is our opinion that Subject would regard an SGSWIRL interview as an effort both to increase our control over him and to draw him deeper into the intelligence business. Such a reaction would in all probability undo much of our recent progress with Subject. Consequently, we would prefer to postpone an SGSWIRL interview until either we further solidify our relationship with Subject or we wish to use him in more sensitive work.

for Willard C. CURTIS

FORM 564 53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO