REPORT No. 351

MARIA RODRIGUEZ, about 29 years old. Comes from a comfortably-off peasant family in the Province of Orense. She is very sluggish and at every question repeats that she does not know and that women do not understand many things. She had only a little more than an hour to spare as she was busy in the evening and had to leave for the interior in the morning.

WAR — She says that she was surprised when she arrived in Havana as she thinks there is more enthusiasm in Spain than here and more confidence in an American victory. The peasants "like everyone else" would like the "American" to win, even those on the Right are sure the Germans will lose. She cannot explain the nature of Franco's assistance to Hitler, she says only that "as it was the Germans who won, Spain owes them more than it has". She cannot be explicit, either, about the dangers of war, but she says that Franco's soldiers, the young men in general, and as a concrete instance a number of hers who served five years in Franco's army, say that they will go up into the mountain and shoot before going again to the war. About the Division Azul she knows only that when it was first formed a volunteer left from her district. He was an outlaw who had committed crimes and she says that he went through fear of the consequences. The people do not like the Blue Division. They were not asked for anything for the "volunteers".

FUTURE PROSPECTS — She insists that there is great confidence that it will soon change. So much so that a Republican who was hidden for years and afterwards discovered told her to tell her husband "Do not leave because things will soon change". The village has a hundred inhabitants, and she says that they all hope it will change; but from what we can gather this confidence is based entirely on an Allied victory. She says that if the English opened a second front in Spain the people would revolt, but she says she has heard no opinions on this point. The people speak without fear. She relates that the Falangists tried to take a pistol from her father and that he hid it. They threatened him, they took him in a car telling them that they were going to knock his head off, but the old man remained firm, telling them to do what they liked. They did not do anything to him nor did they get the pistol. As an example of solidarity against the Falange the old man said he had sold the pistol to a man who was going to America. They told him to prove it, the old man brought as witnesses two peasants who lived more than a league away, without having agreed on a story first, but being quite convinced that the peasants when they saw the Falangists, if only for the sake of contradicting them, would say that what he said was true. A little later they sent him a notice for a Falangist meeting and he refused to go. She does not know if the other peasants did.

ARMY — She knows that at a short time ago they dismissed the 36 (1936) Draft. Her husband was on service in Orense and deserted and went to Cuba. Immediately the Captain of the Company and a lieutenant went to his house to make inquiries. His brother told them "In his circumstances I do not know what I would have done", and the captain and the lieutenant went away saying - "He is right".

PEASANTS. — As we have already said, she belongs to a family which is comfortably off, they have several labourers in their employ. She says that the day la bourers, and the farmer are equally against the Government and the Germans. To illustrate the situation she says that the daily wage is 20 pts. without food, and 5 with food.—They all prefer the 5 and food, because otherwise they have nothing to eat. The peasants are very discontented, and show it openly to the Falangist officials when they come to inspect the harvest and when they fix the prices, saying - "They have no right to do it, it is an abuse", but it appears that it goes no further then this. They have not requisitioned anything but they force them to sell to the official buyers who issue permits to authorised buyers. These individuals take the produce to large shops and amass real fortunes. A quintal of potatoes, they have to sell at 30 pts. and they are sold afterwards by the dealers at the standard rate of four or five ptas: the kilo, that is to say at a 800% profit, to private people who require them. And if the peasants take their produce to the market they have to sell it at the standard rate to the dealers. No peasant takes any rye to the market, they prefer to run the risk of selling it to private peo le. This is the only way