2. because she, Subject, though willing to pursue a platonic friendship with Andreev would have none of the other, and it was not unlikely that Georgina might captivate Andreev. There was Antonio Gara, Subject's current boyfriend, a bodyguard to Dias Ordas, who was giving evidence of growing serious about her. Subj was concerned that her participation in the operation might in some way cause harm to Antonio. Subject who entertains a host of artist friends at her home expressed concern that if she were followed and spied upon, a misleading impression might be gained.

5. Other personal matters about Subject that came out in the conversation were that she has income from stocks (sufficient to maintain her in Mexico), she is in visitante artists status, would like to attain inmigrado because she has difficulties with the Musicians Union (AMDA) that hampers pursuit of her profession; she is not interested in marriage; she is opposed to by-passing the limitations on her work imposed by her status.

6. The C.O.'s, in their guidance to Subject, made it clear that she could pull out of the operation any time she wanted, that it was in her power to terminate it either with us or with thesov, if she got involved with them. She was told that there was absolutely no harm that could fall her boy- friend, Antonio, from her continued participation. As for Georgina, the chips would have to fall as they may with Andreev; since Subject was Georgina's confidante, we would be appreciative of knowing about Andreev's involvement in any affair. She wanted to know why we were interested in Andreev, and the C.O.'s gladhanded her to the extent of telling her that it was our business to know about important Soviets, since one never knew when a Soviet might be in need of "help." Subject indicated she was willing to go along further at a slow pace.

7. In talking about the Soviet Victory reception, the presence there of LICRAVE-1 (his picture had been in the News) came up. Subject said she knew L-1. She characterized L-1 as flighty. She said he didn't get along with his wife. She intimated that when L-1 was lonely, he chased after female companionship. L-1 drops by Subject's place every so often. She knew that L-1 had left his father's business and had gone in for crop-dusting (a relatively recent development).

8. Arrangements were made that "Mort" would keep in touch with Subject about once a week by phone (Tel. 46-71-06, Calle Rio Nova #32) and that later she would be given an emergency number to call. PRU