2. In connection with the investigation and evaluation of General Pershing's staff, I consider, so far as I am informed by the War Department, that the selection in favor of Mr. Pershing is well based upon the complete records of his past service. I have no reason to doubt his ability to perform the duties of his position; and I recommend him most heartily for confirmation of this recommendation. I move also to recommend Major Mains for a transfer to the staff. I do not feel authorized to express my views on these two matters at present, but will保留 them in mind until further directions are received from your own organization. If he is determined to make himself available for immediate service in the event of any emergency which may occur, or if it becomes necessary to call upon him for support in an emergency, I will be ready to assist him. I also recommend to your consideration the substitution of General Thomas for Major Mains, as I believe it will considerably improve the efficiency of the force under whose direction he is nowlette. Dick Harris.

I highly recommend Mr. Babb as the best man available in the department, and would highly appreciate any time he could spare to assist me. He has shown a very great aptitude for organization, and it is my intention to employ him extensively in such事 as intelligence, etc., after the close of the present campaign. He is a true American, and will make a excellent officer when he comes into command. I know he will prove a valuable addition to our staff, and believe he will display the qualities we seek in officers, and who should fill the vacancies which have been created in the staff by the retirement of Mr. Mains.

Mr. Babb has the rare quality of not only of being a first-rate officer, but one of those who are able to adapt themselves to the conditions of life around them. He is a man of high principle, and will not suffer to be misused; and I place him beyond all question as one of the best men in the department.

Mr. Babb, I am sure, will prove a first-class officer; and I trust God will reward you for your great services.

I am so pleased with what Mr. Babb says about Mr. Harris, that I am willing to take the risk of putting him before you, Mr. Secretary. I think he would be a first-rate officer, and I am sure he would prove a credit to the cause to which he belongs. I wish you would let me know your decision as soon as possible, that I may begin to prepare myself for his appointment. I am quite satisfied that he would prove a first-rate officer, and expect him to do more than average. As to his character, I think he would be a first-rate officer, and would prove a first-rate choice. I am so confident of his能力, and so sure of his good character, that I do not see why he should not be appointed, even without reference to the recommendation of any other person. As to hisaska of course, I think he would be well Qualified to take the duties of the post, and would prove a first-rate officer.

Mr. Harris, I am so pleased with Mr. Babb, that I am willing to take the risk of putting him before you, Mr. Secretary. I think he would be a first-class officer, and I wouldRecommend him for confirmation. I know he will prove a first-rate officer, and I believe he will prove a first-rate choice. I am so confident of his ability, and so sure of his good character, that I do not see why he should not be appointed, even without reference to the recommendation of any other person. As to hisaska of course, I think he would be well Qualified to take the duties of the post, and would prove a first-rate officer. I am so confident of his ability, and so sure of his good character, that I do not see why he should not be appointed, even without reference to the recommendation of any other person.

Mr. Harris, I am so pleased with Mr. Babb, that I am willing to take the risk of putting him before you, Mr. Secretary. I think he would be a first-class officer, and I would Recommend him for confirmation. I know he will prove a first-rate officer, and I believe he will prove a first-rate choice. I am so confident of his ability, and so sure of his good character, that I do not see why he should not be appointed, even without reference to the recommendation of any other person.

Mr. Harris, I am so pleased with Mr. Babb, that I am willing to take the risk of putting him before you, Mr. Secretary. I think he would be a first-class officer, and I would Recommend him for confirmation. I know he will prove a first-rate officer, and I believe he will prove a first-rate choice. I am so confident of his ability, and so sure of his