SEC

The writer has administrative ability on a supervisory level. Within a military setup, he could take orders as well as issue them, although he prefers the latter. He can be systematic and methodical in his approach. He can work out a blueprint of an intricate undertaking and supervise its proper execution. He will quickly and easily adapt to fluctuations in a situation and change his tactics accordingly.

He is skillful in manipulating numbers, and he can think in large terms and transactions. Apparently, he is quite interested in money, and he seems to know how to get the best possible advantage out of a financial transaction.

He possesses great facility in expressing himself orally and in writing. He can make his points palatable and can be quite convincing in his arguments. Also, he can formulate his ideas and purposes in different ways, depending on with whom he is dealing. He should have talent for learning foreign languages. He is a gifted person who will exploit his talents in line with the demands that are put before him. He also seems to have physical training and skills. He has a natural feeling for form, sound and color. He probably has developed artistic appreciation and may have an artistic hobby, possibly music.

Emotionally, the writer is complex but fairly well balanced. Innately impressionable and sensitive, he has hardened himself in the course of his life in order to be less vulnerable. He has his feelings and impulses under fairly good control and avoids being carried away by them. In his private life, though, he may tend to be somewhat excitable and irritable. He is self-centered and most interested in his personal advantage. This is a trait that he tries to cover up by being smooth and pleasing in his dealings with people. He possesses natural psychological understanding and can be very diplomatic. He manages to appear outgoing and social while basically he is quite reserved and detached. He seems to avoid emotional involvements in order to preserve his objectivity.

SEC...