MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, External Activities Branch, SSD

SUBJECT : Manuscript by David Phillips

1. The following passages are a compilation of observations made by the SSU regarding Mr. Phillips' manuscript. The comments are by no means a total list of reservations concerning the submitted chapters but those noted from the perspective of the SSU.

2. In general the undersigned felt somewhat enlightened but rather uncomfortable in reading the submitted manuscript. This uneasy feeling appears to be based upon two impressions. Throughout the text, there is an obvious effort on the part of Mr. Phillips to "set the record straight" with regard to events, techniques and activities involving the CIA. Regrettably, as is often the case when one attempts to clarify and present the real facts, there is a possibility of further compounding a confused and ambiguous circumstance. Because of the various ramifications of the activities of the Agency, the SSU gained the feeling that more was lost rather than won in Mr. Phillips' efforts. The second disarming impression is that because an individual has proved to be an effective and successful CIA operations officer, there is no clear-cut assurance that he can achieve the same success as an author. The SSU was continually pained by Mr. Phillips' efforts to employ certain techniques often seen in spy fictions. The problem with author Phillips is that he is not writing fiction and has been identified as a former CIA employee with over 25 years in intelligence service. Although Mr. Phillips labored to introduce some humor into his manuscript, some of his anecdotes appear to be in bad taste.

3. The following comments are codified to complement those parts of the manuscript reviewed in this reading.

Epilogue

Page 6: Although Mr. Phillips makes a considerable effort to conceal the true identity of "Abe", there is a question as to whether the fact that two cables were sent from Headquarters to Chile in May 1973, and if this manuscript is the proper vehicle to surface such information.

E. L. IMPDET CL BY C-61196