TO: Chief, KUDOS FROM: Chief of Station, London Attachment to OELA-43,589

13 July 1965

Dear Kedeenbach,

I'm pleased you have received at least one of my letters, but I still wonder if you got a large envelope containing three letters which had been held and returned all at once. As one of the letters was rather detailed and dealt with matters of some importance, I'm rather disconcerted -- to say the least -- before I can think that it may not have found its way to you. The envelope measured 8 by 5 inches and was light tan in color. A confirmation of its receipt would be appreciated.

Of course, I understood about the service, the newsletter, not being a definite thing. In any case, I am not looking for a sinecure, but for a good, deep cover and that seemed to be one. It also gave me something to offer contacts within and would have strengthened my position considerably. At present, my cover is as light as the Emperor's new clothes.

Still no positive reply from any publication in the States, and the general silence from my American "friends" is not very encouraging. Here, the situation is much-better-and if I can get to Algiers in good time, after visiting Grippa and Andersson and seeing some contacts in Paris, my position will be better, but I still see myself representing the West Indian Gazette or Cinnanon and/or the Institute of Race Relations. Mrs. Sheila Patterson, their editor, even suggested that I do a short paperback book for them, gathering together the conference documents with an analysis. All of this is better than nothing, but it definitely isn't much.

On the other hand, for the future, Noureddine Medjdoub, who has been Tunisian cultural attaché here, is returning to Tunis to take over the editorship of the Socialist Destour Party paper, L'Action. He has suggested that I write some features for him, after the Afro-Asian Conference in Algiers and that I try to get to Tunis to discuss future projects with him while I am in North Africa. You well know what many Africans and Arabs think of Tunisia at present, so there may not be much that we can do with this arrangement.

This afternoon, I saw Dennis Phombeah at the Tanganian High Commission. Until three months ago, he was at the U.N. He claims that Verges came to London last December and saw Babu about me and other matters, but that Babu was not convinced. He says he did not know that I was in London until recently -- this was our first meeting since the spring of 1964. Now, he proposes that he try to get the editorship of The Nationalist, the TANU paper in Dar es Salaam, for me. We will discuss the matter again at lunch next Monday. It would be a fixed post in Dar and I can't yet fathom why he is willing to suggest me for the job. He claims he has not been in touch with Verges.

CS COPI

STEBONK/1 201-306052

off 1 to OELA-43589