to Subj's being inside the Soviet Union. Subj said that personally he had no great desire to go to the Soviet Union, on three counts: 1) the climate; 2) "he is pleasant and beautiful" (as is also buying that if he was out of race with the Soviets they wouldn't put out the red carpet for him as they did previously); and 3) he was plain afraid.

The latter was immediately touched some hidden spring in Subj. Heretofore Subj had limited access to calling the Soviets "bentards" etc., and anti-semitic. Now, Subj chided himself for doing so little to alleviate the lot of the Jews in the Soviet Union. He declared that the Soviet Union was the worst offender against the Jews, because they were eliminating the race, not through physical extermination, but through forcing assimilation. His own view was that the Soviets were more dangerous to the Jews and Israel than were the Arabs, for instance Lebanon or Jordan, who if it weren't for fear of Nasser would make their peace with Israel.

The C/O tried to counteract the self-recrimination of Subj by telling him that he had accomplished a superb job in the dual of the West with the Soviets through his cooperation with us. That, in view of his real feelings about the Soviets, his dealing with them had been masterful. Subj shook off the C/O's optimistic view of Subj's contribution to the "cause."

4. The C/O brought up the request to get full details on the travel of all non-Soviets to the Soviet Union - and suggested that Subj automatically have duplicates made of the visa requests for such people. Subj said that would be simple - and he would instruct "Miriam" (the employee who handles INTUPIST travel) to make copies of all applications for visas./ Comments: the C/O asked Subj if Miriam (Avila Katz) were going to remain in his employ, not taking a job at the Israeli Embassy - and Subj replied that she was going to stay on in Subj's firm/.

Subj had remarked that he was going to discuss the matter of making the Moscow trip with his wife. The C/O asked that Subj advise us as soon as he had come to a decision- either for or against going to the Soviet Union.

The C/O told Subj that he would pass by his office next week to pick up the copies of the INTUPIST material.

CARDED COPIES MADE

PRM

CR-P0710 9 Oct 66 qwp

P-551