14-0000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

CC'INTRY: Cuba

SUBJECT: Plans and Activities of the Direcc theory Revolucíonario

REPORT NO. EN-1132

DATE OF INFO: October 1956 - 9 March 1957

DATE ACQUIRED: 9-10 March 1957

DATE OF REPORT: 11 March 1957

SOURCE: SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT:

Source Member of Directorio Revolucíonario (F)

Content 3

1. Così Antonio DEVERIA Elías2 and Juan HUIBY Sánchez,2 leaders of the Direcc theory Revolucíonario Unitánte34 (Monetary Student Directory) formed at the University of Miami, not in October 1956 in Miami, Florida, with two delegates of FICAT CNT. This and with Corredorilo Securities to plan this uprising against the EUMC regime. The delegation of the three groups agreed on a plan which called for Castro's group to lead in Orienta and the other two groups to go into action at the same time in support of Castro's leader and subsequent activities. Feustín Yéz,15,26 and José Manó 27,28 who were filled in the Gloria Iastra fighting, was Castro's delegate: Carlos VILLARREAL,29 former Minister of Labor, accompanied by the FNC.

2. After the reintegration of Co., Col., Antonio ELACCO Lico in late October 1955, Così, Huely, and other members of the Direcc theory Revolucíonario Unitánte34 led it to go into hiding because they were accused by President Fulgenciano Llanado of being part of the authors of ELACCO Lico's book. Since then they have been working discreetly to expel them, end, and prepare their group to go into action. There are currently two men hidden in the Ilona area executing the goal to eliminate, end other groups are really throughout the land. Corredorilo group is exiled from Cuba by personnel, etc. the code words are, as well, from any person that has been told to join this group but have not been incorporated into the group for lack of proper arms. The Direcc theory has also been in contact with any personnel and hopes that many of the troops will depart or go over to the Direcc theory side when the fighting begins.

3. The Direcc teoria does not know or understand why the FHC group, which is believed to be controlled, has not gone into action so far. The Direcc teoria knows that he has given instructions to his group leaders to remain quiet, but the reasons behind these instructions have not been determined.