LISBON REPORT #221, Jan 8

* Ben Jan (3)

Subject: PRESIDENT BEN BELIA'S VI. B.

PADA: Ben Bella's apartment, Villa Jol., 24-220A Jan 8 N.B. BEN BELIA REQUESTED ANY OF THESE VIES BE KEPT PRIVATE. 1. The moment of crisis in Algeria is over, and relatively speaking a breathing spell is here. Opposition is still, with the students and labor unions won over, the Federation disbanded, other opposition dispirited or too organized to be effective, and the people persuaded to give Ben Bella's government a lengthy and sincere support to overcome Algerian problems. For the first time since emerging from prison, Ben Bella is getting six or seven hours sleep per night. He is relaxed, calm, confident.

2. Algeria's greatest problem now is reconstruction of the economy, including housing, agricultural reform, dose and irrigation, and some roads. In this respect, foreign aid is essential. He wishes that talks with the U.S. could start as soon as possible, and feels the best method to do this is to have an economic delegation visit Algeria to see on the spot the needs and special conditions. (He repeated several times that he wished the talks could start as soon as possible.) As for aid, he does not wish aid "which will help us eat better or have a higher standard of living" but rather aid "which will be of a developmental, constructional type" to permit the Algerian economy to help itself. In reply to the question whether he hoped more aid would come from the U.S. than from Russia, he said "I hope so, I hope so." (He gave the slight impression he felt the U.S. was much better equipped to aid.. The preliminary estimate of the government committee for the reconstruction of Algeria $50 billion is one hundred billion francs. This figure might go higher, but the final figure will be what Algeria will ask from France in additional help over the next two years." He stressed his appreciation for the American Ambassador, Dr. Porter, saying one of his most valuable qualities is that he actually loves the Algerian people, a trait extremely appreciated by him and the Algerian people.

3. The above he is in addition to the regular administrative budget and the operational budget. The administrative budget of 280 billion francs is a balanced budget, with receipts -as socially because of the new taxes-expected without fail to equal expenditures. He mentioned several times that Algeria is too proud to ask anyone else to pay its administrative budget, i.e., pay its running expenses.

4. On the question of the economy, there will be a code established soon which will delimit the private and public sections of the economy. He was powered that some people do not believe there will be a private section, and said "People will someday I am to take me at my word. If I didn't mean it, I didn't have to say it. And if I change my mind, I will say that too, and I will give the reasons. But, there will be a private section of economy, and we do want foreign private investment."

5. Land reform in Algeria is and will be an experiment never tried anywhere. There will be both collective and state farms—Ben Bella does not believe in giving land to individual persons because out-of-plots are economically un-productive. And in any case, the question of co mural lands has been a trite! estor in Algeria for thousands of years, which even the French could never wholly erase, and the new arrangements are but a slight change from this one custom. To meet this argument, he pointed to the fact that the presents have