Mrs. Anna A. Tarashoff

Dear Mrs. Tarashoff:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you, as a Contract Employee, for the use of your services and the performance of duties of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideration for the use of your services and the performance of specified confidential duties, you will be compensated in an amount calculated at the rate of $2.50 per hour. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government. Taxes will be withheld from them and submitted by the United States Government.

2. Benefits. (a) You will be entitled to death and disability benefits equal to those authorized under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended. Claims by you, your heirs or legal representatives under this paragraph will be processed by the Government in accordance with its procedures in such manner as not to hinder security.

(b) You will be entitled to sick and annual leave equal to and subject to the same rules and regulations applicable to Government employees. Such annual leave may only be taken at times and places approved in advance by appropriate representatives of the Government.

(c) You will be entitled to continuation of pay and allowances in a manner similar to that set forth in the Mailing Persons Act (59 U.S.C.A., App. 1001-1015).

(d) The Government will withhold from the compensation due you under this agreement social security deductions in conformance with the basic social security legislation, as amended, and the procedures of this Organization. For reasons of security, all inquiries concerning your relationship to the social security system shall be made directly to this Organization, and in no event may any such procedure be presented by you or on your behalf to any representative of the governmental unit responsible for implementing the social security system.

3. Execution of Terms. If in the performance of services under this contract you secure the custody of Government funds or the title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situated, which property has, in fact, been purchased with proceeds of the U.S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.

4. Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason thereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the Espoialce laws, cited 25 June 1968, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.