17. MILITARY EXPERTISE.-In order to make the best use of this appendix, you should know, before the end of each month, both the number and the type of courses you have attended, and also the results of your study during that month. In the service, write in Item (a) "No further training necessary." and also in Item (b) "I will continue" or "Give details." If you do not complete a course wholly, and find yourself without any further opportunities for improvement, write in Item (c) "I am not合格 for any further training," and indicate in Item (d) how many months you intend to remain in the service. Be sure to state clearly in Item (e) what you are to do with your records if you are to leave the service.

See appendix "B"

Location:

Dates attended (months, years):

(c) Duty assignment or rating after this training (note all significant changes in duty assignment whether or not you attend a Service School). (d) Will you do during this duty assignment?

Dates of duty assignment (months, years):

From: To:

(g) Second Special Service School attended

Location:

Dates attended (months, years):

From: To:

Rating received at end of this training:

(h) Duty assignment after this training: (i) Will you do during this duty assignment?

Dates of duty assignment (months, years):

From: To:

List on a separate sheet of paper any additional experience, training, service, or special duty assignments during in active service or hospitalization.

EDUCATION

EDUCATION.-Circle highest grade completed

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12

Mark (a) the appropriate box to indicate satisfactory completion of

Elementary School Junior High School Senior High School

English, History.

(a) Name and Location of College or University Major Years Attended Degrees Conferred Commuter Hours Credit

From- To- Day Night Title Date

Loyola University, N.O. La A & S 1915 1919 x AB 1919 ?

Harvard Law School, Cambridge Law 1920 1923 x I&L B 1923 ?

Tulane University, N.O. La Law 1924 1925 x I&L B 1925 ?

(b) List Your Chief Undergraduate College Subjects Let Your Chief Graduate College Subject

Philosophy, Eng. Science</td