Report No. 344

Ruiz dictates to Nilda: "The Cuban Embassy greets the Minister of Foreign Affairs and has the pleasure to request the corresponding permission to carry a pistol, "Star" 9 m.m. short, No. 50, 234, which at the present time is being held in the offices of the "Star" factory, in the Plaza de Espana, for _______________, whose photograph is attached."

Ruiz is talking with a Cuban who is in Madrid on a scholarship.

They are talking of bringing a teacher from Cuba and Ruiz says that this would be very difficult. He says that instruction is given by professors, but education is given by the parents, and what the children will be demands on his education. Ruiz says that his father made him a communist. Of all the children, he was the only one that studied, but it was his father that formed them all. From the time he was a small child his father gave him books of Lenin to read. These books arrived clandestinely to Cuba. He remarks about problems his own children have given him. He refers to an incident where one of the children was invited to a First Communion, and speaks of the freedom he gave the child to make his First Communion also, if he wanted to.

Then Ruiz says that his other son "ALEJANDRO, is inclined to remain in Spain, and he is willing to let him if this is what the boy wants. He says that these things have to come from one's own self, and if they are opposed in these actions it can leave marks on them for the rest of their lives. Ruiz says he gives them the liberty to choose.

Ruiz told this student with whom he is conversing that Alejandro DE LA MUEZ has gone to the United States, and adds that De La Muez' wife never came to meetings or reunions that were hold at the embassy. She always gave as an excuse that her nerves were bad. Ruiz says that De La Muez took the money with him.

This comrade (F) left at 12:15. He said goodbye to her very cordially. Apparently around the 29th of the month she is going to Paris.

Later Ruiz entered the office again and put the radio on very loud. He didn't leave the office all morning, but the radio continued to play very loud; so much so that you can hardly tell when anyone goes in or out of the office.

Report 345

18 June 1970

Apparently they have received a document in which all the Chiefs of Mission have been called to Cuba for the third week of July, as some of them can make it coincide with their leave. He tells Curbelo that he intends to send Nilda either before or after he leaves.