responsibilities. In the most recent recommendation, Chief of Station, Tokyo emphasized that Mr. Randall's performance was characterized by exceptional proficiency in all respects of his assigned duties, and, therefore, endorsed his previous recommendation, and strongly recommended Mr. Randall's promotion to GS-14 at an early date.

4. In the most recent fitness report on Mr. Randall, he was rated over-all "Strong" and was given "Outstanding" for the Specific Duty Number One, "PBRAMPART Officer." In the narrative comment on Mr. Randall's performance the rating officer characterized Mr. Randall as capable,amusatile, and as having a fine career potential. Further, the rating officer stated that "because of his sound operational background, presence of mind, forceful reasoning, and the consideration the military therefore holds for him, Mr. Randall has been able to play a prime part in our excellent PBRAMPART posture." The Chief of Station, in commenting on the rating officer's fitness report: on Mr. Randall, heartily concurred with the rating officer's description of Mr. Randall's performance and described Mr. Randall's contribution to the Station as being of the highest caliber.

5. In endorsing the recommendation of Chief of Station, Tokyo. I wish to add that, from my personal knowledge of Mr. Randall's performance, he is a thoroughly reliable and competent case officer. In watching the PBRAMPART activities during the past year, I strongly commend Tokyo Station and Mr. Randall for effecting certain improvements of what was already a rather efficient coordination process. Mr. Randall's job in not always a happy one because he would rather be more active in clarifying operational activities; however, if Tokyo Station had a less experienced and less competent officer handling the PBRAMPART coordination activities, this particularly important area of our responsibilities would certainly suffer. For this and the reasons set forth above, Mr. Randall's performance deserves recognition by a promotion to GS-14 at this time.

CLARENCE W. EDWARDS CHIEF, PMI-KO