(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - ca. 1953-June 1955)

electronic equipment which American Intelligence officers were known to be using during their travels inside the Soviet Union. As early as the beginning of 1954, the American Department had been given authorization from the Central Committee of the Communist Party to steal this equipment from the Americans, provided that the success of such an operation was assured. Before his transfer to the Seventh Department in 1955, NOSENKO himself had helped to develop plans for the operation and had even arranged an abortive attempt to seize the equipment from an Attache at a railroad station outside Moscow. While BENSON, MULE and STROUD were on one of their trips (after NOSENKO's transfer) it was learned that they had the equipment with them, and the KGB decided to take it from them in Stalingrad. The hotel rooms of BENSON, STROUD, and MULE were watched constantly from a visual observation post, and it was noted that they never ate in the hotel restaurant but always in their rooms. It was also noted that the apparatus was placed under a pillow before they began to eat. While they were seated at the table having dinner, therefore, the KGB officers suddenly entered the room and seized the equipment. In order to partially cover the illegality of this act, it was decided to make a show of expelling BENSON, MULE and STROUD from the Soviet Union, and this was done by having the Foreign Ministry declaring each persona non grata.

Comment: The equipment was seized from BENSON, MULE and STROUD on 5 May 1955, and the three were declared persona non grata on 7 May, a month before NOSENKO claimed to have transferred to the Seventh Department. When the 7 May date was given to NOSENKO during the February 1965 interrogations, he replied that the operation was handled at a higher level, that he did not directly participate in it, but that he had been involved in the earlier planning to seize the equipment. It was pointed out to him that he had always said he was in the Seventh Department at the time of this operation, and that he had consistently said that he transferred from the American to the Seventh Department in June 1955. NOSENKO offered no comment.

0001366

TS No. 197124

Copy ____