Brazil junta gives in

RIO DE JANEIRO, Sept. 5 (UPI) - The Brazilian government bowed today to the demands of a band of very deter-mined men who kidnaped U.S. Ambassador C. Burke Elbrick and threatened to execute them.

The Foreign Ministry announced it would free 13 political prisoners as demanded. The announcement came barely an hour and 20 minutes before expiration of an ultimatum that presumably would have meant death for the 61-year-old envoy.

The ambassador was seized by a band of four men on a Rio de Janeiro street Thursday and the kidnappers set a deadline of 48 hours for their demands to be met. They repeated the ultimatum this morning but moved up the deadline for acceptance of their demands 2:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. EDT today.

The government announcement came at 12:30 p.m. (11:30 a.m. EDT) after it received a hand written note from the ambassador to his wife saying that he was alive and well but asking the government to accept to what he called "very, very determined" men.

There had been two original demands - release of the undetained six Swiss and the publication of the intelligence report which described the government as a "dictatorship." The offer was made public late Sunday.

DELEGATION TO CUBA, CPUSA: (left to right) Ted Bassett, S. Taylor, Henry Winston, Fern Winston, Ronald Stevenson, Jean Sequeira.

By TOM FOLEY

NEW YORK, Sept. 5 — American consumers may be offered sugar and steel because the United States does not have normal relations with Cuba. Henry Winston, national chairman of the Communist Party, said Tuesday:

command, the Foreign Minister and high national authorities.

This way the responsibility will be completely upon the head of the kidnappers for the safety of Ambassador D. Burke Elbrick, the statement said.

The kidnappers were believe to be members of "MR 8," guerrilla group made up mostly of Brazilian university students. Their initials stand for "Movimiento Revolucionaria and the "8" refer to the date of the death of Ernesto Guevara, the Cuban revolutionary killed in Bolivia Oct. 2 1967.

Swiss protest Westmoreland planned visit

GENEVA — General Westmoreland, U.S. Chief of Staff, will make an official four-day visit to Switzerland beginning Sept. 11.

Westmoreland, formerly commander-in-chief of U.S. armed forces in South Vietnam, will familiarize himself with the state of combat readiness of the Swiss-armed forces, and will also meet a number of Swiss military training centers.

"We're sure," a Swiss officer, organ of the Swiss Party, says Labor, reports that the private press in Switzerland is interested against Westmoreland's visit because the bears respect