(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962)

Attempted Recruitment of STORSBERG?

NOSENKO'S Information-1962

NOSENKO first alluded to a KGB attempt to recruit an unnamed American military code clerk during his initial meeting with CIA in 1962. He was describing a new technique (which he later claimed to be his own idea) introduced in the 1960-1961 period to overcome the reluctance of Americans in Moscow to develop friendships with Soviet citizens. Beginning in 1960 the KGB instructed "third-national" agents (Germans, Frenchmen, and Finns, for example) to visit the American Club on Kropotkinskaya Naberezhnaya to cultivate American enlisted men living there. (GOLITSYN learned of one such agent of NOSENKO and the KGB concluded that GOLITSYN had reported the KGB practise to the Americans, because foreigners no longer were permitted to enter the America House billets freely for dances, movies, and the like at the club there.) NOSENKO had recruited the agent known to GOLITSYN in order to develop an American military code clerk. Without identifying either the foreign agent or the American target, NOSENKO provided further details on the case in subsequent meetings.

Recruiting a military code clerk from the Embassy was the American Embassy Section's "number one assignment", and for a year NOSENKO was involved in an operation against such a target almost to the exclusion of all other duties. The case was considered to be the "number one" case, and KGB Chairman SHELEPIN as well as Second Chief Directorate Chief GRIBANOV impatiently inquired as to its progress. The target was an American Army sergeant with about 20 years' service who, the KGB learned, wanted to retire and take a position as a code clerk with the State Department. For the purpose of developing the target, NOSENKO recruited a foreigner who visited the USSR frequently. The "third-national" agent was placed in contact with the American, and they had several drinking bouts together. After about two months, NOSENKO instructed his agent to take the American to the agent's hotel room and introduce him there to a KGB female agent.

0001436

TS No. 197124 Copy ____

166