Reel 72-KICO-31

21.5 In. Miric with Inge Kico, who answers, for VKG. He is out. He will probably have news when he comes home and she will have hi- phone Miric if it is early.

22.0 In. Miric with Inge Kico, who answers. VKG is not back. VKG is at house of Jose Luis Gonzalez. They are waiting on call from there (Dominican Republic). Miric has had an official communication on this matter and would like to tell VKG. What is the phone where VKG is? Moment...

He is at 24-07-15. Thanks.

22.2 Out to 31-06-06. VKG with Jovan (Miric), who answers. VKG says they were waiting on call from Casanare, but did not go through. Will be tomorrow. Apparently will name "Marcio Mejia Ricart as Amb. in United Nations. VKG did not think it a good. Miric says it is all right for the state they are in. Another man were will be named Amb. in Mexico. Miric comments says that they must make this movement. Miric has the communique. Dechamps gave it to VKG. The most important part is point out that Harris is lying. Miric says that "what this man is doing, he is influential, no? ...follows a cause and is doing some foolish things." Does VKG know what happened in China? No. Thousands and thousands against - after Buenos Aires day before yesterday. Miric also has (xenex) (declaration) of the Permanent Commission of Congress - approving the censure of gov't. VKG saw it.

What is VKG's idea of panora-a? YAG thinks they won't leave. Miric agrees - that this is long-time affair (U.S. occupation).

Miric saw the (inauguration) of Casanare. He has personality. Is only 33 years old. Does Miric know that Casanare told Marcio (Mejia) yesterday that he had 50,000 more rifles. Yes, Miric sent in this. notice yesterday...They are in the North. They are still in revolution. This is just a breather.

Perhaps can get together tomorrow. Miric has to go out early tomorrow. Could have lunch together - near CEPAL meeting. CEPAL is under the same shade of Dominican affair. VKG can get all material on speeches. But nothing is important on their decisions... everything is under shade (of this affair). Miric will follow the speeches. Can meet near "Siempre." Can eat at Oreo (7ph). Miric has not been there for years. Can meet there. Best later than 1200. Miric will pick vkg up at "Siempre" at 1300. Fine.

Reel off at KT 23.7, 0630, 7 May 1965