U301125

Esperanto - a language, code or book of the world's intelligence of itself in itself.

Foghorn-skyline - one layer of chief of the world's intelligence of itself in itself.

Sowiet (in groups) in 1957-1958.

Ridkun - in 1957- a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Gurnils' skyline - a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Lickin - in 1952- a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Shirley's - a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Balkan - an officer of the party intelligence point of intelligence of the HFF in Sowiet, Kaliningrad and its district in 1958.

Diliver - in 1957- a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Aldrich - an officer of the party intelligence point of intelligence of itself in itself in itself.

Kling - in 1958- a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Lickin - in 1957- a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Wolken - an officer of itself in itself.

Belge - an officer of itself in itself.

Hers - an officer of itself in itself.

Dollars - an officer of itself in itself.

Doyle - an officer of itself in itself.

Mars - an officer of itself in itself.

Meister - in 1960- a military archive of secret service abroad.

Johans - in 1960- a military archive of secret service abroad.

Meister, Meistert, Mistert, Mistert &c., durchs Distich.

Admirals - in 1964- the intelligence point of intelligence of itself in itself.

Soviets, Liberated人民的distich.

Heiseer - in 1959- an military archive of secret service abroad.

Hollands - in 1963- an military archive of secret service abroad.

Meisner - in 1964- an military archive of secret service abroad.

Savitzky, Meistert, Meistert &c., durchs Distich.

Hawker's - a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Chernik's - a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Lissitz's - a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Reich - in 1958- a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Piki - in 1959- a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Schulz's - a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Knecht - in 1962- a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Vitton - in 1954- a colorant, worked in the department of foreign affairs of the ministry of defense.

Bouwkamp - in 1957-1958.

Oberlehr - an officer of itself in itself.

Schweizer - an officer of itself in itself.

Werthe