-2 DESERTED ESTA-3489 KAPOK

of Alberto DUGERC (the Argentine shipping magnate) and is living in France at the present time.

5. It is our thought that perhaps subject's unusual personality and in the cover-job he now occupies could be exploited to advantage by this Station and the organization as a whole. Subject has absolute freedom of movement outside France (usually by TWA), entries into practically any milieu his assignments might require and is known to be an intelligent, hard-working and patriotic individual.

6. On a recent tour of inspection of the TWA circuit, Warren L. PIERSON, Chairman of the Board of TWA, assured subject he would endeavor to secure for him an additional allotment of funds to supplement his present expense account budget. Due to budgetary restrictions this has not been possible and subject is at present seeking another more remunerative position, since he claims that his present income of approximately $666.00 monthly (including expense account) is insufficient to permit him to live in Paris and maintain the contacts and activity required by his job. According to UNMOVED, subject is at present endeavoring to secure from his good friend Benjamin KATZ(President of the Gruen Watch Co.) the sales agency for Gruen watches in Europe. Meanwhile, however, subject is not contemplating resigning his position with TWA until he has a firm and more remunerative position. UNMOVED states that subject plans to remain with TWA at least until the end of the year, by which time he may have secured something better. Subject has also had talks with James A. FARLEY (on his recent trip to France) concerning the possibility of handling the Coca-Cola agency here. Nothing has come of this possibility to date, but subject appears to be hopeful.

7. UNMOVED is of the opinion that subject would be most receptive to a proposition of doing intelligence work and furthermore believes that if subject could supplement his present income by an additional $200 or $300 per month, he would be willing to remain with TWA, which he likes and is only considering leaving due to his present low total income, much of which is spent in connection with activities required by his position.

8. UNMOVED has, of course, never even hinted to subject anything about his own undercover activities and is sure subject does not suspect that the former is doing anything but his cover work in France. UNMOVED, when questioned as to his opinion concerning subject's potential value as a covert agent, as well as his recuitability, has pointed out very strongly that subject, due to the very nature of his personality, must be given a good deal of operational guidance and be closely controlled. Questioned as to whether some other individual should endeavor to recruit subject, UNMOVED was of the opinion that, should the organization desire to do so, he would be best fitted to exploit subject's potential, since

US CUFM COPY 3-53489

261-53489