CHANGES

A. Operational - Since the institution of the changes described in the previous renewal request, it has not been found necessary or desirable to make further major changes. The following minor changes in operational technique have been made in an effort to obtain continued improvement in the finished product:

1. LIEMPTY-9's proven effectiveness as an observer (see paragraph 3 A (3) below) has enabled us to institute a system of special coverage on specific FJSTEAL personnel of interest, or special coverage of specific time periods of interest. The purpose is to permit the Station to gain greater insights into the activities and personal associations of certain individuals, or in overall activities during a certain time period. No change in LIEMPTY-9's overall working hours has been made; rather, flexibility has been introduced.

2. Flexibility has also been introduced into the handling of LIENTRAP, which is now working more closely with the LIEMBRACE team in order to take greater advantage of targets of opportunity. To this end, LIEMBRACE-1 has been placed in direct contact with LIENTRAP, relieving Raymond H. GERENDE of this responsibility and permitting GERENDE to devote time to MHRAVEL activity (see sub-paragraph (3) below).

3. In September and October 1967 GERENDE was employed by the Mexican MHRAVEL committee. This position gave him direct access to FJSTEAL and other delegations of interest, and supplemented the Station's MHRAVEL program. It is expected that GERENDE will obtain MHRAVEL employment again in 1968.

B. Financial - LIEMPTY-4 and -11 were granted salary increases effective 1 July 1967. Memoranda of Oral Commitment were forwarded to Headquarters in HMMA-32584 and HMMA-32585, 20 July 1967. There was no change in the salaries of the remaining LIEMPTY agents.

C. Personnel - None.

EFFECTIVENESS

Throughout the period under review, each operational component of Project LIEMPTY contributed actively and concretely to the fulfillment of the operational tasks levied on Station Mexico City. High-lights of the accomplishments and the achievements of each component are cited below: