to stress or suffering misfortune, some of the inverse traits begin to show: Uncontrollable outbursts of fury, impulsive reactions, peevish vindictiveness and self-pity (some of which have been observed by us firsthand).

6. Imbued with a somewhat shallow philosophy, AMBIDDY-1 is prone to tailor ideas to what he strives to accomplish at any given moment and to the impression he desires to leave with his opponents. Since he rightly views his relationship with the Americans as crucial toward the achievement of main goal, vis., to overthrow and succeed Castro, his pronouncements usually how close to what he conceives to represent the main lines of American thought.

7. AMBIDDY-1's personality feeds on adulation and surface manifestations of loyalty, despite the fact that he claims to view loyalty to his person as ephemeral and as under continuing threat of subversion, especially by his American allies. To the extent possible, we have attempted to assuage his preoccupations on that score.

8. In the final analysis, AMBIDDY-1 trusts only himself and views even his closest associates as mere pawns whose relative value fluctuates as the chess game progresses.

9. Endowed with an inquisitive and retentive mind, AMBIDDY-1 has a remarkable knowledge of facts which in any discussion he ably marshals and articulates.

10. AMBIDDY-1's views of things American is conditioned by his quest for a key position in the struggle to overthrow Castro. Hence, any advice is selectively accepted or (usually tacitly) rejected, depending on whether it serves to strengthen that position. There is, of course, nothing reprehensible about this.

11. AMBIDDY-1 relates to his environment in essentially conspiratorial terms. His world is peopled with demons and saints, the latter frequently epitomized by CIA, the former by the Department of State. All American moves toward himself and his organization are interpreted by him in those terms.

12. AMBIDDY-1 probably fancies himself as an adopt student of human behavior. Applying as a gauge his choice of intimateness andbedmate, he appears to be capable of committing appalling blunders in his judgments of human nature.

Escrowed by First Amendment own depositing and depreciable as long as