FACTS ABOUT RESISTANCE. — In Spain acts of sabotage are carried out on the railways, factories, etc., although he cannot decide whether these are organised actions decreed by illegal organisations of Spanish Republicans or are spontaneous acts of workers who are enemies of the Falangist regime. He does not know any concrete instance of the activity of the workers’ organisations, C.P.S., etc., but when he was in Madrid on the 22nd and 23rd of last June, there was a film on called "The Thieves are Honest Men". There were thousands of lampoons done on that, some very clever and suggestive which were scattered throughout Madrid. According to our informant, one day the lampoons appeared printed in the same type lettering as the poster, with the following - "Words of the Caudillo, from a recent speech". For this reason there were arrests and a number of beatings in Madrid. He also saw how the people had lost their fear. In the Gran Via in Madrid a man cried out that he was not only red but communist, and he could not endure this any more. Apparently the people told him to be silent but he did not take any notice. The R.A.F. bombardment of Cologne, which was known in Spain from the English broadcasts, was celebrated almost all over Spain by the people who stayed up much later than the usual time in the streets, drinking in bar, etc. He says that even the police took part as they are largely Anglophile.

GUERILLeros — He says that there are many in Asturias; there is a state of war. There are Moors and the 'Tercio'. The guerilleros appear occasionally in the villages and average the deaths of anti-fascists who have been murdered by the Falange. They take food and clothes. Once his car was stopped by a group of them in the street of Llanos. They were dressed as Falangists. Then he showed his papers as Consul of Cuba and proved he was not the previous consul Pena, a known Falangist, they saluted him and said - "Long live the people of Cuba". He says that although they behaved correctly he was rather afraid. He knows that a short time ago the guerilleros of Castelnova had fight with the Civil Guard and killed several people, among them some well known Communists in the district. It appears that the Guerilleros are magnificently armed.

FUTURE PROSPECTS. — He believes firmly that Hitler will be defeated this year. He has great faith in the people of Spain and France, etc. Nazi-dominated Europe will arise, since this life cannot continue "even one winter more". He is confident that the U.S.S.R. will not be defeated; on the contrary the Soviet battlefronts will be the end of Hitlerism. He believes that England and the U.S., in opening a second front, will count on the help of peoples oppressed by the Axis, in France or in Spain, and things will move rapidly. The Spanish people are waiting for the invasion of the Allies in order to take arms in the streets against their rulers. The Spaniards trust in the Allies and hope that the Second Front will not be long delayed. Soviet and English broadcasts are listened to; they follow the progress of the war. They hate the Germans and the Italians. Those who before supported Franco are not his enemies and partisans of the defeat of Hitler. The Spanish people hope to escape from this situation by the defeat of Hitler and trust in the Restoration of the Republic.

Cuba. — 28.7.42.

REPORT No.555

ARIEL MARTINEZ, 26 years old, is a student from Bilbao. He is not a consistent Fascist or anti-Fascist either, as his opinions differ confusedly.

SPANISH ASSOCIATION TOWARDS THE WAR, — He says that no one speaks of the war because they take the view that Spain will not enter it. All the world thinks that Germany will lose the war because her enemies are very strong. He says that nothing is said about the second front. About the Blue Division he says that the people are against those who went to Russia, chiefly because they think them mad. He talked to a friend of his who came back from Russia, who was thoroughly glad to be back. He said that our entire war was child's play compared with this one and the way the Russians fight. He says that some leftists were in the Division through hunger, and some were Falangist adventurers, and in spite of its being said that all are volunteers it is obvious that many were forced into it. He says that in the Gibraltar demonstration, there were