EYES ONLY

Mr. Grayston L. Lynch is a Career Agent who entered on duty into the Agency in February 1961 and served in New Orleans, Louisiana and Key West, Florida preparing WH Agent assets for operational assignments. In March 1961 he left Key West, Florida aboard a covert Agency vessel for Nicaragua where he assisted in the preparation of Agency vessels and assets scheduled for operations into Cuba, in April 1961, he left Nicaragua on an Agency vessel to participate in the landing operations in the Bay of Pigs, Cuba. He was involved in armed action both at sea and at shore during the four days of the invasion attempt and, from direct instructions from the DCI engaged in series of covert landings and operations into Cuba for several days following the invasion landing. For this action Mr. Lynch received the Intelligence Star. Mr. Lynch subsequently served as a paramilitary operations officer at Miami, Florida until approximately June 1968. During this period he participated in numerous clandestine activities including agent training, parachute training, weapons training, planned and directed 115 actual operations into Cuba.

In the course of these earlier operational assignments, Mr. Lynch developed a psychosis which will not permit him to travel by air at all nor by overland means for any lengthy period of time.

This has resulted in a medical hold being placed on Mr. Lynch for any overseas assignment PCS or TDY. Since he is uniquely a field special operations officer there are literally no departmental duties to which he can be assigned. Since there is no suitable assignment available for Mr. Lynch it is necessary to terminate Mr. Lynch's contract as a Career Agent. Since he is eligible for Involuntary Retirement under CLARDS, Mr. Lynch has made application for retirement effective 10 September 1971. In view of Mr. Lynch's age, specialized skills, long service in a uniquely sensitive area, and peculiar contribution to the Agency's mission it is believed that a termination bonus at the time of his retirement is fully warranted.

Mr. Lynch is currently the equivalent of a GS-14, step 5 with an annual salary of $23,591. The proposed $10,000 termination bonus represents, therefore, less than 12% of his annual salary or approximately 5 months pay. In connection with this, it should be noted that if he were being terminated rather than retiring, he would be entitled by virtue of the provisions of his contract to 90 days notice which would equal approximately $6,000 at his current rate of pay in salary alone. Additional fringe benefits would increase this figure.

EYES ONLY