it later when informed by Rowton as being in her best interest, She agreed that child could not be properly taken care of at mother's home in Santiago because of short supply of essential food with neither parent present, that her departure without child would permit frequent correspondence with 1/3, and provide excellent pretext for return to Mexico (to convince 1/3 to permit her move child to Havas with her once she established.

5. For details info, Rowton convinced that LIRING/3 wants permanent separation from LIRING/4 feeling that situation has become "intolerable", whereas LIRING/4 still hoping against hope that their domestic difficulties can be patched up and that when she returns they can resume normal marital relations. She insisted to Rowton that she would remain loyal to him and do nothing to increase his antipathy for her. (Rowton feels this is probably best control that can be hoped for in her operational work).

6. Following lengthy meetings with L/4, Rowton has evolved following operational plan with her approval:

(a) LIRING/4 on arrival will re-establish contact with and assess the following contacts:

(1) Ramiro Abreu

(2) Arnol and Rubí (wife) Rodriquez

(3) Caribel Guiffrido

(4) Capt Luis Carballo and wife

(5) Lloé de la Torriente

(6) Mercedes Nérdales Lereverent.

These persons will be referred to in 3/I messages by number only for security reasons. L/4 knows that numbers three and five have already expressed strong anti-revolutionary sentiments and will attempt discreetly to determine present attitude and access.

(b) Discreet efforts will be made learn of efficiency and modus operandi of DSE. LIRING/4 insisted on this for her own protection since Rowton alleged that he could not provide her with necessary briefing. She feels confident that she can get at least some basic data from Ramiro Abreu. L/4 commented that she almost certain the DSE is manipulated by a "foreign service" since she certain that Cubans themselves incapable of efficient and secure operations.

(c) When L/4 feels she has reached point with any of above that she can make some sort of "deal" (for instance assistance to them from outside in exchange for help to her in finding "interesting position" during her forced stay there), she will notify Rowton by 3/I and proceed further or withdraw as per instructions.

(d) In event L/4 meets other persons who might prove recruitable she will mention their names xxx address and position in text of open letter to LIRING/3 adding that they send their regards and need something no available in Cuba. The persons thus tioned will be referred to in 3/I by next consecutive number in subsequent message. Rowton has stressed that he interested only in persons in excellent positions and conceivably recrutable. the list should therefore not be exhaustive.