Security Information

17 July 1952

MEMORANDUM TO: Acting Deputy Director (Administration)

FROM: Acting Chief, Administrative Staff (Special)

SUBJECT: Conference with TPTONIC Management re TPTOMIC/CIA Agreement

1. On 9 July 1952 Mr. Echols and I conferred with the President and the Treasurer of the TPTOMIC organization regarding the fiscal portion of the proposed Agreement to be reached between CIA and TPTOMIC.

2. The purpose of the conference was to extend to the TPTOMIC management an offer of aid in the interpretation and implementation of the fiscal phase of the Agreement in response to TOMIC's request for assistance in this connection.

3. Our statement of the Agency's position may be summarized briefly as follows:

The Agency is insistent upon obtaining the detailed information regarding TOMIC's activities which is essential in order to fulfill the Agency's fundamental policy, fiscal, and security responsibilities. The great size to which TOMIC has grown makes it necessary for the Agency to take a closer interest in TOMIC's activities than it has in the past.

Although final concurrence in an Agreement has not been reached by TOMIC, it is necessary that revision of the financial budget be commenced immediately if PRC budget approval is to be obtained as soon as possible after a final Agreement has been reached. The budget document must be expanded in order to provide reasonably detailed information not only as to proposed changes from the previous year's activities but also regarding the continuing activities as well. Without this additional information there is lacking sufficient data on which to base the approval of any allotment of funds.

4. The President assured us that a revision of the budget would be undertaken immediately to provide not only the information the Agency requires but also to eliminate incompletely planned, vaguely foreseen requirements. He assured us that the revision would be completed in time to permit a review, prior to its presentation to the PRC, for the purpose of determining that the document attains the standards set forth in the Agreement. The Treasurer concluded that he was sufficiently familiar with the terms of the fiscal portion of the Agreement to be able to satisfy its requirements, but promised to call upon us if he should desire further clarification.

Security Information

07/26/52/