No.

9. In view of the fact that subject contacted the Home Office prior to his departure from the United States, he is thoroughly cognizant of the ultimate destination of his information.

10. Yes. In view of HYDROL's experience in the intelligence field he has been given the assignment of supervising and controlling the activities of HYDROCID who has an excellent knowledge of the local situation but lacks experience as an intelligence operative. This also serves to maintain HYDRCID's cover.

11. Through letter drop. In addition frequent personal contacts take place between HYDROL and the Chief of Station. These are usually at night at the homes of the individuals concerned. Cover is provided in that the Chief of Station and HYDROL both have children attending the same school and the wives are acquainted socially.

12. Subject usually reports orally, accompanying his oral reports with brief notes. He is training the subject of TZP-A-269 and HYDRCID to report in writing.

13. During the 11⁄2 years subject has been in Panama, he has been principally concerned with establishing his own business. He has devoted only a small percentage of his time to our work to date, however, since he is now better established and better oriented, it is contemplated that he will become more active.

14. Contract with subject is oral. A written contract will be prepared at the time he is placed on our payroll.

15. Yes. He is attempting a high-level penetration of the Partido del Pueblo. At the present time, a foreign national who has been approached by HYDRCID is attempting to buy one of the Directors of the Partido del Pueblo.

16. Subject is quite capable of using his own judgment on the sort of work he is to do. Since his time has been limited in the past, he has confined his activities to projects specifically requested by this Station.

PAYMENT

17. Subject is a volunteer informant who is rewarded for his services by the occasional presentation of exchange commodities. Since subject does not have U. S. Government Commissary privileges, purchases on his behalf are made by the Station. This results in approximately 60% reduction in the cost of necessities purchased in this manner.

18. Yes. Salary arrangements have been discussed between HYDROL and the Chief of Station. He both agree that no salary should be paid until such time as he becomes more productive. It is contemplated that when we actually

201 30999