in the construction of an airframe in Minsk, latter to the Polish station of Janow.

In 1937 Subject's mother was dismissed from her position and both she and Subject's father began to feel the pressure of the purges. Subject's father, allegedly by appealing to the then President KALININ, succeeded in again acquiring exit visas for them to the USA. Subject, who admits that he had become a "good Communist" by then had gotton "thoroughly steeped" in the Communist philosophy, elected to remain behind in the USSR. An important consideration, he states, was his desire to complete his education which he was certain he would not be able to do in the USA for economic reasons.

According to Subject, his father never lost his American citizenship. Subject's mother, however, in 1936 applied for and obtained Soviet citizenship. According to Subject, he actually acquired Soviet citizenship "by default" although he never applied for this in person; he alleges that although he was 18 years of age at the time, he was "granted" Soviet citizenship by virtue of his mother's application for her own citizenship.

1. Subject remained in Moscow prior to World War II. In April 1940 he married

Nina MOISEYIVA a bookkeeper by profession,

who was the step-daughter of the well-known Major SERGOLEV of the "Soviet Proleteriat Regiment". A son was born to them in June 1941. Although at this time Subject was assigned to the construction of aerodrones to support front line troops, he succeeded in pulling strings and in arranging a "DIY trip" to Moscow, ostensibly to visit the Geodetic Institute. Encourage back from Moscow to the front lines, Subject's train got bombed in Brest Litovsk on 22 June 1941 and as a result he was returned to Moscow on the same train via Baranovichi. According to Subject, he was then assigned to the Moscow Military District, to the Ctdel Aerodromnoi Sluzhby, where he was placed in charge of a brigade of engineers, technicians and laborers who were engaged in building dummy air sites for camouflage purposes.

In August 1941 Subject states that he was permitted to return to school in order to receive his diploma which was granted him in October 1941. He was then assigned to the 22nd Vojenno-Dorozhniy Otryad which was formed in Dnimitrov but which was then assigned to Sural'. Subject states that he was not inducted into the Soviet military service allegedly because "engineers were needed" and