FILE IN 201-169934

U.S. SCIENTISTS WILL VISIT CHINA

Biologists Critical of War Said Either to Be There or About to Go From Hanoi

By WALTER SULLIVAN

Two American biologists are reported by their colleagues to be in China or about to go there from Hanoi, the North Vietnamese capital. A third American, a geophysicist from the University of California at Santa Cruz, is also said to have received permission to visit Peking shortly.

The biologists are Dr. Arthur W. Galston, professor of biology at Yale University, and Dr. Nathan Signer, an associate professor of biology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The geophysicist is Dr. Robert Knox, whose father has been living in Peking. Dr. Galston is a specialist in plant physiology who has been an outspoken critic of American defoliation in Vietnam. Dr. Signer, a specialist in the genetics of bacterial viruses, has also been an active critic of the war in Vietnam.

Few, if any, American scientists have been able to visit the Chinese mainland since the

Continued on Page 13, Column 1

U.S. SCIENTISTS REPORTED IN CHINA

Continued From Page 1, Col. 7

Communists took control in 1949. For a number of years scholarly journals were exchanged, but in about 1966 with the onset of the Culture Revolution this flow was cut off. In fact, publication of many journals in China was apparently suspended during that period of turmoil.

However, a trickle of publications out of China has continued, primarily to scientists in countries other than the United States. Thus there has been a limited flow of information on developments in such fields as astronomy, archaeology and biochemistry.

Some Western Visitors

There have also been some scientific visitors from Western nations whose relations with China were less hostile than those of the United States, notably Britain, France and Canada. In recent years such visits have become more frequent. However, it is reported that Dr. Pierre Chouard, professor of botany at the Sorbonne in Paris, has now received clearance for a trip.

The sudden opening of China to visits by American journalists a few weeks ago has raised hopes for a breakdown of the barriers against scientists. Last

week the Committee for the Development of Scholarly Communications with the People's Republic of China met in Washington to consider possible action.

The committee was headed by Dr. John Lindbeck, director of the East Asian Institute of Columbia University, until his death in January, and a new chairman has not been chosen. It represents the National Academy of Sciences and other learned societies. Under consideration by the committee is an invitation to some Chinese scientists to meetings to be held in this country next summer.

Another group interested in scholarly exchanges is the National Committee on United States-China Relations. It is headed by Dr. Alexander Eckstein of the University of Michigan, an authority on Chinese economics, and includes businessmen and retired government officials as well as scholars.

Of major importance to the scholarly community will be the restoration of exchanges of specialized journals. Visitors to China have found American journals on file at research centers, but the flow has been concomitant and, apparently, of a limited nature.

DEPT FEA STUDY FINDING

Dr. Arthur W. Galston