SUBJECT: Gloria Pinto

DATE OF INFORMATION: January 31, 1968. 2100-0200 hours. PLACE ACQUIRED: Restaurant Normandia, Niza.

A group of ten of us celebrated New Year's Eve together.

Business at Soviet embassy. Gloria wants to purchase a Persian lamb coat. Alexandra Bogushevnaia has one she would be willing to sell, but Gloria believes it would be too hot for Mexico, having been lined for Moscow weather. Gloria thinks that the commercial counselor of the Soviet embassy would be interested, willing, and able to help her in obtaining a Soviet coat.

Gloria also wants to open a shop. She thought that maybe she could handle imported Soviet goods. Her children are now old enough to take care of themselves. She feels unneeded, hence the interest in opening a shop. She has checked with the Camino Real and learned that shop space rents for 12000 pesos per month. She would probably work for someone else for a while to learn the problems involved, before opening her own shop. She admits to very little education. She has never worked in her life.

Wants help from me. The last time I saw Gloria she reminded me that on New Years Eve I promised to give her problem some thought. Frankly, there is something she could do for my cover business. I need someone who is attractive, mature, but not necessarily very intelligent, and not necessarily very experienced, to contact potential clients, to sell a service. I think Gloria could fit this requirement. I had in mind a commission agent: someone who would receive no salary, but would receive a minor percentage each month (20%) of the income due to clients she obtained. Let's say she would bring me 100 clients over a period of two or three years. Let's say further that each client would represent an income of $250 pesos per month. She would receive .20 x 250 x 100 = 5000 pesos per month as long as those clients continued, and whether she continued to work for me or not. She could work as little or as much as she wanted, though I would probably set a quota of one new client per week. She would end on the year making 2600 pesos per month, averaging 1300 pesos per month over the year. She has her own car. I wouldn't probably reimburse her for gasoline and entertainment ex-

penses.