Enolosure to HICOC Frankfurt

Despatch , July 26, 1930

ACTIVITIES IN GERMANY OF BORIS IVANOVICH NIKOLAEVSKI

Boris Ivanovich Nikolaevski, the well-known Russian historian and journalist and head of the New York socialist League, has been in Germany for the past six weeks attempting to line up support for a bloc of Russian groups of the left and center and to promote a congress of "democra tic" elements within the emigration which he hopes to convene in Paris in the fall under the sponsorship of the executive committee created at the recent Berlin Congress for Cultural Freedom.

Nikolaevski is a man of great energy and of very con-

siderable stature among the Russian refugees in Germany. By virtue of his long-standing record as a social democrat he has excellent contacts with German social-democratic and trade union democrats and has been personally acquainted with many of the present leaders of these organizations since his residence in Berlin in the early 30's. He also enjoys wide confidence among Russian refugees by virtue of the fact that he was the first old Russian emigre of any stature to come to Germany after the war in an effort to give encouragement and assistance to members of the new Russian emigration.

Nikolaevski has divided his time between Munich, Berlin and Frankfurt and has talked with a constant stream of visitors.

He has also made numerous side trips to seek out refugees in whom he is interested. His principal objective has been to unite as many of the progressive or, as he calls them, "democratic" Russian groups as possible in an organization which will concentrate on the struggle against Communism. He has succeeded in establishing close personal relations with Boris Aleksandrovich Yakovlev, head of SBOnR (Fighting Union for the Liberation of the Peoples of Russia), and has also interested SVOD, the military twin of SBOnR, and the Solidarists (NTS) in his plan. As far as I have been able to discover, however, no agreement has been reached between these groups for the formation of a united organization, and NTS, following its customary practice, has indicated a willingness to cooperate but has not committed itself beyond that point. Nikolaevski anticipates some opposition to his project from the left wing of the New York League by virtue of the Vlasovite antecedents of these organizations, but feels that he can eventually gain the support of his own organization. It is presumed that final negotiations for the establishment of the new organization will take place only after Nikolaevski returns to New York and gains League endorsement of his activities in Germany.