to bring his relationship with TANG to a point that LOG could meet TANG in a friendly unofficial manner. LOG concluded that for such a job he was willing to pay in terms of thousands of Dollars. After the dust of verbage settled LOG told S that he should try to feel out TANG was he willing to speak about the military strength of Red China. LOG explained to S that presently the Sovs were completely in dark as to the military strength and operational organization of the Red Chinese army; they have no way of acquiring the info because even if they had friends in Red China none of them dared to maintain contact with Sov officials nor officials of other Socialist countries which are known to be on the Sov side; Nat China has many spies in Red China and they are well informed on all aspects of developments in Red China; it is possible that TANG would be willing to make arrangements with his government for exchange of info, especially, military info between the USSR and the CCP of China and this would be beneficiary to the USSR and the USA. LOG went on to tell S that he should think in terms of using RUDIAN for getting to meet TANG out of his embassy; be that a party or whatever might be needed, the expenses will taken care of by LOG, because money is no problem.

7. Then, LOG stated that S should arrange something to enable LOG to meet RUDIAN in a small, family type, circle. S was caught by surprise and told LOG that he told him that he and RUDIAN were quite often seeing each other. LOG stated that he knew RUDIAN well and was in many instances with RUDIAN at receptions and other formal social functions, but he never had an opportunity to be with RUDIAN in friendly and informal circumstances. S commented that the only problem he found in trying to make such an arrangement was in the fact that RUDIAN often, sometime even twice in a week, drops in to see S at his (Josephine's) apart but he never announces his visits in advance more than an hour or two before he comes.

8. LOG asked S what happened to the US Emb phone directory; did the girl (friend of S) return. S answered that he did not have the slightest idea what was going on. "because in his condition (of health) he did even go to check did the girl return".

9. LOG was proposing that they meet in the course of the next week but S told him that he felt that they were meeting too often and in view