LIEMPTY-9, supplies extremely worthwhile information pertaining to the apparent positions and jobs of the target employees. He accomplishes this objective by careful observation and analysis. LICALLA also maintains a daily attendance roster of all LIMERICK employees. LICALLA coverage of the target, both photographic and physical observations, enables the Station to keep abreast of LIMERICK personnel changes, a vital contribution to the Station's counterespionage effort.

2. "To collect operational information and identify operational leads pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." The LIENTRAP operation, handled by GERENDE, is the major contributor to this objective. It has been possible for LIENTRAP to take photographs and to perform pretext investigations in support of numerous Station activities. The cases listed below are cited as examples:

In the case of Cesar GONZALEZ Sanchez (see I, A, 3, a, above) LIENTRAP was able to procure photographs of GONZALEZ at his Mexico City residence which, when compared to Headquarters provided photographs, left no doubt that GONZALEZ was the subject of interest to Headquarters.

LIENTRAP confirmed the identity of Olga CASTILLO de Ledon, a frequent visitor to the LIMERICK installation and an ardent supporter of the present Cuban regime, through a pretext investigation of the residents of an apartment building where CASTILLO was believed to live. Later, LIENTRAP supported the results of the Investigation with excellent photographs of the subject.

3. "To provide operational support to Station operations, i.e., rent hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances." GERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for other Station operations and activities. GERENDE'S comprehensive area knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make him an extremely valuable Station asset for such support activities. GERENDE also procures post office box letter drops for the many Station operations requiring them.