Languages and Dialects:

- French - native - German - very good - Georgian - fluent spoken; reading and writing good - English - speaking and writing fair; reading fluent - Spanish - speaking and writing poor; reading good - Russian - poor

Special Skills:

Experience in document forgery

1942 - Achen-Berlin, altered own documents

1942 - Berlin-Paris, filled in German travel blank forms. Altered old German authorization stamp for travel forms. Made other authentications stamps for other people interested in travel across German held territory

1943-44 - Berlin, fabricated stamps and cachets for travel documents. Used photo techniques for changing and/or aging pictures in documents. Also reassembled old false passports to form new ones, as well as counterfeited German financial vouchers.

B. Operational Information:

Circumstances of Recruitment

The agent was first contacted in October 1958 as a result of a lead from AEPADDLE. He was recruited in April 1959 by the Frankfurt Station, for a REDSOX operation. There had been some difficulty in the initial recruitment, since it could not be resolved as to whether or not he could work amicably with another agent in the proposed operation. After psychological assessments and LCLUTTER examination, it was decided to recruit subject. He was assigned the crypto AESAPIC. In April 1959 subject was brought to the DOB, via a HBARLEDBOW flight. Subject was trained in the AESENTTEL project for a black mission into the USCR as a member of a REDSOX team. This project was postponed for a year. In the interim he was assigned to TED, where he was employed at a covert site, involving the cataloguing of specific information from East German Documents, and developing and/or improving tools and methods for picking locks. On 17 June 1960, it was decided that Project AESENTTEL would not be carried out. On receipt of this information SR/DOB en-deavored to place subject elsewhere, where his training would be beneficial. The African Division expressed interest and had agreed to utilize him as a result of assessments. During the period from the 21st of October until dispatch, subject will be carried on ODA funds.