20 July 66

Subject, and that there were groups from all the countries. He asked Subject if they would be willing to take a trip to the Embassy. On his arrival at the airport Subject and his group went directly to the Embassy. On the following day Subject and his group visited three more cases of code.

[From his written notes]

On June 28, Subject saw the short American woman (previously known as Rhonin from Subject's store to a tourist agency) leaving the Soviet Embassy about 1130 hours. He did not see her again. She came into the shop to use Subject's phone but the phone was out of order. About the same time he saw two men who appeared to be Americans enter the Embassy. One was white and the other a negro. Subject went to pick up some bottles and brandy and then speak to each other in English. According to Subject, SILNIKOV told him that two Americans had visited the Embassy tosee him visas because they did not want to fight in Vietnam. (We have not been able to identify the woman but the Americans are silniakov.) Subject said they left the Embassy at 1157 hours.)

They subsequently made two visits to the Embassy. Once in the morning Subject was seen in the early afternoon.

Subject, on that SILNIKOV told him that they wanted visas. But after a hour or two later SILNIKOV knew anything about these visitors and that SILNIKOV is no longer on the main gate of the embassy.

The next day SILNIKOV dropped by (and made the comments above). He also told Subject that Viktor KALYGIN had been placed on the main gate once more (confirmed by the basehouses) and that he (SIL) was "officially" the administrative officer. He said he can now find time to eat Mexican food with Subject, and said he would be by the following day about 0000 hours.

Saturday, 25 June. SILNIKOV came in about 0000 hours and ate lunch at his house,CARMINITA, fixed him some special Mexican food for an hour or so before Silva's Day. He was there for about a half an hour. Alexander LOGINOV came in and ordered 75 person's worth ofBorder Artisan's food delivered that same day by 1100 hours. Subject was then delivered at 1000 hours. Alexander arrived in his car and at 1000 hours LOGINOV called Subject and said, "Three more cases ofcode." The call was received by Subject's secretary. It is already there" and asked Subject to send some人员 to the Embassy. On his arrival at the airport Subject and his group went directly to the Embassy. On that same day that there were groups from all the countries. There was so much food and