(Secrecy) (over)

This form fully completed (see note & at bottom of sheet) In duplicate must accompany request for admission of student to Aarorament or Training Classen) Request for: (a) Assessment______ (b) Training X

Student's name in full: William Vincent Broe

Cover name if necessary:

Date: 28 June 1948

Age 35 Sox Hale Marital Status: Married Branch: FISB Deck: Undetermined

Specific station to which candidate is going: Washington staff. Area interest will be specified prior to 23 August 1948

For consultation call:

Training Liaison Officer Phone Extension Bldg Room No. Don S. Garden 2546 Cuyler 2113 Desk Officer Supervising Candidate Phone Extension Bldg Room No. Has Security Check been completed? Yes

Type of Cover: Govt. Official (Military; Govt. Official; Professional; Business; etc.)

Title of projected assignment: (a)Intell. Officer (Ops) (b) OK Interests

Civil Service classification and salary level of projected position: P-5 (S-61, 44.60) What will be the specific duties of the candidate? (a detailed and concrete description is essential, a general job title is not satisfactory):

Subject will be an Intell. Officer (Operations) specializing in OK matters.

The specific area in SEA to which he will be assigned will be determined prior to the start of the new class. Until then, it is requested that he be given instruction in general Southeast Asia matters.

What are the promotional opportunities in the projected position?

What will be the administrative or supervisory responsibilities of the candidate? (in none, write "none") Those incident to a staff member who, under his division chief, will have charge of counter-intelligence operations.

Will the candidate work alone or with other people? With others.

If the latter, how many and what will be the candidate's actual working relationship to them(e.g., closely cooperative or relatively independent)?

closely cooperative

Will the candidate be working directly under a supervising officer? Yes

If not, how will his work be directed and reviewed?

What will be the living and working conditions under which the candidate is expected to operate?

For reasons of security, details such as student's true name or specific mission may be omitted in the case of undercover personnel, if desired by the desk. Form Sep 1946 51-1