RUIZ seems to have little compunction in talking to what he thinks of as old acquaintances, even though they may be on the opposite side of the political fence from him. He once mentioned how he went out of his way to greet a "gusano" on the street because they had been friends in Havana. The Cuban exile evidently turned away from him, but RUIZ defended his own action in initiating the greeting.

41. Aside from the constant criticism of Havana's incompetence, lack of vision, and lack of realism, he is quick to point out the deficiencies of life in Cuba as reflected in his directive to his Embassy staff not to celebrate Christmas together, because there are hungry people at home. RUIZ has also said that medicine in general is quite backward in Cuba.

42. Although he is probably an athlete (or likes to think of himself as one), he is known to believe that "religion should not be considered a handicap for persons trying to return to Cuba." He does not hide his views of the American people, either, for he describes Americans as "frank" and "simple". "They treated me very well," he told Raul LEON Torres in December 1969. On the other hand, he refers to Latin American diplomats as bootlickers because they use the English language at parties, and he has remarked that "capitalism is no good."

43. He seems to have a certain admiration for General Francisco FRANCO, of whom RUIZ has said: "FRANCO is the only reason that Spain is not Communist." RUIZ also called FRANCO "one of the few most brilliant politicians of all time." These seem like strange words for a man as security-conscious as he.

44. He appears to be well-informed on international matters. Some of his views are contradictory at times, but they characterize him as what might be called an undecided realist:

"Cuba is a political power, not a military or economic power."

"The USSR has neutralized US sea power in the Mediterranean."

"Cuba can destroy Guantanamo whenever it chooses to do so, although the base has lost its strategic value to the United States."

"US-China rapproachment should be feared, but also a Japan-China alliance."

"US power is beginning to crumble, but the Soviets are revisionists."

"The Egyptians harm us when they buy sugar from Cuba and then resell to other countries."