CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT AND NO.

SECRET EGOA-18888

HARVARD has not considered processing Subject for immigration through a bona fide refugee organization in order not to involve Subject with the United States Escapee Program and to keep from making a refugee organization a party to fraud with the possibility of embarrassing complications if the immigration does not come off properly. Working through a refugee organization would mean additional paper work and additional problems which for the present would indicate that this immigration avenue should not be considered except as a last resort.

When filling out his application forms Subject will have to provide employment and residence addresses consistent with the dates when he was supposedly living and working in the Georgian S.S.R. His wartime military service will have to be covered also. HARVARD feels that this information can be acquired through the facilities of SR/6 when needed.

4. HARVARD is of the opinion that Subject has committed himself to going to South America partly because he will do anything which will prolong his association with KUBARK and partly because he is hoping to realize some personal or financial profit from the exercise. HARVARD has followed the theme that Headquarters deлыre is to help Subject and that it can best be done by completely legalizing him. Political recognition is the first step but we desire further that he be helped to immigrate and - after 5 years acquire citizenship. Subject has asked HARVARD if he would receive financial help during the transition period in South America. He was told that we could only guarantee his plane fare, that Headquarters would decide how much and what kind of additional help he would receive if any.

5. Subject rejects the idea of staying in Germany except as a last resort. It is possible that because of his irritation with his inactivity Subject may simply request his German documentation and leave HARVARD's custody.

6. Subject has been in HARVARD's hands since 22 May 1962 and has been costing us 100 to 150 DM per week, plus many hours of case officer time. Request earliest Headquarters advice per para 3 above.

APPROVED: HENRY Y. NEWMAN

Distribution:

2 - C/AF

2 - C/EE

2 - C/WH

BY 03143-43

DEC 19 15 OPAH 1984

CLASSIFICATION CONTINUED PAGE NO.