4. The principal questions asked are listed as follows:

What are the normal commercial relations, if any, between Banif, S. A. and the Spanish Government?

If such relations exist, give details. How did the commercial relations arise? Was it because of commercial reasons or relations between individual Banif Directors and officials of the Spanish Government? If the latter, what is the nature of the relationship? Was it friendship or under-the-table deals such as kickbacks, rebates, etc. Describe each Banif-Spanish government deal giving the substance, participants, and arrangements?

Does Banif, S.A. or its Directors have connections with any political group, either in the regime or in the opposition? Does it contribute funds to any political group?

Does Banif have any deals with the military on some and equipment? If so, give details.

What are the specific projects Banif has worked on in the past two years, either for its own account or the account of others. Give details.

What information does Banif have, or a capability for obtaining, on Spain's economic, industrial, and financial situation as it might affect a post-Franco Government.

5. Be Ref B requirements, Chief and DC/E/IB affirmed interest in the most significant power elements in the economic or commercial field in Spain, particularly those having political ties. They are interested not in all U. S. firms operating in Spain, but in those which are politically conscious and have the capability by virtue of size or nature of work to influence political life in Spain. For example, a small U. S. firm raising chickens in Spain is of no interest. Conversely, the Bank of America in the banking field or Broan &oot in the construction field or a U. S. firm manufacturing military equipment could be of great interest. In these firms with a capability to influence Spanish political life, the Chief and DC/E/IB would be interested in knowing the U. S. managers in Spain who deal with the Spanish authorities.

6. The undersigned asked, and Chief and DC/E/IB agreed, to send Chief, Do their specific requirements on a formal basis. Chief and DC/E/IB opined that Project WURTH appears to have the best capability for Spain and Project WHETREE for Portugal.

2 SECRET