((This points up the need for a continuing revolution, when the revolution is completed))

Yes. You don't have jobs unless you're in the government. And that's a problem, too. In his case, he wasn't even a real revolutionary, just a bureaucrat in Rabat and other places.

Hacgown

(For did they not get involved with Verges)

knew

That I don't know. I don't know how he got into it from her in I imagine he met her the beginning, sort of in Rabat.

He used to go to Morocco quite often

and had contact with all the African, the race people there. I suspect

that's were he met her.

So for

(How much more those guys)

Now you've got Harbi. He was one of the person who replaced Verges. He's out now, but he was one of the, I'm told by Andersson, who knows has his ear to the ground in Algiers as well as in Switzerland, that Harbi is in a very good position. He is one of the leading advisers to Ben Bella, represents the Left position. He's a Trotskyist, or a Trotskyist sympathiser without any formal organizational ties. He is very close to the Pabloites. That's Michel Satter. He's Pablo, and we couldnt have overlooked him, he's a feature of Algiers life. He played an extremely important role in the agrarian reform, in the type of agrarian reform that was going to be carried out. He came down on the Yugoslav model, that is collectives which are privately owned by the collectives and run on profit model, that is a profit basis.

des Biens Vacants

Harbi, they were all inside of this Bureau des Biens,

then which became the Bureau of the Socialist Sector. I once did an article for the Monthly Review, so I knew all about how it operated. What really happened was that the Europeans fled just before, just after Independence, when they were just beforeIndependence, and then, and rather should have, considering what they had done. But they expected a blood bath. The blood bath never took place. It was an incredible That was one of the most incredible things to me in Algeria was that the Algerians didn't — Because the stories were horrifying. You know what happened. A month or so before, they were just shooting everybody on the street, trying to provoke them, and the discipline of the FLN was incredible. Nobody would shoot back, no matter what they did. So they fled and they left all these farms.

It was a question of ploughing and seeding. There is only a certain time of year that you have to do this. This had to be organized and it was organized almost spontaneously locally. And then- this was part of institutionalized later, after the war an accomplished fact. They want some sort of a socialist system of agriculture. They