accept or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by CIA to evidence this relationship.

6. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident to an employee status, except as specifically enumerated herein.

7. Instructions. Instructions received by you from CIA in briefing, training or otherwise are a part of this contract and are incorporated herein, provided that such instructions are not inconsistent with the terms hereof.

8. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitments pertaining to rights, privileges or benefits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the Government.

9. Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by CIA from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the espionage laws dated 25 June 1948, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.

10. Term. This contract is effective as of 4 March 1954, and shall continue thereafter for a period of two (2) years, unless sooner terminated by CIA either:

(a) By thirty (30) days' actual notice to you from CIA, or

(b) Without prior notice, in the event of a breach of this contract by your violation of the security provisions hereof or by your otherwise rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be renewed for successive periods of one year each upon notice from CIA accepted by you. In the event of voluntary termination on your part or termination for cause by CIA prior to the expiration of this agreement or any renewal thereof, you will not be entitled to return travel and transportation expenses to Santiago, Chile. Termination of this agreement will not release you from the obligations of any security oath you may be required to take.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BY Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Paul D. Langevin

APPROVED: