26 September 1969

CONTACT REPORT

SUBJECT: LIBACON-1

DATE, TIME & PLACE: 25 Sept. 69, 2030 - 2200 hrs., Firenze Rest.

1. Subj arrived eight minutes late and realising same, apologized. He appeared to be in a good mood and when asked told me that he and his wife were now getting along very well. He claims! that he called LOGINOV am, at the Embassy on the morning of the 15th and asked that their dinner engagement for that evening be postoned. According to Subject LOG told him that their dinner had been scheduled for the 18th, not the 15th, so Subj manually assumed LOG was correct. I remained Subj that to the best of my recollection it had been for the 15th. In any event, Subj said LOG took the postponement very well, especially when Subj confirmed with LOG again that the latter was not leaving in October, perhaps not even in November. Subj apologized to LOG, explaining that his wife had just taken on a new job, was nervous about it, and in addition, was taking care of her parents dog and birds, and was simply not in condition to have a party. (I am not sure Subj went through with this explanation to LOG or to me only.) Subj plans to visit LOG at the Embassy on the 29th, 30th, or the first of October, at which time he will set a date for the dinner, hopefully he said, for the same week. If the dinner is to be held prior to LOG's the evening of the first of Oct. Subj will call the office, (as in the past) and so inform the party on the other end. Our next meeting is scheduled for 1600 hours, 1 Oct., at the "El Mortiro" (?) Rest. someone in the Suites Emperor.

2. Subject's wife, described as a "bilingual" secretary typist is now employed by "Orbita Sulementa", and is paid $3,500 monthly. Subj. claims that she will be earning $4000 by next month, if everything goes off well. One of the partners after tax (?) of this supplement is: Andrea Catano Michelena. could

3. Subj then asked me if I/check a street map of Moscow and see if I could find U. NEZHDANOVA on it. I told him I could but would not give him an answer one/or the other unless he would provide me with a satisfactory reason. After extracting a promise from me that I would not laugh at him, he proceeded to tell me about a recent experience he had with a medium at Andrea's home. He prefaced his story with an assurance that he is an atheist and does not believe in the hereafter nor in spiritualism in particular, nevertheless, he was shaken with the experience. He claimed that the medium (name unknown to Subj.) did not go into a tranon, nor turn off any of the lights, but simply asked Subj. if he had ever known a girl by the name of "Tanya" while Subj. lived in some small town near Ivanova (also not far from Moscow.) Subj. claimed that he recalled a girl by that name, that he and she were only about 10 yrs of age at the time, and that they used to go mushrooms gathering together. He said e broke out in a cold sweat when the medium asked this question because he was absolutely positive that no one in Mexico would remember the girl's name nor the episode. The medium then said, breaking for Tanya, Did you know Tanya?, (hello,uel). Subj. claims that the medium has no knowledge of the Russian language and that he had not been called "Tanya" since early childhood. asking the medium explained that Tanya had died six months ago and was now deceased in the USA. Through theMedium, Tanya explained : (a Spanish) that she had been buried to a Valentine II as 7, now living at 411 Ul. Bechmans,