MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Kermit Roosevelt

ATTENTION : Mr. John Baker SUBJECT : Mr. Paul D. Langevin; Employment as CIA Staff Officer

1. To those of us at Headquarters who have followed closely the work of Mr. Langevin in connection with PBSUCCESS, it is completely evident that he made one of the major and most outstanding contributions to this Operation and that he has demonstrated himself to be exceptionally qualified in the field of political and psychological operations (covert). I have just been informed by Messrs. Barnes and Langevin that the latter who has heretofore been employed in the capacity of a Contract Agent, desires to become more closely associated with the Agency and would like to be employed as a regular staff officer. I am very much in favor of following up on this opportunity, and I have good reason to believe that the Director likewise is specifically interested.

2. There are certain aspects of this case which appear to require special handling and tailoring -- none of which presents any difficulties as I see it -- but, on the contrary, would tie in very neatly with both the near term and longer range aspects of the employment of Mr. Langevin. These aspects are as follows:

(a) Mr. Langevin desires to begin his term of employment by the Agency with a period of service at Headquarters. (He has spent many years in Latin America, principally in Chile where he has owned and still owns a newspaper, and, in my judgment, it would be mutually advantageous to the Agency and to Mr. Langevin for him to spend not less than a year as a member of the Headquarters organization.)

(b) Mr. Langevin has for some years in the past been giving an annual series of lectures in various Latin American capitals. These lectures have been arranged by an agent of his in New York and his audiences have consisted of business and professional groups and women's organizations. The general subject matter of his lectures has included talks on the threat of international Communism to Latin America. Mr. Langevin would desire, if it can be worked out, to be permitted to continue to deliver lectures of this kind in the future and is at the present time