ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

2 January 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Walton Moore THROUGH : Head of Career Service SUBJECT : Retirement Planning

1. In order to assist employees in planning for their eventual retirement, it is the practice of the Agency to notify each employee well in advance of the date he is scheduled for retirement. I am, therefore, taking this opportunity to advise you that you are scheduled to retire on ______ 5 October ______ 1979.

2. The prospect of retirement from the Agency deserves serious thought and careful planning so that you may make the transition to the next phase of life with purpose and confidence. To assist you in this regard, the Agency offers various resources which are attuned to the needs of prospective retirees. You will, in the near future, be invited by the Retirement Counselor for your Directorate to an individual pre-retirement counseling session, or more than one if you wish. This phase of retirement planning will be tailored solely to your own particular situation and circumstances and will be within the context of the retirement system under which you will retire. The individual counseling sessions are intended to give you a wide range of information on such matters as estimates of your annuity, survivor benefits, life and health insurance, Social Security, taxes, relocation and movement of household effects and assistance in obtaining other employment. In addition, you will be invited to attend a Retirement Information Seminar that will be offered in the autumn of 1974.

3. Some persons who wish to retire voluntarily prior to the scheduled date and who wish to commence their planning as early as possible, prefer to work with their Retirement Counselor well before the time he would normally contact them. If you believe you would benefit from such an earlier start on your personal planning, you are entitled to contact the Retirement Counselor responsible for your Directorate at the Retirement Affairs Division, 212 Magazine Building, on telephone extension 3328.