In mid-May 1965 a gaffe by Mejia's and VRG's Cuban superiors exposed the Mejia-VRG-Cuba channel publicly. In an article carried by Porto Alegre (Brazil) newspaper Correio do Povo on 20 May, datelined New York 19 May by Louis Wisnizer, a Radio Havana broadcast of 18 May was reported to have mentioned a declaration by Juan Mejia sent from Santo Domingo to VRG in Mexico, who then sent the declaration to Radio Havana. After citing this channel by which it received the Mejia statement, Radio Havana proceeded to broadcast the following excerpts from the declaration: "Numerous leaders of the 14 June Party have disappeared but I (Mejia) know that they are now in the mountains leading guerrillas. The 14 June Party has control of the situation in Santo Domingo." The Correio do Povo noted editorially that the Radio Havana broadcast seems to negate the Castro effort to deny that the 14th June Movement in the Dominican Republic is tied to him. The article concludes by noting that Mejia was one of the 53 Communists listed by the Americans, and that this confession by Havana puts new light on the question of American intervention in the Dominican Republic. Not noted in the article is the fact that VRG's role as an intermediary between Mejia and Castro is clearly exposed by the Radio Havana broadcast. A copy of the Correio do Povo article is attached.

When the Dominican rebellion erupted VRG began to agitate with the Siempre staff for outright and total support to the pro-Castro forces in the rebel camp. These efforts began to bear fruit when VRG was allowed to personally brief and dispatch a Siempre correspondent-photographer team to the Dominican Republic in early May 1965 to report on the crisis. The correspondent was Luis Suárez Lopoz; the photographer was Luis Rodrigo Moya Moreno. The resulting articles in Siempre produced by this VRG-Suarez-Moya team were violently anti-US and pro-Castro Communist in their interpretation of the crisis -- so much so that they apparently touched off a bitter dispute between VRG and José Pages Llergo, Siempre director, who prefers to stick to the traditional Siempre role of a pseudo-independent outlet for a variety of leftist causes. VRG's efforts to reorient Siempre along more militant pro-Communist lines has long been known in journalistic circles in Mexico and the Suárez-Moya incident appears to have precipitated an open fight between the two. VRG is apparently aiming for a showdown with Pages Llergo over this issue, since several Siempre writers are known to have been individually approached by VRG over the past weeks to enlist their support against the present Siempre editorial policy, which VRG regards as too "opportuniistic."