SECRET Security Information

Subject will use a cover story while in Washington that he is studying at George Washington University in the field of Economics.

Subject's wife has a close friend in Argentina who is married to an Argentine army sergeant. Her name is Alicia Castro de CRUZ, 25 de Mayo #5327, Far del Plata, Argentina. This name has been given to the Argentine Consul as a character reference.

Subject has 6-7 months of GI bill eligibility left for Argentine studies.

Due to the fact that subject's wife has been witting of his general activities, it was carefully explained to him that the agency had certain reservations considering this point. Emphasis was put on the point that good operational security practices in his future assignment would be of extreme importance for obvious reasons. It was pointed out that this interim period in Washington would be an ideal time to separate his activities from home life since his wife would no longer be in a community where she and her husband were well known. He was frank in admitting that he realized the dangers also, and would cooperate to the fullest extent.

NOTE: Subject is sensible in his approach to security and appears to think through each problem on its own merits. The extent of his wife's knowledge was to known that he was "going out to (a section of San Jose) for business reasons". She was going with of his connection with Communist activities, since on several occasions she was able to contact persons when it was not suitable for him to do so. At no time has she pressed him for information, and his general feeling is that she should be told only enough to explain undue absences from home. He was cautioned that his future superiors would take a dim view of his wife's participation, even to the limited extent he has indicated did occur in the past. He agreed that being in a new community with no local friends of long standing would make it easier for them to start on this new basis.

It is the case officer's opinion that subject has carefully controlled his wife's knowledge and acted prudently in matters involving security. His operational achievements are evidence that his security practises have been sound, and it is believed that four years of covert contact with a well-known Communist in San Jose with no security breaches are sufficient proof of his wife's security consciousness.