had been its chief and in a high position and had thus submitted to the Council. He declared his esteem for Varona, a very trusque man but very honest. He said Varona had declared with respect to the Argentine documents that, "They are in Miami. I don't feel like sending them to Argentina because they don't belong to Argentina. They belong to the thief, that is Castro. Argentina has diplomatic relations with Cuba and if it feels like it, will send the documents to Cuba." Varona declared in the SIP that the Argentinian military men had deceived him because, having stated that they didn't trust the Argentine Foreign Office, they nevertheless took to Argentina the three documents that were given to them and upon arrival turned them over to the Foreign Office. Hiro added that Varona stated this clearly in the SIP meeting where two Argentine delegates were present. They said, "it out reasoning makes sense, Doctor, do you declare this before the SIP?" "Yes, I declare it," he replied, "and they shut up.

Hiro added that Varona had declared last night, "Let then give us arms to finish off with Castro, but give them to us! Whoever has them, give them to us! Dr. Hiro then declared, "We are willing to disembark, but here we are just playing hide and seek."

Dr. Hiro then referred to his view that Diario de las American should receive a small subsidy; that sometimes it published articles unfavorable to the U.S. but that usually, and if subsidized, would eliminate adverse items.

Then I returned to the subject of the budget and concern that some on the Council payroll right also be on H.E.M. payroll. He replied that for October he would have those payar that they were receiving no other money and remarked that many are on the payroll. He enumerated the different sections - delegations in Latin American countries, each person (two or three at most in each country) received only enough to live on; without operating funds. He said each chief of organization in the Council received $400, "which is very little."

He added that during the past month with funds left over, he had sent to Mexico $3,000 because some 240 people had arrived there in need and hungry. He said C.I.A. aided with $5,000 and he had sent $3,000 because they were CutQRS. Further, that he had provided each organization with $700 for its expenses of mailing, office a, car, etc., but that none wasn't a fixed sum. He added that whatever was left over he wanted to send to Cuba to those who are fighting there.

He declared, "As long as they can reduce the budget to the minimum provided that they send funds to Cuba; but any trouble that may arise must be resolved. This payroll was raised to be when I was re-elected president of the Council, and I didn't create it."