29 April, 1968

SUBJECT: LIRING/4 Report of Contact with Sandoval and Marcue.

1. Boston met with LI ING/4 for late lunch at the Punto Blanco restaurant on Melchor Cacapo on 29/4/68. She had to bring her child along since the 16-year-old son of LIRING/3 was not at her apartment at the time.

2. LIRING/4 reported that Sandoval of the 13th of November Group of Ten Sosa had again visited her and shown great concern for her welfare. He again offered her some money, such as he had, but LIRING/4 refused in view of his simultaneous complaints of the financial crisis he himself was undergoing. He explained that since Francisco Lara left he had been supporting Lara's entire family consisting of Lara's wife, mother, and their two young children. LIRING/4 said Sandoval reached a point in emotional frustration during the conversation that he exclaimed that he would have to resort to robbery or a hold-up in order to get the necessary money not only to support Lara's family but to send someone to Guatemala City to see LIRING/3 and procure a good lawyer for him. LIRING/4 told Boston that this upset her so that she spent the rest of the evening pleading with Sandoval not to commit any criminal act. Sandoval then revealed that he and his friends had held up a policeman during the Humphrey visit and taken his gun, since they were short one weapon.

3. LIRING/4, commenting that Sandoval's only income was from selling language records for the Cortina Instituto Linguistico, told Boston that she promised to contact all her friends in an attempt to help him sell the records and thus raise some money legally. L/4 explained to Boston that Sandoval's commission is about 350 pesos per set of records, which is actually the down payment made by the customer (the remainder being paid in weekly or monthly instalments of about 165 pesos). L/4 asked Boston's help in finding customers among his business contacts to help Sandoval.

4. LIRING/4 also reported that Manuel Marcué Pardillas had visited her at her apartment late the previous evening. He told her that Carlos Fersabal's wife, Teresa Lozada, would be accompanying her mother-in-law to Guatemala City. He also stated that he was optimistic since Carrillo Flores had introduced the Mexican Consul to appeal to the Guatemalan Minister of Foreign Affairs. Marcue commented that unfortunately the Mexican Consul could not reach this official himself since he was currently in New York. He hoped however that the Consul would see the Minister's secretary to arrange direct intervention. L/4 commented to Boston that Marcue seemed very curious about