continued...

Case # 65

Terminate payments to Trustee since widow, legal child and parents of Antonio FADRON Cardenas, not receiving entire amount to which they are entitled if Trustee is sending $100 to two mistresses. If, and when, widow does come to the USA, case can be reviewed for possible renewal of direct payments to widow and arrangements made to pay support to illegitimate daughter. Present legitimate dependents will be projected for the actuary study so that funds will be available if required at a future date.

Case # 73

Terminate payment to 2nd dependent, father of Pedro MORDA Roque, Mother of deceased is now in the USA and records indicate she is separated from the father who remained in Cuba.

Case # 78

Terminate payment to 2nd dependent, daughter of Carlos GUAS Decall, who is not only married but is over 21 years of age.

Case # 81

Terminate payment to deceased 2nd dependent, father of Osvaldo DIAZ Milian.

Case # 83

Terminate payments to 2nd and 3rd dependents, children of Pedro CULLAR Alonso, who reside in Cuba. According to widow, she has little, if any, contact with her stepsons and does not contribute to their support on a regular basis.

Case # 87

Terminate payment to 2nd dependent who is the mother of widow of Carlos SOLIS Shelton, not mother of deceased. On the questionnaire, the widow claimed her mother as dependent. According to AMTIKI, deceased's mother is Rosa SHELTON who has resided in the USA for some time and apparently has never received any money.

Case # 89

Terminate payments to 2nd and 3rd dependents, parents of Roberto PEREZ Cruzata, and 4th dependent, child of first dependent and her former husband Harry FRITZ. Probably all dependents should be terminated but there are conflicting statements concerning the legal status of the "widow". Deceased claimed her as his wife in 1961. AMTIKI's file on this case contains a letter from a Miami lawyer requesting information on the "widow" and advised he had been retained by Harry FRITZ to protect his interest and that of their daughter, Cathleen FRITZ, in view of the supposed marriage of his ex-wife and Roberto