goes up in a Ghetto, who becomes a criminal under pressures, he is intelligent he is extremely intelligent. Not an intellectual but far more capable as an organizer say, than Williams. Williams is utterly hopeless. And He is not slow to catch ideas, but he has certain fixed ideas which have developed, certainly under pressure. Malcolm was moving and he as a figure could have done a lot too.

((Was this a maturing))

Yes, a maturing, a process of facing reality also. I suppose this is an explanation to a large extent of why there are so many children who are young kids, who are really involved in the nationalist movement). They're facile, frustrated. They don't know what else! They feel that the older organizations are in incapable of doing anything for them. There is a class thing. They feel that there is sort of a Black bourgeoisie for whom there is now in general a has sold them out, but they, possibility of integration, but they who live in the Ghetto, who go to the bad schools, who come out of poor homes and so forth, by the time their they're sixteen, they hope of, the real hopes of integration, of being something in contemporary American society, is dead. It's this whole business, the motivation in schools, the good schools, the housing and the family even. If a child grows up in a home where they don't have books- there is a great difference between a Jewish child in the Lower East Side, and no matter how poor that family, motivated by a long Jewish tradition, and a Negro child or a Puerto Rican child, Middle Class ideals are beginning to sink down into the Jewish/Mexican Negro community, but among Puerto Ricans there is an even greater gap, so I understand,代理

Many of these Negro kids, they just feel this enormous wall around them, and one of the things that I am most aware of, even-- when I was a child, I grew up in Philadelphia. Many of my friends were white. We lived in a neighborhood in West Philadelphia which had Negro and white Irish, Catholics, Jewish people, Italian, in proximity. Lived in the same block. That neighborhood now is solidly black. The school I went to was always mixed. Now most of these schools are black. There is more segregation today, through real estate, through housing, than there was 20 years ago.

(( Is this intentional or is this because this was an area that was mised and where a Negro could move in and so Negroes did.)))

Yes. One of the problems is that around most American cities the city line marks the end of expansion for Negroes. They can't move into the suburbs. A middle class Negro who has money can move into the suburbs. And what areas they can move into are filled up. The whites flee out of