CLASSIFICATION OFFICE CHARTER AND NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF DASHCH SECRET

4. As previously, Subject's reporting was terribly confused. I'm not sure what she meant by "rambling tangents." She said that AEDIEHARD arrived at her house at ca. 19:30 on 6 February. About four hours later, Subject were there. They were all guests at the luncheon to which AEDIEHARD had been invited. The male guests had long since departed to their jobs. AEDIEHARD made his usual impression of all the girls, none of whom he had met before. "They all loved him." AEDIEHARD stayed until ca. 23:00 when he left pleading a previous appointment.

5. AEDIEHARD debriefed her on her activities since they last got and told her that he would be coming to New York on vacation. She invited him to visit her and gave him her address and telephone number (under separate cover). She asked about the manuscript of her book which she had left with him. He told her that it was in proof hands and that he was looking for a publisher. She told him that she was leaving on the morning of 9 February and he promised to see her again before she left. Actually, AEDIEHARD spent considerably more time charming the other ladies than he spent talking to Subject.

6. At ca. 19:30 on 7 February, Subject called AEDIEHARD in the case officer's presence. He was not in. She was told to call later which according to LIMNOY she did but he was still not in.

7. The case officer called her again on the evening of 8 February but since AEDIEHARD had not contacted her, she was not ready. She was instructed to call the station before contacting AEDIEHARD on her next visit. She departed on the morning of 9 February.

8. Since AEDIEHARD did not engage in significant conversation with her and made no attempt to see her a second time, it would seem that he has no interest in her. This is not surprising since AEDIEHARD could hardly escape the same assessment of her that the case officer has. She made an even worse impression than at the first interview--a totally self-centered person who could not even remember the last names of the women who met AEDIEHARD although she can talk endlessly about them on how they relate to her. Her face is totally distracted.

9. In view of the above, the Station believes that Subject would do no use against AEDIEHARD and plans to terminate her, if she reappears in Mexico.