SECURITY INFORMATION

January 20, 1953

Dear Belson:

The following is submitted for consideration but without recommendation so far as the Fund's Board is concerned, since a question of basic policy is involved which can be determined only by the Corporation.

The Fund now occupies an entire building, except for the ground floor which contains two small stores and a moving picture theatre, under a sub-lease from the operator of the moving picture theatre. The Fund's sub-lease expires November 21, 1956 but the Fund has the option to cancel on November 21, 1954 on payment of an indemnity of $61,800. During the reconstruction of the building to fit it for Fund occupancy the Fund contributed roughly $160,000, to the cost of asphalt tile floors, acoustic tile ceilings on certain floors, fluorescent lighting fixtures, partitioning and air conditioning. The Fund's offices take up about 32,760 square feet so that disregarding leasehold improvements rent paid by the Fund of $12,760 per annum average $3,777 per square foot. The Fund has no right of removal at the expiration of the five-year term.

The owner of the fee has recently placed the building on the market. The asking price is $1,250,000 compared with the assessed valuation of $1,150,000. The Fund's landlord is seeking a reduction in this assessment and we are informed has been granted a reduction in rent by the owner of the fee, justification therefor being the increased tax burden (the Fund's landlord's lease being a net lease) and the less than anticipated income from his moving picture theatre. The owner of the fee has rejected an offer of $900,000 in cash for the building.

In the opinion of the Fund's counsel the Fund, if it owned the building, would be exempt from New York City real estate taxes in respect of all the space occupied by the Fund, namely, the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh floors. An appropriate amount of the total valuation attributable to the two stores and moving picture theatre on the ground floor would be subject to taxation. 1952 real estate taxes amounted to $38,900.

The Fund's current rent of $3,777 per square foot is very low for air conditioned property in the decibel location where the Fund's offices now are. Should the present owner or an investor or speculative purchaser refuse to renew the Fund's lease in November 1956, without a substantial increase in rent, the Fund would, if it were still in operation on the present scale and if the New York real estate market is not depressed, be faced with either a greatly increased rent cost of

SECRET SECURITY INFORMATION