others. In this regard it is unlikely that the Subject has even committed physical assault nor is it likely that he would in the future. No matter what the other person would represent to the Subject he would still be regarded as a human being whom the Subject would respect and would not harm. The Subject is not necessarily a hostile person. He will act out of exigency but will deliberately avoid being sadistic or wontonly cruel. This is of importance as far as the project is concerned. If the Subject were to find himself in a tight spot which required killing another person it is not likely that he would do so. It is more likely that he would attempt to resolve the situation by verbal machinations.

The Subject prefers to work alone as regards technical research but as regards the execution of an operation, he prefers to be part of an organization. He knows he can rely upon himself when he is alone and that others have been unreliable in the past. However, if it is necessary for him to work with others he will accept it. It must be kept in mind, however, that he would prefer to work alone. The Subject is likely to be loyal to a person whom he regards as superior and in the relationship he may even be critical of himself. In order to express his loyalty he would like to prove his usefulness to the superior but, at the same time, he would feel inadequate in that he would require the protection of a superior. In his initial contacts with a partner, the Subject would attempt to assume leadership on the team but if the partner were superior by virtue of intelligence and/or experience, the Subject would tend to follow. It is likely that he would be a better follower of an adequate leader than a leader of a less adequate person. The reason for this is that he is more of a dependent than an independent person in terms of his interpersonal relationships. Furthermore, he is inclined to act on impulse and sentiment and consequently his judgement is questionable. In terms of ideal pairing, the Subject would work better with a more sober-minded, calculating and mature individual whom he would respect and with whom he would enjoy an informal but authoritative relationship.

Prior to the last session of the preliminary examination on the 10th of January 1959 the Subject was routinely contacted by the French Police who were investigating his reasons for being in Paris at that time. As a result of this contact, the Subject was markedly apprehensive and preoccupied and was not able to freely devote himself to the psychological analysis as theretofore. The Subject's primary motive is, of course, self-preservation and since he is an extremely alert and vigilant individual he is likely to over-react and to become emotionally upset.