I. 7 Sep 72 P E O ' S R E P U B L I C O F C H A M B A NATIONAL AFFAIRS

B1

FUNERAL CEREMONY HELD FOR NPC VICE CHAIRMAN HO HSIAO-NING

Peking NCKA International Service in English 2:10 GMT-6 Sep 72 B

[Text] Peking, September 6, 1972 (MSIIMUA)--Ho Hsiang-ning, vice-chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, chairman of the Revolutionary Committee of the Kuomintang and former president of the National Women's Federation of the People's Republic of China, died of illness in Peking on September 1, 1972 at the age of 95.

A solemn ceremony in her memory took place in the capital yesterday afternoon, and flags were flown at half mast at Tiananmen Square and in front of Hsinhuamen and the Foreign Ministry. A funeral ceremony was held today for the deceased in Beijing.

The ceremony in Peking was held in the Great Hall of the People. A portrait of Ho Hsiang-ning hung in the meeting hall.

Wreaths presented by the great leader Chairman Mao and the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China were placed there.

Attending the ceremony were Tung Pi-wu, Soong Ching-ling, Chu Te, Chou En-lai, Yeh Chien-ying, Chang Chun-chiao, Yao Wen-yuan, Li Hsien-rren, Chi Teng-kuei, Li Te-sheng, Wang Tung-hsing, Eru Hsiang-chien, Kuo Mo-jo, Ngapo Ngawang-jigme, Chou Chien-jen, Chen Yun, Li Pu-chun, Hsu Te-beng, Pu Tse-i, Tsai Chang, Yeng Ying-chao, Hua Kuo-feng and Wu Te. They expressed sympathy with Liao Cheng-chih, Liao Meng-hsing and Ching Pu-chun, family members of the late Ho Hsiang-ning.

Chu Te, chairman of the NPC Standing Committee, presided over the ceremony. Vice-Chairman Soong Ching-ling made a memorial speech.

Vice-Chairman Soong Ching-ling said: "Madame Ho Hsiang-ning in her earlier years followed Dr. Sun Yat-sen in carrying out the revolution of 1911 to overthrow the feudal rule of the Ching dynasty. Later, she took an active part in the punitive expedition against Yuan Shih-kai and in the movement to uphold the provisional republican constitution. In 1924, she firmly supported Dr. Sun Yat-sen's revolutionary programme of the new three people's principles, the organization of the Kuomintang and an-operation with the Chinese Communist Party."