4. Turnover to Rodigast. After getting S/1's unhesitating agreement to an LCFLUTTER examination and his signature on a Secrecy Agreement on 2 June, Tiffany introduced him to Rodigast, under the alias "Paul Weller" on the morning of 3 June. It was explained that Rodigast would serve as S/1 point of contact in the future. S/1 and Rodigast hit it off well from the outset, the latter's knowledge of Paris and Tangiers-based American beatniks and other intellectuals serving him has laid well in the rapport-building process. Rodigast /'kɪbɒdz/ on firm meeting arrangements for Paris and has discussed arrangements for meeting S/1 at least twice during the summer outside Algiers. Final agreement on a mid July meeting will be made in Paris to conform to a normal pattern by S/1 and xxx arrangements which S/1 succeeds in developing in Lausanne and Paris. In the process of discussing communications Rodigast is also imparting instruction in good security practices on the part of S/1. Rodigast will instruct S/1 in the use of SW in Paris. Hopefully, Rodigast will be able to spend a day or two with S/1 in Paris, even though we want S/1 to get to Algiers as soon as possible.

5. Financial Arrangements. After discussing all possible alternatives, it was decided that the most secure arrangement would be to give S/1 an advance of the equivalent of $200 for his-travel London-Brussels-Lausanne- Paris and per diem and his an advance of the equivalent of $600 for his June salary plus non-accountable expenses. These advances were made and signed for on 3 June. One raison important reason for the large cash advance was the fact that S/1 immediately was completely broke, and he had to make some funds available to his wife to meet expenses and pay off a 65 pound Sterling debt to his brother-in-law before leaving on his trip. (S/1 will explain the funds as the last of the advances and payments for articles by Encounter and other publications.) For essentially the same reason (poverty) we agreed to make S/1's July and August salary payments in advance (to be paid into his Swiss bank account on the first of each month). We recognize that this procedure is