hide any pure we might here been carrying "under the pretence" since the military would search the bus. Just then we saw a can glass us a rather high speed car recognized the Conyul in the driver's seat. Iden A's previousness joined him again and he showed into by hand his Gueretalen passport and a few other of his local papers. I quickly put them into my pocket and told that I would not be searched.

"Then we reached the control point, we said the Conyul, by then wearing a side-arm, leading against his car, sitting for the arrival of the bus. As soon as we stopped, he stowed to a nearby soldier to have the Colonial Comandant come out. Then the soldier refused saying that it was more proper for him, the Conyul, to go to the office of the Con- mandant, the Consul insisted in a rather stern voice. Finally the sol- dier disappeared and returned in a few minutes with the commandant, a young officer of excellent appearing, left - few minutes later - with the Consul, the Commandant entered ( Idem 1,2 and myself) out of the bus. The driver then returned our fare and was allowed to pro- ceed on to Euchuetenango, after we had removed our luggage. We then found ourselves surround by soldiers and escorted into the 'El Table' compound. There we were assigned to different prefabricated huts and questioned separately. At an opportune moment, when the soldier standing me (through the window of the hut) went off to get me some water, I managed to squeeze the passport of Idem A and his other papers through a crack in the floor boards where I felt sure that they would not be discovered.

"The Comandant, who was fairly polite and even gave us coffee, asked me the purpose of my trip and how well I knew the other two. I replied that I was simply sightseeing and that I had known Idem B in Mexico City since he was a well-mom educatedtico at the University but that I had run into him at San Cristóbal. With regard to Idem A, I alleged that I did not know him and had simply run into him by chance at the Immigration Office and had joined him and Idem B on the bus to save money in traveling to Euchuetenango. The Comandant then asked me to open my valise and he proceeded to search the contents carefully. He was particularly attracted to a clay bell which Idem A or B had placed there without my knowledge. (I later found out that they had stolen three bells from the hotel at San Cristóbal in a spoof and had put one on my valise). I told the Comandant that I did not know the bell was in my valise but recognized it as one sold at the tourist stand of the Hotel in San Cristóbal. I subsequently realized that they thought that the bells were some sort of recognition signal and wanted to get to the bottom of the apparently perplexing matter.