MEMORANDUM in Lieu of Fitness Report

SUBJECT: Newton Scott MILER (1 April 1969 - 31 March 1970)

1. During the current rating period Mr. MILER was transferred from his previous position as Deputy Chief of the Special Intelligence Group of the Counter Intelligence Staff to the position of Chief of the Operations Group of the same Staff. This was a new position and as such required unusual skills and vigor to give dimension to the job to be done. Mr. MILER approached his task with imagination and energy. He inherited an incoherent group of capable officers and immediately began the task of trying to define common denominators for their operational activities, to weed out duplicatory and marginal tasks, to establish clearly delineated guidelines and to provide a sense of discipline, all aimed toward giving better counterintelligence guidance and support to the operations of the area divisions and the operational components of the CA Staff.

2. At the same time Mr. MILER has continued to handle, under the direct guidance of the Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, a number of extremely sensitive cases to which he has contributed analytically and developmentally. The cases required not only keen operational sense in their handling, but a strong feeling for liaison as many of the cases involved frequent high-level discussion and negotiation with other components of CIA as well as with outside agencies and departments. In fulfilling these responsibilities, Mr. MILER has worked without regard to hours or to his personal convenience. He has assiduously tried to reflect the thinking of the Chief of the CI Staff and to relate it to the operational problems he is handling. He has also given mature, insightful supervision and encouragement to the orientation and development of a Deputy Chief, Operations, another important innovation in the Staff's organization.

3. As a member of the Program Review Panel Mr. MILER contributed fully in examining, reviewing and commenting on the programs of the operating components within the Clandestine Service. He, together

SECRET EYES ONLY

Ltr. 1

Operations

Serv.