was strictly a HARVARD agent resettlement case of no AIS ops interest and not a routine CABEZONE case. OCA stated that the political recognition interview story had naturally drawn the interest and attention of CAVATA.

OCA advised REINBOLD that CAVATA would be kept out of the case by being told Subject was of continuing AIS ops interest and HARVARD could go about its resettlement efforts.

Subject by this time had agreed to immigrate to any South American country with the exception of Argentina, where he claimed he had acquaintances who were not kindly disposed toward him. At first Subject suggested that he go on a tourist visa and apply for immigration status after his arrival. Although this suggestion was quite sensible and valid DARONNAT knew that his reasons were: 1) with a tourist visa, he had visions of having KUBARK finance him from country to country until he found exactly what would please him, and 2) he knew that with a tourist visa he could return to Europe without having committed himself irrevocably to immigration status with all its attendant responsibilities.

Available South American immigration data indicated that a prospective immigrant would have to have personal qualifications sufficient to make him an attractive prospect plus proof of financial solvency sufficient to provide self-support at the rate of $125 per month for two years. Headquarters approved the expenditure of $3,000-for this purpose and discussions with MKTOPAZ and Camp King resolved the necessary documentation problems.

Fully documented and armed with the assurance that there would be financial assistance available during his first months in South America, Subject applied at the local Colombian Consulate for permission to immigrate. HARVARD had hoped that letters of solvency and letters of recommendation would be sufficient to enable Subject to process with a minimum of red tape. This was not to be and Subject was informed he could only immigrate by processing through the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration (ICEM).

This problem was discussed with a cleared official from Refugee Migration Section AMCONGEN, Munich, and the Chief of CAMANTILLA. HARVARD was informed that European refugees immigrating to South America are processed through ICEM thereby eliminating the need for individual countries to maintain immigration offices and welfare staffs. Unfortunately, since