LUSTRIKER REPORT #32, Fulupe

31 Jan 63

Subj: Contacts, 30 Jan— 31 Jan.

1. Jean Marie Boeglin: Saw him three times, his home, office of Revolution Africaine, and Brasserie du Berry, 30-31 January. He arranged meeting with Jacques Vergez, Director of Revolution Afrique, having told Vergez that I was "practically a militant" who would work wall for the cause instead of the salary. He also offered me the "exclusive" job as photographer for the Information Bureau of Aliens Vacants, with all expenses for trips etc paid for by the ministry, but with very little extra salary. I accepted, saying that was a good method to study the reform agraire deeply for an article. I've Mathieu will be my boss in that job. Boeglin then took me to the Opera where we use an office in capacity as Technical Director of the National Theatre. He requested me to furnish him with photos he could use for the theatre posters and for the programs for the first production scheduled in mid-March. I agreed.

2. Jacques Vergez: Saw him 1100 31 Jan in the office of Revolution Afrique, of which he is director. Madame Rabah bitat is to be the editor in chief of this publication. Vergez immediately offered as a job as a regular salaried photographer of Revolution or as a piece-meal photographer. I indicated I thought payment by the job was better, since my cover outfit is not "liberal" as I am. Regular salary for everyone on the paper, from the lowest secretary to Vergez himself, as decided by Vergez, is to be 110,000 frans per month. My job payments will amount to about that much. I will take a trip once a week with Georges Aymo (phonetic) to do photos on the feature articles on Algeria for each week's publication. Vergez also ordered six photos from us from my contact prints, and took one photo on the spot for the cover of the second issue due out 9 February. The cover of the first issue of 2 February is to be a photo of Luxembourg. Vergez took us around to introduce us to the rest of the staff—all alien characters who hardly said hello with the exception of Cintz, the em-Egypte cartoonist—and showed us the physical layer. We future invited me to the opening cocktail party for Saturday night also. Boeglin later said he was quite impressed with my photo collection.

3. Serge Michel: Came to my home 31 Jan when I wasn't home, but I talked with him from Botra's house. Michel had with him "an FLI responsible" who wanted to commission me to produce the photos for an FLI publication, like style one-what but presented as a "weekly", on Algerian women. We set up a meeting for Saturday morning to discuss it. We will take a trip into the Kigba area to start these shots of women.

4. Eijmal Tchanderli: Saw him own town, said he wanted to discuss something important with me, made date for tonight, but he didn't show. Will see him tomorrow.

5. Talked by phone with Tony Pelli and Frank Kearns (directing C23 Paris since Kleiman is in New York since Christmas withbizored sick wife—to may be getting fired) in Paris. They are extremely interested in the Congo trip, approve it fully in spite of leaving radio uncovered here, want both radio broadcasts and actuality tapes. Also want me to meet movies, and insist I make a deal with Tchanderli to permit me to shoot movies. As to phone them tomorrow for latest word from New York on actual requirements and possible premium payments for Congo/Angolese movies.

6/1

Sent to Paris

Co-OP: W. H.

E-m:

A-13

G. Abdulkader Bel Hacene, two Epustics, at Hotel Astجي. Nothing of interest.

ASSISTIVE CANCER - REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED. 14-00000