Mexico, I should be very happy to provide the Officers to take a name and realistic position vis-a-vis their revolution. I welcome this suggestion, assuming that I could and would make a trip to Juana as soon as feasible. Since I was not certain of my wife's whereabout, I asked the brothers to leave their representative in Mexico, whom they described simply as 'Travel,' contact me through

Identity C

I suggested that 'Travel' could contact the director, Identity E, on her secretary's stra. Carillo, and introduce himself as a person representing a certain stra. Violete who was interested in purchasing the watercolors I had already sent to my wife. 'Travel' could then ask for my address or leave a message telling me when I could call him. They agreed and promised to communicate with me as soon after my release as possible.

"The trial of myself andiden B was nothing more than a formality,since the judge was well aware that the prosecution had no solid evidence (fortunately for us Iden & had already been eliminated and could not testify even under 'duress'). Since at least three attempts had been made to execute us before the trial (on the well-known pretext of removing us from the prison and assassinating us while supposedly ac- terupting to escape), I demand an escort after the acquittal to ac- company us to the airport. He arrived in Mexico City on 13 October and I was met there by my wife."

10. After relating the above, LIRING/2 asked Rowton to keep the proposed contact with 'Pevel' in strictest confidence, particularly from his wife, since he felt she would be very upset to learn that he, L/3, was planning to resume political activity on behalf of FAR. In reply to Rowton's query, L/3 stated that as yet he had not had time to recontact anyone in the LIRING office but promised to do so as soon as the opportunity presented itself. He agreed with Rowton that LIRING/4 would be the logical person to arrange a discreet meeting with LIRING/10. L/3 told Rowton incidentally that L/4 had protested to LIRING/10 some weeks previously that Rodolfo Reyes was spreading rumors to the effect that the LIRING office did not trust LIRING/4. L/10 replied indignantly that if there was anyone they did not trust it was Rodolfo Reyes,and that L/4 could bring him in and L/10 would tell him such to his face.

Wallace B. Rowton

LIRING/2