7. FERNALD succeeded in convincing LIBACON-1 that he should maintain social or friendly personal contact with AEDIEHARD and his colleagues and that he could do it without either giving in to his or their demands, or at the other extreme, without saying no to everything they mention or ask for. LIBACON-1 followed instructions and went to AEDIEHARD's office to ask him why he had not called him for ten weeks. The result was that LIBACON-1 had two luncheon meetings with AEDIEHARD in July, and on August 8 LIBACON-1 and his wife were dinner guests of AEDIEHARD and his wife at their apartment. The AEDIEHARDS agreed to come to LIBACON-1's place for a farewell dinner in September and in the meanwhile LIBACON-1 and AEDIEHARD will meet, for a luncheon on August 29.

8. FERNALD insisted from the beginning of his handling of LIBACON-1 that the latter prepare bio sketches on the MIHHARSHers he know personally and on Spaniards who had lived in the USSR. LIBACON-1 prepared bio sketches, which are actually personality assessments, on AEDIEHARD, IDENTITY A, IDENTITY B, IDENTITY C, and IDENTITY D. The latter two reports showed that he would also report on two Spaniards who are close friends of his, in spite of his earlier conditions. Further, FERNALD instructed LIBACON-1 to contact a good friend of his (IDENTITY E) when the latter returned from a longer trip to Czechoslovakia. LIBACON-1 carried out the assignment well and reported (orally) about IDENTITY E's observations, impressions and conclusions concerning what he saw and heard during his stay in his country. IDENTITY E is also a good personal friend of LIBACON-1.

9. From the above it can be seen that LIBACON-1 has developed into a person who has confidence in us, and he accepts without reservation that we know what we are doing.

10. In analyzing LIBACON-1's written reports it can easily be seen that LIBACON-1 takes his assignments seriously and when he makes a statement about a person he is scrupulous about drawing only that conclusion which can be corroborated with facts. LIBACON-1 is equally serious and reliable when he reports about his meetings with AEDIEHARD: He first reports the course of the meeting and reports AEDIEHARD's statements verbatim, as much as possible. Then, he uses his area knowledge and the knowledge of the person to relay the actual meaning of the statements. FERNALD not only believes that LIBACON-1's reporting is reliable, but he also feels that one can depend on LIBACON-1 to use his knowledge of the area and people to separate the appearance and verbiage from the facts, be they good or bad.

11. An assessment of the moral and political reliability of LIBACON-1, from the point of view of his work and activity on our behalf, can only be favorable. The same cannot be said when one views his personal life. In this field he has many problems, which, generally speaking, are a result of the fact that while he is intellectually mature (or at least adequately mature for his age),