Report No: TCH-1365.

Date 22 January 1951.

3. The structure of the Juventud Socialista is like that of the PSP. It has committees in all the districts (barrios) of the City of Habana and in the larger cities of the interior. Up until now the Juventud Socialista has not had, according to source, clandestine leaders to take the place of the present overt leaders in case the party is outlawed, nor does it now have these clandestine leaders. However, source feels that there are many secondary and less well-known leaders within the Juventud Socialista who would be able to assume the direction of a clandestine communist youth organization if the PSP decided such an organization should be set up. Source supplies the following names a possible clandestine leaders of such an organization: Julián AGUILAR, "responsible Youth" (youth representative) of the CTC (Confederador de Trabajadores de Cuba) (Communist) a few years ago; Bienvenido GUERRÍZ, who is the "responsible Youth" of the CTC (Communist) at present; Federico, Rita, and Georgina VILLAR; Walterio CARBOLELL, law school student, Habana University; and Hector CARBOLELL, communist youth leader at the Ariguanabo textile plant, in Bauta, Habana Province.

4. The PRIO Administrative's anti-communist attitude over the past six months has not visibly affected unfavorably the unity of the Juventud Socialista, according to source. Source gives as a reason for this the fact that the ranks of the Juventud Socialista are composed of proven communist militant youths. Source claims he knows of only one case of defection from the Juventud Socialista ranks, that of a youth named Elío CAPESTANY, Juventud Socialista leader in the Escuela de Artes y Oficios, who has joined the Juventud del PAU.

Comment: As is well known, in other communist parties under similar circumstances and as we have previously reported, some communists have been instructed to infiltrate other political parties. It is difficult to understand how source can conclude positively that the CAPESTANY case was one of defection from the Juventud Socialista.

5. It is true, however, that the PSP has examined very carefully the ranks of the Juventud Socialista by signs of bourgeois weakness. The barrio committees of the PSP established similar committees of the Juventud Socialista with the purpose -2-

19-14-5-11

71