because LIANCHOR cannot properly be run from Guatemala. (LINLUCK) will describe to Identity-1 the problems which he has had in developing LIANCHOR and, in asking Identity-1 to take over control of LIANCHOR, will suggest that Identity-1 use the LIANCHOR name and established publication outlets to broaden his prestige in Latin America without any thought of trying to earn fees. (LINLUCK) will also suggest that Identity-1 retain Identities 6 and 9 to help fill out the service, but that he gradually try to draw in personal writer friends of definite leftist fame and persuade them to contribute to LIANCHOR purely for the reward of increased prestige. Finally, (LINLUCK) will offer to continue to contribute material from time to time from Guatemala which Identity-1, through his good standing in the Mexican press, perhaps can publish in Mexico.

16. Testing for Indications of Effectiveness to Determine Future Direction of LIANCHOR Project:

It is estimated that it will not cost over U.S. $200 to hire clipping services in Buenos Aires, Montevideo, Santiago and Bogota for a three month trial period to test whether newspapers which receive LIANCHOR material in those cities are publishing the LIANCHOR material. The clipping services will be asked to watch for articles with the LIANCHOR by-line, the by-lines of LIANCHOR writers and the headlines or titles which are assigned by LIANCHOR to the articles mailed to the newspapers.

If the clipping service tests show that newspapers or periodicals in two of the above cited countries are publishing LIANCHOR material, Station will continue to pursue the development of a small and responsive leftist writer group as one phase of the LIANCHOR operation. The rationale behind this decision is that there is little justification in operating a press service, even a cheap one, with a readership limited to Mexico, Central America, Venezuela and Bolivia. However, if the press service can acquire, or has acquired, readership in any two of the countries in 16-a above then it is felt that the total area coverage is significant and worth maintaining.

17. Conversion of LIANCHOR to Temporary Roof Project for Singleton Leftist Writer Assets: If as a result of clipping

DEPARTMENT OF DISPATCH CONTINUATION OF HMMA-34792

16-2

The station was created in 1965 as a result of clipping Singleton Leftist Writer Assets. It was intended to provide temporary staffing for the station when it was not possible to hire full-time socialist-leftist reporters. The station was closed in 1988, however, because it became apparent that it was not possible to find enough leftists to staff the station.

For more information about the Station and its operations, contact the station's current director, Mr. Walter F. Beyer, at the address listed below:

Walter F. Beyer Station Director 1000 E Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 Phone: 202-634-6300 E-mail: wfbeyer@wtnewspapers.com

The station had a short-lived existence during the mid-1960s but survived into the early 1980s, during which time it continued to operate as a source of socialist-leftist news and views. The station was shut down in 1988 after it was determined that it no longer had the necessary staffing to function as a complete news organization.

It was期间由一些左翼记者和撰稿者经营,从1965年创刊到1988年停刊。

The station had a short