MEMORANDUM

1. The American Express Company will be informed that the School of Advanced International Studies will sponsor and pay for the travel to Berlin and return of a number of persons, the names of whom will be furnished at a later date to the American Express Company.

2. At the same time that this notification is given to the American Express Company, the sum of ten thousand dollars will be turned over to them from which travel expense may be taken.

3. The clearing house for this business with the American Express Company will be the office of Mr. Gerard J. Gilmore, Assistant Passenger Traffic Manager of the Travel Department, 65 Broadway, New York, N. Y. When the names of the persons who are sponsored are furnished to the American Express Company, all data will be forwarded to the office of Mr. Gilmore, though the persons may be located anywhere in the world. The Company will cable instructions to their branch offices.

4. The actual furnishing of transportation will be effected as follows:

The American Express Company will have the name and address of the person, furnished by you.

The person will be instructed to present himself at a specified office of the American Express Company and identify himself.

He then will be given his choice of transportation by rail or air, will be given the requisite documents, will be authorized to spend up to 10% of the cost of travel, for incidental expenses.

5. The American Express Company will furnish to you a list of all persons to whom such transportation and expense money actually is provided. In the unlikely event that more money is needed than is covered by your deposit of $10,000, arrangements will be made for you to deposit additional money with the American Express Company. Any unexpended funds left in the hands of the American Express Company will be returned to you at the time a final accounting is rendered.

6. Arrangements will be made with the American Express Company, in your name, by Mr. Martin K. Williams, of Kingston, Pena.