Soviets. The inquiry by the Commission was perfunctory and did not involve an interrogation in the intelligence sense. The crew was then transported to Astara on the Soviet-Iranian border on 7 July 1958 and turned over to the American Air Attache.

On 2 July 1958 this Agency received information indicating that the Soviets might be considering releasing the nine fliers. Since no date or place of release was indicated, cables were sent to the various peripheral CIA stations around the Soviet border indicating the possibility of impending release. The Air Force agreed to alert its Air Attaches in the same areas of the possibility of impending release. At the same time a team of Agency personnel, including a medical officer, an Air Maritime officer, and two representatives of the Security Office were dispatched to Wiesbaden from Headquarters in anticipation of the release of the fliers. Three hours after the team arrived in Germany, the place of release was learned from the Soviets to be Astara on the Soviet-Iranian border, and a USAFE plane was dispatched that night from Wiesbaden with the Air Maritime team member aboard destined for Teheran to await the turnover of the American fliers at Astara. The fliers were turned over on 7 July 1958, were immediately flown to Wiesbaden, Germany where an initial joint CIA-AF debriefing of them was begun, and where initial press interviews were held, following careful briefing of the crew as to the text and limitations to be observed. Two days later, two members of the crew, one of whom was Major Shupe, a CIA employee, were permitted to give an interview to the Paris representative of Timo-Life. Members of the CIA team were present during these press interviews, under appropriate cover arrangements, to furnish guidance to the CIA personnel.

Following the initial debriefing, the entire crew was flown to Washington, D. C. on 18 July 1958, for a more extended debriefing. These debriefings were completed on 6 August 1958 and covered the various aspects of possible compromise of the security of CIA personnel, operational and cover units activities, as well as various positive intelligence and counter-intelligence matters.

The three CIA men aboard the plane were extremely knowledgeable of highly sensitive Agency operational activities and of the identities of numerous CIA personnel. Colonel Brannon, as Commander of the CIA Air Support Operations in Europe, was knowledgeable of CIA operational activities on a world-wide basis, with many of these projects being extremely sensitive. Colonel Brannon and Major Robert Crans each carried briefcases containing classified material, and Brannon carried an address book containing several names, addresses and telephone numbers of CIA personnel and cover units. The two briefcases are believed to have been destroyed by the fire in the aircraft after landing. The address book of Brannon was taken from him by the Soviet