4. I asked Subject if he had mentioned SILNIKOV's pornographic negative to the latter. At first Subject said no, then yes; that he had asked Silnikov about it but Silnikov said that the negative didn't belong to him but to Vasily who took it back to Moscow with him. Subject added that Vasily had returned to the USSR about two weeks ago. (Comments: This is most probably BUSEV whom Subject calls Vasily and who returned to the USSR on 24 July.) (Second Comments: This is another example of one of Silnikov's vulnerabilities evaporating into thin air).

5. Concerning the item in the notes for Saturday, 30 July, in which Silnikov hid in the ballroom for twenty minutes because two other Soviets came in, Subject had the following to say about these two Soviets:

Valentin (El Torro), then follows a perfect description of LOGINOV.

Vladimir; here follows a good description of KORMUSHKIN including the fact that he replaced KOSTIKOV, Only KORMUSHKIN's name is Vladislav, not Vladimir.

6. I asked Subject about the discrepancy in the 19 July meeting when he said that SILNIKOV and PRASHCHIKIN had come to the store on Saturday 16 July but his notes said that PRASHCHIKIN and his replacement had come. Subject said that he doesn't know who PRASHCHIKIN's replacement is. He also couldn't explain the discrepancy, stating that he couldn't remember the incident now.

7. I also asked him about his item of 21 July in which at the request of VALENTIN he had delivered two cases of refrescos to General Cano 32. (We have no Soviets at this address). He changed it to General Leon 32 (MIKITIN'S home and the film office). The VALENTIN noted above as LOGINOV. When Subject delivered the two cases only a Soviet woman was at home. He described this address as a single house which is undergoing renovation inside.

8. In discussing SILNIKOV's recent work fixing up the Embassy I asked who actually did the work. Subject said that the Soviets do not like to deal with established firms for repairs to the Embassy because they charge too much. They prefer to deal with small independent people whom they can beat down on the price. Subject knows of two such individuals: