thousand pages of physical surveillance reports covering the daily movements of all FISTEAL officers. As a specific example of the importance of LILYRIC coverage, it was LILYRIC photos which made possible the identification of a WCLADY citizen who had been in clandestine contact with an AEGRIP officer. This information was turned over to LNERGO, which was pursuing the case. In general, LILYRIC provides the Station with a large percentage of the CI raw material collected on the FISTEAL target, such as automobile license numbers, PCS and TDY arrivals and departures, unusual activities such as demonstrations, unusual or lengthy absences of personnel, etc. This information also has positive operational value, but its most important use is as the major source of identification of FISTEAL personnel and of information on their movements. The Station has frequent requests from LNERGO which can only be fulfilled by LIEMPTY coverage, and this "permanent and complete record" of FISTEAL activities is invaluable for servicing the CE requirements of both WOFIRM and LNERGO.

LICALLA

During the above cited 13-month period, the LICALLA installation provided photographic and physical surveillance coverage of the back of the FISTEAL installation and its garden and patio area. This coverage provided 5,129 individual photographs as well as numerous surveillance and observation reports. These reports included daily, weekly, and monthly summaries of activities, semi-monthly attendance reports (of FISTEAL personnel), various special reports, and special intensive coverage of targets selected by the Station. It should be noted that the LICALLA basehouse allows Statten Mexico City to observe the FISTEAL personnel during their off-duty and recreational hours. The LICALLA installation has become the most valuable of the basehouses, not only because of its unique vantage point but also because of the perceptiveness of LIEMPTY-D. His surveillance reports have frequently given us valuable insight into personal associations among the FISTEAL personnel and have enabled us to introduce greater flexibility and effectiveness into the entire LIEMPTY operation.

LICALLA reporting has the greatest positive operational value since it provides raw material for use in target selection. Finally, the LICALLA is occasionally used in support of various technical operations conducted from the LICALLA complex.

B. Summary of Fixed Basehouse Effectiveness

The fixed LIEMPTY basehouses (LIMITED, LICALLA, and LILYRIC) provided approximately 21,267 individual frames of operational photographs during the 13-month period reviewed above. This photographic coverage, linked with the physical surveillance reports prepared by each basehouse, has proven to be a most reliable and viable tool for: