SECRET Security International

October 6, 1953

Dear FUNERAL:

It is my privilege, by means of this letter, to introduce to you my good friend, Mr. COKENTIAS, who has recently, and very graciously, consented to act as the Foundation's personal representative in Chile.

I have taken the liberty of asking Mr. COKENTIAS to serve in this capacity primarily because the statutes of our Foundation require that we seek the services of a U.S. citizen to represent us in any foreign country in which one or more Foundation grants may be operative. In addition, however, I earnestly believe this arrangement will serve to strengthen the very promising relationship already established between us and to stimulate those activities which are of mutual interest to us. I had not mentioned this stipulation in our previous correspondence, but I do so now in view of the possible imminence of a formal agreement between Propaganda For Chile and the Foundation. Our receipt of your promised printing cost estimates would pave the way for approval and detailed planning of an actual grant of assistance.

It is my hope and expectation that Mr. COKENTIAS will call upon you in the near future to present his respects and ours. As our representative he is authorized and prepared to discuss all matters of mutual concern. Mr. COKENTIAS has been instructed to extend to you, to Sr. [your name] (to whom, I trust, you will introduce Mr. COKENTIAS), and to your group as a whole, every possible courtesy and assistance. It is my sincere desire that this personal contact will prove to be of common benefit.

Enclosed you will find a copy of my letter of this date, to Mr. COKENTIAS. At the same time, I am sending Mr. COKENTIAS a copy of this letter to you, as well as copies of our previous correspondence, so that he may familiarize himself with developments to date.

Trusting that you and Sr. __________ will receive Mr. COKENTIAS as our representative in the same spirit with which he has offered to serve, and hoping that this arrangement will mark the beginning of a worthwhile and enduring association, I remain,

cc: COKENIAS