(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962)

monitor conversations in that office. Only very experienced linguists were used, but even they had to listen "ten, fifteen, even twenty times" in order to understand portions of the recording. After NOSENKO left the Embassy Section, on several occasions in 1962-1963 GRYAZNOV, his former subordinate and his successor, referred to the microphones' decline. GRYAZNOV said the microphones were picking up only snatches of conversation, and that in a year or two they would be completely inoperative. As a result, GRYAZNOV told NOSENKO, GRIBANOV was insisting on the recruitment of code clerks at all costs. Besides the fading quality of the microphone's signal, GRYAZNOV, KOVSHUK and FEDOSEYEV attributed the diminishing value of the audio operation to the Embassy use of the "room-in-a-room". [NOSENKO said that in 1960-1961 the KGB had information that, in preparation for President Eisenhower's visit, a "steel chamber" had been constructed within the Embassy where secure conversations could be held.]

Microphones in the North Wing

According to NOSENKO, no microphones or other audio devices were ever installed in the north wing (as distinct from the chancery) prior to the Embassy's occupancy of the building in 1962. In his first meetings with CIA in Geneva he described how he knew. When it was decided to permit the Embassy to construct the north wing, NOSENKO wrote a proposal that audio equipment be installed. Approval was held up by KGB Chairman Shelepin, who had reservations because of the political consequences of discovery. By the time Shelepin approved the proposal two or three months later, renovation was far advanced, and Embassy Security Officer ABIDIAN was already inspecting the premises. The opportunity was lost and the KGB installed no microphones. Consequently, NOSENKO suggested to CIA that the Minister Counsellor, the service attaches, and others presently occupying rooms in the chancery which had microphones, be moved gradually to the north wing, where the KGB had neither audio equipment nor the capability of installing any.

G001501

TS No. 197124

Copy 10

229