TO Chief, SR EE: WE; Paris; CCS, Germany

FROM Chief of Base, Frankfurt

PURCHASE REDWOOD/REDSON/ARACRE Subject of ALFA-22041

ACTION REQUIRED Please give us instructions on what is to be done with this contact-henceforth.

REFERRAL DIR 44873, 10 October 1958

1. Approval to contact and assess Subject was given in reference which also approved our proposal that Peter K. Winship accompany Newens and the undersigned on this job in order that he would be able to carry to Headquarters his personal impressions of Subject.

2. We arrived in Paris on 13 October where we discussed our plans with John P. Platipodis who informed us that the Paris Station had no objections to our proceeding as we proposed. The undersigned travelled as Maj. Michael C. Long; Nevens and Winship travelled in true name.

3. We rented a car in Paris and drove to Gap, arriving before noon on 14 October. The remainder of the day was spent in familiarizing ourselves with the town and locating the house where Subject was reported to live. Because none of us spoke French without a noticeable Anglo-Saxon accent, we did not wish to visit the apartment or Subject's brother and risk meeting the brother or sister-in-law who would easily be able to detect that we were not Frenchmen. Therefore, the undersigned drove to Vaynes about 40 km. away where he got an older woman working in a small inn to put through a telephone call for us. The woman had no idea what she was doing and was not suspicious. She spoke with Subject's sister-in-law who said that Subject was no longer sleeping there but was expected to visit the house at about 2100 hours. Consequently, the undersigned returned to Gap where Winship and Nevens were on hand to surveil Subject's house. A second call to the house of Subject's brother was put through at about 2130 hours from a different town also about 40 km. from Gap. The man who made the call for us learned that Subject was planning to visit Paris, and that it was not known whether he had left.

5. Subject was not by the undersigned at 2000 hours and told that the undersigned was accompanied by two colleagues. Shortly thereafter

X company

14-06000

1007 535 1957-11-01

1904-08-01

FOR SECRET USE ONLY