to the Free Democratic Party, which has assumed the role of respectable opposition. The connection between this left-liberal criticism and the NPD gains on 28 April is not immediately apparent.

Some commentators including some Socialists, conclude that many SPD voters defected to the NPD. The respected Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung fudged some of the election data to support its argument that workers had gone over to the NPD, but a more careful analysis has shown that the NPD did indeed win above-average support in some working-class neighborhoods.

Many old Socialists and trade unionists, such as Willi Bleicher, the powerful boss of the metalworkers in this state, are cool to the coalition and hostile to intellectuals, and some of them are repelled by archaic student leftism. Even so, most workers are unlikely under conditions of full employment to cast what they would consider a neo-Nazi vote; certainly Bleicher would never favor such action. SPD electoral losses would seem to be due less to defection to the NPD than to the failure of lower-level SPD functionaries, apathetic, or even hostile toward the coalition, to get out the vote, and to the failure of many trade union and normally SPD voters to go to the polls.

In traditionally socialist Mannheim, only 58 percent of those entitled to vote turned out. SPD percentages dropped 14 percent in one district and 13 per-

cent in another. The percentage of NPD strength rose to 12.1, 10.9, and 11.2 in the three city districts, but working class votes would not be needed to provide these percentages, especially in the face of a low SPD turnout. These votes probably came mainly from the CDU, the FDP, or from those who had not voted before.

NPD Activity Pays Off

The NPD organization worked hard during the campaign, conducting more meetings than all the other parties put together. The party has overcome its former inexperience and disunity, and is developing into a well-oiled political machine. The organization fields speakers and provides canned speeches and propaganda materials to local groups. The NPD's heritage is not purely Nazi. It encompasses more respectable antecedents, such as the Deutschnationaler (German Nationalists) and other conservative elements. In the interests of avoiding a government ban, the National Democratic Party shuns blatantly Nazi appeals and tactics.

Adolf von Thadden, the national leader of the NPD, is a smooth personality from a Junker family who denies charges that he was an active Nazi. He seems to model himself more on De Gaulle than on Hitler. The Baden-Wuerttemberg leader of the party, Wilhelm Gutmann, is a former Nazi. During "the good old days," he was Buergermeister of Tiengen on the Swiss border, where he sponsored anti-Semitic

Page 5 SPECIAL REPORT-31 May 68