in this department. In the Frunze ROVD, Inspectors Aleksandr GLYDOVSKIY and Vladimir MELESHKO were friends of Source, who stated that both men have anti-Soviet leanings. An MVD major, Vladimir KOMAROVICH, investigates the most serious cases.

B. The Department for Combatting the Embezzlement of Socialist Property and Speculation (OBKhSS) is concerned with protecting socialist property in state establishments such as stores, plants and factories, hotels and restaurants. The following OBKhSS personalities were known to Source: (fnu) MALYSHKO and (fnu) POLYANSKIY in the Frunze ROVD, (fnu) KELLER and (fnu) VYSOTSKIY in the Tsentral'nyy ROVD, and (fnu) SUCHKOV in the Oktyabr' ROVD.

C. Department for Combatting Parasitism (Otdel bor'by s tuneyadstvom). Source thought that the term "parasitism" (tuneyadstvo) had recently been removed from the USSR Criminal Code and replaced by "vagrancy, begging and other parasitic types of existence." But the official procedures remain the same. Soviet citizens not engaged in socially productive labor are first given a warning, which they must sign at the department. If they remain unemployed, their case is turned over to a court, and the offense is punishable by a sentence of up to two years. However, there are ways to get around the law. Source says that if it can be shown that parents or a spouse are providing support or if a person can get seasonal work, he can defend himself before the department. But most citizens are not aware of these loopholes, according to Source. After the Investigations Department, this militia department turns over the greatest number of citizens to the courts. Also, this department and the law that it enforces are frequently used against dissidents.

D. Passport Department. Employees of this department make entries in the internal passports of citizens regarding their place of residence, and this department therefore gets many visitors. The department also enforces passport regulations.

E. The Guards and Protection (Okhrana) Department is responsible for providing militia protection to special establishments, such as radio and television studios and stations. This department also provides escorts for prisoners and guards at trials.

F. Department of Burglar and Intrusion Alarms (Otdel vnevedomstvennoy okhrany OVO), Source did not have any information on this department except that he thought it provides guards and watchmen for various enterprises in addition to its work with alarm systems.

G. Motor Pool (Motodivizion) provides and maintains patrol cars and motorcycles for the militia.