RYBAT

MEMORANDUM

WSO-3004

TO : Chief of Station THRU : DCOS/S FROM : Chief, Special Operations Branch SUBJECT: Promotion Recommendation - Irving C. DEVUONO

Distribution: - I-COS - 1-REG (Dummy) - 1-C/SO Chrono (Dummy) - 1-

1. Irving C. DEVUONO is 43 years of age. He joined WOFACT as a Contract Agent 10 February 1961 after completing 21 years of service with the U.S. Army. His last assignment while in the Army was a two-year tour of duty in Laos as a captain in the Special Forces. After a brief training and administrative processing period in Headquarters WOFACT, he was assigned to JMWAVE PCS on 27 August 1961 as a GS-13 Career Agent. He has been assigned to JMWAVE as a Paramilitary Special Operations Officer since that date.

2. DEVUONO is a proficient and competent Operations Officer whose performance during his six-year assignment to JMWAVE has continuously shown an outstanding proficiency in the supervision and management of indigenous agents. He has used his knowledge and experience, gathered over a 21 year period with the Army, to an outstanding degree. He has maintained the morale of his 30 agents and kept them at a high level of proficiency by a strong training schedule and by planning and implementing operations in the field of reconnaissance, caching, deception and Special Operations/ intelligence collection operations. During the past eight months he has recruited, trained and operationally committed two intelli-gence collection teams into PBRUMEN. Subject is a hard worker, capable administrator and a very able agent handler. He has the ability to gain the respect of his agents by his general knowledge of tradecraft matters and his ability to plan operations. He is a personally rugged individual and has established good rapport with a wide variety of agent types. Subject gets along well with his contemporaries. He is presently assigned as a section supervisor in the Special Operations Branch and has two officers and one secretary under his supervision. He manages and supervises his section in an able manner.

RYBAT