message sent to him in Costa Rica, however he did not receive the accompanying message. A-1 was asked to find out why the private link message did not reach him. Also, it was explained to A-1 who "El Narizon" is.

4. A-1 was casually asked if there would be any objection to AMYUM-19 attending any of the Consejo meetings. A-1 had no objections.

5. A-1 has some motion pictures and photographs of the bases and will bring them to the next Consejo meeting.

6. A-1 was informed that a letter from Luis Sierra, chief of the guerrillas, was intercepted by his own people in Miami. This letter contained a photograph with Sierra and other members of the guerrilla teams dressed in their new uniforms. A-1 was asked to investigate how this letter had been sent from the base and also how Sierra was able to have the picture developed.

7. This brought up the subject of Manuel Gomez. A-1 said that Gomez will be leaving on Monday, 16 March, for Nicaragua to survey AWORLD installations. A-1 had just a few hours previously spoken to Gomez. In the conversation, Gomez elaborated on the security measures he wishes A-1 to take concerning his own security. A-1 continues to sing the praises of Gomez. A-1 also commented that he has noticed a marked improvement in the security of his personnel since the last time he was in Miami.

8. While in Costa Rica, A-1 detected being followed by another car. A-1 was able to lose the surveiller. Martin took this opportunity to stress to A-1 the need for increasing his personal security measures such as more body guards and more secrecy concerning his movements.

9. The ADELAIDA arrived in Hollywood o/a 8 March. A-1 was not able to examine the contents of the sabotage equipment due to his preoccupation in Costa Rica with the MCRL and Vico Starke. The ADELAIDA unloaded weapons from the barge and sailed for Nicaragua.

10. AMJAVA-4, AMWORLD-2 and "the Mexican" will leave together for Nicaragua on 16 March.

11. A-1 expressed an interest in moving the C-47 out of Costa Rica. A-1 would like to discuss the method of transfer with the Consejo.

GROUP I

Excluded from transmission

Ban on distribution

Classification