C. 45. a. What did the Police asked and got on information about David's previous employment?

What did David tell about his relations with the SSAA?

Which home addresses he gave: in Paris and in Berlin?

Whom did he spoke in the Police HQ, and who issued him the certificate which he brought to the SSAC camp?

46. (David has said that he had a room hired where he stood (49) during his duty-free time.)

When and where did you rented the private room for yourself?

In what kind of a house this room was?

Who was the landlord or the landlady?

What was the rent?

Had you registered the room with your Police Unit?

For how long did you have this room?

48. a. How often he had to show himself in the hospital, for renewal of his convalescence certificate?

Was there a stamp used when the certificate was renewed?

How many times he had "renewed" the certificate himself?

51. a. When and where (town, occasion) did David get acquainted with Asterée ?

Since when did Asterée know of his falcifications?

Since when did she help him in this? How did she help?

Where did he get the typewriter ?

(52) e. When was this certificate re "surgical operation" prepared and used?

On how many occasions did David use this certificate?

57. a. Where did he learn this trick with the two documents - presenting the false one first?

59. a. Sketch all the seals and stamps ALLCU has made for you.

60. a. Which documents you have supplied with filigree nets prepared by youself? Where did you learn this?

Form-letters of which offices did you let be printed through the intermediary of Allou?

70. a. Was WERWERT the real name of the man for whom you prepared a Spanish passport, or why was this name used?

Who was Werwert according to the passport you prepared for him?

Did you photograph Werwert to get the necessary photo? where did you do this?

Where did you get the necessary "visa" for the pass?

71. a. What was the name of the soldier in the switchboard of the commandantura in Paris?

What was his address in Berlin?

Describe the family, give names, ages.

Describe their living place, or where you met the wife?

Were the soldier and his wife witting of their use?