MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch DATE: 1 July 1963

FROM : Mr. Ramon R. Hart

SUBJECT : Manuel F. ARTIME Buesa #210 838

1. On 24 June 1963, Mr. Charles Matt, SAS/MOB/PM, extension 6488, was referred to me by the SAS Security Officer, Mr. George Ladner, and visited me in Room 4 E 21 to request some operational support beginning 1 July 1963. Mr. Matt advised that two leaders of the Cuban Exile Group were coming to Washington, D. C., on that latter date to confer with CIA and other Government officials, including probably Robert F. Kennedy, the Attorney General, concerning the "new program" for the exiles.

2. Mr. Matt explained that a covert site (#302 922) located at 9218 Aldershot Drive, Bethesda, Maryland, had recently been procured to billet these exiles and to serve as the meeting place for these sensitive discussions to take place. Mr. Matt said that SAS is vitally interested in what these two exiles say to each other when the U. S. Government officials have departed after a day's discussions. He, therefore, requested that microphones be concealed in the house to monitor their comments.

3. Mr. Matt said that the two men would arrive on 1 July and would be in Washington at the house for about a week or ten days. The audio coverage was requested for this entire time. Mr. Matt also said that the house would be retained for several more months and that the two exiles would return to Washington several more times in that period and that an audio surveillance would probably be requested for these latter visits also.

4. Mr. George Ladner supplied the true name of the leader of the two men, the captioned Subject. Having been informed by Mr. Matt that the covert site was a private dwelling place in an expensive neighborhood, I assumed that there would be only two methods of making an audio penetration of the premises:

DEs/IOS

ADS/IOS

ASRT/IOS

C/TD

2 A.R.S.

3 G.A.

4 CARD

5 C/FB

6 C/SAB

7 C/S BWGR

8 Hart

9 C/SCBWGR

10 A&TS

11 FILES

Do Not Reproduce

GROUP-1 Excluded from automatic declassification and Declassification

GROUP-1

Excluded from automatic declassification and Declassification