Dr. P. C. Redlich

The Social Psychology Department is not a laboratory on social sciences; it is not a Sociology Department, and if you will, it is not ruled by a Psycholegised concept of Sociology.

It is a laboratory where modest social aspects of our medium are studied with the purpose to know the values and stereotypes offered in our medium in connection with the psychological activity.

Thus, the investigations to study the attitudes and opinions of the young Cuban students as well as the study of the ambitions of the man in the field, is his area lands or in collective farms, are carried out in this Social Psychology Department.

For the first time in Cuba we have this opportunity since our Nation is, at least, a big social laboratory where profound changes are being offered to the investigative mind, great possibilities that if not taken in consideration would be hopelessly lost.

As it can be observed, the social study is limited to these peculiar aspects not only of our tradition but of the changes occurring in our country, as well as the consequent psychological modifications that will be evidenced in our Sympses.

Besides the three Departments, the Institute has four Sections: Electronics, Statistics, Bibliography and Publications.

At this moment, the personnel working at the Institute is as follows: 8 Professors, 6 auxiliaries, 3 psychologists, 6 technicians, 2 statisticians, 1 anthropologist, 6 students in Neurophysiology, 6 in Psychology, and 6 in Social Psychology.

As a final aspiration, there is the possible unification of the efforts carried out by our three Departments so we can reach our goal, i.e., the inter-disciplinary studies made in fields unknown up to now, an aspiration maintained by those interested in these subjects. Thus, we are working in two lines of investigation: "Material and moral incentives in productivity", and "Motivation in a Cuban religious group".

To sum it up, the objective of our Institute is the study of the neurophysiology and psychological levels as well as that of the social aspects that might be of interest in our country, trying within the limits of our methods of investigations to attain the inter-disciplinary integration of those disciplines.

We are now in the process of organising a Cortico-Viseral Activi- ties or Psychosomatic Laboratory in connection with a Psychiatric Clinic. Another Laboratory on Psychopharmacology and Behavior keeping the Applied Psychology one in which I will continue with my studies of participant variables in the Physician-Patient relationship in Psychotherapy. In

* As of this date, June, 1967, the latter was dropped.