28. INDICATIONS - List three personal items in the United States or Territory of the United States that are NOT related to A, B and C. You will have a choice of one item for each. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed on other items to this form.

FULL NAME PURCHASE OR HOME ADDRESS (Give complete address, including street and number.) BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION

H.B. Smith 2450 E. Street, N.E. D.C. US GOVT

Edward Saunders Same US GOVT

Mrs. D. Johnson Same US GOVT

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc? [ ] Yes [ ] No

Indicate "Yes" or "No" answer by placing X in proper column. Y N Indicate "Yes" or "No" answer by placing X in proper column. Y N

29. Are you a citizen of the United States? X 35. Have you any physical defect or disability whatever?... X

30. Do you advocate or have you ever advocated or are you now or here you ever been a member of any organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence? If your answer is "Yes," give complete details in Item 38.

37. Within the past 12 months, have you habitually used intoxicating beverages to excess? X 36. (a) Were you ever in the United States Military or Naval service during time of War? X

38. Since your 16th birthday, have you ever been charged with, arrested or imprisoned, or placed on probation, or have you ever been under a penal to deposit until the violation of any law, police regulation or ordinance (excluding minor traffic violations) for which a fine of $25 or less was imposed)? X (b) Is the word "honorable" or the word "satisfactory" used in your discharge or separation papers to show the type of your dishonor or accomplishment?

If your answer is "Yes" list all such cases under Item 39 below. Give in each case: (1) the date, (2) the nature of the offense or violation, (3) the name and location of the court, (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If Appointed, your signature will be taken.