The Compromise of POPOV

(i) Introduction

Of all the sources available to American Intelligence, is the best placed to report on the compromise of POPOV:

information agrees with that provided by NOSENKO and CHEREPANOV, as well as that in the 16 September 1959 message from POPOV to CIA (believed to have been dictated by the KGB). These four sources have indicated that the compromise resulted from KGB surveillance of a U.S. Embassy official following the recall of POPOV in November 1958. However, has not precisely dated the incident (dated by inference by the others at 21 January 1959), has associated it with an American Intelligence dead drop for POPOV (whereas the others have said it was CIA's mailing of a letter to POPOV), and has not named the CIA officer involved (George WINTERS).

The evidence from like that from NOSENKO, CHEREPANOV, and the POPOV message, conflicts with that from COLITSYN whose statements on the compromise of POPOV are supported by analysis of events in 1957 and 1958 on which POPOV reported (see Pages 663-665).

(ii) Details

It is reported that on the POPOV compromise, POPOV's correspondence with his Austrian girlfriend appears to have been the prelude to the POPOV compromise; POPOV, said to have made a "very serious mistake" by using an accommodation address supplied by American Intelligence to receive mail from a girlfriend in Austria." In some fashion, this came to the attention of the Austrian police, and it was determined that she had been sending mail to a Soviet officer in Berlin. The Austrian police notified the Soviets, and eventually POPOV was confronted by the chief of his GRU component in Berlin.* GRU Headquarters was notified, POPOV was recalled.

In his first reference to POPOV's compromise, that POPOV made the mistake of providing information traceable to himself. No sub-source for this remark was given, and since then has not resolved the discrepancy between this version and the other one treated at length here.

CIA did not supply POPOV with an accommodation address, but he did secretly correspond with KOCHANEK.

* went to the Austrian police on 25 August 1958 with information that included the identification of POPOV as a Soviet Intelligence officer. POPOV's superior confronted him on 4 November 1958 about KOCHANEK and received from him an admission to having had some correspondence with her concerning his search for operational leads; the superior told POPOV that the Soviets believed "she was working for someone" and that "possibly she is the cause" of the Berlin unit's operational difficulties. POPOV was recalled to Moscow on 17 November 1958 ostensibly for a week's TDY to discuss the case of an American whom he was developing under CIA aegis. He did not return to Berlin.