officer, and that he should be removed from the staff. As a result of this action, in which he was later found to have been lying to his superiors and not telling them the truth about his true feelings for the revolution, he was dismissed from his position in the Army. This did not end his problems with the authorities in Mexico City. In November 1967, while still in the military, he was charged with being a terrorist and was placed under house arrest. A month later, he was released on bail and then allowed to live in Mexico City until January 1968, when he was again charged with terrorism. He was released from jail in July 1968 and again arrested in October 1968. This time he was held without trial and when released, he was immediately taken to one of the U.S. military bases in Mexico where he was tried by a court-martial composed mainly of U.S. officers. Finding himself in the center of a case which involved many of the most important figures in Mexican politics, he decided to use his influence to get other persons charged with similar offenses let off. He next began to write articles for various publications in the U.S. press. His articles were so inflammatory that they were quickly translated into Spanish and published throughout Latin America. Through these columns he advocated thethesis that the U.S. government had been responsible for the death toll in Mexico during the revolution and the need to bring the remaining resistance forces in the country to heel. In addition to writing articles for the press, he also provided training to groups of volunteers who were to help lead the resistance forces in the return of the exiles. He provided them with the necessary instructions and training. In one of the last public appearances he made before leaving Mexico, he declared that he would take up arms against the government if it continued to resist the forces of change in Mexico. Upon returning to the United States he became an active member of the Communist Party, which he joined in April 1969.

Subject was then transferred to the Federal penitentiary inajuana, where he was kept in solitary confinement for three years. He was released in 1969 and went back to his old jobs with the State Department. After the death of the Ambassador in 1970