27 July 1966

CONTACT: RABOR, ORONSKY

SUBJECT: LICOWL-1

1. I had L LICOWL-1 on 27 July at 1930 hours (COIGNE was sick). The meeting lasted until 2015 hours and I set the next meeting for COIGNE for the same hour and location Wednesday, 10 August. Tell COIGNE he will owe me $800 pesos for salary for the month of July and at the end of August he will owe me another 800 pesos for August. I always pay him at the end of the month.

2. I turned over two audio microphones and I gave them to Feldmann. The microphones were installed in his shop and we have taken the records out. The brown paper attached was found in LICOWL's notes (written) for the 25th of June. He said he did not recall how it had gotten there and did not know who had written and drawn on the paper - it's very old since the word written on the piece of brown paper and the last entry in LICOWL's notes are the same - but the handwriting is definitely different. Only LICOWL should have access to his notes.

L LICOWL's written notes from 27 July meeting (translated by WEENING:

Wednesday, 25 July: Today my friend Estanislao (SILNIKOV) came to drink a茶 or a coffee at about 11 am, and I asked him about the photographs which he had shown me he wanted me to make from a negative which he has. He answered that he was going to look for the negative and bring it to me. Then he mentioned to me in another one of his friends (i.e. Soviets) was leaving on 24 July and now it was Vasiliev's turn (BUTSEV did leave on 24 July), since he is an enemy of ours on about 9 years old and now it is time to teach him how to live a Russian man's life outside of the;." since for those of us who live in a free country, this life of this people seems bad to us because everything is different from what we do. They teach us to love our Progress (?), to live well with our neighbors, to help the poor, to give food to beggers. While they come to our country to create disorder and create distance within our countries and in our work, and they infiltrate themselves everywhere in order to sow hatred. They show us everything which is produced in their country and how much they have. But they import things from our countries through their embassies. Daily, their sedition movements can be seen. In fact, a month ago a group of Mexicans (In name) obtained visas for Moscow and in the (Soviet) Embassy they were given a "blush" with as much vodka as they could drink. A good start in getting to know the country which so "foolishly" hopes to improve its mentally backward who cannot realize the evil they do in supporting those who sow division wherever they go. After seeing people come every day to the Embassy to get propaganda we can only think that their work is (valid).

Thursday, 21 July: Today at 1045 Sr. Valentin (LOGINOV or KUCHEROV) came in to use the telephone and asked someone to wait for him at General Cano 32, and as he was about to hang up he stressed that they be sure to wait for him at 7:30 pm. After talking to whoever it was, he asked me to send him, at the same address on General Cano, two cases of quinine water and gingerale by 7 pm, without fail. I delivered them in person and took them into the kitchen and I noticed that the house was being repaired and that they were getting ready for company, since there were several bottles of liquor there. (COMMENT: No Soviets live at General Cano 32, NIKITIN lives at General Leon 32 and, •