DISPATCH

CLASSIFIED AIN SECRET MARKED FOR INDEXING

TO Chief of Station, Paris

FROM Chief, AF Division

SUBJECT Summary of Information on Subject of 201-233477

FYI

FYI

References: A. PARI 6754, 6 October 1964 B. Dir 57448, 16 October 1964

1. Iden was born in 1918, in Georgia, USSR. He emigrated to France with his family when he was three years old. He was a clever, precocious child during his lycee education in France and was frequently dismissed by school directors who did not appreciate his temperamental performance. He also attended several engineering colleges but apparently never graduated. In 1939, he volunteered for the French Foreign Legion and was sent to Tunisia. The occupation of France in 1941 ended his military career. He was demobilized and returned to Paris.

2. Subject claimed that he wanted to fight for France, but he did not wish to join a collective resistance organization. He decided to act on his own so he joined a labor force being recruited in Paris to go to Germany. For awhile he worked in a synthetic gasoline plant in Boelitz near Berlin. Later he was employed as a driver for the NSEX. During this time, he began his career in black marketing and document forging. He claimed that he forged passes into and out of Germany and did it to help imprisoned French officers to get back to France. It is felt that the ulterior motives might still have been love of excitement and wish to make money. He also claimed that he did not work for the French Resistance, although it was possible and probably that they gave him orders to fill. He did mention working through intermediaries and cut-outs, so its possible that he did actually work with the Resistance but did not want to tell us. Eventually Subject was arrested by the German regular police for his activities, and later brought to Berlin where he was interrogated for several months at Gestapo Headquarters. He ended up by spending time in jails and concentration camps. He was finally liberated by the U.S. Army.

3. After the thrill and excitement of the war years was passed, Subject could not settle down to a routine existence. So he joined up with an acquaintance who he says convinced him of the necessity to make more money. They decided to commit robberies. One was successful. Unfortunately for Subject, the other was not. His friend was apprehended and confessed. Subject spent the next five years in various rather notorious prisons in France.

29 October 1964 OFFM-38334 CLASSIFICATION SECRET HQS FILE NUMBER-201-233477

ROUTING INFORMATION ORIGINATING EXT.

OFFICE symbol: 4/5 OFFICES: CHG-4 LT TYPE: EXT-201-233477

COORDINATING

OFFICE SYMBOL DATE OFFICER'S NAME

</td