died a few years ago and I was a little emotionally upset (which is true and wasn't hard to say) and that I was told that one possible cure was to get away on a long trip and my son insisted that I take this trip. It is interesting at first since you see so many museums, rooms and art galleries, but it gets boring and I was getting sick and tired of things and was about ready to go home, when I ran into a situation that really interests me - politics. Here is something that is after your own heart, this local situation. I became Goddamed curious. Here was the opportunity to tour this country and to put my trip on a profit basis by preparing articles on what has happened there, what might happen in the future and so forth. I made it logical enough. At first I trimmed it pretty well with a lot of stuff about how I love these people (and that is true too). My experience with them has been pretty much limited to students. My experience with them has always been wonderful and I love them. They were fine young men and women, I still find them to be interesting young men and women and that I have a natural affinity for them. They liked that. I said also that I had a sympathy for their men, their problems and their traditions.

In my contacts throughout the area I maintained the same story. I was lucky to hit on the right formula in the beginning and found that it worked. With very few variations, I stuck to the main theme.

Very often I would fall into a good interview. For example, I was looking for a small businessman with a factory. I asked a man where to find him and was led to a lawyer's office. This was a very fortunate mistake; a couple of times they turned out to my advantage. This lawyer turned out to be a fella who was very well informed and who had previously been in politics. He was also close to the Roman Catholic hierarchy. And he gave me an interview which summarized the informed opinion that I had run into in that area. (He also took me to the university and introduced me to the priest who was the head of the school. There I had a chance to interview students who showed an unwillingness to admit that they don't understand and don't know; that paid off for me.) He characterized the typical interview I got from the typical informed person. In these interviews I tried to be objective and find out, rather than inspire answers.

Very frequently, I would run into some person who had a bright boy going into prep school wanting to go to college. I suggested that he might apply for collect and for a scholarship. I said that I wasn't an official and didn't know the answers, or pretend to, but I created the impression that there was a possibility of applying for scholarships to the schools, or even to the U. S. Government. (I actually do intend to find out about these things and follow it through since they were very helpful to me and I am very grateful.) There was some truth to what I said to them and I wasn't making up stories out of whole cloth. There was a basis for everything I said to them although there might have been some exaggeration. However, in the main, I could tell the story with great consistency for