Further inquiries in Mexico by our officials there revealed that Nicolas DAMASCUS had been ordered to leave Mexico in October 1960 solely because of the expiration of his tourist card, which had been once extended. Mexican Records fail to show that he returned to Mexico, following his entry into the United States at Brownsville, Texas, from Matamoros, Tamaulipas on 24 October 1960. Upon arrival in Mexico on 23 June 1960, he indicated that the purpose of his visit was to attend the wedding of his sister, Anastasia, identified in preceding paragraph, however, as of 21 June 1961, there was no record of Anastasia DAMASCUS she DAMASCUS is official Mexican Files, and there was as yet no identification of the individual she was alleged to have been scheduled to marry. From the same source it was learned that for the period 22 June through 6 September 1960, the only address listed in official indices for Nicolas DAMASCUS is c/o Justo SIERRA, Reforma 95-407, Mexico City, which is the law office maintained by Justo SIERRA Casares, former Counselor of the Mexican Embassy in Washington, D.C., and who is further identified in the documents cited in paragraph I. c. through b. above. DAMASCUS reportedly used SIERRA to attempt to obtain an extension of his tourist permit, although the details of his contact with and knowledge of SIERRA himself are not known at this time. Neither has it been possible as of this date to verify the reported contact between Nicolas DAMASCUS and subjects at the Hotel New Yorker, as reported by Mr. Thomas DONLON. Investigation efforts abroad by this Agency are continuing, however, and any further information developed will be forwarded as soon as available.

In light of the escape route used by the two NSA defectors, transmitting Mexico and presumably Cuba enroute to the USSR, your particular attention is invited to the information concerning the contacts and views of Justo SIERRA Casares furnished in the reports cited in paragraph i. e., f., and g. above. It is noted Justo SIERRA Casares is identical with the sonor Don Justo SIERRA, First Secretary at the Embassy of Mexico, mentioned in Bureau Reports cited in paragraph h. above as a contact of Boris A. KAZANTSEV, First Secretary of the Soviet Embassy in Washington from 1952-54. It is further noted that Boris KAZANTSEV, after returning to Moscow in 1956 and assuming the post of First Secretary in the Latin American Division of the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was next assigned from 1955 to 1957 as First Secretary and subsequently Counselor of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, and that as of 1960 he was assigned to the Soviet Embassy in Havana, Cuba, in the position of Counselor, departing Havana for Mexico, in company of his wife and daughter, on 30 June 1961, and then proceeding to Canada on 2 July 1961.

HUMAN RESOURCES