5. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary expenses including travel and operational expenses which are authorized by the Government or your cover. Accountings for such expenses will be in compliance with applicable Government regulations unless such accounting is inconsistent with the practices of your cover facility. If the policies of your cover facility relating to payment of travel and transportation expenses differ from those of the Government, and if you are paid through your cover facility, you will receive and retain the amount paid by your cover without regard to Government regulations.

6. (a) It is specifically understood and agreed that as an appointed employee of the Government you are entitled to receive and retain only the salary, allowances, and other benefits which are commensurate with your appointed position and salary grade except as provided in paragraph five (5) above and paragraphs six (6), (b) and (c), below. Any compensation that you may receive from your cover facility will be offset against your salary from the Government, and you will return to the Government any salary, allowances and other pecuniary benefits which in the aggregate exceed your Government salary, allowances and other pecuniary benefits. You will report to the Government not less than semi-annually any sums received from your cover facility.

(b) It is understood and agreed that any fees derived from the remaining three (3) lectures on your current lecture tour will not be subject to the offset provisions of this agreement. It is further understood and agreed, however, that said lectures will be made by you while on annual leave and that you will be solely responsible for all expenses incidental thereto. Subsequent to the completion of said three (3) lectures, the income derived from any additional lectures will be presumed to be income derived from cover activities and will, therefore, be subject to offset unless specifically excluded by an amendment hereto.

(c) It is understood and agreed that should a specific manuscript, the title to which is set forth in your operational letter of instructions, be published during your tour of duty hereunder, the income derived therefrom will not be subject to offset as said manuscript was completed in its entirety prior to your appointment as a Staff Agent.

7. It is understood and agreed that your overseas assignment is to be for a minimum of two (2) years from the date of your arrival at your overseas post of duty unless such assignment shall be sooner terminated by the Government for its convenience. If, in violation of this letter, you terminate your overseas assignment for your convenience at any time prior to the expiration of two (2) years from the date of your arrival at your overseas post of duty, you shall not be entitled to return travel or transportation for yourself or your dependents from such post of duty to the United States; and, further, if, in violation of this letter, you terminate your overseas assignment for your convenience prior to the expiration of one (1) year from the date of your arrival at your overseas post of duty, you shall reimburse the Government for all its expenses for your travel and transportation, and that of your dependents, from the continental United States to such overseas post of duty.

8. It is expressly understood and agreed that any and all documents which you may execute in the course of such cover employment are subordinate to this letter and any contradiction in terms which may in any way appear to amplify, extend or restrict your rights and/or obligations hereunder shall be resolved by this letter which shall always be dominant.