23. A picture of me. I am Herbert Brown, a student at the University of California, Los Angeles. I majored in English and minored in History. During my senior year I was an exchange student with the University of Chicago, where I received my B.A. from the University of Chicago. Upon returning home I finished school and went on to college to study history. While still at college I took up painting as a second major. My first painting was a portrait of my professor, Professor Muirhead, who is shown here. It was called 'The Artist' and was found in many galleries for several years. Drs. E. C. Smith, M. D.

Full Name Possessing of Home Address (Give complete address including street and number) BUSINESS OF OCCUPATION

25. Are you a citizen of the United States? Tire Inc. Los Angeles Calif publishing

26. Do you advance or have you ever advanced or are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization that advocates the over-all power of the Government of the United States by force or violence? c/o Adj General(leave at present) USA

27. Within the past 12 months, have you habitually used非法 drugs, such as heroin, to get high. Professor of Dramatic Arts NYU

28. Since your 19th birthday, have you ever been convicted, or been charged with, or planned or attempted to commit, any crime, including minor traffic violations for which a fine of $500 or less was imposed? (if yes, list all such offenses under item 28 above.) X X Made

29. If your answer is "Yes," list all such offenses under Item 28 above. (Give in序 here.) (1) The nature of the offense, (2) the position of the offender, (3) the nature of the offense, (4) the penalty imposed, if any, and (5) the location of the offense. (IfApplicable, list all offenses listed below.) X X

30. Do you serve on an annuity from the U.S. or D.C. Government under any retirement act or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service? X

If your answer is "Yes" give in Item 30 reason for retirement, that is, age, optional, disability, or by reason of voluntary or involuntary separation after 5 years' service; amount of retirement pay, and length of retirement period; and rating if retired from military or naval service.

31. Are you an officer or employee of any State, Territory, county, or municipality? X

If your answer is "Yes," give details in Item 31.

32. Does the U.S. Government employ in a division currently any relative or close relative, by marriage or marriageable relationship, with whom you live or have lived within the past 6 months? X

If answer is "Yes," show in Item 3