Security Information

SEC. II: WORK EXPERIENCE (CONT'D.)

2. Other than CIA: (Describe work experience for the last 15 years in sufficient detail to permit specific coding of your qualifications. Include military work experience. List last position first.)

From Feb. 50 To Nov 50 Tot. mo's 10 Classification Grade if in Federal Service) Salary $340/mo. Number and Class of Employees Supervised: 30 - 40 students Employer Pa, State College Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility) College Extension Exact Title of your position Instructor, Industrial Electronics Description of Duties: Instructor - laboratory and classroom - in Industrial Electricity and Industrial Electronics

Duty Station if overseas: Exact Title of your position Student, Electrical Engineering.

Description of Duties: I was a full time student in E.E., majoring in Electronics. Worked 8 hrs. per night at explosives plant during 1st. three generations. I worked full time at this plant during vacations and 4 months prior to entering college.

Duty Station if overseas: Exact Title of your position Communications Officer, Cryptographic Security Office Description of Duties: I was a Communications Officer, Radio Station Officer, and Cryptographic Security in various Detachments of ACO, Air Force.

From Sept 46 To Feb 50 Tot. mo's 41 Classification Grade if in Federal Service) Salary -- Number and Class of Employees Supervised: --- Employer Student Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility) Pa, State College Duty Station if overseas: Pacific Theater Exact Title of your position Pvt., Pls., Cpl., Av, Cadet, Instructor

Description of Duties: Oct. '42 - May '43 - Basic training & AM training. May '43 - Apr '44 - Radio Mechanic Instructor. Apr '44 - Dec '44 - Aviation Cadet (Ground) studying communications engineering.

From Dec. 44 To May 46 Tot. mo's 18 Classification Grade if in Federal Service) 1st, Lt Salary $180/mo. base Number and Class of Employees Supervised: 20 - 40 technicians Employer Air Force Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility) Army Airway Com, System Duty Station if overseas: --- Exact Title of your position

Description of Duties: Powder napper, gas-mitt Foreman - part-time - supervising and accomplishing processing and packing of various kinds of dynamite and gelatin explosives.

From Oct. 42 To Dec. 44 Tot. mo's 25 Classification Grade if in Federal Service) Cadet Salary $75.00/mo. Number and Class of Employees Supervised: 0 - 20 students Employer Air Force Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility) Duty Station if overseas: ---

Exact Title of your position

Description of Duties: Powder napper, gas-mitt Foreman - part-time - supervising and accomplish- ing processing and packing of various kinds of dynamite and gelatin explosives.

From 1937 To Oct. 42 Tot. mo's 65 Classification Grade if in Federal Service) Salary $55.00/wk. Number and Class of Employees Supervised: 4 - 5 technicians Employer Atlas Powder Company Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility) Explosives. Duty Station if overseas: ---

Security Information

3