ASSIGNED COPY

Mr. Arthur G. Vaivada

Dear Mr. Vaivada:

Reference is made to your contract effective 1 June 1959 with ODYORE for the purchase of information and services of a confidential nature.

Effective 31 August 1953 said contract is hereby terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto and in lieu thereof the following contract is substituted:

ODYORE, as represented by the contracting officer, hereby contracts with you for the purchase of certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideration for the purchase of such information and services, you will be paid an amount calculated at the rate of $4200 per annum. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to KUBARK. No taxes will be withheld from this amount, and it will be your responsibility to report such income under existing Federal income tax laws and regulations.

2. Allowance. Effective upon your arrival at your permanent post of duty overseas, you will be entitled to a Quarters allowance equivalent to that granted a OS-7 Government employee stationed at the same permanent post of duty. This allowance will be at the maximum rates prescribed in the Standardised Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas). No accounting for this allowance will be required by KUBARK. In the event that Quarters are provided by your cover company, you will not be entitled to the Quarters allowance herein indicated.

3. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for travel and transportation expenses for you, your dependents and your household effects to and from your permanent post of duty overseas and for you alone for authorized travel within your operational area. You will be entitled to per diem in lieu of subsistence during such travel and while in training in PBRIME. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be properly authorized, and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to payment and accounting in compliance with KUBARK regulations.

4. Operational Expenses. In addition to the allowance indicated above, you will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information as specifically approved by KUBARK. Such funds will be subject to accounting in substantial compliance with KUBARK regulations.

SECRET DECLASSIFIED

31 Aug. 53 Jol-16881 X