MEMORANDUM

TO : Chief of Station WPW - 1265

FROM : PW/MARCHBANK

SUBJECT : TYPIC/OPERATIONAL AMKNOT - Progress Report 1 October - 31 December 1966

Distribution

4 - COS-1 - PW/MARCHBANK 1 - PW/Chrono 1 - RI Chrono

A. OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

1. The AMKNOT organization continued during the quarter under review with its program of assisting Cuban merchant mariners who have defected from their service. Fifteen different cases were handled during this period which included five resettlement cases in areas other than JMWAVE. Billets at sea were found for two more—one as a first mate and one as a third mate. The remaining eight received assistance in obtaining employment or what might be called administrative aid-assistance in obtaining social security numbers, etc.

2. Processing continued for those interested in employment by the Military Sea Transport Service (MSTS). Progress in obtaining the necessary U.S. Coast Guard certification is slow and of the four that applied for this during the previous quarter only two had received the certification by the end of the current quarter. During this quarter two more former Cuban merchant officers sought through AMKNOT this certification as they expressed interest in MSTS employment. The current status is: In process—6; Coast Guard certifications received—2; physical examinations given (and passed)—4. In addition, applications for employment together with the Coast Guard certifications and completed physical examination forms were forwarded 28 December to the cover company in Baltimore for 2. The remainder will be forwarded as the Coast Guard certifications are received.

3. The activities of the AMKNOT organization continue to receive publicity. The Station has four clips from different papers including one from El Universal of Caracas. AMKNOT issued one press release during this quarter which was an "eyewitness" account of the attempt of four Cuban sailors to obtain political asylum in the Canary Islands. In fact, this was a letter mailed to AMKNOT by and signed in pseudonym. The story was picked up by Diario Las Americas in its 15 December issue.

GROUP I Excluded from automatic transfer and reclassified