Later, reforming to the same subject Pope says "the last now people (that have arrived?) are alcoholics ? ? but if you only know, things are better at least with regard to us, peace and charity".

10 February 1970

Item 18.- The second tape begins with part of a conversation between Piloto and Cuca around dinner time. Cuca says that her mother is 55 years old and her father is 57. Her mother she says has had six children. Piloto mentions the difference in age between him and Cuca; he says 12 years is a lot. Piloto says he continues to lose weight.

11 February 1970

Item 3.- CONCHITA CALLS NIDA.- She says that the place where she bought the radio is called BARROSO and it is at Lavapies 145. Nilda talks to Alicia. She says that she had a very nice time (in Havana), but that the weather was very bad; it rained a lot and it was cold. Nilda was with (in Havana) Alicia's children. She says that they got very good marks in their studies and the little one can read and they are very happy. Nilda also spoke with Alicia's mother-in-law. She is suffering from la presión (high or low blood pressure) and she has not been able to get the necessary medicine. Then Nilda speaks of her own son. She says he is very tall and thin and that he is working in tobacco. She says he is in Guane(phon), and as she couldn't make the trip as it was two and a half hours long, they sent the boy to her house and she was with him for a few days. She says the boy is very happy, he is a serious type and causes no problems. Apparently Nilda's mother is ill, according to her remarks. Alicia says it is better that Nilda's boy is in Cuba, because there he will become a man and solve his own problems.

Item 8.- VILLARoya, OF CONSTRUCCIONES AZAGRA CALLS RUIZ. Ho asks Ruiz about the project. Ruiz says that the news is good in the sense that it has been accepted in principle, and he believes everything is going along fine. But, they will have to wait. Ruiz thinks they will have a definite answer in about two weeks. Ho adds that they have great interest in this matter and also he would like to know definitely.

Item 20.- Someone REMARKS that Piloto "is seldom (in the embassy) in the afternoons".