PAGE NO.

DISPATCH 10-7-62

TO NRO FROM SUBJECT ACTION REQUIRED RJMA-1949 R.J. 1-1892

S-T-1-16

13 July 1962

RE:OT - (CHECK ONE)

MARKED FOR INVOICE

NO PAYMENT REQUIRED

INDICING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HO DESK ONLY

Chief, Wt Division. Chief, KUDLISK

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Mexico City Station Security

Name for your information,

REFERENCES

A. HNMS 2430 B. MEXI 0846 1. As requested in reference, the station has polled all Station Case officers for possible or confirmed cases of surveillance while making operational contacts. The poll indicated five (5) cases of surveillance during recent months. For the sake of clarity and to give Headquarters an exact idea of the circumstances surrounding each incident, this report will treat each case individually with station comments pertinent to each case.

2. The five cases of possible or confirmed surveillance, related in the first person, are as follows:

A. Lewis J. SHOQUITE P. 15 May 1962

"Following a meeting with Francis R. HEGARTY at the Hotel Alameda this date I noticed a Mexican standing quite close to us as we were discussing innocuous subjects just before parting. It is fellow moved over and joined another Mexican who was standing at the Juarez Avenue entrance to the Alameda Hotel. I called HEGARTY's attention to these two and suggested that he leave, being very careful not to look himself, while I checked these fellows to be absolutely certain that they were interested in us. HEGARTY crossed Juarez and took a cab. Neither of the two Mexicans showed any interest in his movements or made any type of observable signal. I walked back into the Hotel and spent about five minutes crossing the magazine shop then left the hotel by the side entrance. As I arrived (glanced toward Juarez Avenue and saw one of the same two fellows - who had been at the Juarez entrance nudge the other and call his attention to me), these two fellows had moved in order to check both hotel entrances from the same spot. I walked to an arcade directly across from the hotel entrance and pretended to be looking in shop windows. I saw both Mexicans position themselves so as to observe the arcade. I made no attempt to drop in surveillance, being interested instead, in determining definitely that I was the target. As I moved out of the arcade, the two above mentioned ne to another pair of Mexicans who followed me as I moved through the Las Americas parking lot to Calle Independencia. For the next hour and a half to two hours I took these boys on a long tour, mostly on foot. I checked them by starting up streets then changing my mind and doubling back, following an erratic pattern as if shopping aimlessly, stopping in bookshops for periods during which they were forced to stand around somewhat obviously out of place. Briefly, it can be summarized by saying that there were at least five members of this team definitely on the surveillance, two others I am quite sure were involved, and one other about whom I am not absolutely sure. Well, in my mind, there was no doubt whatsoever that I was the target I caught a taxi and headed toward Reforma Avenue, then to Rio Tiber St., and Jim toward Melchor Ojampo Street. As changing my mind, I had the driver cut over to Sullivan St. to Shirley Courts where I went in and had lunch. During the cab ride I did not spot car surveillance but, shortly after my arrival at Shirley Courts, I saw three new men not previously on the job, whose actions indicated they were on me. I paid my bill, went into the bathroom for a minute then left through the covered garage and out into Vialonghi St. in back of Shirley Courts. Once

Page NO. ONE