B. ADMINISTRATION

5. During the second quarter of FY-67 there were expenditures of approximately $19,000 by the AMSTRUT-2 activity. This figure includes an estimate for the month of December because the final figures have not been received at this writing. The budgeted amount for AMSTRUT-2 for the quarter is $24,000 and there is an excess of budget authorization over expenditures of approximately $5000. This figure, however, gives an unreal budgetary picture of the AMSTRUT-2 activity. This $5000 will remain as a part of the budget allotment and may well be expended in a flurry of AMSTRUT-2 travel, publication activity and/or promotion during the next quarter. In other words the excess does not represent budget "fat" since the bulk of the AMSTRUT-2 expenses are not figured as month to month constants but obligated as the operational situation demands.

6. During December AMSTRUT-2 moved into a smaller house with a lower rent which will mean a saving of $100 per month. In addition, it is anticipated that a further saving will be realized in maintenance and upkeep costs.

C. PROBLEMS

7. The basic agent-handling problem presented by AMSTRUT-2's mercurial disposition, excessive generosity and understandable emotional approach to the role which must be played before the public still exists. However, it seems to have lessened somewhat as AMSTRUT-2 gains confidence in the language and in dealings with the public. There is little question that a contributing factor to the lessening of this problem is the reliance placed by AMSTRUT-2 on AMLYRIC-1 who serves as business advisor, buffer and hand-holder.

8. The problem of projecting the image of the AMSTRUT-2 Foundation as an independent charitable organization remains. The application for tax exempt status to the state of registry is in the works and when this application is approved it is likely that there will be an increase of private donations which, because of the new status, will be tax deductible. The problem lies in the dilatory behavior of the state authorities.

9. AMSTRUT-2 continues to be attractive to certain extremist political groups whose patriotic claims of objectives would often appear to parallel those of AMSTRUT-2 and the Cuban exile community as a whole. AMSTRUT-2 has not always been able to sort out the "good guys" from the "bad guys" and the problem lies in fending off these extremist groups and preventing them from exploiting AMSTRUT-2 for partisan political ends.