FORM

864

1401 53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION CLASSIFICATION PAGE NO.

CONTINUED □

OSHA 26195

3. If you agree we would like to try another attempt to get an assessment of Subject. For days we have been trying to devise a cover story for a Station officer to use in an approach to Subject. We have one and would like your comments, suggestions and ideas. A Station officer, preferably in disguise and using an alias, would approach Subject as a free lance writer for "World News" (a suggestion made by UCAMERA-1 because there are so many stringers for "World News" that it would be virtually impossible to confirm) with the intention that he is writing an article on Spanish lawyers in business with those that a degree in law offers greater opportunities for advancement in business and government. (The ones actually is taken from an article in Fortune or Business Week magazine read by the undersigned some years ago). The there was tested on UCAMERA-1 and he agrees that it is a good one and would work because of the general nature of Spanish businessmen to like to talk about themselves. What is involved, however, is a considerable amount of homework, particularly in the collection of names of lawyers in business who have been successful. UCAMERA-1 is preparing a list of such people and we will review them together. The undersigned subsequently will ask for Dun and Bradstreet reports on the firms these lawyers represent as well as reviewing the firms' financial history in our reference aids located in the Embassy's commercial library.

4. The theme opens the door to a number of provoking questions, but it particularly offers a good opportunity to assess the personality of the target. Perhaps the opportunity will again come when Subject discusses his relationship and knowledge of Cuba at which time an interesting exchange might ensue possibly provoking Subject to reveal his true relationship with the Cubans and/or his affection for the Cuban system. No pitch would be made and, if after this assessment, the officer arrives at HARRIOTT'S conclusion, the Station would recommend against using Subject as an intermediary to AMAUTO-1. Advise.

Howard R. SACODER

RYBA-7-75296

241-755296