this prospecting owing to budgetary limitations and a lack of spare time. Also, the other ICAP offices abroad have been too busy with their own affairs to think too much about getting business for each other.

As you may know, part of the original idea was that George Train would carry out this representative function with the American business community, but in the event, he developed a close relation with a Spanish bank, and devoted most of his available time to their concerns.

BANIF has become restive as a result, and in fact yesterday I received a letter from them which raises the issue of winding up the arrangement.

The first activity, therefore, which I feel you could most advantageously carry out on our behalf in Spain would be that of seeking new business for ICAP Iberia. After an initial familiarization with the work of the office, I would suggest what you might call on the U.S. firms operating in Madrid and offer the services of ICAP Iberia. You can get a list of such firms through the Department of Commerce. There is also an American Club in Madrid (of which George Train was a founder) whose members would certainly be appropriate for such prospection.

After you have prospected the American business community, you could go on to the European firms operating in Spain, in the same way.

I doubt if ICAP Iberia has the time or such extensive prospection, so your work here would be valuable to them, I would think.

Another related area in which your services could be of help would be in helping in client relationships with U.S. clients that have begun working with ICAP Iberia or BANIF or are on the point of doing so.

To the extent that your existing Latin American or U.S. clients would need your services in Spain, you would naturally want to have prime responsibility for their affairs yourself. You would want to determine which of their needs could best be served by ICAP Iberia, using BANIF S.A. and other possible sources of support, and which you should handle separately or through New York.