Jacques Verges

Physical Details

Verges is about 38 years old; about 5'5" tall and of medium build. He is fair colored, has a Chinese-looking face and wears spectacles. He has dark hair and dark eyes.

Heritage

Verges was born in Réunion Island which is a French Profitariat. His father is a citizen of the island and his mother was from Indo-China. He has at least one older brother. The father was a member of the French Parliament representing Réunion Island. Now the brother Paul Verges, is a Member of Parliament from Ré Union Island.

Marital Status

Verges was married about 1946 but was divorced in about 1959. He has one son from this marriage. It is now heard that he has married again in about 1963 to Jamilla Bourtheau, the famous Algerian prisoner who was confined to death but was given a reprieve. He defended her during her trial.

Personal Habits

Verges was a prominent student in Paris and was from the very beginning a very good debater. He is a charming conversationist and can keep any audience completely captivated by his talk. He has been extremely popular with all groups and particularly with females. He is very fond of eating well. He takes spicy food which would put even an Indian to shame. He drinks very little, works late hours, sleeps long in the mornings. He has an artistic temperament and good taste.

Career

In about 1950 Verges started working in the International Union of Students in Prague. There he was Secretary of I.U.S. and later also of International Students' Relief which was formed in his time. He remained there till 1954. After this he returned to Paris and studied to get his law degree. From about 1955 to 1962 he worked as a lawyer in France. As a lawyer he rose to prominence immediately. He was elected to the first Secretariat of the French Young Lawyers' Body, which is a post of academic distinction. From the very beginning Verges started taking political cases of those who were accused in the various French colonies of "secession". He was adopted by the F.L.N. of Algeria as the Chief of the Legal Defense Bureau in Paris. He conducted several famous trials including that of Jamilla and at the same time carried on the campaign for Algerian independence in France and elsewhere. For

PREPRIORITIZED AND REPRODUCIBLE WITHIN THE limits of copyright law CS COPY 10/13

STAMPED FOR SIGNATURE AND PERIODIC REVISIONS