MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, DO SUBJECT : Spain REF : A. DO memorandum 66-284 dtd 1. Nov 1960 to Chief, EUR Division re Possible Exploitation of ICAP, Iberia S. A. B. Memorandum dtd 8 November 1966 from Chief, DO to Mr. Dale W. Allen re Information about Spain (and Portugal)

1. Chief and DC/E/IB informed the undersigned that Chief, EUR does not think Ref A contains sufficient specific information to permit adequate evaluation of ICAP Iberia's access to intelligence targets in Spain. As, therefore, refuses to permit transmittal to the field of available information as agreed in discussions held with DC/COS Madrid prior to his departure. They also informed the undersigned that the requirements in Ref B should be more specific and requested that the undersigned discuss the matter with them.

2. The undersigned had previously discussed Ref B requirements with WURRICKY/1. He submitted a list of U. S. firms operating in Spain; a previous report on the ten leading Spanish banks with the interlocking connections in industry of the officers and directors of the banks; and a proposal for additional study. WURRIEKY/1 proposed that, in the guise of publishing a financial directory, ICAP approach U. S. firms operating in Spain and obtain detailed information on their operations. WURRIEKY/1 also proposed to approach ICAP Iberia's Spanish partner, Banif S. A., allegedly in behalf of a client bank interested in Spain, to do a study from the political viewpoint on the most significant power elements in the economic and commercial field. He said that the study could be as elaborate as WOFACT is willing to pay. The under-signed, armed with WURRIEKY/1's thinking and list of U. S. companies, met with Chief and DC/E/IB at their request on 30 November 1966.

3. Chief and DC/E/IB asked some very specific questions on the access of Banif, S.A. either as a firm or through its Directors to intelligence targets. They must be in a position to justify to the satisfaction of Chief, EUR that ICAP and ICAP Iberia have intelligence capability which can be operationally exploited. Therefore, answers must be forthcoming on this matter or DO assure them that Banif, S. A. has such access but can't exploit it unless an officer is assigned to ICAP Iberia.