Security Information

SEC. II. WORK EXPERIENCE (CONT'D.)

2. Other than CIA: (Describe work experience for the last 15 years in sufficient detail to permit specific coding of your qualifications. Include military work experience. List last position first.)

Exact Title of your position Information

From 1948 To 1949 Tot.mo's 9 Classification Grade(if in Federal Service) FSS-5 Salary 6,900 Number and Class of Employees Supervised: 3 Prof. 6 Steno. Employer ECA Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility)

From 1946 To 1949 Tot.mo's 77 Classification Grade(if in Federal Service) Salary $28,000 (av) Number and Class of Employees Supervised: Employer Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility)

From 1933 To 1943 Tot.mo's 9 Classification Grade(if in Federal Service) Salary $7,800 Number and Class of Employees Supervised: Employer TCE, Inc. Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility)

From 1942 To 1942 Tot.mo's 5 Classification Grade—if in Federal Service) Salary $7,800 Number and Class of Employees Supervised: 2 Prof. 3 Steno. Employer TCE, Inc. Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility)

From 1940 To 1942 Tot.mo's 16 Classification Grade—if in Federal Service) Eng. Salary Number and Class of Employees Supervised: 168 seamen Employer USN Kind of Business or organization (i.e., paper products mfr, public utility)

Description of Duties: Production of properties and films and radio programs in France and Austria

Duty Station if overseas: Paris, France

Exact Title of your position Professional Writer, self-employed

Description of Duties:

Duty Station if overseas:

Exact Title of your position War Correspondent

Description of Duties: accompany naval and air units in combat in SO Pacific Area. Write accounts and special stories of ensuing action

Duty Station if overseas: South Pacific Area

Exact Title of your position Screen Writer

Description of Duties: Prepare and write commentary for monthly newspaper MARCH OF THE MONTH OR OTHER PREPARE AND WRITE CONTRACT NAVAL TRAINING FILMS.

Duty Station if overseas:

Exact Title of your position Anti-Aircraft Guardhouse Officer (a stoker)

Description of Duties: Profile for air protection of USS KNOX, and merchant ships under escort

Duty Station if overseas: North Atlantic

Security Information

3