Mr. Bruce C. Mastrocola

Dear Sir, Mauroscola!

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such information and services you will be paid a fee of $50 for any day or fraction thereof during which you are utilized under this agreement, not to exceed $265 per week. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government. No taxes will be withheld therefrom, but it will be your responsibility to report such income under existing Federal income tax laws and regulations. An appropriate Form 1099 will be furnished by the Government in furtherance of its tax reporting requirement.

2. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary expenses incurred in connection with such operational travel as may be directed or authorized by the Government. This may include per diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of such travel and while on temporary duty or from your domestic permanent post of assignment. Payment and accounting for such expenses will be in substantial conformance with applicable Government regulations.

3. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information, as specifically approved by the Government. Such funds will be subject to accounting in substantial compliance with Government regulations.

4. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situated, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U. S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.

5. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident to an employee status.

6. Security. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such security may subject you to criminal prosecution under the Espionage Laws, dated 25 June 1948, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.