22 April,1968

Subject: holando Mendez Aguilar, Guatemalan Rebel Contact In Mexico City.

1. LIFET coverage of the home telephone of ALFARO/3 has revealed Subject to be a contact of Francisco Lara of Pari and Rodolfo Sandoval of the Ten Cosa group of Guatemalan rebels in Mexico City.

2. On two occasions in early April, 1968, Francisco Lara, during a visit to ALFARO/3's apartment, made telephone calls to 45-60-30 (listed as Publicaciones o Impresiones Mexicanas S.A. - Diario Ejacuciones, Calle Iago Esteban 207) and asked for S.. Mendez Aguilar on extension 27. It is apparent from the context of conversation that Subject is a close friend and possible collaborator of Lara's. ALFARO/3 reported the telephone call to Houston, which he stated was made in his presence in an effort by Lara to locate Rodolfo Sandoval. According to 1/3, Lara asked the person whom he telephoned (1/3 could not identify this person since Lara did not use his name while talking) where "their fine friend" was. 1/3 continued that Lara did not mention Sandoval's name, apparently for security reasons, but he had previously told 1/3 that he was calling to determine the whereabouts of Sandoval. 1/3 also reported that he heard Lara refer to a certain "El Gato" and to "El Gordo". 1/3 told Houston that he could not identify the former, but it appeared that "El Gordo" referred to the young friend of Lara's whose photograph 1/3 had previously given to Houston for copying and who was named only "Roberto" in conversations with Lara.

3. The LIFET intercept reveals that Francisco Lara told Mendez Aguilar that he had been with Sandoval early the preceding evening but that the latter had not shown up for the meeting arranged for that same morning. When pressed Mendez confessed that Sandoval had returned home drunk and was probably sleeping off the effects of the previous evening. This would indicate that Sandoval probably lived with Mendez Aguilar, or at least maintains close contact with him.

4. The station is attempting to determine the home address of Subject in the hope that further specific information can be uncovered concerning his relationship with PAR.

Wallace B. Rexton