CONFERENTIAL

HCH-1133, page 3

Probably the most politically active and strongest segment of the Ortodoxo party is the youth branch, the Juventud Ortodoxo (JO). It has representation in just about every town in the Republic and is particularly active at the University of Habana. Dr. Francisco CAPRINE, University professor and member of the Directive Council of the Ortodoxo Party, is adviser of the JO. CAPRINE is well known for his leftist leanings. Actually, when the Partido Ortodoxo was in the original stages of organization, Communists at Habana University prepared and assisted in organizing the JO. The JO frequently attacks the U.S. with slogans that dictatorships exist in Latin America because their anti-communism pleases the U.S. On 27 September, for example, Dr. Pelayo F.R., a well-known Ortodoxo prominent in JO activities, stated on a television question-and-answer program that the dictatorship of BATISTA subverts because the Department of State is flattered by BATISTA's anti-communism, which is not anti-communism but anti-democratism. The following are some of the more prominent pro-Communist who influence the Juventud Ortodoxo:

Omar BARRAS, director of the Juventud Ortodoxo, was Secretary of the Congreso Derechos de la Juventud, organized by the Communists, and has signed numerous Marxist manifestoes.

Max MUNICH, who was an active Communist propagandist at the University, has signed all Nazi manifestoes issued at the University and has been seen on different occasions with Alfredo G. VAPÁ and Raúl VALDÉS VIVO, (well-known Communists), close friends of his.

Salvador Díaz, Juventud director, has a Communist background and is a member of the same University group.

Mano FRIEDMAN, pre-Communist, has signed manifestoes in favor of Guatemala and against the 1953 anti-Communist legislation. He is a member of the same University group.

The Movimiento de Liberación Radical is a move to form public opinion and not a political party. It is built around the worldwide movement of Catholic Socialisme with branches in Cuba in the Juventud de Accion Católica, Juventud Estudiantil Católica, Juventud Obrera Católica, and Juventud Universitaria Católica. These organizations are forbidden by the Church to take part as such in national politics. However, Analio SALIO and Andrés HALVE SPINO and other members of the organizations have gotten together with other intellectuals and formed the Movimiento de Liberación Radical to oppose the present regime. This movement, which is purely ideological, has no Communist influence up to the present time.

The Movimiento de la Hacia, which is also not a political party but rather a movement to arcuse public interest, has gained little strength to date. Its chief spokesman, José LUIS Llada, manages to keep it alive with propaganda; but there is little likelihood that it by itself will reach a position of any importance on the local political scene.

As independent movements, neither the Movimiento de Libera-on Radical nor the Movimiento de la Hacia has little or any chance of becoming strong.