As if to emphasize the extent of Chinese influence in the publication's policies and at the same time to denigrate those Communist Parties which supported the Soviet line, the Editorial in issue No. 8 referred scornfully to "the proponents of the 'peaceful road to socialism' and the "treason of the revisionists", and proclaimed the end of the "isolation in which revolutionary Marxists have been held because of the revisionism of the leaderships of the Communist parties", clearly, therefore, "Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution" supports the Chinese Communist argument that it is most unlikely that socialism can be achieved by peaceful means.

5. "Africa, Latin America, Asia revolution" has for the most part shunned theoretical discussion, although issue No. 9 (January, 1964) has a heavier ideological content than previous issues. It has made its appeal in extraneous practical terms: its range of subjects has been wide and by no means confined to politics. Appendix A contains a list of the articles, and the names of their authors, which have appeared in issue 1 - 2 of "African Revolution" and issues 3 - 9 of "Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution".

Chinese Support and Influence

6. When VERGES was in Peking in the early part of 1963, the Chinese agreed to take out 3,000 subscriptions to "African Revolution" and these were in due course transformed to "Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution". It is quite likely that this was a form of subsidy and, initially, when the publication sold for 5s. Od., it was worth £750 a month. An article in "Newsweek" dated 9th March 1964 refers to a report that the Chinese Embassy in Berno provided the publication with £25,000 in 1963. In addition, each issue has contained at least one full page advertisement of Chinese Communist publications. In those circumstances, it is not surprising that it has been stated that the Chinese are in a position to control to some extent what appears in "Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution" but no clear, reliable information is available to show how this is done. The publication has also had contact with the Chinese through Abdul Rahman Mohamed BABU, a member of the Editorial Board who is now Minister for External Affairs and Trade in Zanzibar. He visited China in 1960, became the East African correspondent of the New China News Agency in 1961 and went to China again in October 1963.

Cuban Support

7. A Spanish edition of the publication was envisaged as early as May 1963 and it has been reported that members of its staff have been in touch with Cuban diplomat in Europe with a view to the latter editing the proposed Spanish edition. There is however, no confirmation that it has yet been published in Spanish. It may be that this Cuban connection was of assistance in providing the pictures of the Cuban revolution which appeared in issue No. 3 (July, 1963).

Contact with the Communist Splinter Group in the U.K.

8. By the end of 1963, "Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution" had established contact with the Communist splinter group in the U.K. which is sympathetic to the Chinese line in the Sino-Soviet dispute. Publications of this group — the British Committee to Defeat Revisionism, for Communist Unity — were advertised in issues No. 8 and 9. An article on "The Fight Against Revisionism" by Michael McCreevy the leader of the group was published in issue No. 9.

-/Staff, Editorial . .-

ENGLANDORDERED, DONT BE POLITE TO US