SECRET SECURITY INFORMATION

TRSA-J272

9. Accordingly, RUSSO described a personal friend in the Division of Communications and Records of the Department who had had considerable experience in censorship work and offered to make inquiries of this individual for any available material. It was also indicated that this person would be asked to comment on the probable reaction of the Department to an official confidential request from the Costa Rican Government for assistance. It was suggested to subject that he not discuss this matter with any other individuals pending a reply to our inquiries, to which he agreed. He also agreed that the best approach to this whole project would be to proceed only with training and planning activities at this time and not attempt to initiate actual censorship until an emergency arises, such as a Communist armed uprising or a third world war. However, on this latter point it is believed probable that subject would prefer to begin the activity regardless of whether an emergency arises, in order to obtain coverage of current Communist activities.

10. As is obvious from the above conversations, a number of operational possibilities (and hazards) are presented to us and headquarters comments and guidance are respectfully requested. Depending on headquarters desires and policies, we could possibly gradually discourage subject from ever initiating his project prior to an emergency while at the same time assisting him with pertinent written material provided by headquarters for his planning and training purposes. This would have the advantage of facilitating the organization of a competent crew on a stand-by basis who could be put to work if a world war were to break out. We could tap this government censorship activity. However, in view of our presently only limited post office coverage, a more attractive opportunity might be sincerely to assist subject, insure his development of a secure project, and substitute our present coverage by an all-Costa Rican operation. It appears that we could control such an operation either by working through subject or by dealing directly with Colonel SEGARES. In this latter situation, we could probably expand the activity to provide coverage of cable traffic, and possibly international telephone calls. A danger here is the traditional lack of security consciousness of Costa Ricans.

11. In any event we are faced with a situation which presents a potential security threat to our current post office censorship activity. Headquarters comments are requested as soon as possible on at least the following points:

Will headquarters provide technical data on censorship methods for passing to POVEDANO as though it were obtained from a friend-of RUSSO? In this connection we have in mind possibly unclassified Army instructional manuals, etc.

Will headquarters approve our accepting POVEDANO's

SECRET SECURITY INFORMATION