CONVERSE, INDIANA

"My sincere congratulations and gratitude that you are presenting the matter of united prayer for freedom ... I assure you also that I will present the challenge ... to our people and that we'll join with you and all churches of America in praying for the freedom that we believe is the natural right of all men."

ENDICOTT, NEW YORK

"Starting March 23rd we will have a public prayer every Sunday ... May God bless you and your great work for freedom. I am sure that with the prayers of Our great Nation and all Freedom-loving people, Almighty God in his infinite goodness and love will answer our prayers and all the things you are trying to accomplish in the Crusade for Freedom will be fulfilled."

LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA

"To establish such a prayer chain from the concerned peoples of this nation to the concerned peoples behind the Iron Curtain, in fact, to the Christian peoples behind any curtain in the world, will create a pool of resources that will strike fire in the hearts of believing Christian people. It is certainly one of the most important things to do alongside other preparation for World Peace."

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA - From a Church bulletin

"Beginning Sunday, March 23, and continuing, the Crusade for Freedom, which encourages those behind the 'iron curtain' in their desperate struggle for religious liberty, asks for our earnest prayers for those who have been deprived of their freedom to worship according to the dictates of conscience, PRAY."

The president of a Lutheran STATE SYNOD, in addition to acquiring newspaper notice, wrote the following letter to his confreres:

"Dear Brethren, Seeking to abide by the request of the Crusade for Freedom that each church in America have special prayers beginning Sunday, March 23, and each Sunday thereafter for the 'restoration of religious liberties to the peoples in the satellite countries of Eastern Europe,' and to strengthen the power of praying peoples for the advancement of God's Kingdom, I hereby request that each pastor write out a prayer that may be used in conjunction with the General Prayer in my service each Sunday morning, and as a special collect for the Vesper Services.

(continued)