REPORT OF PSYCHOLOGICAL EXAMINATION

SUBJECT: AEEASPIC

Dates of Examination: 8, 9, 10 January 1959

Subject was met in Paris on the above dates by the case officer and the examiner and was submitted to a preliminary psychological examination via a French interpreter.

Subject was born 12 July 1918 in Georgia which, at this time, was not yet part of the USSR. The Subject classifies his parents as "Nobles" and is of the opinion that their status had a great influence upon his behavior and development particularly in the period which followed the family's flight from Georgia to France in 1921. In other words, the Subject abides by the prejudicial class attitude of Noblesse Oblige and feels an obligation of honorable and generous behavior attributable to his birth rank. He is also of the opinion that this concept of nobility has evolved into a system of dignity and pride in his endeavors. This concept is also extended to include the attitude: "If you pretend to be something, you have to act accordingly."

The family fled Georgia before the Soviet invasion. The Subject feels that he was too young to understand but recalls having revolted against the flight because it was a humiliating defeat rather than a tactical retreat. He operates by the attitude that one must fight, surpass or conquer rather than to submit or accept defeat. He is, according to his own self-concept, a person who can not tolerate being beaten in competition. As a child the Subject felt that he was much stronger than several million men. He presents the analogy that he is like a man who wants to kill an elephant. All he needs provided for him is a high powered rifle and then he would feel equal to the elephant. The Subject admits of physical inferiority feelings by virtue of his size and strength but he denies any feelings of intellectual inferiority and admits that he depends more upon his mental faculties than upon his physical abilities. Apparently the Subject has never been able to accept what he considers the original defeat and flight from Georgia.