14-0000.

(FOUNDATIONS OF NOSENKO'S CLAIMS)

officers who defected earlier to Western services provided no significant military, economic or scientific information on the USSR, and the political information provided by a few (usually relating to the personalities and relationships in the ruling group of the Communist Party) was of marginal value.

Counterintelligence Information

NOSENKO's knowledge of KGB foreign intelligence operations was limited, for his whole career had been spent in the Second Chief (Counterintelligence) Directorate concerned with KGB operations within the Soviet Union. His information on Second Chief Directorate operations, however, was apparently a counterintelligence windfall, because most of his KGB assignments involved operations against American targets, either visitors to the Soviet Union or members of the Embassy staff in Moscow. From this circumstance he represents himself as an authoritative source on KGB success and failure in recruiting Americans in the USSR during the years 1953-1963.

NOSENKO has described scores of KGB operations mounted against American Embassy personnel during that ten year period. Because of lasting relationships he established with KGB colleagues, NOSENKO kept abreast of KGB operations against the Embassy, even while serving elsewhere than in the Embassy Section. NOSENKO has stated that he would know if the facts were otherwise, and he has asserted unequivocally that no American stationed permanently at the Embassy was recruited between the early 1950's and his defection in 1964. NOSENKO named six members of the Embassy staff who rejected KGB recruitment overtures, and all have confirmed his assertions. He provided information on the vulnerability of a significant number of Embassy personnel; in particular, two Foreign Service Officers were consequently withdrawn from Moscow. Physical search has confirmed the information he provided regarding the KGB audio surveillance installations in the Embassy.

Among Americans other than Embassy personnel whom NOSENKO described as KGB targets, he provided information leading to the identification of 51 KGB agents, including seven correspondents in Moscow, the Moscow representative of the American Express Company, the former code clerk "ANDREY" (Dayle SMITH, see p. 33), and Sgt. Robert Lee JOHNSON,

0001293

TS No. 197124

Copy _________