CONTACT REPORT

DATE: 23 May 1962, 10:00 to 11:45 hours

SUBJECT: WIROGUE

KUBARK OFFICER: Stephen R. LACKLEN

1. As requested by AD/FI, LACKLEN met WIROGUE as scheduled in the CABINET apartment at 100; hours on 23 May 1962. Roscoe H. MOSIERN accompanied to witness the meeting and assist later if necessary, in reconstruction of needed facts.

2. LACKLEN told WIROGUE that he had sent a message to Washington with the highlights of the 22 May meeting. He said that this message probably could not be acted upon prior to 23 May due to the time difference between Washington and Frankfurt. He was advised that while we hope for some word today it was more probable we would not get an answer prior to 24 May. WIROGUE said that he understood the time delays in awaiting replies from Washington and expressed his satisfaction with our efforts to assist him.

3. LACKLEN told him the documents which he had loaned us were being photographed, photographed and would be returned to him as soon as possible. WIROGUE said he was in no hurry for his documents and for us to keep them as long as we needed them. He said he hated it being coupled up in this apartment and hoped that we could give him an interim pass which would permit him to go out on the street in Frankfurt. LACKLEN said that he was trying to obtain this pass as soon as possible, the photo WIROGUE gave 22 May was not proper with the sport shirt and that he would have MOSIERN take more pictures the afternoon of 23 May with coat and tie, for the pass. LACKLEN explained that the delay in issuing the pass was simply getting another operational activity to release one of their cover passes for a WIROGUE. LACKLEN assured him that we were moving as rapidly as possible and we would make every effort to have a pass for him by 1700 23 May. LACKLEN said if this was not possible he would phone him at 1700 and probably have the pass the following morning, the morning of 24 May. WIROGUE agreed.

4. WROGUE said that he wanted to travel to Dortmund and Dusseldorf to talk to people there about his telephone answering device. He would like to have a pass to facilitate this trip which would take two or three days. LACKLEN suggested WROGUE "sit tight" until we had some information from Washington before making this trip. In this exchange of conversation WROGUE mentioned that he preferred not to use his Austrian passport in Germany. LACKLEN took this entree and asked WROGUE why didn't he get a real passport as it obvious WROGUE felt the Austrian passport was reaching the end of its usefulness. WROGUE said he wanted more than anything else to ask him legalize himself in any country, even the Congo. He said that he knew US citizenship was impossible because of his criminal record. LACKLEN asked him if he had ever considered German citizenship. (NOTE: In the discussion of a permanent recognition document, LACKLEN deliberately confused the terms economic recognition, citizenship, political recognition, etc.) WROGUE was not willing to spend the required five years residency in Germany to attain citizenship or for that matter in any other country. LACKLEN mentioned that some German documentation might be obtainable, however, he knew