DISPATCH

TO Chief of Station, Bern RE: 8273 HEADQUARTERS FILE NO 201-191098

FROM Chief, II

General - Operational/LCHARVEET Specific - Susan and Richard Frank

RE: "43-J" - (CHECK X ONE)

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

(REPROCESSED)

RBA 8813 dated 30 December 1959

1. The information provided in reference was most timely in its arrival. Shortly after we had received it, OENVI informed us that the Frank couple was traveling abroad, and that in view of Susan Frank's interest in Far Eastern affairs and Chinese history it was not unlikely she and her husband would attempt to travel to China before returning to the U.S. OENVI asked for any information we might receive which would indicate Subjects had traveled to China. We have passed the gist of the information in reference to OENVI. We shall appreciate receiving any additional information on the activities of Subjects which you may be able to uncover utilising liaison as you see fit. FYI: Susan Frank has indicated she does not expect to return to the States until August or September, and most likely the latter month.

2. The material in Headquarters' file on the Franks, all of which was supplied by OENVI, indicates they are active members of the Communist Party in the U.S. Upon receipt of OENVI's approval to our request to pass a summary of this material to our official source of reference we shall forward the summary to you for passage to the KOREANISKS. Meanwhile, the following, most of which was supplied by informants rated as having provided reliable information in the past, is forwarded for your information:

Susan Frank,née Beiligman, born 6 November 1913 of Russian parentage, resides with her second husband, Richard Cyril Frank, at 110 Christopher Street, New York City. There are reports as early as 1942 providing information on Susan Frank's activities in behalf of Communism, all of which refer to her as Susan or Susan Warren, the alias she has commonly used in her Communist activities and in articles she has written. One example of her activities in 1942 refers to an application for a permit to operate a public address system at street meetings in New York City. The application bore the signature of Sue Warren, and listed her as Chairman of the Communist Party at 132 East 26th Street, New York City. Since 1942 there have been numerous informant reports of Sue Warren's active participation in Communist affairs in the U.S., the most recent describing her as a member of the Greenwich Village Section, NY County Cf as of October 1959. Frank has given her present occupation as writer and lecturer, and has taught at the Faculty of Social Sciences and Jefferson School of Social Sciences, conducting courses entitled, "The New China", "The Chinese Communists", "World of Socialism", "On the Correct Understanding of Contradictions ( Mao )", etc. The Faculty of Social Sciences was apparently established by Max Weiss, who was referred to in the April 1956 edition of the "Daily Worker" as "National Educational Director, Communist Party". The Jefferson School of Social Sciences has been designated by the Attorney General.

201. 191.099

FORM 10 OF 53 (40)

US PREVIOUS EDITION PUBLISHED FORMS-51 20, 51 26A AND-51 79 WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

CONTINUED

71