Form 57

Lee J.χανη, Eπιγραμ 133 Tenth Avenue Brooklyn, New York

(Information & Education Non-Commissioned Officer, May, 1946 - Feb, 1949)

A.

After completing the Army Specialized Training Program course in Ruckadee area and language training, I was assigned to the 10th Infantry, 7th Division, then at Camp Pickett, Va. While with that unit, I conducted "orientation" lectures covering world history and background material on the war (April-May 1944).

Because of my limited-service status, I was transferred to the Supply Section, Headquarters Detachment, 1718 DCH, at Camp Pickett, while a clerk in that unit. I performed the duties of a unit Info & Education lecturer -- lecturing on history and current events, conducting talks and bulletins on the battle areas, and encouraging soldiers in correspondence courses. As a result of this work (May-July 1944), I was promoted to be Info & Education Non-Commissioned Officer in the Post Info & Education Office.

c.

The Post Information & Education Office was charged with the duty of planning, producing, and disseminating war information and non-military education for all troops permanently stationed at Camp Pickett and for a large hospital on the ground. The purpose of this program was to help the troops to understand why and how we were fighting, and to understand their role in that fight. It was morale building through information.

As Non-Commissioned Officer for the Info & Education Office, I performed both administrative and functional duties. I aided in the development and execution of the policies and contents of the education program, and was in immediate charge of the weekly instructional program. The following are the duties which I performed:

1. Prepared material for use in weekly lectures or discussions which all troops were required to attend. - Info & Education Branch in Washington supplied topical information for use in these classes. I expanded, revised, or supplemented it to suit its needs of our camp.

2. Trained men to conduct lectures in each of 1/2 to 1t units; briefed them on prepared material each week; and inspected their classes. - Each company or unit was required to have one or more men with suitable education or experience to conduct weekly classes on history and current events under the direction of the Info & Education Office. At briefing conferences, I discussed with them the topic for the following week, suggested means of presentation, and described general policies to be followed. I made periodic inspection visits to classes conducted by these men.

3. Lectured or conducted several discussions each week. - The topics of these classes were the same as those conducted by other men: basic U.S. and world history, current events, background material on the war, the relation of the U.S. to its allies, the enemy, and the role of the individual soldier. These classes contained from 75 to 100 men each, with all educational levels represented.