Page Title Date

53 LUKE HUGHES ANDERSON DECEMBER 9, 1963 REF: CIGETT CONTINUED DEC 7 1963

DISPATCH DEC 6 1963 ECGA 19703 EGCA-19704

CO8, Germany

Chief, RE: Chief, AJ: Chief, WH 201-323-120-018/01

Chief of Station, Germany 01

WIROGUE/Besettlement 34 April 1963

Bee Para 10

DIE 24971, dated 15 March 1963

1. In May 1962 HARVARD took over the task of resettling WIROGUE, a former AYDSON agent candidate and later African Division agent. Per WIROGUE's request and with Headquarters concurrence, HARVARD agreed to help subject in immigrating to South America.

2. Subject was relieved of his documents (Austrian passport in alias and not backstopped) and the first steps were taken to prepare for eventual immigration. It was decided that subject would require documentation which would stand up under the investigation of immigration authorities. Therefore, he was given a new name and with the help of ABC and CDINA received a Briseauvels and political recognition from the West German Government. The latter was granted on the basis of a fabricated story in which subject purports to be a defector from the Georgian EBI who escaped while with a tourist group in East Berlin.

3. With documentation in order, subject was sent to the local Columbian Consulate to apply for permission to immigrate, as HARVARD had hopes that subject would be able to process en route with a minimum of red tape by bypassing refugees through consular channels and by having letters of recommendation and letters of solvency. This was not the case, and the Columbian Consulate informed subject he could immigrate only by proceeding through the Intergovernmental Committee for European Immigration.

4. Due to the nature of this case and certain inherent problems, e.g., subject has a criminal record in France and was a long-time resident there, speaks less than fluent Georgian, speaks no Russian even though his story for political recognition indicates he was a lieutenant in the Soviet Army, has no real profession although he is self-taught in the electro-mechanical field and is confident he can pass a job test as master mechanic, etc., it was imperative that the specific details of ICEM processing be learned in order to find out and be prepared for the problems which would certainly arise if he immigrates through ICEM.

5. HARVARD discussed the basic outline of the problem with the Chief, Refugee Migration Section, American Consulate General, Munich and Chief, CAMANTILLA, and established that subject's processing through ICEM would include a security investigation and detailed interview and job testing, since ICAN is determined that only "high level" types will immigrate through them to South America. HARVARD proposes to continue with the immigration plans and, although Chief WJ and Chief, CAMANTILLA have been most helpful and have been able to learn ICEM procedures taken on refugee migration applicants, they have been forced to refrain from appearing too inquisitive.

DECEMBER 6, 1963 201-23347