NO FOREIGN DISSEX

CS-311/00466-65

Contact with leftist forces in order to know their viewpoints regularly, at all times, and when we may need it, especially on political and economic changes which may take place in Cuba.

Student, peasant, and labor movements. Organization, strength, leaders, relations with the leftist forces, degree of unity.

U.S. and Church penetration in the mass organizations (labor, peasant, student).

Possibilities of spontaneous manifestations of struggle.

Possibilities of guerrilla movement: groups, organizations, leaders, weapons, popular support, relations with the leftist forces.

Struggle in the city: groups, leaders, form of work, role of the labor and student movement, relations with the leftist forces, and with groups operating in the countryside.

Relations of exiles with the insurrectional movement.

3. Armed Forces of the Dominican Republic

Organization of the Dominican Armed Forces, units, and strength of the various corps. Bases, barracks, weapons, and transport of the Armed Forces. Locations.

Budgetary allocations of the Armed Forces; allocations to each branch (Navy, Air Force, and Army).

Existing bilateral agreements with the United States of a secret nature.

Secret or public military pacts entered into by Santo Domingo with countries in the Caribbean area, agreements by them concerning special arrangements.

Yankee military missions. Names, ranks, and functions of their members, their duties.

Armed Forces units with anti-guerrilla training, their strength, time spent in anti-guerrilla training, instructors giving it, weapons, and transportation in the possession of the units. Leaders of the units.

Other battalions or special units (parachutists, Rangers), units and strength, their leaders, transport, and weapons.

Changes in armament; quantity and characteristics of the new weapons acquired.

Participation by Dominican units in Central American or Caribbean military maneuvers, units participating, strength, their leaders.

NO FOREIGN DISSEX