PARTIES IN BADEN-WUERTTEMBERG

90630 5 68

37.3 percent). The liberal Free Democratic Party (FDP), made a slight gain, winning 14.4 percent of the vote (1964: 13.1 percent). Against the background of last October's Bremen elections, in which the National Democratic Party won what was then a record percentage of 8.9, the Baden-Wuerttemberg results brought renewed cries of alarm over the dangers of neo-Nazism in the Federal Republic. More important, the results also raised doubts as to the future of a coalition government by the Christian Democrats and Social Democrats, not only in Baden-Wuerttemberg but at the federal government level as well.

Baden-Wuerttemberg: A Test Case

Baden and Wuerttemberg traditionally have been strongholds of liberal, nonsocialist democracy in Germany. In the early 1930s, the Nazi vote in this area was almost always appreci-

ably lower than elsewhere in Germany. The hotbeds of Nazism lay in other regions, for example in Franconia, East Prussia, and Schleswig-Holstein.

The economic and social picture in Baden-Wuerttemberg would lead to expectations of stability there. The proportion of the population now employed in industry is higher than in any other state. The economy of the state was virtually untouched by the recent West German recession, during which unemployment never exceeded one percent. Per capita income is above average. Protestants and Catholics are almost evenly balanced in population, while the proportion of protestants in the Federal Republic is slightly higher.

A few observers correctly forecast the outcome, but the general expectation was that the vote for the National Democratic Party would be lower than in Bremen. The two major West German polling organizations had predicted in March that the NPD would receive five percent of the vote.

Federal-level politicians had campaigned actively in the state. Chancellor Kurt Kiesinger, a popular native son, made a three-day speaking tour, in which he sharply attacked "arrogant, thoughtless, and dangerous nationalism." He stressed this theme in the Hohenlohe area, where the NPD later received its highest vote in the state. Willy Brandt also appeared to speak for the Social Democrats.