Transportation allowance of $50 per month,

Optional expenses

TICHBORN is satisfied with his basic fee, commenting that he is better than Mexico. He then adds that money does mean as much to him as it did, because he has an agent who will be a good seller and earn a lot of money. TICHBORN opined that temporary lodging and transportation allowances are low. The undersigned pointed out that these allowances are applicable to staff employees and that they have been found adequate.

3. The undersigned noted that TICHBORN, by virtue of his association with WUSALINE and WUSALIFY and his 1967 trip to Spain, is in an excellent cover position for this assignment. He has also had the opportunity to meet the Agency representative in Madrid with whom he will be dealing. The undersigned gave TICHBORN a copy of WUBRINY/1's letter outlining TICHBORN's cover assignment (unamended copy attached). The undersigned noted that the senior officer of the firm participating with WUSALINE in WUSALINE/Iberia in late 1966 had suggested that a developer of new business be obtained. This overture was followed by TICHBORN's exploratory trip in June 1967. Subsequently, a WUSALIFY company for which TICHBORN is a legal consultant, followed up on TICHBORN's trip by sending a geologist to assess several abandoned silver properties. In this way, the stage should be well set for TICHBORN as outlined in the cover letter prepared by WUBRINY/1.

4. At 1800 hours, WUBRINY/1 and WUBRINY/11 joined the meeting to discuss cover arrangements. The undersigned emphasized that the arrangement would not only have to be plausible, but, in due course, there would have to be commercial results. TICHBORN was also emphatic on this point. He suggested that the cover letter also include the possibility of putting together a movie deal. TICHBORN said that he is thoroughly at home in the movie field and finds it a good access to targets of operational interest. WUBRINY/1 seized eagerly upon TICHBORN's suggestion, stating that he had always wanted to finance a movie deal. WUBRINY/1 said that he

2 SECRET