EDGAR ANTHONY BUTTARI PUIG (D.V.M.)

aka. - Edgar A. BUTTARI (Doctor)

aka - Edgardo BUTTARI y Puig (201-276771)

Photo available

While information in his file does not indicate any past or present CIA contact, there is unsourced information in the WH/COG card file which shows that BUTTARI was in touch with Frank Bender (Gerard Droller) in Miami in the Spring of 1960, apparently in relation to BUTTARI's involvement with the Revolutionary Democratic Front (FRD). Currently BUTTARI is involved in many business ventures in South Florida and is reportedly associated with Charles "Bebe" Rebozo socially and in business.

Edgardo BUTTARI was born 14 August 1909 (also given 1914) at West Tampa, Florida, the son of a Cuban who fought in the Cuban Independence War. Appointed Cuban Inspector General Instructor of the Ministry of State in 1933. He later became Under Secretary of Labor. In 1938 he returned to Cuba and served as Secretary of Commerce until 1940. He later was appointed Minister of the Cuban Foreign Service. Appointed Minister of Commerce by Batista in 1942, he held that post until 1944 when he resigned to run for the House of Representatives, Habana. He remained in the House of Representatives until 1952.

BUTTARI arrived in the U.S. in March 1960 to reside in Miami, Florida. He became involved with the Revolutionary Democratic Front.

During his first term as Minister of Commerce in 1938 he was responsible for the arrest of several American representatives of large lard exporters in the U.S. (Swift, Armour, etc.) for increasing prices. At the same time he endeavored to put forward legislation of nationalistic tendencies, warning to "Yankee Imperialism", and seemed somewhat unfriendly to the U.S. He later changed and in 1933 became more anxious to cooperate with the U.S., apparently having gotten over his openly anti-American feelings. However, he did not appear to be dependable according to Embassy reports. He has been described as astute, clever, intelligent but slippery. He