MEMORANDUM IN LIEU OF FITNESS REPORT

SUBJECT: Thomas J. Keenan 1 July 1974 - 31 December 1974

Mr. Keenan took over as COS Kingston in September 1974. This is his first COS assignment. The Kingston Station is composed of 6 staff employees (including 2 communicators) and 1 contract employee for a total complement of 7.

As one of the principal Caribbean sources of bauxite, Jamaica is of importance to the U.S. The arbitrary taxes levied on the U.S. bauxite company in Jamaica has been a source of conflict between the two governments. There is a Cuban and Chinese presence in Jamaica. Perhaps the single most important factor affecting the environment and personal lives of our Station members is the very high level of crime in Kingston, especially rape.

In reviewing the past fitness reports none has yet been written specifically commenting on his performance as COS in Kingston. I will attempt to fill that gap with this one.

The Station has been changed from basically a liaison station to a unilateral station. Liaison has never been overly cooperative, but the present COS has continued to develop the liaison, and at the same time has moved out unilaterally. During the past year two access agents to the Chinese target have been recruited (one being among the best in the Division) and two access agents to the Cuban target. It has also acquired a penetration of the local service who is especially useful against the Chinese target. In addition, a surveillance team which was recruited in 1973 was developed and used to the extent possible. The Station has become more active than perhaps ever before in its history, with emphasis on the PRC and Cuban targets.

From the past we know that Mr. Keenan is an excellent officer with good operational instincts. After a year in Kingston as COS we now also see that he can perform as a manager. Upon his return from Kingston this year Mr. Keenan will attend the Army War College to continue his career development. I rate his overall performance as COS in Kingston as "Strong."

Raymond A. Warren Deputy Chief Latin America Division