TCS-A-1801

paid from other operational funds the peso equivalent of his salary beginning 1 January 1952. It was considered necessary to begin his payments as of that date in order to insure his continued stay in Chile. This Station would appreciate clarification of JREDICT-Chile to which, according to TC...H-1465, this expense could be charged for a limited time.

PULMINATER-I's weekly newspaper is 61% owned by him, and as indicated in attached contract, he has agreed to keep the paper for at least two years. The other owner, who has taken no active interest whatsoever in the operation, management or policies of the paper, apparently plans to sell his share. The prospective buyer is not known but in any event PULMINATER-I will retain the controlling interest.

PULMINATER-I is willing to spend the necessary time in Washington for training and will be ready to depart immediately when so advised. However, his wife is expecting a baby around 30 December 1951 according to her doctor's calculations, and PULMINATER-I would prefer to remain in Santiago for at least a few days after the child is born. He is certain that the birth will take place within a week's time and it is hoped that his presence in Washington will not be required prior to 15 January 1952. As a cover story for his trip, PULMINATER-I has advised that an option has been bought on one of his plays and that a trip to New York to discuss the play with the prospective producer is completely logical. Further, he has an estate in Texas which is in litigation and which could logically require his presence there. PULMINATER-I asked that he be allowed to spend a day or two in Texas either on his trip up or back to settle this estate and it is recommended that he be allowed to do so in order to provide his cover story with more basis in fact.

PULMINATER-I has been told that he must pay United States income tax on his salary received from this Organization. He is at a loss, however, to know how this added income can be satisfactorily and securely explained to the Department of Internal Revenue. In accordance with the contents of Field Regulations 50-13, this matter is being brought to Headquarters attention with a request for instructions as to how this matter is to be handled.

Acting Chief of Station Kenneth J. Tondler

efo

KAP OK