Charite hospital in Eastern Berlin, almost 3/4 of the distinguished medical specialists are ready to break away, and we are now hoping, to reach some constructive arrangement by which they can maintain themselves in East-Berlin. This type of activity - ranging from welfare, prominent individuals from the East, to sheltering groups and institutions, and beginning with initial private contact - can transform the Congress into a group of spokesmen for the libertarian ideal into "activists for freedom".

6. Radio-Broadcasting Project: inaugurating a special series of radio programs to be prepared by the CONGRESS. Linson should be established with RI L, the Free Europe network, the French, Austrian, German and British stations, including the Voice of America. Plans have been started for the first series - namely, "Dialogues across the Curtain"; a dozen 'open-letters' - Koestler to Sigmars and Froom, other to Fecher, Eisler, Lukos, Lysenko, Tarle, Threnburg, et. al. - personalized messages of five-minutes (less in hateful opposition, more in open-heated clarity). This would be a practical follow-up to the CONGRESS' "Message to the East". These could be published in various newspapers; later in small book-form.

7. Annual Prize-awards Project: the CONGRESS should award each year a number of CONGRESS prizes to various personalities for distinctive services and contributions to the cause of Cultural Freedom. This could be given on the basis of a new book, a career, or some special activities. Two types can be distinguished: the Nobel-prize model, and the University Stipend. The latter would enable the recipient (an American, a Frenchman) to spend four weeks in Berlin, giving a series of 5 CONGRESS lectures at the Free University, later to be printed as a special CONGRESS volume. (This is equally true of an English recipient at Heidelberg, a German at the New School in N.Y.C., a Prussian at the London School of Economics, etc.)

8. Publishing-House Project: this could be a modestly-conceived annex to the CONGRESS Berlin-bureau, which would actually bring out the CONGRESS volumes (indicated above). It would also publish the pamphlets and brochures mentioned. It would consider the popular cultural-political library (the Birkiesel proposal). It could be the house to which "Der Fort" would go, if and when this monthly becomes completely independent. It would gradually build up its own list of authors from among prominent CONGRESS writers (Koestler, et. al.) The Publishing-house could be started from the existing transitional CONGRESS bureau no: functioning in Berlin; the Bureau-Director, or the Executive Assistant, could be charged with the responsibilities of a normal international publisher in Germany (incorporation as a G.m.b.H., and the like).

9. News-Letter project: immediate plans for a fortnightly communication to all Conferences sympathizers, the press, etc. should be started, completed. A 2-4 page mineographed information-bulletin will keep alive CONGRESS interest.