COUNTRY Colombia / Venezuela / Paraguay

NO. PAGES-2

SUBJECT Guillermo Yrigoyola / Venezuela to Chile, Mario Valdez ARI 7th Agency Intelligence

REFILK CDS

OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report has been prepared by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operational information contained herein may not be disclosed to personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, CIA, without the prior permission of the Domestic Contact Service.

1. On 26 June 1973 the United States Office responded to a call on the line. Mr. Guerra is now a man who identified himself as Roderigo Peñafiel. He was Kastenauer and responded to the call with his files. Mr. Peñafiel's files are at the Foreign Relations Office. In response he said that he held a file concerning Rosario, and that it was about to be closed. The matter was referred to the National Intelligence Agency. Roderigo told him that he was trying to make a large sum of money to settle accounts with GCI officials. Roderigo said that GCI funds have been used up as a result of the transfer of funds from other agencies. He referred to three previous cases as black schemes. He indicated that in know how many Amtzazs exist, government officials in Colombia, Venezuela, and Guatemala. Roderigo contacted several of these Directors in North America and asked them to call the United Intelligence Agency in missing someone for their operations in South America to the Chinese. Roderigo has contacted Marcelo Perez, a related Colorado ane and presently head of the Colorado National Police. He has also contacted one Alvaro Perez, who is an officer in Colorado to the Colquhoun Federal Police. Roderigo also provided Roderigo the name of Charles Med, chief of the Peruvian Federal Police. Roderigo showed a passbook. He indicated that he was a customer in this account. Roderigo said that he personally turned over several $10,000 in cash and gold, one hundred thousand dollars in bank deposits, one million pesos in cash, one US$50,000 in bank deposits and several banknotes of 30 codoche type. Roderigo was led to believe that the transfer would be used in a secret GII operation in Peru. This operation was controlled by Yrigoyola in a bank operation.

2. During our conversation with Roderigo, he raised an additional point. Roderigo said that he conducted Manuel Vega in Colombia and that Vega agreed to help all this in exchange. Vega同意了此要求。

5 4 3 2 1 0 -1 -2 -3 4 5