In your opinion, what significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position have made your performance a positive or negative performance? State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide more basis for determining future personnel action. Mention of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and past record would be useful.

The comments of the rating officer are limited to the period from October 1, 1969 to March 31, 1970 during which he worked with Subject. The previous rating officer has added his comments to allow coverage of the total indicated period from April 1, 1969 to March 31, 1970. During this period Subject was integrated in a new team assigned to the local S&amp;T and Commercial MICHARSH target. Subject's recent activity has been very productive indeed. Subject used the excellent potential given to him by his cover to skillfully spot and assess access agent candidates. As Subject's operational situation in Paris precludes making recruitment, the most promising of these candidates was placed in contact with a Station officer during social events. Subject organized. At the same time, Subject continued his efforts to develop personal relations with several Micharshers. The beginning of personal, as opposed to purely professional, relations with a major Micharsh target enabled him to obtain insight into the target's beliefs and personality which was the best the Station had to date. Subject also managed to establish contact with two other Micharsh representatives of interest. This, in one case, required almost six months to accomplish via a combination of patience, skill and determination. Subject is an experienced officer. He is not conscious and practices good security. The Station has no other agent with the necessary scientific and editorial know-how, fluent French and local knowledge to replace Subject. In view of this and the recent progress made by Subject in response to very specific requirements and his willingness to try to establish personal and, hopefully, social relations with access prospects and Micharsh targets, the Station recently recommended that he be extended in Paris. At the same time, the Station recommended that Subject's cover be reinforced by full-time employment with Subject's current WO/AY pre-tax-time employer.

SECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR [Printed Name and Signature] Public Officer /s/ Francis Cherry BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL / / (Signature)

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

As previous Station correspondence and fitness reports will reflect, this officer has been the subject of varying evaluations and projections in recent years. In fairness to him, however, it is equally true that an officer under non-official cover reflects, in the level and quality of his performance, the amount and type of influence, direction and push he receives from the responsible inside case officer. Making allowances for these variables, this officer's past record has not been impressive; however, it is also correct to note that he has improved substantially during the latter part of the period under review, and that if the Station can work out some fiscal arrangement which will reduce the heavy financial input