(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962)

had served as a Department of State Security Officer concerned with the safety of Premier Khrushchev when he visited the United States in 1959; from ABIDIAN's behavior at that time, the Legal Residencies concluded he was an intelligence officer, probably with CIA. That report and the fact that ABIDIAN was replacing the known CIA officer Russell LANGELLE as Security Officer, made ABIDIAN one of the most important counter- intelligence targets of the Embassy Section and therefore of the entire Second Chief Directorate.

NOSENKO personally opened the KGB file on ABIDIAN and later adopted for him the cryptonym "ARSEN" used earlier by personnel of the Seventh (Surveillance) Directorate of the Second Chief Directorate.

NOSENKO was unsuccessful in his attempts to learn more about the life and career of ABIDIAN. He visited the Chief of the American Department of the KGB First Chief Directorate, but that unit had no information not included in its original report. NOSENKO requested that the KGB Legal Residencies in the United States be asked for further details, but none were ever received. NOSENKO thus never learned of ABIDIAN'S education and study abroad, date of entry into the Department of State, promotions, personal rank, previous assignments, military service, or foreign service status.

Prior to ABIDIAN's arrival in Moscow, the KGB decided not to work aggressively against him with agent contacts or provocateurs unless he first demonstrated some personal vulnerability. It was considered better to concentrate on surveillance coverage in the hope that, as LANGELLE's successor, he might lead "to another POPOV". [POPOV, a GRU Lieutenant Colonel and CIA agent, according to KGB sources was apprehended in 1959.]

Because ABIDIAN was considered to be a CIA officer, he was made a "special target" of surveillance from the date of his arrival. He was always under 24-hour surveillance by at least two and often three KGB teams, so that at any hour a team was available to cover him if he left the Embassy. The only time this intensity of coverage might have been reduced, NOSENKO said, was during a period of about one and one-half months in 1961, when surveillance of the Embassy

GOGI47G

TS No. 197124

Copy 10