the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City. Similarly, an AF/OSI controlled agent scheduled to meet a Soviet contact was unable to do so owing to illness, but LIEMPTY photographed another person who appeared at the meeting site and this person is believed to be the agent's Soviet case officer. Such coverage has been helpful to the 902nd, AF/OSI and the FBI in running their controlled double agent operations against the Soviets in Mexico.

3. Within one week after a biannual change of license plates on Soviet Embassy vehicles, LIEMPTY had provided a complete list of the new tag numbers, along with a complete identification of the vehicles. Among other things, this enabled the Station to identify the companions of Aleksandr Aleksandrovich NIKITIN, a known KGB officer, during his last few days in Mexico.

4. LIEMPTY has also determined that newcomers to the Soviet Embassy frequently gravitate to groupings with their RIS colleagues in the "safoty" of the Embassy backyard. This fact enabled the Station to make certain tentative KGB and GRU identifications. In addition, certain TDYers have been linked up with their escort officers and clues to personal relationships have occasionally been exploited.

5. In the field of Soviet patterns of activity and associations, LIEMPTY has been able to report accurate changes in certain specific cases. LIEMPTY coverage showed that NIKITIN, mentioned in paragraph 3 above, changed his activity pattern following the defection of Raisa Yerofeyevna KISELNIKOVA, former secretary in the Commercial Mission in Mexico. The same applies to Oleg NECHIPORENKO, a Second Secretary at the Embassy and a known KGB officer. LIEMPTY also provided information on the patterns and associations of Yuriy Viktorovich KUPLYAKOV, a known KGB officer and on Valeriy Vladimirovich SOKOLIN, a known GRU officer. Coverage of Vladimir Viktorovich GORDEYEV, a suspect KGB officer, showed that he did, in fact, work in a "restricted area" at the Soviet Embassy and also established who some of his associates were. In the case of Oleg Konstantinovich IGNATYEV, who had arrived in Mexico City from Caracas, Venezuela, LIEMPTY was able to observe IGNATYEV entering and leaving in the company of Svyastoslav Fedorovich KUZNETSOV, Press Attache and First Secretary of the Soviet Embassy. IGNATYEV also visited the Soviet Embassy