10 February, 1968

Subject: Briefing in Communications and Security of LIRING/4.

1. During the past four days Rowton has had daily meetings with LIRING/4 to give her initial training in S/W and discuss channels of communication that might be used securely and logically by LIRING/4 and Rowton. A "contract" to serve as a letter of understanding for both Rowton and LIRING/4 was drafted as a basis for present and future collaboration. No reference to WOFACT was made or implied, but Rowton made it clear that he had "firemen and colleagues" who were interested in intelligence coverage of PERU! and who would carry on his collaboration with LIRING/4 in the event of Rowton's death or unavailability.

2. The first item discussed was a simple open code to designate persons of interest either as targets or possible hostile elements, so that L/4 could mention these persons in the text of her 3/W correspondence without compromising herself. A list of the persons concerned with the code names is attached herewith. LIRING/4 understands that these code names will not be used in open letters to LIRING/3 under any circumstances.

3. As far as letter drops are concerned, Rowton instructed LIRING/4 to send her S/W messages with innocent text cover to the following address:

Lic. Antonio Ponce Cortés Multifamiliar Miguel Alcán C-326 México 12, D.F.

using a notional return address that could not be easily traced, and dropping the letter in a public mailbox in the center of town. Rowton did not give LIRING/4 an indicator for the cover text since it was understood that all messages, except the first, would contain an S/W message. LIRING/4 promised to mail an innocent text letter as soon after arrival as possible so that Rowton would have a good idea of the length of time involved in his receiving future letters.

4. LIRING/4 was advised that she would receive S/W messages from Rowton on the paper backing of serigraphic designs (Aztec seals) being produced by LIRING/3. The designs, prepared in the form of greeting cards, would be addressed to a third party and contain a brief message of greeting in the handwriting of LIRING/3 and would be sent as an attachment to a routine letter from LIRING/3 sent by hand or through the LIRING pouch. Both LIRING/4 and Rowton agreed that open mail, since it would have to bear her true name and address, would be both too risky and too slow. In the unlikely event of discovery, L/4 would have some way out, alleging that she