REQUEST FOR RENEWAL

PROJECT LIEPTY

CURRENT OBJECTIVES

A) The overall objective of Project LIEPTY, now in its eighth year of existence, is to collect operational information on the LIECK installation and personnel, as well as related targets of opportunity, through stationary and mobile photographic and physical surveillance mechanisms. Corollary objectives which are to be fulfilled through the use of the LIEPTY installations and personnel are as follows:

1) To provide operational information pertaining to the daily activities and movements of the LIECK personnel, particularly those individuals of intelligence interest, as well as information on the LIECK physical facilities and visitors to the premises.

2) To collect operational information on persons associated with LIECK and on individuals known or suspected to have connections with opposition intelligence services or other hostile groups which are imaterial to the interests of ONGCE.

3) To provide operational support, countersurveillance, and other protective services to Station personnel and operations as may be deemed necessary.

B) The above objectives are to be fulfilled through the continued exploitation of the LIMITED, LIBERTY and LICALIA basehouses, the LIETRAP mobile unit, and the services of long-time contract agent, Raymond H. GRIEGE. These objectives are in consonance with and represent partial fulfillment of the following sections of the current Related Mission Directive (RID) as approved for Mexico City Station:

PRIORITY A

Section 2, subsection b.

PRIORITY B

Section 1, subsection a. Section 2, subsection a.

C) Throughout the project year under review, Project LIEPTY continued to contribute directly and significantly to the Fulfillment of the Station's and Headquarters' requests and requirements for coverage of various targets falling within the framework of the above cited objectives of the ID. Specific examples of the LIEPTY Project's progress and contributions to the ID will be found in Section 3., Mistransfer.