H2-2038 Page 14

2. Sra. la ESCARTE - On 4 September one Mrs (fn) ESCARTE and Aleksandr DRUZHIN of the Military Attache's office discussed the matter of the books which her husband wanted to know about, because he had to have some bound, and needed to know the quantity of which DRUZHIN planned to dispose. She asked DRUZHIN to call her on the following day to let them know, because they were leaving on the 11th. She added that her husband has few books bound and these are for the Sicururgica (Steel Works). The following day Mrs. ESCARTE contacted DRUZHIN who informed her he had only talked to one man, but that he told him he would talk with his friends. He had not seen him yet because they were all busy attending the congress. Mrs. ESCARTE gave him the following number to use to contact her 31-91-57. This number belongs to a woman who lives in front of her, and she can be phoned there at any hour. (The 195 6 telephone director lists this number in the name of Luisa GARCIA Galva, Pavillagigedo 108-304, D.F.)

3. Sergio NOVIEL - On 21 September Sergio NOVIEL, leftist journalist, of previous record, cancelled an appointment he had for that day with FASYKLEVICH and "Nikolay", because something urgent had come up. On 27 September he unsuccessfully attempted to contact ALESCHOV. The same day he chatted with FASYKLEVICH who greeted him with pleasure, calling him "the disappeared one." NOVIEL apologized, saying he had had a great deal of work and adding that he wanted to issue them an invitation for today at 6:00 p.m. FASYKLEVICH replied that he could accept, but Nicolas had gone out, and it would be better to make the date for the following day. He would notify Nicolas.

4. On 21 September KAZATSHY contacted Genaro CARNERO Checa, Peruvian Communist journalist, and arranged for an appointment for Tuesday; 25 September. CARNERO suggested they meet at the same place where they had been with "Paco" (Francisco MARTINEZ de la Vega) the day before.

C. Miscellaneous Contacts:

1. Jorge SUAREZ advised LEOV on 13 September that they would be playing chess at his home that day from 4:30 p.m. on. LEOV promised to come if he had time.

2. LEOV called Estudios Universitarios on 13 September, identifying himself as the Attache from the Soviet Embassy who called on Doctor MURILLO a week ago, and added that he would like to speak to him concerning an inquiry about requirements for receiving a doctorate. MURILLO was not in.

SECRETI

50-4-1-294x