to chief, planning division of housing authority of major city, $3,100 per annum; employed since then by CIA, pay range of $3,800 to $13,250 per annum.

(5) Outside interests: photography, including own processing; writing, editing non-fiction and some fiction; gardening and do-it-yourself wood and metal working; interest in mechanics and electricity; interest in organisation, management, and administrative planning; member, British Interplanetary Society; former associate member, American Astronautical Society; former member, Japan Rocket Society. Interested in sports cars and other high quality automobiles and trucks. Skiing, swimming, horseback riding, hiking, camping, alpinism.

(6) Objective personality evaluation: An exceedingly well-equipped operations officer, combining an excellent knowledge of the target area and of the base country with proven operational know-how and a mature, dynamic, self-confident personality. Has a great facility to express himself in writing and orally. Very effective in dealing with people on various levels, poised and businesslike.

(7) Financial status: almost wholly dependent upon job income. Outstanding debt is mortgage on house (about $20,500).

(8) Previous foreign residence: Canada, 5 years; Japan, 8 years. Tourism and official travel (including war service) for shorter periods to the UK, France, Belgium, The Netherlands, West Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Denmark, Japan, Korea, Okinawa, Hong Kong, Thailand, Burma, Malaya, British North Borneo, Australia, and the Philippines.

(9) Speaks French and Japanese (tested in both).

C. Security Considerations

(1) Employed by CIA-12 years and two months. Security approval is TOP SECRET dated 10 June 1949.

(2) Employee will know specifically of CIA interest.

(3) Employee has had normal staff employee access to CIA buildings.

(4) Identification of CIA connection to others: a few close friends and neighbors are aware that employee has worked for CIA since spring 1961 or detailed basis from Pentagon. Employee has been exposed to foreign intelligence services, but always under alias, and in all cases but one for short, one-time purposes. Exception: the Japanese, who know employee as John Reynolds. Turned up once in a Japanese police report as a

Employee will know specifically of CIA interest.

Employee has had normal staff employee access to CIA buildings.

Employee connection to others: a few close friends and neighbors are aware that employee has worked for CIA since spring 1961 or detailed basis from Pentagon. Employee has been exposed to foreign intelligence services, but always under alias, and in all cases but one for short, one-time purposes. Exception: the Japanese, who know employee as John Reynolds. Turned up once in a Japanese police report as a