He represents nothing. He's a sort of hopeless person. She's a very dynamic woman. Verges claimed that she had become a police informer, for the Algerian police, and that she talked she talked to very opposite groups and to occasionally, ~~Shawkkadd~ to Mamani of the Salava gomж party in Algiers.

But she no longer has anything to do with Revolution Africaine. I-don't know what she is going. She wouldn't have anything to do with Verges after the moment that she refused to go to Lausanne. You see, he was

(Why)

there

Why did she refuse to go? Well, she couldn't leave Carlos by himself. God knows what would happen to him. Secondly, she had to want to be all-the-time in Algiers. She wasn't interested in running a magazine in Switzerland, the magazine interest was secondary to her.

There was another Portuguese-speaking person in Algiers. That was

a man by the name of Braganza. Braganza is a Goan a/Goan who has lost his reason for being with the end of the Portuguese colonial rule in Goa, he should have gone back! But when he had been a Goan revolutionary had with the Portuguese opposition. For years he had been in Rabat hooked up to the, at that time it was the CONCP, Conference in Rabat. Nationaliste des Colonies Portugues, which grouped together the Eilemo what later came to be the Falimo and the MPLA. It was part of the hard line countries

There was another one elsewhere which was soft line. Braganza was also Revolution Africaine sort of adviser to the magazine, questions of India and so on. He stayed on and worked with Mohammed Harbi and came to London.

2 (Did he have anything to do with Patticia Mgcowan)

Yes. They had been together in Rabat.

(Did he have anything to do with Carlos)

Yes. It's all the same crowd. But Carlos was waiting for destiny to call him and Braganza had already lost his chance. The Indians had got in. they'd liberated Goa, so what next, you know.Go back to India. He obviously wasn't going to go back .He was living too well, as it was. And in Goa, nobody knew him in Goa. He was a Goan educated in Portugal. One of these people really without a real national identity. He knew that he wasn't Portuguese and had this feeling of alienation from Portugal, which made him like most of the colonials students there-- the MPLA really started in Portugal- made him an oppositionist. He didn't have enough roots with the homeland. So he's just sort of floating around. His wife is a school teacher. He speaks excellent French. He was working for Revolution Africaine. I don't know if he still is. I'm certain he'll find something to do. He'll never go back to Goa.