December 11, 1956

I. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

The analysis and Research Section is responsible for advisory, develop- mental and service work in the field of Questioned Document Analysis in support of overt and covert activities of the Agency. This includes technical testing and re- search into handwriting and document evaluation or authentication.

The Section Chief directs the assignments of projects, studies developments in scientific fields supporting authentication work, advises Agency officials on the current and long range capabilities in authentication or evaluation of documents and prepares recommendations for direction of the program.

Specifically:

1. The Section Chief, under the policy direction of Staff Chief, and administratively reporting to Branch Chief, provides administrative and technical supervision to Questioned Document Analysts in the Section and continually inspects that their technical competence is maintained. The Section Chief reviews requests for analysis of documents and contents, establishes priorities for use of Section Personnel and suggests available external facilities for analysis or research.

2. Studies developments in Analysis and evaluation of documents and their contents as done by other Federal Agencies (FEI, Post Office, Treasury, Insurance Corporations, Private Practitioners in the Questioned Document Analysis field and Clinical Psychologists. Initiated inter-agency collaboration on use of technical facilities and indices of characteristics of paper and writing materials.

3. Makes review of recommendations of Document Analysts, Consultants, and Contract Employees engaged in analytical and projective studies, determines courses of action for additional research, confers with case officers and program leaders on the availability of additional data, time limits, operational potentials, etc., to develop additional facts of problems to be employed or to make final recommendations on the contents, validity, possible origination and processing of documents subject to study.

4. a. As advisor and consultant to major component program officials, provides authoritative material on the potential of identification involving docu- ments and other physical items, makes periodic evaluations of case history records and provides other technical documentation service as may be required.