of her father's intention to come to Washington to make inquiry at the Russian Embassy in regard to his visit to Russia. Subject's father wished Subject to accompany him but she indicated that as a government employee she did not want to go there.

4. Mrs. TARASOFF says that her oldest sister, Mrs. Sherry COMELLA knows of her CIA employment and the necessity not to divulge this information. Subject stated that her father and mother know only that she is a government employee. They are not interested in the Agency or Department where she or her husband is employed. Subject also advised that although her landlady and Sears Roebuck Department Store know her as CIA she is not aware that anyone else knows.

5. Mr. O'Neal asked what could be done about this situation. Mr. Means said that Subject's husband is in Mexico under [light state] cover but had previously been [backstopped firmly as a contract employee of the Department of State, Escort Branch, Division of Language Services.] He said he would firm up this backstop so that in the event of inquiry at that [Division of State] it would be confirmed that he is in Mexico on an assignment. Mr. [Woodward] stated that he would provide a U.S. Army [Translation Unit] cover for [Mrs. TARASOFF retroactive to her entrance on duty. The.] undersigned stated that he would conduct expedite credit checks on the Subject and her husband to ascertain whether or not they had been recorded as Agency employees.

6. It was agreed among the conferees that since the father of Subject was unwitting of Subject's CIA employment he would not be specially briefed on what to answer in the event that the question was asked in connection with his VISA application. It was agreed that not knowing the specific Department of Government he would have to consult his daughter and then she could give the cover which had been prepared for her. The undersigned pointed out the possibility that Subject's father might know of Subjects employment but it was agreed that in view of his age and background it was very improbable and that it would be better not to brief him specifically on Subjects employment but to let the question be handled naturally.

6/52