Mr. Terence S. Crabanac

Dear Mr. Crabanac:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you as a Contract Employee for the use of your services and the performance of duties of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1. Compensation. In full consideration for the use of your services and the performance of specified confidential duties you will be compensated in an amount calculated at the rate of $19,830 per annum. In addition, you are herein authorized legislative salary adjustments, within-grade promotions and, if applicable, a post differential in substantial conformance with rules and regulations applicables to Government appointed employees. Payments will be made as requested by you in writing in an approved manner. Taxes will be withheld therefrom and submitted by this organization.

2. Allowances. You will be entitled to: (a) Living quarters allowances in conformance with regulations of this organization applicable to its appointed personnel. In the event you are furnished quarters by the Government you will not be entitled to the living quarters allowances herein indicated. (b) Cost-of-living allowances in conformance with applicable regulations of this organization including, but not limited to, a post allowance, a transfer allowance and a home service transfer allowance.

3. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for travel and transportation expenses for you, your dependents, your household effects and your personal automobile to and from your permanent post of assignment, and for you alone for authorized operational travel. In addition, you will be entitled to storage of such household and personal effects as are not shipped, in conformance with applicable Government regulations. You may be entitled to per diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of all travel performed hereunder and, when authorized, for you alone while on temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be properly authorized, and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to payment and accounting in compliance with applicable Government regulations.

4. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information, as specifically approved by the Government. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting in compliance with applicable Government regulations.

5. Recoupment. It is recognized that your failure to account for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you on the terms of this contract. In such matter it is the general approach of the

in