(b) A. N. Aksenov is no doubt identical with a Colonel Nikolay Aksenov with whom, according to Epstein's book, (page 146) Marina Oswald had an interview in 1961. Aksenov is also mentioned in McMillan's book (pages 132-133). Aksenov allegedly said to Marina, "Tell your husband not to worry. I believe your request will be granted." Also see page 125 of the same book.

/3. Did you know or know of Arkadiy Denisovich Rudak?

Note: Rudak was Deputy Chairman of the KGB during 1959 to 1960 and might have taken part in the Oswald case while Oswald lived in Minsk.

4. Did you know or know of Major General Stepan Alekseyevich Smorodinskiy?

Note ; Smorodinskiy was Deputy Chairman of the KGB for Belorussia in 1962 and most likely know about the Oswald case. His name would most likely appear in the Oswald file.

5. Do you know Lt. General Vasiliy Ivanovich Petrov?

Note: Petrov was KGB Chairman for Belorussia from 1959 to 1973. Therefore, it would be his agency, the KGB, which would watch Oswald in Minsk. It is safe to assume that after the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963, Petrov, as Chairman of the KGB of Belorussia, would review the Oswald file and send it to Moscow. He would also have been called to Moscow KGB headquarters to take part in the preparation of the spravka (summary) of the Oswald file.

6. What do you know about Lt. General Aleksandr Ivanovich Perepelitsyn?

Note: Perepelitsyn was Chairman of the KGB of the Belorussian Republic from 1954 to 1959. Nosenko should know him or at least about him. Nosenko should be asked if Perepelitsyn took any part in the investigation of Oswald. (Perepelitsyn was Deputy Chairman of the KGB of the USSR from 1959 to 1967. He died in Moscow.)

7. What part, if any, was played by General Sergey Grigoryevich Bannikov in the Oswald case, especially after the assassination of President Kennedy?

Note: Bannikov was mentioned by Nosenko as one of the Deputy Chiefs of the Second Chief Directorate and later on as one of the Deputy Chairmen of the KGB of the USSR. From 1968 to 1978, Bannikov was Deputy Chairman of the Soviet Supreme Court.

V. Nosenko - Nikolayev

I. Can you explain why you went to England and Cuba under the name Nikolayev and to Geneva using your true name, Nosenko? What would have happened if some Englishman or English intelligence officer had met you in Geneva in 1962 or in 1964 and greeted you in the presence of the other delegates