COPY

January 11, 1956.

Your letter of December 29 was late in arriving and I am replying by hand to save delay.

(n) The idea of a "NORDAT" Congress is an excellent one; But should it be a "NORDAT" Congress or something undertaken under the auspices of a non-government, especially a non-occupying government group. Perhaps the Free University can be nominal sponsor or some European Fed for Cultural Freedom ed hoc.

(b) Spring is too soon to organize such a conference properly. Suggest late summer or fall.

(c) To be effective conference must be tied in with some concrete issue of a cultural character in which all delegates can agree despite their difference on other things. What specific issue positive or negative is shaping up in Germany today in which leading intellectuals can take a position? The differences among the participants, if not as great as at Paris, will certainly be considerable, and this is not at all a bad thing if things don't end up as they did in Paris. The main thing, however, is to see that there is at least one major practical issue on which everyone can agree independently of differences in fighting Stalinism.

(d) I assume you can arrange to cover expenses for Reise and Unterkunft of all delegates.

(e) Suppose the following be united from this country: Edmund Wilson, Bos Passos, Sinclair Lewis, Upton Sinclair, William Faulkner, Reinhold Nieruhr, Arthur Schlesinger Jr., Philip Fahr, William Phillips, Lionel Trilling, Farrell, perhaps me. If you can get 5 from the U.S. to attend, it would be enough.

(f) Keastler was planning something similar to this. By suggestion would be to get in touch with him at once to see whether anything has come of his plans. He would also be a good man to draft the statement of the call which should be signed by one person from England (Camille or Russell), France, Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Belgium and US, perhaps some Swedish exilie.

The suggestion to set up an International Committee for Culture, Freedom may serve as the least common denominator of the temporary interests. Careful preparation, of course, is necessary but if you can get 10 to 20 people together or outstanding structure, we can do the trick.

In conclusion, stating is important and the few people in this part of the world can get away from the C. . . .