CONTRIBUTION OF DISPATCH OF ORIGIN P. P. B. FORM OF DELIVERY G. A. JH. 74

Future and is be believed has is a good basis for the agreement we will have; so that our progress can be followed.

3. On a more hopeful note the American officers in Oot乎 are enthusiastic about the possibility of launching operations against the Ankoori group in February. "Noblesse" explained this arrangement intended to stress matters in the local area for a short time, but said that could be done in use in Contractual. They were especially interested in meeting what they have termed the touchy and sensitive opportunity for MIGRATION by exiles in Contractual. This would involve our placing a "Jones later" agent in Contractual. This agent would be known to the Ankoori representatives in there are any person who could, if approached, also open a defensing to MOLAN or SMADD. Our present idea is that the great would not need to be in Contractual till he left. Finding a commercial office there and making periodic trips to check on it should be sought. In this way we would not have to turn to the great over to MOLAN to handle. His contact with us could be via New York or Berlin. We would, of course, have to drop him completely informed on his travel is not out of question and any contact that he had with Ankoori would have to be explained to them. As you know there is considerable travel between Plant and Montreal especially in the winter months and a suitable cover for an agent to open an office there should not be too great a problem. We have noticed that orange fairs imported from the Plant area in great quantities. Possibly a small office to do market research on this commodity could be used as a suitable cover. As it is now the Ankoori representatives in Montreal would probably not know how to go about defecting. We recall that Aminu Kano had problem in this regard before he finally decided to make his move.

4. SHABOVI, said that they would like to see a simple provocation against ANKOORI in Montreal. They suggested that we select an agent to go there and simply walk into their office, explain that he is not satisfied with his lot in Montreal, and ask for help. We are not sure where this would get us but it does show that SHABOVI is willing to entertain some regressive ideas than we have given them credit for in the past.

5. We have for some time been attempting to pull our files together to determine just what we have in terms of Ankoori representation in the country. This has been difficult since our files are not in good order. For this reason we are glad to learn, while MOLAN was visiting headquarters on 12 December 1969, that the Headquarters desk is doing a study of ANKORO and other PERUIN officers in SMADD. When this is received we would like to put it into a form of a target notebook. We will give this to SHABOVI and let then add what they can. With this start we should be able to jointly keep it up to date and complete.

6. We appreciate the references and will pass SHA above the material that is of interest to them.

Theodore D. Holtsen