throwing of a big knife. This was made noise, he was detected and thrown out.

16. In this school he belonged to the "leading" trio of the school, the others being an Italian Inzini, about 14, and a French boy Tellier (13).

Every Thursday and Saturday the school went for walks. Their supervisor probably had a girlfriend whom he visited during those walking periods, leaving the boys on their own. On one such a case the trio decided to for drinks in a tavern. They had all together 13 Francs and some sous. Everybody was bragging with his experiences with women, and it was decided to have women. However, Tellier, the youngest backed out, and so did Inzini. But he, David, to show his manliness, went upstairs with the woman who asked 10 francs. The woman asked him to wash himself before the act. He did. The room was cold, and the water was cold, he nearly "lost" his penis. But, with the help of the woman, he managed the act, and felt proud when he returned to the others. However, since then he had a kind of mixed feelings toward the women, shiness, fear and attraction all together, and he did not have any of them for three years since then.

17. His father was angry with him because he again was thrown out of the school. Father told that he is good but for a hog-heard. But, nevertheless, he was sent to an other school, Ecole Breguet, for electrotechnicians, in 1937. But, there, also, he was thrown out.

18. Thereupon he left the parents' home, lived for three months in an hotel and worked nightly in the railroad station, unloading dzx oysters. It was a cold job. The father took him back home and sent him to the school of photography and movie at the corner of Rue Littree and Rue Vaugirard, close to an other school where he had been earlier. There he remained for two half-terms, March-July, and October-May, having not finished the course, because the German-Polish war started.

19. Sometimes between his going to Ecole Breguet and the school of photography he had stolen an English dictionary from a library. This came out, however, he was not put in jail. The only effect was that his normal identity papers of a stateless person were withdrawn and replaced by temporary papers which he had to renew every three months. He did not do this, and after 6 months he was taken and held by the police for 13 days before he was given new papers.