SUBJ: Contact Reports/ LEOGY-5

25 June 1963, Subj's office

1. In response to a call-in by Subj, the C.O. went to see Subj on Saturday morning 25 June.

2. Subj reported that Valentin Loginov had dropped in to the office on 24 Juno to make arrangements for a return trip to the Soviet Union for (Nicolai) Leonov, who, Loginov said, had to be in Moscow at the latest 4 July. Subj said he would try to handle. /Comments: Loginov said he would come by the office on 27 Juno with Leonov's passport, because there was the likelihood that Subj would attempt to got a KLM flight for Leonov via Houston (requiring a U.S. visa for Leonov). In any event, Subj told the C.O. that he was not going to the U.S. Embassy to request the visa, but would buck the whole problem to KLM who would have to make any visa arrangements that were required/.

3. Interestingly enough, Loginov took the opportunity to bring up operational matters again to Subj, and Subj used the ensuing discussion to make his stance utterly clear to Loginov. The conversation went more or less as follows: - Loginov said: "You're mad at me." - Subj said: "Why should I be mad at you?" - Loginov said: "Because of Majestic" (referring to the fact that the Soviets had first given a travel request to Viages Majestic to be serviced). You know we have to spread it around among friends." Subj shrugged this off. Then Loginov asked: "Are you still mad?"

Subj replied: "I'm not mad, and I never was. Look, Valentin-" (and then he made his first attempt at clarification, saying in effect that in normal friendly matters they were like brothers; Subj exaggerated as is his manner-mentioning intimate matters like "marriage" and "even unto death(asta la muerte)" but saying that that was the culmination point- "anything else" was finished). Loginov said (without batting an eye): "I had some business for you."

Subj cut him short: "Don't bring me anything- important or not important- you can keep it. You want to go for coffee; you want to go out with girls; - with much pleasure; anything up to that point. And I want you to understand that clearly. Don't force me; and let's be good friends." Loginov said: "You're getting difficult."

Subj replied: "No, I'm not difficult. And there's no damage. I made my decision - and your chiefs will understand my position."

CARDED P-2112