usually influential. & agreed with LOG and expected LOG to tell him that he would pay for the visiting of Chinese restaurants, but LOG kept quiet.

9. S had no intention to skip the talk about money and he told him that the publishing of the article about Kat China may end in a blind alley if TANG does not supply at least a half a page of advertising. LOG did not want that to happen and he told S that he (LOG) would give him MN 1,000.- if the printing of the article should be held because of lack of advertising. S brought to LOG's attention that half of page of advertising brings to Pierre (RUDIAN) 1,500.- pesos. LOG felt that he would pay that money as a price of keeping the door open to the Chinese Emb for S. To put some coating on the pill S added that he would try to obtain an add or two from Chinese restaurants, but he doubted that the owners would be interested in advertising in a magazine which is far from being well known. Just the idea that S contemplated going to Chinese restaurants pleased LOG's ear.

10. LOG was interested in the status of the Presidential race and S told him that it narrowed down to four candidates and that all the indications were in the direction that ECHVARRIA was to be the official PRI candidate. S believed that by Aug 20 he would know the name of the candidate. In reply to LOG'S question S stated that the candidate will be publically known Sept 15-20.

11. LOG wanted to give more time to be positive of the name of the Presidential candidate and he decided that their next (business) meet would be on Aug 25 at the same time and place. LOG immediately added that he did not forget that S birthday was on Aug 15 and that he believed that it would be the best if they celebrated together in Cuautla on Baa Aug 16. LOG added that on that day his wife and son would be with him in Cuautla and S should bring along Josephine; Log will bring a bottle of "Russian" champaign and pic-nic style food; there will be bottle of Vodka for Josephine and a bottleof ( F does not remember what ) for S plus the book he previously mentioned. LOG added some more description about what a wonderful day they would have together. They are to meet in Cuautla about 1000 hrs at the "Banoes". LOG will be there without fail because he will pick up his son who is now attending the "Russian School"