CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

Subsequently, in an incoming pouch and probably crossing with the foregoing communications, a series of letters from the National Coordinators in PBRUMEN reported a severe blow to AMSPELL clandestine organization. Jore MEDINA Bringier ("Mongo"), National Coordinator for Military Reception and Supply, reported that AMHINT-40 (PBRUMEN National Coordinator) had been missing. (Later reported as arrested and being held at G-2 Headquarters on Ave 5 in Miramar.) Also, "Juan" and "Miguel" were arrested in Havana. Several others were missing. MEDINA went on to describe security measures implemented and report on a re-organization of the National Coordinator Committee. He closed with a plea for a small shipment of small arms for defensive use, clothing and medicine, and a full-scale propaganda effort if AMHINT-40 should be sentenced to summary execution.

In this same pouch, the National Coordinator for Propaganda, Nicolas PEREZ Diez-Arguelles ("Jose Alfredo") rendered a detailed report on Agit/Prop assets in PBRUMEN. The printing and distribution of "Trinchera" has been moved up to every fortnight, and efforts to get it printed on a commercial printing press in Havana appear to be successful. Regular couriers are being trained for delivery of the newspaper to the provinces. PEREZ also reported their progress in mounting two clandestine radio transmitters for Agit/Prop purposes, one in Las Villas and one in Havana. These are powered by 110 volt generators usually found on a small farm. It is projected to transmit a regular program, probably entitled "Tele-periodico Trinchera". The report does not explain what counter measures will be taken to prevent GOC detection. Finally, PEREZ describes an Agit/Prop program already in progress: First a plan for printing and marking walls with their organization abbreviation, carried out in one operation, synchronizing municipal and borough teams for the job. As a follow-up phase, large cloth banners bearing the same letters will be raised or tended in congested areas and photographs taken for publication in "Trinchera". Also, with the aid of their Intelligence Section, AMHINTs have penetrated two radio stations in Havana and are identifying all Sov/Bloc personnel employed there, their security practices, addresses and routes for commuting.

2) Total AMHINT Support for September 1962: $5,000.00 (Included in AMSPELL General section of this report)

3) Intelligence Production: (Reported in AMSPELL General Section.)

4) Development & Plans: (See this section under AMSPELL General of this report)

C. AMBARB

During the reporting period no changes occurred in AMBARB personnel assignments. With the exfiltration of AMHINT-53 from PBRUMEN it is hoped that it will be possible to negotiate with AMBARB the still unsettled question of AMBARB funding. We will report further to Headquarters as soon as an agreement is reached with AMBARB on funding of AMBARB representatives in the field by local KUBARK Stations. For the present it can only be said that the AMBARB leaders are strenuously resisting any effort by JMWAVE to increase to more than eight the number of their people whom they will permit KUBARK to fund directly rather than through AMBARB Headquarters in Miami.

The inspection tour of AMBARB-16 to delegations in Latin America resulted in the general report forwarded for your information as Attachment D: in reading this report, it is useful for reference purposes to examine Attachment E, a report which the AMBARB office has prepared on its general progress since inception

FORM 55a USE PREVIOUS EDITION CLASSIFICATION [X] CONTINUED PAGE NO 4