GABACHVILI and PATANIDZE were in touch with the Chief of British Intelligence" in 1950-53. GABACHVILI stated that he felt the British worked closely with the Americans, and that the chief intended to bring him to the US. GABACHVILI and PATANIDZE did not know why the British dropped the work, but GABACHVILI felt that after 1953 the British had turned the Near East over to the US. GABACHVILI has not been in touch with the Americans.

B. Agents used by the British

Mamia BERESHVILI

Lives in Leuville near Paris. Age ca. 30-40. Employed as a chemist and earns ca. 60,000 - 80,000 francs per month. Hgt. ca. 5'8", wt. ca. 175 lbs., dark curly hair, dark round face, presently wears goatee and mustache. AEPADULE knew BERESHVILI before. All BERESHVILI's family were killed or deported. He is anti-Russian and anti-Communist. He was very close to Noe JORDANIA. He has some writing ability, and had an article published last month in a journal of the anti-Russian group of the Georgians (possibly known as Notre Patrie) which is published by Micha STOURCUFFA (STURWA). BERESHVILI belongs to this group and writes for newspapers. He went two or three times to Georgia on illegal missions. The last time he was wounded in the lower right leg, and was helped by a companion. He did not service the customary dead drop the last time because of his leg. The method of crossing involved use of uniforms of Turkish army officers, and the assistance of another Georgian and two Turks. At night they changed to civilian clothes and crossed over. BERESHVILI says there are organised Georgian groups willing to fight the Russians.

Since 1953 BERESHVILI has been contacted two or three times by the Americans, but nothing has come of this, and he feels the Americans are not following up properly. He said the latest attempt involved a letter written to him in Russian, giving him a telephone number to call. Before calling it he tried to trace the number through connections of his wife's. He feels that contact with Georgia is important if the emigration organizations are to be representative of the feelings in the homeland.