CONTACT REPORT

SUBJECT: LICORL-1 DATE OF MEETING: 10 November 1968

1. I picked Subject up on the corner of Nazas and Melchor Ocampo at 1100 on 10 November. The meeting was held in my car and lasted an hour. Next meeting is for 21 November at 1100.

2. Subject started things out by saying that LOGINOV is trying to recruit him to report on LIEMPTY-6. Review of his notes and discussion revealed the following: On 5 November LOGINOV came in. Subject told him he had found a house on Juanacatlan. LOGINOV said that he's looking for one on the Chapultepec Park side of Talz. Tacubaya and for Subject to keep looking. Then LOGINOV said that he would like to rent an apartment at P.A. de los Santos 104. Subject told him they are all occupied. LOGINOV said Subject must know these apartments well. Subject admitted that he did and began to sketch them by LOGINOV didn't seem to be interested in his efforts. LOGINOV then asked how many apartments there were in the building. Subject answered, 16. LOGINOV then said that since Subject knows the apartments so well he must also know the people who live there. Subject admitted that he did. At this point some other Soviets came in and the conversation was terminated. On 6 November LOGINOV dropped by for some small talk and left some Soviet chocolate (which Subject showed me) for Subject's grandchild. On 9 November LOGINOV came in at 1230 and asked Subject to go to a restaurant with him. Subject countered by saying his wife was home sick and he had no one to leave the store with. Subject then invited LOGINOV to his house but LOGINOV insisted on a restaurant. Subject agreed to go on 12 or 13 November.

3. From the above Subject concludes that LOGINOV wants to recruit him to report on LIEMPTY-6 (who lives in P.A. de los Santos 104). I asked why LOGINOV would be interested in LIEMPTY-6 (there is nothing about him in the notes). Subject answered that he finds LIEMPTY-6 very suspicious because in the 5 years that he has known him, Subject doesn't know what he does for a living. He thinks he writes novels. In any case he is home all day long. In addition he lies. Example: He told Subject that he owns the new (LILYRIC) building. He is also eccentric. Besides his windows face on the Embassy. LIEMPTY-6 has apartment 17. The apartment directly below his, number 13, (probably old LILYRIC) is empty. Subject went to see the owner having LOGINOV in mind. The owner said that the apartment had been rented by LIEMPTY-6 which Subject also finds surprising. The whole theme was that he is suspicious of LIEMPTY-6 and that LOGINOV wants to recruit him to report on him. All of the above on LIEMPTY-6 and his apartment was verbal. There was not a word about him in his notes.

4. I told Subject that if LOGINOV tries to recruit him for any purpose, he is to cut him short and to indignantly refuse. He is also to tell LOGINOV that SILNIKOV had tried the same thing two months ago. P-11712