IN ENGLISH (Print with your present position and rank, etc.)

1 Date of employment (month, year) From July 1954. To present time First name of your division

Salary or earnings Starting (1) per annum (2) (1) Amount earned (or Federal tax rate if in federal service) (2) 53-12

Name and address of employer (from organization, etc.) Dept. of Defense, Joint Chiefs of Staff Reason for leaving: Re-enter Foreign Service Name and title of immediate supervisor Oliver W. Anthony

Description of work Preparation of studies and reports for the military departments and the Joint Chiefs of Staff on Inter-American Defense matters.

2 Dates of employment (month, year) From May 1952 To July 1954 To present time First name of your division

Salary or earnings Starting (1) per annum (2) (1) Amount earned (or Federal tax rate if in federal service) (2) FSS-9

Name and address of employer (from organization, etc.) Dept. of State Reason for leaving: Position with Dept. of Defense Name and title of immediate supervisor Consul General Paul W. Meyer

Description of work General duties of a Foreign Service Staff Officer in the Economic and Commercial Section of the Consulate General in Guayaquil. Also performed political reporting functions and assisted in visa and citizenship matters.

October 1949 - February 1952 Amat. Attachments Anat. Attaches

Papers & PSS-10 & PSS-9 (3) FSS-9

Name and address of employer (from organization, etc.) Department of State Designation: Accompany wife to U.S. for medical attention City Washington & Caracas, Venezuela

Description of work General duties of a Foreign Service Staff Officer in the Political Section, Embassy Caracas. Preparation of reports for the Department and memorandum for the Ambassador, consultation with officials of the local government and American companies (esp. of the petroleum industry operating in Venezuela), assistance in the Consular Section with visa affairs. Kind of business of organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.) Government