they out performed the other trainees in surveillance, counter-surveillance, detection, interrogation and in all other aspects of tradecraft that were covered. Three of these worked simultaneously with the remainder of the group and made every effort to pass along to them as the occasion arose the good practices learned from their own experiences in security work. All three are considered to be intelligent, alert, imaginative, industrious, and dedicated, and it is the writer's opinion that it would be a plan were to work with them. All three undoubtedly have a good basic understanding of the typical mission of a national security service, and they know how a security service should go about its work and activities.

2. TREJO - Subject is a career Mexican Army officer and has had no previous experience in intelligence or security work. Throughout the course he was punctual, demonstrated a keen interest in the work, and took an active part in all classroom discussions and street exercises. It did appear, however, that in his discussions with his fellow class members he was usually quite opinionated and argumentative which might possibly indicate some inability on his part to get along well with his fellow workers in the unit. Based on his participation in the class as well as his written work, it is believed that he has a fairly good understanding now of the typical mission of a security service, and the tradecraft principles involved in security service work.

3. LOPEZ y LOPAZ - the only civilian in the group, excluding the D&S trainees, is the youngest of the trainees and appears to have the least formal education. Additionally, he did not participate in the classroom discussions or energetically as did most of the others, he did add questions from time to time and generally did a good job. In all exercises carried out by the group. He appeared to work some of the drive and imagination necessary to do so. An effective operator and handler of agents. He is reserved in his relations and conversations with others in the group, but the writer never noted any friction or seen him and others. It is suggested that he might be used as the "Office Keeper" and/or person in charge of the group. But the writer never noted any friction or seen him and others. It is suggested that he might be used as the "Office Keeper" and/or person in charge of the group. Somewhat surprisingly, he did a fairly good job on the reporting exercises. His written work is neat, well organized.

.../