C O R P U S - 2 -

ARTICLE I - ORGANIZATION

EXERCISE C (continued)

To the development of our individual. His work in this field was more in the field of preving and saving operational costs than in that of more directly operating an operational. This involved his study of subject's operational situation in such a way as to guarantee for him to attend and participate. Thus, his many successful achievements are not by reference of the spectacular variety.

Subject's reporting has been satisfactory and continue to be copious. It could, however, further improve the quality of the loads provided the station and make more of an effort to "digest" the information contained in his reports.

Although Subject has, at present, no supervisory function, he has repeatedly requested such a responsibility. In is careful with operational expences and has chartered good security.

During the period under study, additional efforts have been made to make full use of Subject's potential and integrate him further in the work of the station component which he works. He is a particularly valuable asset for the station programs directed against the local problems and those targets.

Station D, (continued)

Substantially, in a word, is in its vastest sense we do not yet know, although our initial impressions are favorable.

On the fitness report itself, this writer would have preferred an "S" rating for specific data mentioned above; Subject may ultimately prove an "O", but it does not seem unwarranted in the present time. However, I believe the overall rating would more properly have been in the higher range of this ".8" category, rather than "O", but it is of course a subjective judgment of the rating officer, who is more intimately and directly involved with Subject on a frequent basis.

In sum, the cover is good, and only time will reveal to what extent the cover requirements permit a full measure of being held out the Organization. To be following this aspect closely and still be commenting upon its subsequently as we gain experience and knowledge.

A H O R T O N E T A