CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH JACKET NYBAY SECRET - NOTARY CERTIFIED

EUT-10-04, 31 January 1962

The wisdom of Jacklet maintaining in the European area at least one field installation having assigned to it personnel representing the same competencies necessary in the intelligence undertaking has been reaffirmed.

The wisdom of obtaining appropriate security clearances, and having Stations brief and make sitting of at least an AIS contact, the resident senior United States citizen personnel of United States flag air carriers operating within any Station's area.

The fallacy of depending on marginal or adolescent equipment to accomplish sensitive tasks of high priority. We here refer to 17-year C-74 aircraft.

A realization that a ratio exists between the number of people made aware of a given undertaking in relation to the obstacles encountered in successfully accompanying that undertaking.

A few words of elaboration are in order on the four preceding points. Because the initial endeavor at black ops by Jacklet aircraft aborted, we were given an opportunity to see with great clarity the application of these points. If the attempt to evacuate by Jacklet-assigned aircraft had been successful, then knowledge of the defecition could have been held to approximately six staff and assigned military personnel. Because that endeavor was unsuccessful, at least nine additional staff and military personnel became generally or specifically aware of the matter, plus the Consul General and one of his senior officers. Additionally one private United States citizen, the senior Pan American official in Frankfurt, became very much aware of this sensitive case. This increase in the number of individuals came about because of an immediate need late in the evening of Saturday, 16 December, to use two (A)ABOVE staffers to assist in the safeguarding function, a total of six ASTOPAZ staffers (documentation, graphics, photographic) to prepare and issue fraudulent and alias passports, and an assigned enlisted man to act as a safehouse guard. The Consulate General had to affix visas to the fraudulent passports. The most crucial individual involved, however, was the Pan American official who to a certain degree put his position in jeopardy by being as cooperative on the matter as he was. Without previously having cleared and briefed this official (his counterpart in ThA is also so cleared and briefed) the sole undertaking would have been precluded. It would have been impossible to accomplish departure without documentation on a commercial aircraft without the connivance of the commercial airline involved. Indeed with such connivance it was difficult and risky enough. Finally, the point concerning adolescent equipment speaks for itself. Headquarters is fully aware of the feelings of this Station concerning the inadequacy for our purposes of assigned aircraft. Suffice it to say that when defectors apparently of significant value refuse to ride such aircraft we matter Merits thorough study.

7. The matter of "areas of study" appears to us to encompass at least the following:

Average time differences in transmitting high precedence electrical communications between and among representative groupings of stations. The German Station is extremely fortunate in having AN-28 circuits with headquarters. It affords us a facility for instantaneous communication. We can make certain rough estimates as to how long it might take appropriate headquarters officials to answer our queries and we can then approximate the arrival time of answers to high precedence traffic. Other Stations, however, do not have AN-28 equipment, all do not have the same type of cryptological equipment, and there is a different pattern as to the type of circuitry, i.e., direct leased lines, tvx, straight commercial service, etc. We believe there is merit in the appropriate headquarters unit endeavoring to group geographically Stations and then based on the type of communications and cryptological equipment and the channel of transmission to come up with predictions as to the average length of time the transmission of a priority or operational immediate cable would take between and among the various representative groupings. In the case under study, which represented a rather fast-breaking situation, it was not possible for us to estimate the length of time it took to transmit an operational immediate cable between Frankfurt and Frankfurt. It would have been of value to us to have had some idea on this matter.

Coordination between U.S. Air Attaching and COG. We believe it would be worthwhile to request each Chief of Station in a location where the Air

FORM

USE PREVIOUS E