SECTION C

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on special long-term objectives, if required for current position. Amplify or explain reasons given in section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject has done an outstanding job in creating a strong mechanism which enables direct access to an important target group. This job was performed carefully, securely, intelligently and imaginatively. Subject is an experienced, highly capable senior professional officer in every sense of the term. He is a thoroughly organized self-disciplined person who can operate effectively outside a normal station complex. He has the skills mind required to learn highly technical cover tasks and perform these in a skilled manner. He organizes the performance of these cover duties in such a manner as to extract the most operational mileage. Subject has spotted, assessed, developed, and in special cases recruited. He is extremely articulate, and an excellent writer. Despite his deep cover status, he submits timely finished operational and information reports. His management, administration, and record keeping of both his cover and operational duties is excellent.

Although Subject has had long experience in supervisory capacities, his present singleton cover status does not require supervisory duties.

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

8/19/66

Subject has done an outstanding job in creating a strong mechanism which enables direct access to an important target group. This job was performed carefully, securely, intelligently and imaginatively. Subject is an experienced, highly capable senior professional officer in every sense of the term. He is a thoroughly organized self-disciplined person who can operate effectively outside a normal station complex. He has the skills mind required to learn highly technical cover tasks and perform these in a skilled manner. He organizes the performance of these cover duties in such a manner as to extract the most operational mileage. Subject has spotted, assessed, developed, and in special cases recruited. He is extremely articulate, and an excellent writer. Despite his deep cover status, he submits timely finished operational and information reports. His management, administration, and record keeping of both his cover and operational duties is excellent.

Although Subject has had long experience in supervisory capacities, his present singleton cover status does not require supervisory duties.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT.

DATE 4 May 1966 SIGNATURE

BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYER, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE 4 May 1966 OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR Ops Officer

' /s/Murat Natirboff

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

C.M.S.

CHG'D

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

T