INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION ADMINISTRATION

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA OPERATIONS MISSION TO THAILAND

BANGKOK, THAILAND

April 9, 1958

Mr. Theo E. Hall Chief, Public Safety Division International Cooperation Administration Washington 25, D. C.

Re: Newton S. Miller

Dear Theo:

You have by now received our unclassified cable, TOICA 1408, advising of our acceptance of the resignation of Newton S. Miller who has served since December 29, 1956, as Chief of our Criminal Investigation Branch, Public Safety Division, U.S.A.M./T. It was with deep regret that I accepted the resignation since his departure on or about April 15, 1958, will be felt very keenly by both the Chief of the Division, Mr. Al DuBois, and myself.

Here it not for the pressing need of stateside medical attention for his wife and the fact that he should be with her during this period, I should have endeavored to prevail on him to take an alternative course of action. However, I am satisfied that there was no alternative and, hence, did accept the resignation effective April 15, 1958, it being noted that he is returning with his family to the States at his own expense.

This letter is to advise you of the facts leading to what would appear to be a sudden resignation. I also want to inform you that Miller's job performance here has, in my estimation, been of high order and can very easily be summarized by stating that he has performed most satisfactorily.

He has shown himself consistently to be tactful, considerate, and objective in his approach to his responsibilities and in the performance of his duties. I have at all times found that his judgment has been sound and mature. He has had warm and mutually satisfying relationship with his opposite numbers in the Thai police.

In furtherance of my statement of my confidence in him, I unhesitatingly designated him as Acting Chief of our Public Safety Division during Mr. DuBois' absence on TUY in Washington for the period March 9 through April 5, 1958. I naturally had continuing personal