12. Dr. Bustamante's actions during the Batista regime are of interest. Batista's mother-in-law (the mother of his third wife, Marta Fernandez de Batista) worked in some capacity for Maria Luisa Rodriguez Columbier de Bustamante about this time and, on the surface, the Batista and Bustamante families were on friendly terms. However, in reality, Jose, Sr. was working against Batista as a member of the underground group, Monte Cristo, headed by the well-known Justo Carrillo. At the same time, he maintained contact with the Communist Party and is known to have had private meetings on a continuing basis during the Batista regime with Carlos Font, now [1966]/ Vice Minister of Health, and Jose Lopez Sanchez, current Vice President of the Cuban Academy of Sciences.

13. When Fidel Castro came to power, Bustamante's potential was brought to the attention of Raúl Castro. He offered to take charge of the brainwashing activities of the G-2 and thus put into practice the techniques he had learned from Mira-Lopez. He was subsequently put in charge of such work and was assisted in it by Drs. Acosta-Modal and Soraeguil. After Dr. Soraeguil's death, Raúl Castro went to the latter's office and supervised the removal of patients' files, obviously for future use in building up dossiers on the subjects.

14. Dr. Fernandez-Conde pointed out that, also after the Castro takeover, Bustamante wanted to be made Director of the Mental Hospital in Mazorra, eight miles outside of Havana. The position was given instead to Dr. Ordaz, who had fought with Castro in the Sierra Maestra. At first, Bustamante complained bitterly about losing out, but since then he has not asked for or otherwise sought another similar important professional post. Dr. Fernandez-Conde suggests that Bustamante most probably has been told that he is performing an important military service for the regime and therefore it would be wise for him to remain in the background. He further states that Bustamante is believed to exert a considerable amount of influence in the Ministry of Health, although he holds no official position in it. It should be noted that Bustamante's importance in the regime, however great, stems principally from his usefulness to Raúl Castro. Bustamante is currently [1966] considered to be one of the 10 most effective enemas in the regime of the non-Communist Cuban doctors.

15. Dr. Bustamante is not believed to be in any sort of financial trouble. As his professional stature grew and his wealth increased, he and his wife soon acquired a taste for a luxurious way of life. They bought a pre-tentious home in an exclusive residential section of Havana, bought a Cadillac, and enrolled their children in select, private schools. They both are driven by ambitions for social prestige and high political position. They crave money and power, want to be associated with those at the highest echelon in the regime, and, above all, are opportunists of the first water. Maria Luisa has always longed to be a member of the Jockey Club and of the Liceo (a ladies' cultural society). She realized her dream of belonging to the Liceo and even became President of it. Then, in 1960, Maria Luisa was made interventor of all private schools in Cuba. She resigned from the Liceo; they sold the Cadillac and bought a small, compact car in an effort to play along with the regime's image. Another important point about their finances, Dr. Fernandez-Conde points out, is the fact