SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-311/08556-69

5. The study states that it would be very difficult to re-fute these NPD defenses in court. The government would have to admit that since early 1968 there have been very few statements made by NPD leaders, or incidents caused by the NPD, which could be used to support the government's case. Objectively, it would have to be admitted that many incidents of violence in which the NPD has been involved were initiated by opponents of the party.

6. The study predicts the following probable results should the government win its case against the NPD:

The NPD would probably respect the prohibition. It is very unlikely that the NPD would attempt to go underground as the Illegal Communist Party of Germany (NPD) did.

NPD members and sympathizers would not change their opinions because of a ban. Many would join other groups or parties and continue to work for their political beliefs.

NPD and rightist sympathizers would begin a campaign for the banning of the new German Communist Party (DKP) and other leftist groups.

A ban of the NPD would be well received in foreign countries.

7. The study concludes that if the government should lose a case against the NPD, it would be the result of the lack of valid evidence (Beweisschwierigkeiten). In such an event, the following adverse effects would occur:

The NPD would receive a new impetus and valuable publicity.

The policy of Selbstreinigung which has had some success in keeping former Nazis out of key positions would be halted.

Many middle-class persons who sympathize with the NPD, but who have refrained from open support because of the stigma of being associated with a party which could be declared illegal, would join the party or become active supporters.

The party would undoubtedly attract more members. (Field Comment: The NPD leadership is known to be worried because the party's membership has not increased significantly during the past 18 months.)

8. Field Dissem: Embassy Bonn, USBER.

5 4 3 2 1

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

5 4 3 2 1