Keel 72-ICO-29

4 May 1965

10.0 contd.

for him. NO will eat and then go by. Will VKG be there? No, VKG has to go out. Will phone NO and try to get by O's for 5 minutes.

10.2 In. Carmen with VKG, who answers. Carmen just left when VKG got there. Something unexpected came up and that is why he got there late. Ask her to phone him back because VKG still does not have news. He should have something around 1700. Will call him between 1700 and 1730.

10.7 Out to 25-80-32. VKG asks WO, who answers, for Dr. (Emilio) Cordero.

WO comes to the phone. Greetings. Is there any news? Nothing. No one has phoned. Juan B. has not called back. No. They only got 2 cables (? or sent 2 cables).

VKG thinks that it was a very intelligent thing to nominate Camagno as Provisional President. "NO commented this last night with some friends (Dominicans) - mentioned that Camagno would be President. He is the only one who can guarantee the U.S. although he has participated "with great nationality." But he is a Friend (and ? - to U.S.). He is the only one who can guarantee a basis for the U.S. for negotiations. VKG firmly agrees. And to resolve that situation (in Dominican Republic) which has world resonance.

There is one last thing that EC does not like "about him" (Camagno) or "the father of his." VKG saw that. "That means there are communists (there)...under his control." VKG of course does not like him because he is a military man. Yes, but he is only a Provisional President. Bosch does not say when he will return either. No should already be back there. (Wanted Bosch to come back and take over.) NO does not think that he (Camagno) will obtain their proposals. VKG does not think so either. Bosch' people may hand in arms voluntarily but the people of Ia (de Junio) and the E and C - will have to kill them to take their arms away.

Radio Nacional was also saying a lot of silly things - in its Spanish transmission - that the "glorious PCP heads the ANARQUÍA-MASSAS"!

A lot of bull. NO says these are "co-servatives" but no PCP boys there... (That is - are Ia de Junio group). Radio Nacional has corrected itself completely (about mass meeting the communists heading this). Yes, and they even have a program for the Dominicans - news program.

Did VKG see "Time" magazine today? No. Buy it. It mentions 3 companions of the Committee of Ia de June. But not all members of the Ia de Junio group, but as Communist Directors - Jaime Duren, ...Johnson of the 4th and ...of the 14th...Then, it mentions Grubel, ah, Toméja (ph). This one is member of PCP. Yes, VKG knows him. T. is one of the Directors. And Grubel also member of PCP who was also in Prague (?)inc). VKG also knows him. There is a lot of news on Americans. Also has some photos. It is most reactionary...some things - that they are sorry in (that is, someone in Cuba) that the Cubans had crossed from Cuba in boats, etc... a lot of silly things... The pictures, however, are good. It says that there were 110 killed, but not true. VKG says that he is sorry It is not true.

EC is going to talk to Santo Domingo day after tomorrow on radio. NO is going to talk through a cousin of his (who also has short-wave radio)...Just have to know wave length, etc...

Keel 72-ICO-29