Tichborn (P) thought it over and called me on 15 May stating that due to the high cost of living there he would need a salary of between $22-25,000 per annum; also he would prefer half-time employment with us to full time since it would allow his mobility of action in his own profession. I then checked with Mr. Duffin to determine what salary payment they were considering for this position, and he stated that including a living allowance, it would probably amount to between $20-25,000, although he was not sure of the exact figure. On 16 May I relayed this information to Tichborn (P) plus the fact that nothing definite on the whole project would be known for at least ten days.

8. Tichborn's (P) personal decision on these possibilities as he relayed them to me by phone on 16 May was the following: since WMD had stated after talking to him that it is definitely interested in his working in the student-proper field throughout Latin America from his "base" in Mexico City with the film company, and since he had confirmed by phoning Mexico City that that job offer was still open, since he prefers half-time agency employment and since he is anxious to be settled as soon as possible, he would prefer to accept this particular assignment. Since Mr. Penney had informed me that they would be ready to discuss terms and sign a contract at any time, I said that I would arrange for such a meeting. (In this connection, Mr. Davis had mentioned to Subject in general terms that for half-time employment he might receive approximately $10,000 salary, I had checked this out with WMD and they said that their going rate for such employment is $8,000, with only a very slide if any. Possibility of a $10,000 figure. Hence, I relayed this information to Tichborn (P) who said that he would like to talk this over, but more or less implied that the $8-10,000 range would be acceptable.) Tichborn (P) added that if an Institute for student activities was discussed with 10/6 is set up at a later date, he would also be interested in working with it.

9. In the meantime, on 17 May, 10/3 called me to say that they also had two job possibilities for Tichborn (P) since they had been informed of him through Mr. McLaughlin of 10/6. I talked to Mr. Camer about one possibility which I felt would not be of interest to Subject and also advised them. This involved the need for someone with a legal background to talk with Cuban officials wherever they might be in the U.S. or Latin America and to obtain affidavits from them concerning legal travesties of justice which have, and are, occurred in Cuba; this information will then be published in booklet form. This assignment would last probably not longer than three months, and so would not be of interest to Tichborn (P) who is very anxious to be permanently settled. The

5