In Oct of 62 before I went to Algiers, but when I came to Paris I saw Finet who had a large amount of Algerian currency in his flat, the closet shelves were covered with bundles of Algerian currency: I met Finet in New York when he came back from Cuba. He and his wife. He came through FPCC after. He asked me if I had time to help him change some of this money, which so he claimed was given him by an Algerian friend who was going on a world tour, had brought it from Algiers, but banks did not want to change large amounts. He was sending it by various people to airport, etc. small banks, to change a little at a time. This of course was part of the money that Verges got, I assume.

Verges had met Finet during the Algerian war, when and how I don't know. Smet had been closely involved with the Algerians during the war. But He was so much too conspicuous to do much in an open way. He may have given money and such, certainly helped in propaganda.

He knew Chauvelot at the U.N., and His Algerian connections very good. He was in contact with Ben Bella. The French govt would never allow Finet to go to see Ben Bella but Smet, when Ben Bella was suddenly released, said he had no proper clothes. did allow Finet's wife to go. It was she who took clothes to Ben Bella when he was released, and went to Cairo.

When I saw Smet in Paris In 62, I was thinking of going to Algiers. I was vague about. about Verges and someone named Maurice Marguin (ph.) who there is a editor of El Mijalid, weekly, official organ of the FVN.

It was actually through Finet that I really got the job with Verges. (Verges) I had heard of him, and he apparently had heard of me, but I had never known him before. Smet had proposed that we meet again in December - but I couldn't -I don't know why. He had gone to Morocco for something GARA TLEMCEM This was at the time between the struggle between the CRIA and the Cimperial group for power in Algeria. And I don't know whether he was. Again, he plays a role in the transfer of funds. They needed money for a large parade. Verges carried the money to Morocco for Khider to Algiers.

My first meeting with Verges about 15 minutes. Talking about an English lang. edition then of Revolution Africaine (Algiers) As then business manager, Ali Buzuren, later sec'y of Algerian Embassy in Leopoldville.

First meeting was in November, 1962 Offices of Journal d'Algerie had to be cleaned up. had been bombed. CAS get staff, etc. He in meantime went to Paris, was people converted with Mosquera - Gerard Charlan - to whom he proposed : sumis Algers as capital. He was careful to make sure he had foreign editors not Algerian.

Revolution lasted 18 issues. I have the full file if you are interested.