26 March 1954

Dear Boris,

Thanks for your letter of the 22nd, reached us Saturday evening, crossing mine of the 23rd to you.

It is all wonderful news, and the more you think about it the more amazing it is that "nothing even remotely resembling it has ever been done— anywhere in the world". And I know what a hell of a lot of work and worry it is, and what a relief it will be when it is safely done.

Twelve pix go to you this morning by registered mail. These are my all at the moment. You will find them a great deal better than none. In fact, you may think they are enough to do the trick. Reflect that no one of them -fakery in photos having a long history since W.W.I- can in itself consti- tute conclusive proof, nor any photo that could be. For that, your text will carry more weight; the undisputed facts of geography and chronology; the depositions; the TACIT ADMISSION OF GUILT IN THE DANGEST POURS OF THE USSR TO RAISE THE MATTER AT NUREMBERG (here see Churchill's last volume, and perhaps quote a sentence or two from him; "names make news"; see also Nikolajusyk, from whom you may call a juicy quote or two.)

It seems that "about a dozen" photos were given to all who attended the 21 Nov. 1949 press conference. So you may find Ep and/or the HIL has one or two more. But there is not much sense. Just one or two others of layers of corpses.

Your impact will come from the skillfull addition of citation of facts to the pix I'm sending, don't you think?

On your second request I'll do what I can. But you know one of the main reasons why it may not be much. My friend who will know returns from out of town tomorrow.

"Baltic Review" has no pix. "Estonian Magazine" has only some. However I may be able to do something tomorrow.

Here again I suggest you consider capitalising on the very absence of pictures, remembering that y ou have a great gift for the trancingant phrase. E.g., life in Riga pre-1939 was not too bad; now, as you can quote from the press, there is deportation after deportation; partisans; exploitation; almost universal hatred of the "people's democratic" regime. Edmund Stevens in This is R, Uncensored you'll recall said nothing so gave him the impression of the living-de-th-under-Stalin as Riga, which he revisited. Therefore, just show a RICA PEOPLE-IN-MARKET SQUARE SCENE, PLUS QUOTE FROM STEVENS, and a bit of biting Shubian prose contrasting 1939 and 1949. Don't you think there is a place for a few "peaceful" pictures of this sort? Fix of partitions in action are few and far between, and often fuzzy, and there can any way be, as you were saying, such a thing as too many atrocity pictures.

Pari passu, why not use some ordinary, peaceful UKRAINIAN scenes, plus RECENT NOTES FROM PRAVDA, repeat PRAVDA, OFFICIALLY ADMITTING ACTIVE RESIST- TANCE THERE. I can't give you said quotes, but you or some of your friends very likely can lay hands on them.

After all, no "resistance" photo, what with fakery, will carry conviction to those who won't be convinced. But a PHOTO OF THE FACE OF PRAVDA, with the