that the telephone crew had the habit of putting a high lauder up to the roof of any house upon which they wished to work, whereas in the past it had been their custom to ring the doorbell, ask permission to go to the roof and do so through the house where they wished to work. This new custom brought about the need to study emergency procedures and redraw them. A limited experiment was made on one line with some success. This experiment consisted of leaving the hot stub of one line on the base roof as usual, but instead of leading it directly into the operations room, as previously, it was attached loosely to a lead-in made of sorter wire of the type used for interior installations. In the moment of need, the base operator had merely to haul on the soft lead, which therewith parted from the outside wire. Upon reaching the roof, therefore, the telephone men found only a stub ending in random fashion. This emergency method is considered better than none but is satisfactory for no more than one line at a time. It is the further disadvantage in that the outside wire stub is "hot" and could be checked by the telephone crew who, as they have done in the past on a few occasions, might call the target on that hot stub to see where he was located. In general, the station continues to recommend that when telephone crews are working near a base or along its net, crosses should be pulled and the operation suspended till the crews have left the neighborhood. An exception was made in the Halperin case because it was hoped the line would shed light on LCMAYFOWL.

Technical: No technical problems were encountered in June 1957.

Personnel and Administrative: No problems of a personnel or administrative nature were noted.

Miscellaneous: LIFLAT Annex IV was rented early in June and is being readied for use on three to five targets during July. LIMERICK Annex II is still out of service owing to the absence of LOCATION and the continuance of work in the zone by the telephone company. LIVERY is out of service owing to the retirement of LIMESTONES 1 and 2 from active duty on account of the alleged blackmail plot of April 1957. LIMERICK Annex III is out of service and will not be recommissioned. One of its LIMERICK target lines was changed over to LIMERICK main base on 28 June. The other two lines from Annex III should be installed at LIMERICK main base during July.

During June 1957 the following lines were monitored part or full time:

- 7 - LIMERICK office lines out of 8 existing. Two were suspended for some two weeks because of the telephone company activity in their zone. - 2 - LITHOSPHRE lines - 1 - LCMAYFOWL line - 1 - Maurice HALPERIN line (for about a week only)

During June the following cables, HMs and informational HMAs were based entirely or in part on LIFLAT: