the foreign under the form of grants - counterpart funds - or of private investments jointly with the mobilization of our national resources.

As for the assistance to be given to private initiatives towards the development of new agricultural, industrial and commercial enterprises, it will be necessary to reorganize our banking system by the creation of a Central Bank, Stock Exchange, Mortgage Bank, Agricultural Rural Credit Bank and other financial institutions such as: Savings & Credit Bank, Bank for Financing low cost housing for the people with low revenue, etc.

Besides, negotiations shall be made with the International Financing Company which has been created lately in order to finance national private enterprises. We will work jointly and closely with the International Monetary Funds, the IMF, and the BID in view of obtaining the financing of a certain amount of revenue - producing projects. At the same time, we shall endeavour to strengthen the position of our national currency.

In addition, the Budgetary Reform will be accomplished. A National Budgetary policy which observes the difference between administrative expenses and capital expenditures shall permit a proper adaptation of the budget to the requirements of the economy so as to make of it a true instrument of a general policy.

Also The Fiscal policy shall take into account the requirements of the economy. A revision of the Customs Tariff shall be pursued and made. Measures shall also be taken to guarantee honesty and integrity in handling the State's Funds. Just consider that for the fiscal years 1949-1950 to 1956-57, the total disbursements of the state has reached the sum of 3s 1,350,596,631.-, or around 8270.000.000.-, and that the largest portion of this sum has gone into triple expenses or served for spectacular works most of which with absolutely no economic justification. In this sum are not included neither the various financial disbursements made outside of the budget through loans obtained during the same period and which brought the public debt up to Rs 249,104,000.- or 249.836.800.- as at September 30, 1957, nor the expenses supported by the non-fiscal accounts and the various autonomous enterprises of the State. All this is the evidence that the formation of the National Capital can be worked out through sound administration.

As regard Public Finance, emphasis shall be made on the following points:

1. Harmonization of the fiscal policy with the economic policy;

2. Harmonization of the budgetary policy with the economic policy;

3. Improvement of our banking system in order to mainly smooth credit conditions;