SUBJECT: Contact Report on Miguel Diaz Isaguy.

1. Miguel was met for lunch at the Harritt Hotel on 12 February. To ascertain why he wanted to see me and how he came in possession of the sensitive Office accommodation address.

2. Setting hold of Miguel was difficult and had to be done in a roundabout way. I could not get my hand and admit I had received his letter. I had to write to his home address and enclose a stamped, self-addressed envelope to my new PO Box.

3. As always, our meeting was most pleasant and comfortable. Our association goes back many years and I have always had the greatest respect for his talents and motivation.

4. Miguel stated he had been trying to reach me and thought he could do it through:

Orlando STRONG Cajas 1613 NW 16th Court Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. tel: 703-1346.

Orlando worked inside for the Organization in the 1960s, had been imprisoned and finally released in c. 1970. I had debrieted him at that time and serviced some other requests he had to make to the Organization in subsequent months. Orlando's wife is a relation. Orlando's wife had been receiving Organization assistance while he was in prison and evidently received her funds through the reference PO Box. Miguel wanted to get in touch with me and asked Orlando if he had a way of communicating with the Organization. Orlando then supplied Miguel with the PO Box.

5. I did not press Miguel for any further details. I believe this answers most of our questions. I denied having received Miguel's letter and Miguel reasoned that it was "probably one of those old addresses which isn't in use anymore." I seconded his thoughts. I said I had been trying to get in contact of him since Christmas to say hello, but he had changed his phone.

6. Miguel's interest in sending me was for the following:

A. On 25 October 1973, he was interviewed by INS # for his US citizen's application, was transferred, and was paroled at the US District Court in Miami. He has never again been called back. This is usually a routine, fast process.

RIGETWEEN

12 7:47 75 201-357337