criticism. You know, we make a lot of noise and pay a lot of money do so, and we won't do this anymore."

A number of groups, apparently so. You know, they have created the so-called Spanish Communist Party, the rest being Marxist-Leninist, and this was one of the conditions. There are talks going on in France between the French group and the Marseilles group and that was once again, the conditions of the Marseilles people who were tied up with Verses had nothing to do with them. On the other hand there are students talking between the two groups and a young left-wing group, they call themselves the Drapeau Rouge group. It's a very small group anyway. That again was a condition. They put out a magazine, a news letter, called Drapeau Rouge which had been mainly written-- it's one single edition-- mainly written by the Communists. So obviously, the wind has turned very much against strange things too. To Maspero, him(them). Verses has said, however, that he is not very long ago at a cocktail party, he said, "I don't see why people reproach me for accepting aid from African friends and comrades- African comrades, no longer Chinese comrades. He also says that he admitted that they had made mistakes, that the magazine had been too sectarian, dogmatic, (Verses said this to Maspero?) Yes.Anderson told me that.

(When he says African, does he mean Black African or Arab? This is what we don't know. We have no idea who would waste that much money on him. First of all, who has the money, with which parties does he have connection. The UPC and the Cameroons, that split. The UPC and the Cameroons, a certain amount of money comes from Russia, other money coming from the Chinese, but very small amounts, because no one wants to pour money into this very divided organization. And he had contacts with one wing of it. I can't see them giving him any money. The Salaba Salawa party - Tugore and Niger, they also, according to Anderson, Mamani, who is one of their executives, comes to Switzerland quite often, said that he no longer even bothered when he goes to Paris, to see Verses, that he sort of considered it worthless, a sort of an adventurer, an opportunist.

The thing that was for me a bit frustrating in all of this was that every once in a while — this that and the other, he has always had this equivocal, this doubt hanging over him. But no one has anything hard and fast about him. You can get well in the past, what did he do. We know vaguely what he did, but nevertheless, what would you say and so