Neel 72-ICO-29

15.5 contd.

Luis went to "International". Lic. Casco (ph) took very good care of him. And MO will go to see the apartments...

Puts on VKG with Elizondo. Asks what happened to what he asked E. to do. E. could not see "him." This is something very urgent. MO will see about this. Elizondo will call Monterrey to see if there is a friend who could pass something. No, one loaned from there. No, that is not possible. E. will arrange it if the can.

When will they see one another? VKG wants to go to say hello to Nobles Martinez. Elizondo will tell him. Makes note of VKG's phone to let him know.

16.0 In. Miric with VKG, who answers. Greetings. VKG is tired... Is VKG member of Mexican Press Club? No, he is member of the Association of Newspapermen - of Mexican. There is a dinner tonight at club. Yes, but VKG can't go...

Is VKG is contact with Marcio and others? Yes, but there is nothing now. Yugoslavian Govt. made a declaration today - condemning the intervention and supporting Bosch's democratic movement. Miric got this on telephone conv...They also congratulated Miric on what he sent in. That this also helped a lot for them to form an attitude The text has been transmitted Tranjuc, but they did not pick it up today May sent it via Informax. In case VKG talks to Dominican exiles, tell them.

They will get together tomorrow.

17.0 In. NO (Carbon) with VKG who answers. Tells her to come by here. All right. She won't take long? No.

17.2 In. NO asks VKG, who answers, for aid, Costa. Costa takes the phone. About coming to see her today...

17.3 In. Out at 25-71-84. Luis Lizeide (ph) with Lupita, who answers. Asks if Maricruz is there. Yes. Wants Auja (?) MO takes the phone. Asks NO to pay the ticket he owes LL. Where can LL get two beds- very chump...factories...have to see about this...

18.0 In. NO with Inge Aico, who answers. Greetings. VKG takes the phone. VKG explains how he should get from Kingstown. There are flights...NO (Luis Suarez) as at Tourist Agency... If there are no flights, rent a private airplane...VKG has to go out right now. Couldnt fly VKG go by his house? Yes, but later tonight. About hotel there - Stay at Emperor. Everything is expensive in Santo Domingo. VKG will phone NO later.

Emilio wants to see Luis. Luis should g talk to him. Lupe is going home now.

About the tickets for raffle...he wants has sold (these). LS wants to talk to VKG and thinks it is not necessary to talk to anyone else. Since VKG has been in Dominican Rep. he can give LS info.

19.3 Out to 23-80-32. VKG asks NO, who answers, for Dr. Cordero. Emilio Cordero takes the phone. Luis Suárez does not want to see Cordero. Did not say why - but VKG thinks he is afraid, VKG thinks he is not interested in contacts. VKG thinks he is going to try

Neel 72-ICO-29 - 5 -