STANDARD CONDITIONS OF RADIO "NEW YORK WORLDWIDE CONTRACT FOR BROADCASTING

PAYMENT AND BILLING.

(a) Time Payments under this contract are to be received by STATION at the address specified on STATION's bills on or before the 15th of each month following that in which broadcasting is done. Payment is to be made in United States funds, net, payable at a New York City bank, unless specifically provided to the contrary on the face thereof.

(b) Materiality. In all cases date of payment is material. If STATION fails to receive timely payment, or if ADVERTISER is or AGENCY's credit is in STATION's reasonable opinion, impaired, STATION in its own discretion, may other cancel this contract under sub-paragraph (a) or change the terms of payment for further broadcasts under this contract.

(c) Filling. STATION will bill AGENCY at intervals following broadcasting.

TERMINATION,

(a) Broadcasts Other Than Participations and Spot Announcements. If this contract calls for broadcasts of time periods other than participations and spot announcements, the entire contract may be terminated by either party effective of the end of any 13 week cycle of broadcasting hereunder upon giving the other party not less than 2d days' prior written notice.

(b) Participations and Spot Announcements. If this contract calls for broadcasts of participations and spot announcements the entire contract or parts thereof may be terminated by either party at any time by giving the other party not less than 14 days' prior written notice.

(c) Claims. If STATION is notified of any claim caused by error out of, or resulting from any broadcast hereunder, whether in connection with program material furnished by AGENCY or STATION, o. otherwise, and to the extent is deemed substantial in STATION's reasonable opinion, STATION may, by giving written notice to AGENCY, terminate this contract as to any or all further broadcasts.

(d) Effect of Termination. If AGENCY terminates this contract under sub-paragraph 2(a) or (b), AGENCY will pay STATION at earned rate for broadcasts contracted for to and including the date of termination. If STATION terminates this contract under paragraph 2, as to any or all broadcasts scheduled hereunder, such termination shall be without penalty of short rate, but it is AGENCY's shall have the benefit of the same discounts that it would have earned if STATION had not so terminated and this contract had continued through the last broadcast scheduled. IF STATION terminates this contract under sub-paragraph 2(b) or (c) as to less than all of the broadcasts scheduled hereunder, AGENCY may, upon giving STATION written notice within seven days after STATION's notice, terminate this contract in its entirety simultaneously with the effective date of STATION's notice, in which event such termination shall also be without penalty of short rate.

EFFECT OF BREACH,

(a) By Agency. STATION reserves the right to cancel this contract of any time upon default in the timely payment of bills, failure to furnish correctly acceptable to STATION, or other material breach of the terms hereof. Upon such cancellation all charges accrued hereunder and not paid shall become immediately due and payable, and AGENCY shall also pay, as liquidated damages, a set sum equal to that which AGENCY would have been obligated to pay had it been on the effective date of STATION's cancellation, given notice of termination pursuant to sub-paragraph 2(a) or (b), less any net sum which STATION actually receives for the sale of the same airtime.

(b) By Station. In the event of a material breach by STATION in performing this contract, AGENCY reserves the right to cancel this contract. Upon such cancellation STATION shall pay, as liquidated damages, a set sum equal to the actual non-cancelable out-of-pocket costs necessarily incurred by AGENCY through cancellation of this contract. STATION'S liability, however, shall not exceed the net time costs involved for the unexpired and non-cancelable portion of this contract, that is, STATION shall not be liable for any sum greater than the sum of the net time charges involved had it not occurred. STATION, on the effective date of AGENCY's cancellation, given notice of termination pursuant to sub-paragraph 2(a) or (b). Failure to broadcast covered by paragraph 4 or 5 shall not be deemed a breach of this contract.

(c) Limitation of Liability. In the event of cancellation under this paragraph 8, neither party shall be liable to the other otherwise than as specified in this paragragh and in paragraph 8.

FAILURE TO BROADCAST.

If as the result of public emergency or necessity, governed by order, force majeure, restriction imposed by law, Act of God, labor dispute, mechanical breakdown, or any cause, similar or dissimilar, beyond STATION's reasonable control, STATION fails to broadcast all or part of any program