always had a lot of money, especially during the war. A salary of 15,000 or 20,000-plus--25,000. There was much money. She is a rich woman. She has paintings by Ayvazovskiy, Makovskiy. Even if she had insufficient money, she could always sell her possessions. What do I want to say? That I've never wanted for money. Never...As I said, perhaps the thing which drove me to you was not money, but this great, great resentment."

14 June 1962: The subject of motivation was not discussed during the third and fourth meetings with NOSENKO. As he was about to leave the Geneva safehouse after the fifth and final session, however, NOSENKO again touched on the economic inequities existing inside the Soviet Union and raised a new reason for cooperating with CIA, his basic sympathy for the American people. NOSENKO said that he realized that the reason he had given for coming to us, his need for money, was "not good." Before he and his case officers parted, NOSENKO said, he wanted to emphasize "without attempting to justify himself" that he had "always felt a certain sympathy toward the American people." He explained that it was not the technical progress of the United States which attracted him, nor was it the high standard of living of the American people. It was rather the openness and directness with which the Americans whom he had met and seen handled themselves. As examples he cited his American targets in Moscow and Secretary of State Dean RUSK, whom he had seen in Geneva.

Although NOSENKO did mention the difficult economic situation in the USSR on a few other occasions, he did not relate these remarks specifically to his motives for volunteering to CIA. The above excerpts are representative of his total statement on motivation during the 1962 meetings.

3. Decision to Defect (January 1964)

On arrival for his first meeting with CIA during the second Geneva phase, on 24 January 1964, NOSENKO said that after long and careful consideration since the 1962 meeting series, he had decided to defect. He once again criticized the Communist regime along the same lines as during earlier meetings, but his immedi- ate motivation seemed to have nothing to do with this. NOSENKO explained that he had recently been promoted to the position of First Deputy Chief of the Seventh (Tourist) Department of the KGB Second Chief Directorate, and that because of the stature and responsibilities of his new job, there would be few opportunities, if any, for him to visit the West in the future. Therefore, he had decided to seize the opportunity at hand and to flee to the United States at once, leaving his family behind. He foresaw no possibility of his wife and children being permitted to leave the USSR for the "next twenty years." NOSENKO told CIA that "the hardest thing is to part with my family." He had, however, care- fully considered their fate as the close relatives of a defector, and he knew that, because of his mother's position in Soviet so- ciety, no harm would come to them.

Whereas NOSENKO declared his intent to defect immediately, the CIA case officers at this first meeting in 1964 persuaded him to remain in place for at least two or three weeks on the grounds that, first, CIA would benefit much from this, and second, arrangements for his transfer to and reception in the United States would have to be coordinated in advance with CIA Headquarters.