SENSITIVE

3. Apparently R.I.S. stimulation of Soviet acoustics facilities in Moscow and Leningrad in August 1945. In connection with the invitation, it wrote to the Soviet: "Please send us your best acoustics engineer who was very interested in your help, and had done several Russian translations of Soviet texts." A result of this correspondence, Schroeder receives a telephone call from his home a couple of days prior to his departure. On his trip from an individual who claimed to be a high official of the Soviet Union for delivery to him a special invitation for Stanislavoff, Schroeder's secretary, who called on him at his home in Moscow. He refused the invitation, saying that he was very sorry, but he just want to see Schroeder. And then Schroeder said that he was very sorry, but he just want to see Schroeder. And then Schroeder invited him to deliver the invitation to his home. The latter declined, however, saying that Schroeder's home was in an area closed to travel by Soviet diplomatic persons. In any event, the Sov arranged to meet Schroeder's wife, a Jewish corner woman in Chnthaa, New Jersey, and at that time she went to her the invitation for her husband.

4. Schroeder said that his visit to the USR was quite routine and that he could recall nothing but the ordinary happening during the trip. During the visit, his Soviet counterpart, Drury, who speaks fluent German, acted as his host and was at his side almost continually.

5. (sometime in late 1945) Schroeder received a phone call from his home in Russia. Volgin identified himself as a representative of Antonov (Sko). Volgin said that Schröder's old friend, Purduev had just completed a visit to New York and before leaving the city had asked him to deliver a present to Schroeder for his, hence the phone call. Volgin insisted on delivering the present to Schroeder in person, and the two made arrangements to have lunch together the following week in Manhattan. This began a series of approximately six:

SECRET SENSITIVE

10612