Handwriting Assessment Report

Alastair Wicks AF

The writer seems to be a very clever individual of a high intellectual level who handles his affairs in an independent manner. Endowed with a good intelligence, he is well educated and cultured. He has not only absorbed but, also, assimilated the material he has read and studied and utilizes it in a purposeful fashion. His thinking is clear, logical and versatile. His intellectual faculties are well trained and differentiated, and, to a large extent, they support his practical talents and interests constructively. He discards superfluous matters, and, whenever possible, he deals with only the vital points in a problem or a situation. He possesses impressive mental agility with well developed analyzing and synthesizing faculties. He is quite intuitive and senses instinctively the implications of happenings around him.

He is an alert and astute observer of small details which he relates correctly to their larger aspects. Being quite resourceful, he combines imagination with sober matter-of-factness. He follows prescribed rules and regulations when absolutely necessary and, whenever possible, exercises his mental independence. He forms his own opinion and judgment and keeps his own counsel in making decisions. He may accept somebody else's suggestions that he considers suitable for his purposes but he is not actually influenced by others. At times, he may deliberately make somebody feel as if he is seeking his advice and following it, but, in reality, he does what he considers best. He is very critical and evaluates by high standards. He can be very outspoken in his criticism or he can cautiously withhold it depending on his appraisal of the circumstances. His interests cover small items of information to large size projects and operations. While he notices everything that is going on, he can concentrate on his work. When required, he can switch quickly from one task to another. His memory functions well and he can reproduce facts easily.