5. Our query why Adelaide, if she had AMBIDDY-1's interests at heart, appeared to have qualms about owning up in respect to past events, was parried by AMBIDDY-1 by claiming that Adelaide was of course aware of all these rumors and had warned him of possible political embarrassment.

6. Evaluating UFGA 16512 on the basis of our talk with AMBIDDY-1, we conclude that its main source has a high batting average. At least there appears to be a hard core of truth to practically all allegations made, to the extent we were able to check them out. We would venture the guess that, despite his protestations to the contrary, AMBIDDY-1 is quite conversant with Adelaide's past history, but can see no practical gain in so telling us. He may reason that an avowal of intent to marry a woman whose antecedents are in fact as described, would seriously blemish his image and that by pleading ignorance now he can, if things should get out of control, always strike a pose of injured innocence and elicit a "here but for the Grace of God go I" reaction from his PAPRIME associates.

7. Agreement that all interested parties would benefit by moving Adelaide's abode from the WAVE area to Nicaragua was reached on the basis of AMBIDDY-1's acceptance of our flat statement that we view Adelaide as a potential hazard to AMWORLD'S and KUBARK's security. We based this reasoning upon numerous indications that Adelaide had become all but completely privy to everything that was going on in AMWORLD and that her discretion left a great deal to be desired. We drew no denial from AMBIDDY-1 when stating that Adelaide had become witting of the WAVE training course for AMBIDDY-1 and that she presumably knew about KUBARK support for AMWORLD. We referred to Adelaide's lesbian associates, without stating that we suspected her of holding charter membership in that serenity. We mentioned by name Aida FERREI and Lucie CANE. When the latter was labelled by us a lesbian believed to be in Adelaide's complete confidence, AMBIDDY-1 evinced surprise and for reasons difficult to fathom almost dismay. We concluded by stressing the importance of breaking up Adelaide's circle of associates and confidants as an indispensable prerequisite for containing the threat her access to information we consider classified represents and asked AMBIDDY-1 to make sure that no member of this group would follow her to Nicaragua.