Supplement to Staff Employee Personnel Action for Integration of Thomas J. Keenan Effective 6 January 1960

The purpose of this memorandum is to call your attention to existing policies which are particularly material to you while you are integrated and to set forth certain rights and obligations which are incident to your status as an appointed employee. It is hereby agreed and understood that:

1. As an employee of this organization, at the present grade and salary of 08-9-$0135 per annum, you will accept cover employment with another instrumentality of the Government (hereinafter referred to as "your cover facility") effective as of 6 January 1960. You will, insofar as consistent with your basic responsibility to this organization, abide by all the rules, regulations, practices and policies of your cover facility, in order to appear as a conventional member of that establishment. Your appointment to your cover facility is being effected at F89-10 and salary of $5540 per annum. You are prohibited, except as specifically authorized herein, from retaining emoluments paid by your cover facility.

2. It is understood and agreed that the minimum period of your overseas tour of duty is governed by and coincident with the prescribed tour of duty of your cover organization. Currently, your prescribed tour consists of a period of two (2) years from the date of your arrival at your overseas post of duty. Your assignment may be terminated earlier for the convenience of this organization and the length of your tour of duty, as currently specified, may be unilaterally changed by this organization in order to conform with subsequent changes in the prescribed tour of your cover facility. If you request termination of your overseas assignment solely for your own convenience, unless it is for circumstances that are considered by this organization to be beyond your control or if you are terminated for cause under the regulations of this organization before you have completed the minimum period of service prescribed above from the date of arrival at your overseas post of duty, you will not be entitled to return travel or transportation for yourself or your dependents to the United States at Government expense. If you request termination of your overseas assignment solely for your own convenience, unless it is for circumstances that are considered by this organization to be beyond your control or if you are terminated for cause under the regulations of this organization before you have completed one (1) year of service from the date of your arrival at your overseas post of duty, you will be required to reimburse the Government for all of its expenses for your travel and transportation, and that of your dependents, from the continental United States to such overseas post of duty.