#62308

DESENSITIZED

Subject: Idon A

AMSTALK/I was interviewed and tested at a covert site in the Miami, Florida area on 17 May 1967 at the request of Stanley B. JERASWIT. The interview was conducted in English in which AMSTALK/I is fluent.

Testing was requested following receipt by AMSTALK/I of a recruitment letter, apparently from the Cuban Intelligence Service. Details regarding the letter were forwarded to headquarters under UFGA-27562.

AMSTALK/I is presently a WOFACT principal agent also, although he never worked with the CUIS, was acquainted with numerous Cuban Intelligence personnel. He was last 605WIIKed on 7 December 1967.

RESULTS

AMSTALK/I's cousin, Idon B., did bring AMSTALK/I a letter from Cuba and AMSTALK/I believes that the letter came from the CUIS.

AMSTALK/I was never previously contacted by the CUIS and he has not been given any means of contacting the CUIS which he has not revealed to WOFACT.

AMSTALK/I has no reason to believe that his cousin has not told him all she knows about this matter and he himself is not concealing from WOFACT anything that he knows about it.

AMSTALK/I cabled a reply to the letter exactly as instructed by WOFACT.

While future intentions are not a valid topic for EC&ZIL testing, AMSTALK/I was asked during testing whether he is now willing to engage in an operation involving direct confrontation with the CUIS and whether he would continue his anti-Castro activities even though his friends or relatives in Cuba might be in danger. For what it is worth, there was no indication of deception when AMSTALK/I replied affirmatively to both of those questions.

DETAILS

Prior to testing AMSTALK/I mentioned that during the pre-Castro era he was frequently in contact with persons now in the upper echelons of the Cuban government, among them were Idon G. and Idon V. Although he was asked on numerous occasions to join the 20th of July Movement he was never asked to work for CUIS or contacted by Cuban Intelligence with respect to working for them prior to the present instance.