December 1966

TO : Mr. Flores

FROM: Nancye Grats

1. In order to submit accurate figures for the approved actuary study we must immediately establish some definite criteria for survivor payments in the event the principal dependent is terminated for cause.

2. I find it difficult to accept the inheritance formula that JAVE says has been SOP, i. e. when the first dependent is terminated the second dependent inherits the first dependent's share and so on down the line. In the first place, the Station hasn't been consistent in following this procedure and the fact it was originally established by AEBUD is no reason for us to continue it. Regardless of the background for this unrealistic procedure it seems that the whole matter is now at a point where policy governing future payments should be determined at the Headquarters level and the actuary study can't be started until we supply firm figures that are not subject to a variety of changes over the years. Furthermore, the Station views and clarification of the background leading to the present procedure, which was requested over a week ago, has not been forthcoming.

3. I think we can live with the following formula as it isn't too inconsistent with BEC survivorship provisions. I discussed the following with Mr. Millian who agreed the provisions seemed to be thoroughly practical and realistic if you concur.

OK

(a) In those cases where the parents are the sole beneficiaries, in the event one dies the survivor will be paid the larger of the two payments now received, which would be $175 instead of the $225 now received by both of them.

(b) When a widow dies or remarries, her payment will be divided equally among the surviving minor children in lieu of the graduated payments they are now receiving. This may cost us a little more than just lopping off the widow's share and continuing the amounts presently paid to the children but we will minimize possible repercussions from the widow if she is still alive and remarried. It is also much more equitable to the children themselves to share and OK share alike in the event the mother dies. An additional provision should be that as each child reaches 21 or marries, his payment will be terminated, except in those cases where a child is physically or mentally incapacitated for life. In such cases the child will be paid for life.

In answer to any possible static over these provisions we can always fall back on the original cover story concerning availability of AEBUD funds.

4. May I have your opinion on the above proposal so that I can provide Mr. Evans with the statistics necessary to start the actuary study without further delay?

Nancye Grats