hours a week just watching (and photographing) MHHARSH personnel, and over the years he has gotten to know them, and their habits, very well. He can spot unusual or atypical behavior, and when he is asked to put a certain individual under close scrutiny, his comments can be very useful. Newcomers, no matter what their cover, will frequently gravitate to their IS colleagues in the "safety" of the MHHARSH back yard, thereby enabling us to make tentative AEKICK or AEGRIP identifications. TDYers can often be linked up with their internal escort officers. In the case of specific targets, LICALLA special coverage can sometimes give clues to personal relationships which can be exploited. During the reporting period we had special coverage on AESEASICK (to determine any changes in pattern following the AEMIDRIFF defection and following the operation against him -- and in both cases LICALLA did report some change in pattern); 201-365870 (for much the same reason, although here the evidence was not as clear); AEPOLYP (to gather information on his patterns and his associations); AETAKEOFF (for the same reason); and 201-833166 (to find out if he did, in fact work in the "restricted area" and who his associates were, a requirement which was quickly satisfied). Also, LICALLA has been asked to report on the arrival and activities of TDYers such as the AEKICK security inspectors (he is not, of course, told that "security inspectors" are expected -- he is told of the expected arrival of visitors, and he can spot a visitor or newcomer immediately), the possible arrival of 201-314616 and, currently, to attempt to identify, at least by association, the person who went out to meet an LREAD agent (subject of MEXICO CITY 2741, 17 March 1970). The value of LICALLA to the REDTOP program in Mexico City can scarcely be overstated.

LILYRIC

8. There have been no changes during the reporting period of the operation of the LILYRIC basehouse activity, except that Bruce H. FERNALD took over the handling of the LILYRIC personnel from GERENDE in early December. FERNALD normally meets only LIEMPTY-13, at pre-arranged sites and times (also well away from the MHHARSH area), once a week for pick-up of the films and reports. He occasionally meets LIEMPTY-14 (LIEMPTY-13's wife) when LIEMPTY-13 may be out of town. The LILYRIC coverage is a family enterprise with the work equally divided among LIEMPTY-13, -14, -26, and -27, who split up the hours of duty so that there is uninterrupted coverage Mondays through Fridays from 0800 to 1800 hours, and 0800 to 1500 hours Saturdays. (Extra-hour or week-end coverage may be requested as necessary, and the LILYRIC personnel responded to the Station request for such extra coverage during the AEMIDRIFF and AESEASICK cases.) The family has continued to provide reports during the reporting period on all activity centered on the front entrance of the MHHARSH Embassy. Such coverage included, as in the past, daily logs on the comings and goings of MHHARSH officials, up-to-date recording of MHHARSH license numbers, special activities and visitors (particularly Americans, of whom five were spotted and reported on during the reporting period), and some 3,500 photographs. As an example of the value of LILYRIC coverage, within one week of the change of license plates at the MHHARSH Embassy (a biannual change affecting all of Mexico, with new numbers bearing no relation to the old), LILYRIC had provided a complete list of the new numbers (along with the cars to which the plates are assigned). Among other things, this enabled the Station to identify AESEASICK'S companions during his last few days in Mexico. Without LILYRIC, identification of the new license plates would have taken months and would have handicapped our operations. LILYRIC has also provided special coverage of the visit of a Latin American CP representative, and is currently watching for the two AEKICK security technicians, 201-314616, and the man who went to meet the LREAD agent. Also, LILYRIC has reported on visits of Mexican students and the identity of the MHHARSH representatives who deal with them or hand out literature to them. In short, LILYRIC's services, even though