ICEM is responsible for the immigration processing, it is determined to pass only high level types and, therefore, conducts stiff security investigations and gives detailed interviews and job testing to all prospective immigrants.

By now it was apparant that if the disappointments and frustrations connected with this case were ever to end a reappraisel must be made to decide whether or not to go ahead and subject WIROGUE to several possibly very searching interviews. There was also the possibility he would be interviewed in Russian (practically non-existent) and Georgian (less than fluent). With these language deficiencies we knew he would be immediately suspect if interviewed by any recent refugee from the Soviet Union. We were hampered by not being able to insure Subject's smooth processing through ICEM, and by the fact that if we did help him to process we would be making USEP, ICEM and CAMANTILLA a party to fraud with the danger of any slip-up causing embarrassment to KUBARK, ODIBEX and to the Federal Republic. We were not sure that the aforementioned risks were worth taking and the problems worth trying to resolve when it was obvious to HARVARD C.O. that if Subject did get to South America and became disenchanted, his first stop would be the local U.S. Consulate or Embassy where he would ask to see the KUBARK representative and once again force KUBARK to become directly involved in his personal problems.

In spite of the hundreds of hours of Case Officer time, the many discussions necessary to pull together adequate information regarding immigration, etc., HARVARD was faced with the realization that to prepare Subject for South American immigration could take many more months. We were faced with the fact that until Subject was provided with a detailed life history containing the information required by prospective employers and/or immigration authorities he was not in a position to be resettled anywhere, let alone South America. We knew a new approach would have to be tried if HARVARD was ever to be in a position to satisfactorily sever Subject's dependence upon KUBARK and reduce to a minimum the need for future contacts. HARVARD C.O. felt that Subject should be told outright that immigration to South America was not practicable under the present circumstances and what would be done would be to provide him with a detailed life history with enough factual information needed for the filling out of any future job applications, to stand up under detailed interviews, and, if immigration ever took place, to satisfy immigration requirements.