The government purchasing organization buys merchandise from foreign companies, but fails to inform CUFLET of the date on which the cargo is to be loaded. All attempts to establish this are to no avail. Then one day the buying agency serves last-minute notice that the merchandise will be ready for loading. CUFLET takes pains to find a vessel in time but, more often than not, its hasty efforts are in vain. In the meantime, the seller abroad grows impatient, as he has long fulfilled his part of the deal and must continue to pay warehouse costs because of a delay that is no fault of his.

This happens all the time, to the extent that many foreign firms refuse to deal with such an undependable customer as the Cuban government, or, foreseeing the damages they may come to them because of such inefficiency they impose the harshest selling terms.

The unrest and chaos that I have described is not peculiar to the merchant fleet. I do not know many details about this because I have been out at sea most of the time since I first heard of it, but I understand that the Cuban Navy was also in such turmoil that practically all its officers were discharged early this fall. It is said that some of the dismissed naval officers were assigned to the merchant marine, and my men and I know a few instances. It is even true that Army officers with no naval experience are being appointed to high naval positions. However, it is most likely that many of the purged officers will have been shot or imprisoned. Such is the Cuba of today.

Lastly, we wish to emphasize that our decision to seek asylum in the United States has been made of our own free will. We have been pressured into this decision by no one. Our consciences no longer permit us to serve the cause of a Communist Cuba. Like hundreds of Cubans before us, we who love Cuba deeply cannot longer endure the tyranny with which she is afflicted.

We appreciate with all our heart the help received from UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA and we also wish to thank the gentlemen of the Press assembled here, for the attention given us.

Francisco Cobas,

Miami, 30 de Diciembre de 1965.