MEMORANDUM FOR: C/PP

SUBJECT: Recent Developments in the Romanian Refugee Situation

1. In a verbal report to the Romanian National Committee upon his return from a trip to Europe to secure former King Michael's approval of a proposed refugee committee, Mr. Visoianu stated that the King did not reject the proposal advanced for the reorganization and enlargement of the present Committee, although he indicated no interest in having the plan put into effect immediately. This information on the attitude of the King is contrary to that previously reported by a member of the Romanian National Committee, who stated that the King had finally rejected the proposal when the recommendation of his AEC, Petru-Lazar.

2. In his last conversation with Mr. Visoianu, the King requested that the members of the present Romanian National Committee should send him, either jointly or individually, their opinions in writing about the following points:

On what grounds does the Romanian National Committee consider that it cannot continue in its present form?

What are the criteria for choosing the members of the new committee and who are the persons who should belong to it?

Who are the Romanian exiles and Romanian organizations in exile which could be consulted by the King to advise him in the matter of forming a new National Committee?

3. The Romanian National Committee members plan to send a joint resolution to the King requesting that he entrust Visoianu with the formation of a new committee to be comprised of members whose names were submitted to the King. Should Michael refuse this request, the Committee intends to tender its resignation.

4. Visoianu reported that he had conversations in Paris with Gafencu, Cherni, Venianin and Antoniu, to whom he proposed membership in the new committee. At that time, which was before the death of General Radescu, Gafencu refused because of the exclusion of the General in the new organization. Since Visoianu was unable to return to Paris after his conversations with the King, a meeting with Gafencu subsequent to Radescu's death has not been possible. Chernin did not refuse to