4. If, as a direct result of your detail to this organization, you are precluded from utilizing available military travel, transportation or storage facilities, this organization will advance or reimburse you funds to insure that you are not deprived of your military entitlements as set forth and limited in the Joint Travel Regulations and the regulations of your parent military service. Therefore, authority is hereby granted to advance or reimburse you funds for the following expenses:

(a) Personal Travel. Travel expenses incurred by you (as defined in the Joint Travel Regulations) between permanent posts of duty. Such expenses shall be either the actual cost of transportation (as directed by this organization) and military per diem or the applicable mileage allowance as set forth in the Joint Travel Regulations, in conformance with the criteria established therein.

(b) Personal Baggage. Transportation (including priority baggage by surface transportation) and related expenses incurred in the course of permanent change of station and temporary duty travel, subject to the limitations set forth in applicable regulations of your parent military service and the Joint Travel Regulations, provided that if air travel is authorized and performed for permanent change of station travel, you will be entitled to ship unaccompanied 100 pounds of such baggage by air.

(c) Temporary Duty. Travel expenses incurred by you for authorized temporary duty travel. In addition to military per diem and in lieu of transportation, you may be reimbursed the applicable mileage allowance as set forth in the Joint Travel Regulations in conformance with the criteria established therein. You will be paid per diem in accordance with the Joint Travel Regulations.

All travel and transportation performed under this letter must be approved by appropriate authorities. Upon approval by this organization, all allowances are explicitly limited in kind and quantity to those expressly authorized above. Accounting and payment transfer will be made to and by this organization under applicable regulations.

5. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses as specifically approved by this organization. Such funds will be subject to accounting in compliance with the regulations of this organization.

6. You will be entitled to leave in accordance with the policies of your parent military service. Upon the completion of your present assignment, you will be required to certify so your parent military service the number of days annual leave you have taken during your assignment with this organization.

7. If in the performance of services under this letter you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situated, which property has so far been purchased with monies of the United States Government, you hereby recognise and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by this organization to evidence this relationship.