It was interesting that at 1730 Sr. Valentin "el Toro" (LOGANOV) should in fact make a telephone call. Apparently it was with someone from his department since he was quite happy (conclusion). Among other things that I was able to hear was that he wanted to see her that night, that at night he dreams that she is in the studio and that tomorrow (Sunday) they could go swimming together. They talked for quite a while and he seemed quite mollified. He told her that he would take care of everything if she wanted to go to his country (USSR). I went outside the door of the store in order to afford him more liberty. When he finished talking, he wanted to justify himself so he by saying that he is a batchelor because his wife is in Chernivaca.

Sunday, 21 August 1966

Today everything is normal since I know that my friends won't come to my house to eat... I had made my program for today, Sunday, that is to say to leave, to take my wife and grandchild to the country and eat outside the house.

But in 1959, which is the hour to close, my wife and grandchild were already there. Then SILNIKOV arrived to drink a beer. He was feeling pretty bad from last night's "drinking bout" at the first celebrating the Ambassador's return. He told me that they were drinking all night. But at this time it was raining quite hard so that I couldn't close up and leave the store. My wife asked him why he had always thought differently (sic) in not coming to eat at our house. And on the moment he said that he would come. My wife shot me a questioning look and finally SILNIKOV broke the silence saying; "Wait here, I will be back in a minute". Then he left in the rain which had rained a little. It then started to rain harder and a car left the Embassy driven by the Ambassador, Sr. Viktor (STRYNEV). He didn't park in front of the store but in Gelati, the street running parallel to the store. Then SILNIKOV came in to tell me he was ready. He shut up the store, got into the car and drove to my house. We parked the car in the street and entered my house. Once inside the first thing they did was to inspect the house in great detail even the "azotea". I think that the house pleased them. They made me show them everything including the bathroom and bedrooms. Then we sat at the table to drink tequila (la copa) and beer. My wife served barbecued chicken,... and sopas, and a guisado which they ate with relish, or so it seemed to me since they ate everything served them accompanied by pleasant chatter. But he didn't even mention