(When filled in)

TRAINING REPORT

French Basic Reading, Speaking, Writing--II 100 hours, part-time, 9 Apr 62 - 15 Jun 62

Student: Harriette D. Richardson (Dependent) wife of Jacques Richardson - SR) LORDate: G73081

4 students Year of Birth: 1928 Office:

COUPE OBJECTIFS - CONTENT AND METHODS - Instructor: W. Ray Eckley

This is the second phase in a three-phase basic sequence of 30 weeks, each phase lasting 10 weeks.

The general aim of this course is to provide a thorough grounding for the student who has previously had either a reading course in French or an insufficient introduction to the language. The major objectives of this phase of the course are to develop an ability; (1) to distinguish and pronounce satisfactorily all the sounds of the language; (2) to use effectively a modest stock of French sentences and expressions; (3) to comprehend normal-speed spoken French in a variety of everyday non-technical situations; (4) to begin to read and write basic French, applying the spoken vocabulary and grammatical material previously learned.

Classes are held 2 hours per day, 5 days a week, requiring a minimum of 10 hours of preparation per week. To receive the maximum benefit from this course each student should plan to devote at least two-thirds of the class preparation time doing drill in the language laboratory.

ACHIEVEMENT RECORD

Student progress is evaluated primarily on oral recitation in the form of drills and free conversation based on memorized material. In addition, several tests are given during the course. This student's rating is indicated by the asterisk.

Unsatisfactory

Satisfactory

Excellent

Incomplete

Mrs. Richardson was definitely a superior student. Her pronunciation was excellent and she had a solid command of the structure of French. She was somewhat hesitant in new language situations, but she more than made up for this through diligent and profitable laboratory and home preparation.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING: /8/10. RAY HACKLEY Chief Instructor

26 July 1962

(When filled in)