but, only to help my country." (With "Patriots" like Sam, how can we lose.)

7. Sam is most anxious to start some correspondence to "William." He says "William" asked him to send him some photos of Cape Kennedy and some smoked shrimp. Sam wants to know if we want to supply him with photos of the Cape that he can send. Sam states he will write anything we wish. I promised to check out the status of the case with my office and Madrid to see what course of action they deem should be initiated.

8. Modesty not being one of his greatest virtues Sam rambled and rambled about the "secrets" he got out of "William" and passed on to the Madrid c/o. I went along with him and complimented him on a job well done; which is true. But, he was not satisfied with my plaudits, he wanted to know "What Washington said?" To which I said, "everyone, Washington, Madrid and Miami thought you did an excellent job and we are most grateful for your cooperation." He liked that very much; you could see it in the smile on his face. He tries to make it sound like it was a great ordeal and sacrifice on his part to go to Spain to see "William," but he cannot hide his anxiety to get on the next plane to Madrid, and the good life there.

9. I pointed out that "William" is now back in Cuba and there is no indication of when he will return. Nevertheless, Sam feels he should write him "because the letter will be sent to Cuba to him." I assured him that I would get a reading on this matter and have an answer for him sometime next week. At that time, I promised to take him and his close friend Masip to lunch. Sam gave me an extensive and expensive expense account of his trip. I will attempt to decipher it at the close of this report.

10. We ended the meeting on very cordial terms. He was not so mad at not being contacted so much as he is dying to get back on the gravy train, and so much time has passed by without word to or from "William." Sam asked for some way in which he can contact us "right away" if "William" notifies him "that he's ready to jump. You know when he jumps he won't have much time." I pointed out that at present "William" is in Cuba and the prospects of him defecting from Cuba right now are very slim indeed. We would, however, take this into consideration after "William" returns to Spain or another foreign post. We will be seeing each other next week to clear up the accounting (we owe him money, he says) and have lunch.

Henry S. PACHANKIS,