SEC.

4. If deemed necessary by CIA, the Employee may be reimbursed or advanced funds for operational expenses. Such amounts must be advanced or reimbursement made in accordance with CIA regulations, which require a full accounting of the amounts expended by the Employee. Therefore, the Employee will be required to account fully for any such funds advanced or reimbursed in accordance with CIA regulations.

ARTICLE III. Overseas Allowances and Transportation Expenses. When specifically authorized by the ADSO, the expenses of travel and transportation of the Employee, his immediate family, household goods and effects, including personally owned automobile and other allowances, will be paid the Employee in accordance with the Foreign Service Act of 1946 and regulations issued thereunder by the Department of State. When authorized by the ADSO, the Employee shall be paid a quarters allowance, cost of living allowance, or special foreign living allowance in accordance with the Foreign Service Act of 1946 and regulations issued thereunder. The amount of quarters and cost of living allowances and the special foreign living allowance is set forth in Bureau of the Budget Circular A-8, which is amended periodically to reflect adjustments in price indexes. Therefore, such allowances will be subject to change, and the amounts paid will vary according to Budget Circular A-8.

ARTICLE IV. Annual and Sick Leave. The Employee shall be permitted annual leave, sick leave, and leave of absence in accordance with Title IX, Part D of the Foreign Service Act of 1946. Under such Act, the Employee may be granted not to exceed sixty calendar days annual leave of absence with pay in each year. Annual leave which the Employee may receive and which is not used in any one year shall be accumulated for succeeding years until it totals 180 days. Sick leave with pay may be granted to the Employee at the rate of fifteen calendar days each calendar year and may be accumulated for succeeding years until it totals 120 days.

1. If the Employee is transferred from another Government Agency to this position, any annual or sick leave standing to his credit in such Agency, may be transferred, if appropriate, in accordance with E. O. 9837, 27 March 1947, issued pursuant to Section 935 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946.

ARTICLE V. Return to the United States. The Employee shall be ordered to the United States on leave of absence or permanent change of station upon completion of two years continuous service abroad or as soon as possible thereafter.