politics being pursued by the Communist International and the Communist party in China. I cannot begin here to give a summary of some of these distortions (which IVELLY CATED TO YOU BY THE DOGEN), ranging from particular incidents (the willfully false picture given of the cotton mill strike in Shanghai, in January 1932, even to the point of transposing it to February to heighten the impression given of the workers' role in the Shanghai war) to high-flown generalizations like the statement recently made before the plenum of the E.C.C.I., that the C.C.P. has "won over the majority of the Chinese working class and the peasantry"....

In denying the presence of a might revolutionary upsurge (i.e., a vast organized march toward the seizure of power), I respect facts made still clearer perhaps when compared to the facts and figures of the monster mass movements of the 1925-27 period. The tragic errors of the communist leadership in 1927 were primarily responsible for the decapitation of that great movement and because no lessons have been drawn from these events to this very day, these errors, monstrously accumulated, are still responsible for the tragedies of today. But for the purpose of our comparison here, let us take for example the single fact that in 1926 in Greater Shanghai, there were 257 strikes. In 1932 there were 82. Let us remember that on the eve of the workers' seizure of power in Shanghai in March, 1937, there were more than 800,000 workers, handicraftsmen and petty traders out on the streets fighting with arms in hands for demands of a far-reaching political character. A close check for the entire country in the latter half of 1933 showed me that less than one-thirtieth of that number were engaged in strikes and other disputes during any given month and that almost invariably the demands were defensive demands against wage outs and lookouts. Moreover, the lack of coherence in the leadership - often in departments of the same factory or in one or more of a group of factories - or even sometimes lack of even the most elementary organization - has in almost every case led to deadening failure and relatively easy betrayal by the yellow "labor leaders" and "mediators" of the Kuo Min Tang. In 1925 the shooting of thirteen students by British police in Shanghai was the touch-off for a general strike which paralyzed the city and which was seconded by vast sympathy strikes which broke like a series of tidal waves over the entire country. In January 1932, when the Japanese imperialists used the Shanghai International Settlement as a base for operations which cost the lives of tens of thousands of Chinese, not a single strike interrupted the normal course of the public or other services in that settlement. In the factories there were no strikes but a large scale lookout to which the overwhelming majority of Shanghai's workers submitted without protest...

In the case of the widespread but isolated and individual cases of peasant uprisings, and this includes the Red Armies in Kiangai, these struggles await the leadership of a strong working class movement before they can have a successful issue. The Red Armies in their restricted and surrounded areas and with their meagre resources have fought heroically against the Kuomintang attacks upon them. But until the Kuo Min Tang is shaken from its bulwarks in the imperialist-controlled working class centers, their prospect of revolutionary triumph remains necessarily dim. No revolutionary purpose is served by taking refuge in the fiction that these Armies have proletarian leadership because individual workers, undoubtedly