NO FOREIGN DISSEUM C-O-N-F-I-D-E-M-T-I-A-L

Page 2 of 12 Page CS-311/07089-68

1. (Summary: The National Center for Scientific Research (CNIC) is an autonomous organization controlled by the Office of the Prime Minister, who appointed the Director, Dr. Wilfredo Torres, M.D., and other important executives. The CNIC exists basically to perform scientific research and to train personnel for employment as (a) CNIC researchers, (b) researchers for the National Research Institutes that collaborate with the CNIC, (c) medical school faculty members, (d) industrial scientists, (e) and researchers and workers in the pure sciences. The CNIC has departments of Biochemistry, Ultracentrifugation, Electronic Microscopy, Medical Botany, Microbiology and Virology, and Bio-mechanics and Biomedical Studies. The CNIC graduate training program for medical doctors confers the degree of Doctor of Basic Sciences upon completion of the three-year program; in the future, the CNIC will also graduate Doctors of Pure Sciences. The National Research Institutes, of which there are at least 1, are organized by medical specialties and work in coordination with the CNIC but are subordinate to the MINSAP. All are clinical research institutes that work primarily with patients. These institutes include the Institutes of Endocrinology, Nephrology, Hematology, Gastroenterology, Neurology and Neuro-surgery, Physiopathology, Psychology and Neurophysiology, Hygiene and Epidemiology, Cardiology and Cardiovascular Surgery, Microbiology and Virology, Angiology, and Parasitology.)

2. The National Center for Scientific Research (Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas, CNIC) is located in Reparto Siboney (formerly Country Club), Marianao, Havana Province, next to the Victoria de Giron premedical school (formerly Colegio Sagrado Corazon), and occupies several impressive new buildings; in addition, large private homes in the area have been equipped as laboratories and residences for CNIC personnel. As of mid-November 1967, some of the residences were occupied by foreign scientists.

3. The CNIC is an autonomous organization controlled by the Office of the Prime Minister, through which its funds are budgeted. Important matters concerning the CNIC are handled personally by Fidel Castro, whose approval is required for foreign exchange expenditures such as the purchase of equipment, contracting of foreign personnel, trips abroad by CNIC personnel, and recruiting campaigns aimed at foreign scientists. Fidel Castro, rather than ex-Minister Machado Ventura, appointed the director and other important CNIC executives. Dr. Wilfredo Torres, M.D., hematologist, is CNIC director. The Public Health Ministry (MINSAP) plays no part in the supervision of the CNIC and cannot influence the decisions of its executives.

4. The organization and functions of the CNIC are confidential although not secret, and any person who has contact with medical professors can acquire some information on the CNIC. Since about June 1967, an ID card issued by the CNIC to its employees is required to enter the CNIC buildings and the private homes that have been equipped as laboratories and residences.

5. CNIC activities are oriented towards three fundamental objectives, namely:

Scientific research related to the medical sciences.

The preparation of highly qualified research and professorial personnel for employment, after graduation, as (1) CNIC researchers, (2) researchers of The National Research Institutes (see below), &c.