SECURITY Classification:

STUDY AND ANALYSIS OF RADING RELATIONS WITH NATIONAL COUNCILS

INTRODUCTION

The purpose of this paper is to 1) review briefly the accomplishments of the National Councils Division of N.C.E.L, 2) attempt to point out the reasons why the National Councils have not accomplished what they set out to do and 3) make certain recommendations with respect to policy and administration to remedy the present unsatisfactory and unworkable situation. This last assumes that CIA must continue to sponsor the National Council complex. However, it can do so only if certain basic changes are made and if it is recognized that it is incumbent on CIA to regain control of the important personalities of the Eastern European emigration.

DISCUSSION

I Original Objectives of National Councils Division

The National Councils Division of the National Committee for a Free Europe was created on 3 April 1950 by resolution of the Board of Directors. The underlying principle, as stated in the Declaration of Policy in June 1950, was to aid the "non-Fascist and non-Communist leaders in their peaceful efforts to prepare the way toward the restoration in Eastern Europe of the social, political and religious liberties in which they and we believe." The councils were to function as "representative, harmonious and effective groups" and, as such, to play a part in the struggle against Communism in eastern Europe. They were not to be considered as governments in exile nor as ends in themselves.

National Committees and Panels, as supported by N.C.E., were to fulfill a two-fold functions: as 1) covert instruments, they were to a) serve as a symbol of unity both in this country and abroad, b) provide a reservoir of "name" manpower for propaganda use, c) supply general propaganda policy advice, and d) supply N.C.E. with both general and specific intelligence with respect to homeland activities and personalities. As 2) covert instruments, they were to serve as a cover for operations undertaken by CIA aimed at combatting Soviet oppression in the satellite states.

These are: the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian Panels, which were set up with the help of N.C.E. and which function well.

SECRET.