5. LIONION-1, himself, continues to provide the consistently high level of productivity that has characterized his work in past years. As mentioned above his response to priority requirements continues to be most gratifying. He is prompt in submitting both operational and administrative reports to the Station. He is ready, at a moments notice, to change personal plans when a need for his services arises. After five years without a substantial vacation, LIONION-1 plans a three week trip from 4 - 25 May to Europe (Italy, Greece, France) and the U.S.A. He originally requested five weeks to make this trip for which he has long saved his money, but quite willingly shortened the trip to three weeks at the Station's request and added that he would postpone the entire trip if the Station thought his services were more needed at home. In order to help defray the cost of making a second trip to Europe to complete his original itinerary, the Station will give LIONION-1 a gift of $250 on 1 May 1969 and will tell him that consideration will be given in 1970 to providing an equal amount, but no decision can be made on that second gift until mid-1970.

E. Problems

1. LISANPAN/BAKER: As reported in HREAA 36553, 19 February 1969, LISANPAN/BAKER was turned off for security reasons on 16 January 1969 at 1345 hours. All subsequent attempts to reactivate it have been unsuccessful. Headquarters was requested to review all available Station information on this to decide whether BAKER'S abrupt end was the result of a compromise or whether it was somehow connected with the installation of TELEX equipment at LIRING.

2. LISANPAN/DOG: The LISANPAN/DOG/METRAP installation is generally working well. There have been numerous occasions when due to unknown circumstances the audio reception has either been bad or non-existent. Walter W. CONEBURY and PELLEMENT visited the LISANPAN/LISASH basehouse and found no problem with the monitoring equipment there. The trouble may have resided with the central office of the LIRISK company and was probably not the result of technical counter-surveillance of LIRING. As of 3 April 1969, LISANPAN/DOG was working properly and automatically.

3. There have been no significant personnel, security, morale or administrative problems since the last project renewal.

F. Liaison

Not applicable to Project LIONION.

FOR TRANSMISSION BY SECRETaris

NO FIELD DISSEMINATION