COVER PREPARATION - (Arthur G. Valvada) (Cont'd)

Along these same lines, I took advantage of the opportunity presented when an old friend and AAF companion came down on a visit in July 1955. Warrant Officer Francis Williams has been in the AISS (Air Intelligence) since 1940, actually one of the founders of the service and has written AISS technical bulletins for 15 years. Williams was practically present upon my entry into this organization (if not actually instrumental in my recruitment.) I discussed the plan in general terms with Williams and learned that one of his section AI Officers is currently in the publishing business. William is assures me that when the right time approaches, he can "arrange" a substantial contact with this company, with practically no security hazards. We have left this pending. ((His address: 5846 Access Road, Page Manor, Wright-Patterson AFB, Dayton, Ohio.))

While on a visit to San Jose, Costa Rica, I met and discussed this cover aspect with Arthur Gregor, currently a civilian employee of the Naval Air Station at Coco Solo, Panama Canal Zone. Art Gregor was considered by the station at San Jose (our station, that is) for recruitment in 1952. I submitted the complete Section I of the PRQ on him and we had a tentative arrangement that sometime in the future, wherever he might be, if approached by the organization, he would work or cooperate with a temporary project, what ever the case be. (Gregor is specializing in mineralogy at MIT, and shooting for a Masters at the Colorado School of Mining.) Gregor has an uncle who is in the paperback book business (publishing) and according to his appraisal, would not object to cooperating unwittingly to the proposal of such a contact. ((Gregor's address: Box 2655, Cristobal, Canal Zone.))

In conclusion: It is realized that all this wordage may look very nice, etc., but actually the accom-lishment of such cover will depend on whether I can get into publication however minor it may be. The efforts to "pad" the existing authentic cover with the two projects above may sound "nebulous", but after all, outside of a tight professional league of staff writers (or immortals) writing is a noblesse undertaking. Finally, all of Part II here is submitted as a proposal, awaiting approval and dependent upon the success of Part I.

Arthur G. Valvada