RUSSIA FINANCES GUERRILLA WARFARE IN COLOMBIA AND VENEZUELA

Unsigned article; San Jose, Costa Rica; La Prensa Libre; Spanish, 19 June 19627

Caracas (PI). There exists adequate proof that journalist Mario Renato Menendez Rodriguez, the former director of the journal Suecesos and of the new subversive publication Por Que?, has not with Soviet agents and received the 50,000 dollars directed toward the guerrilla warfare in Colombia and Venezuela, which have been reported by the international press.

Menendez Rodriguez, who once more foiled the Venezuelan police, is being actively sought in Colombia, where he arrived following his interview with Venezuelan guerrilla leader Douglas Bravo. Two years previously, the same Menendez visited Colombia and went on to Venezuela, where he carried out another mission of economic aid from the Soviet Union to the armed groups in that country. Now it is known with firsthand proof that a third mission will be directed to Venezuelan territory, following the assumption of the presidency by Dr. Rafael Caldera.

The 50,000 dollars. It has been reported that the 50,000 dollars carried by the Mexican to the two countries in question were destined for the Colombian bandit leader "Tiro Fijo," but subsequent documentation proves that the sum delivered on this occasion by the Soviet Union is approximately 200,000 dollars, part of which is to go to the armed groups in Venezuela.

Another Communist agent, Colombian Feliciano Fachon Choconta, traveled to Bogota carrying 100,000 dollars of the 150,000 he had received in Mexico, and 60,000 of which he had delivered to a dealer in clandestine arms in Panama. Choconta was arrested at the "El Dorado" international airport, and the police confiscated the 100,000 dollars. The sum had been delivered to him by a member of the embassy of the Soviet Union.

"Communist unity" money. The activities of the Soviet embassies in Mexico and Colombia -- especially with regard to Menendez Rodriguez -- confirm the great falsehood that Russia and Castro are marching "apart" with respect to armed subversion, with the dictator of Cuba being depicted as the great seditious and interventionist chief and the Soviet Union as the great power opposed to Castro's methods.