past friendship, Fanny Ravel treated him in an obvious cold manner. L/3, feeling that he could not this pass unnoticed, got Fanny in the corner and asked what was up. She replied that for some time she had been hearing "disturbing reports" about L/3. Under further questioning by L/3 she specified that originally, some 7-8 months previously she had been told by a LIRING official that L/3 "was not to be trusted". Fanny continued that she did not pay too much attention to this, since the official was rather "low-level", but more recently she was told the same thing by an "unimpeachable source" and could not challenge it despite her high personal esteem for L/3.

L/3 commented to Rowton that the "unimpeachable source" must be the Chief LIRING, inasmuch as Fanny Ravel as always been a close personal friend of his and possibly even one of his mistresses. L/3 continued that LIRING had several wires commented to him (when L/4 was working in the LIRING office) that Fanny Ravel was infrequent telephone contact with the Chief.

GUIDANCE Given to Agent:

Rowton told L/3 that he was more convinced than ever that the LIRING office had mounted a slander operation against him because of his contacts with the Camillo Sanchez group (León Barrics brothers and Romulo) which PBRUMEN was apparently attempting to isolate in their own interest. When L/3 appeared a little consoling at this, Rowton continued that he felt L/3 should, at the 18 Feb meeting with "Romulo", tell the latter that he knew the game the LIRINGs were up to and ask "Romulo" point blank whether he knew to what extent the LIRING office was trying to sabotage FAR because of its nationalistic anti-PBRUMEN position. Rowton asked L/3 to entice "Romulo" into such a discussion in the hope that "Romulo" would ask him, L/3, to help discover any unilateral operations PBRUMEN might be planning. Rowton continued that L/3 should tell Romulo that although he was virtually cut off from the LIRING office, he still had a great many PBRUMEN friends ( e.g. ) from whom he could possibly get useful information to help Romulo's faction. Rowton suggested that L/3 could also propose to Romulo that they both put the squeeze on Carlos Vega (apparently a LIRING provocation) to obtain preliminary information on the intentions of the LIRING operation.

W. B. Rowton