but surprised, to hear her husband speaking about her in such a complimentary way. She asked incredulously whether he really meant what he said and when BEWEEP reiterated with some embarrassment that he thought she was the best wife in the world, Mrs. BEWEEP, covered with confusion but happy said that this was the first time he had ever said such kind things about her, the first time she had been aware that he really did think she was a good wife.

(8) BEWEEP seemed relaxed enough, but different. On several occasions when political matters came up, usually raised by Mr. R., he changed the subject, once asked Mr. R. almost rudely, "Don't you have anything better than politics to talk about."

(9) Mrs. BEWEEP said that the two couples had been in the habit of going off on weekends together. BESABER supposed that BEWEEP may have done the deed during one of their outings.

In private conversation with BESABER, Mrs. BEWEEP asked if BESABER had heard from BESETON. When BESABER said he had not, Mrs. BEWEEP said that her husband had told her BESETON was in Colombia (SLINKARD had told BEWEEP this). She then went on to say that BESETON was the nicest man in the world. "I don't know what he is, but he's the nicest man in the world." He introduced us to another American (obviously SLINKARD) whom we see often, but it's not the same."

Mrs. BEWEEP, still alone with BESABER, was very complimentary towards the U. S. She said the U. S. was made for women, the merchandise, the packaging, the stores, etc. Moreover, the people are all nice.

Joined by BEWEEP, Mrs. BEWEEP got off on the Russians. She explained that it was difficult to understand the Russians since she, as a Pole, belonging to the Western Cultural traditions, held so many different views about life in general. She was apparently particularly thinking of the sense of distrust in the Russian mentality. She said that the Russians here in the Embassy simply could not believe that the two daughters of the former Polish Ambassador, Jerzy GRUDZINSKI, had been permitted to stay on in Mexico after their MAKEMIX father's recall last year.