THE EVENTS IN THE CONGO A PROOF OF WHAT COMMUNISM IS

Recent happenings in the Congo have rocked the civilised world, leaving in their wake a deep preoccupation in the hearts of all who believed in even the most basic principles of humanity and who see in these acts a vengeful boast of cruelty against the most elemental principles of kindness and respect.

Those who struggle for freedom have always found in us the sympathy and understanding that only those who know full well that this struggle entails can give. We find, however, that in the case of the utterly misnumend "Congolese Troops of Liberation" we must (along with all civilized men) denounce this new and bloody contribution of international communism to the oppression and suppression of all peoples.

This movement has been, as others have been before, thoroughly infiltrated by communists; and in this, as in other cases, the true goal of destruction and death sought by the International can clearly be seen.

The hearts of youth throughout the world have echoed in sympathy the cries, the tears, and the pain of Africa's birth. The growth of the Black Continent into a continent of republics is a symbol of the inconstable right of this Continent to a great destiny.

That is why the sincere struggles for freedom of African nations have met with our support as with that of all freedom-loving peoples.

It is this love of true freedom that necessarily places us in a position of adversity towards this movement. The happenings in the Congo find their motivation not in a zealous search for justice and liberty but in the international policies Moscow and Peking seek to enforce in Africa by any and all means.

In the deaths, the rapes, the insults have creived and enraged then how must the attitude of the nations of the Communist Bloc and of those who, conciously or not, serve their interest runkle.

Without the slightest trace of scruple these nations have hurtled themselves into acrimonious abuse of the nations which took part in the rescue mission, whose only purpose was the humanitarian one of saving the lives of non-belligerents.

The attitude of these nations and the "student demonstrations" staged in communist countries to show approval of the Congolese rebels clearly show the direction they would have the Congo's liberation take. Where the Congolese struggle might have been a war of liberation, it has become instead a senseless war run by mercenaries and abetted by the Communist Powers.

When faced with the crimes in the Congo one Soviet official glibly dismissed the violence by stating that the rescuing nations had been warned it would happen if rescue was attempted.

We would ask this question of civilized men: By what Code of war can the slaughter of non-belligerents because of attempts to rescue them be justified? Since when has it been found permissible for an army to do its own ugly will in regards to old men, to missionaries, to women, and to children? Has racism suddenly found a moral justification?

Mass murder and rape can only find justification in those whose creed is hatred and whose aim is to divide.

Fortunately the Communists have not won this battle. Africa will have freedom, and it will not have the mauled, caged communist version of it. Those responsible for so much ugly violence in the Congo do not represent the spirit of the Congolese people and have received the condemnation of Africa and of the whole world.

Africa feels ashamed of what has happened, but this act will help her understand she has to face an enemy as dangerous, or more so, than colonialism.

The criminal actions of communism in the Congo have only one answer and the Africans themselves will give it: ITS REPUDIATION.