SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page 2

was at no time used operationally. Our files contain no additional information on JIMENEZ since 1960 except for a 1969 FBI report dealing with his involve- ment in a plan to assassinate Fidel Castro. (DEA already has a copy of this report.) Although in- formation obtained from a Report of Investigation (ROI) by Alfredo Duncan (DEA/Caracas) dated 01 December 1975 indicates that JIMENEZ is a U.S. citizen, resides in Caracas and has contacts with various GOV officials, we have no information in our Headquarters files to substantiate this information. In November 1975 the Caracas Regional Office (CRO) requested traces from our field representative on JIMENEZ, who was reportedly in contact with the CRO. The following traces were forwarded to our represen- tative in Caracas on 03 December 1975 for passage to DEA: "Following data on Mario Eloy JIMENEZ Rojo taken from his own undated handwritten bio summary which apparently submitted to the anti-Castro Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD) in Miami about 1960, and from an FRD Personnel Form. JIMENEZ was born 03 March 1927 in Lajas, Las Villas, Cuba. He attended the University of Havana and majored in business administration. From 1948 until 1952 (sic) he was 'elected mayor for four years' (of Havana?) JIMENEZ was secretary to the President of Congress in Havana from 1941 (sic) until 1958. He came to the U.S. (Miami) as an immigrant in April 1959. JIMENEZ stated his purpose in coming to the U.S. was to assist in the eradication of the Cuban system. JIMENEZ is married to Dyalma Balasquide. At the time his bio summary was written, he stated he was a second lieu- tenant in the U.S. Army. (As it highly unlikely that JIMENEZ was secretary to the President of the Cuban Congress at age fourteen and only a little less un- likely that he was a mayor at age twenty-one, as the dates given by JIMENEZ show; suggest DEA ask the Department of Army for further information.)" We also note that a statement on his processing papers for the FRD indicated that JIMENEZ was a former member of the Revolutionary Insurrectional Union (UIR) in Cuba, a Cuban-style mafia which was prominent during the 1940's and 1950's and was under the 'patron' age of anti-Batista political figures. On 12 December 1975 we received a request from the CRO that JIMENEZ be registered in the ISR as a DEA source. (He was formally registered on 29 December 1975.)