CLASSIFICATION PROCESSING ACTION

JOEY MARCOPILANO

DISPATCH 10 Chief of Station, exle. City INFO. Chief, eastern border - division FROM Chief of Lane, Florida SUBJECT FUIN-LN - Conference Given by Victor RICC Galan in Perla

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES ACTION: FYI REF: HU: 2201, 24 Jan. 64

1. Attached are copies of press coverage of a conference given in Perla on 28 October 1964 by Victor RICC Galan, described in reference as a Mexican MARXIST JOURNALIST AND CASTRO spent. In summary, RICC reportedly sketched the Hispanic American situation briefly and spent an hour or more replying to questions from the audience; his eternal there was North American, leftism.

2. It will be noted that RICC was invited by the Centro de Removación Cultural and presented by journalist Mariovg. Noriega, who said that one might or might not agree with what RICC said but that he had a right to be heard. The Centro is of very recent unknown origin. It is said to be spending the visit each week on a journalist to-ler for similar conferences. Where the money is come from has not yet been determined. GLACIF contracts have sale that include himself only for RICC's air travel, and at the hotel till at the last. Joaquin seems paid by the RAMAC , tourist agency. However, a hotel contract has stated that the bill was sold by the "State Government". LIMON indicates that the Cuba, Central in Perla, Mariano, CARCIAJerez, is in contact with Fidel, and when it is recalled that the Cuban-texican official in Perla is considered RICC's trip to San Jose in 1964, there would seem to be more than one possibility as to the source of funds for the new Centro . If the Centro plans are carried out as planned, annual expenses might run up as high as $500, a not insignificant sum.

3. PulverDad is a close GLACIF. exle. contract and a personal contact of CC as well. He is a Jew, crusader-type member of the Balaban 's family complex which owns an operates the Pensacola station. Peninsular's principal daily news editor is Mario de Escatan. In 1967, he overhauled an express account to 12 hours a day of Aeriatric officials of fraud, he seems to be on strike terms with his family and to have taken up with the extra-left. Diaspore for 26 months at 1%, carries the extra left in addition to certain eternal "twisters" and hi. officials of a new trade union, some 1,500 millions of pesos.

DATE 30 October 1964

HOS FILE NUMBER-311-204