Operational Chronology

3. On 26 September AMCLOCK/1 met DI GERVENO from 1500 to 1830 at (Iden B, AMCLOCK/1 appeared to be in good health and rested and in high spirits. He was very glad to see DI GERVENO again and to be able to discuss things openly. He criticized bitterly the living conditions in PBRUMEN but does not seem to be affected by it or by the fact that he had to live under a regime he obviously hates. In fact, he seemed quite sure of himself and plans to return to PBRUMEN at the end of the HTBASTE session. He is scheduled to remain in New York until December 1967 but may return to PBRUMEN before then for a short visit to look after his ailing mother and his wife, who had a baby girl two weeks prior to his departure. This may have influenced AMCLOCK/1 not to think about a possible defection at this time, which came as a surprise to the case officer who expected the agent to have second thoughts about return to PBRUMEN where he is not happy.

4. AMCLOCK/1 explained that he could not make contact as instructed because he had destroyed the phone number and both accommodation addresses we had given him for him to report from inside PBRUMEN. He destroyed them in the toilet at the airport upon his arrival in PBRUMEN in late December 1966 after observing a number of uniformed individuals at the airport which he considered to be suspicious, although they had nothing to do with AMCLOCK/1. This may have been a convenient excuse for his failure to make contact as instructed but DI GERVENO did not press the issue. Instead he was given the operational numbers of the Beekman site and of the Base in New York (Iden I) and told he could always call there if he could not locate DI GERVENO at (Iden B.) He was also given the JMWAVE number for emergency contact. AMCLOCK/1 said he tried to make contact by calling (Iden J to inquire about MIDDAUGH in true name, but after much probing he was told that MIDDAUGH was in Washington and was given a phone number for him to call direct. AMCLOCK/1 was planning to call Washington at a later day if he had not been contacted.

5. AMCLOCK/1 reported that he has had no security problems and has not been molested inside of PBRUMEN. He was treated "royally" by the AMTHUG regime in early 1967 and everybody seemed pleased to see him back. Apparently his return surprised some individuals who privately thought he would defect rather than return to PBRUMEN to live. During this time he enjoyed special privileges and received frequent invitations to official functions with foreign diplomats. However, by mid 1967 the special privileges and invitations were gradually suspended for no apparent reason. (For example, he was no longer allowed to take his private car to a government garage for repairs and he had to arrange for themaintenance of his house, which was given to him and kept up by the government at first). AMCLOCK/1 believes that this was due to his being under "observation" while going through a reorientation period after his long stay abroad. There is nothing to indicate that AMCLOCK/1 is not trusted or accepted by other government officials. The fact that he was sent out again is a strong

DESENVILIFIED

2015050104-128A