Subject: ITRING/3 to contact with LIRING Office.

1. Durin the period 4-15 November, 1968, Rowton met with LIRING/3 on four occasions to debrief him on his activities. LIRING/3 agreed with Rowton that there were several phases to his renewed operational activity that needed careful planning and co-ordination. He commented on these as follows:

(a) Maintenance of "O" contact with FAR: LIRING/3 sent a letter to Rafeel Arguere A, giving him his current address so that "Pavel" could be informed how to contact him. In response to this letter, LIRING/3 received a note from the mother of the Miguel and Juan León Barrion on 14/11/68 enquiring about his health. Since the letter was addressed to LIRING's new address he felt it was proff that his reply to Arguere's letter had been received. He stated that he hoped "Pavel" on some one else representing Far would soon appear.

(b) RE-establishment of Contact with LIRING AND PERMEN: LIRING/3 agreed with Rowton that his ultimate objective would be a trip to PERMEN to act as liaison between the authorities there and FAR. Rowton stressed the need to keep the local LIRING establishment informed and in support of his activities, to avoid hurting their feelings by going over their head (as happened before the last trip). LIRING/3 commented that he v uld have to maneuver matters so that he was ex-tended an invitation. He would try this through LISING/10, but if it did not succeed he would try a discreet approach through Orlando Suarez who, he felt, could arrange a cultural invitation without difficulty.

LIRING/3 subsequently reported to Rowton that he met with LIRING/10 on the morning of 15/11/68 in the patio area of the LIRING establish- ment and that the latter had introduced him to his replacement, who invited LIRING/3 to meet with him any morning about 1100 except Mon- days and Fridays. LIRING/3 also asked LIRING/3 to meet with him pri- vately at his convenience so that he could debrief him on his ex- periences. LIRING/3 commented that LIRING/2 was very cordial but did not ask him any specific questions or show interest in debrief- ing him. LIRING/3 promised Rowton that he would attempt to gain access to LIRING/10's office for the debriefing.

(c) Cover Problems: LIRING/3 told Rowton that he would make every effort to obtain some kind of cover employment so that he could justify any funds given to him by Rowton. He stated that he was attempting to

h/watt: 1 HmMA-35905 CS COPY

17 November, 1968