Place Washington, D. C. From June 1943 (Month) Name of employer OPA Addres Washington, D. C. Kind of business or organization Government Number and class of employees you supervised 1 CAF-3 Name of title of your immediate supervisor Ruth C. Proskey Roles, illnesses (needed at home) Other Jr. Employee Ser.Officer Starting 2000. Financial Adviser Advisor on all financial activities Performed various duties pertaining to collection and distribution of funds for all campaigns for personnel of OPA. Responsible for setting up accounts, handling of cash, and submitting reports. Under bond. (Emergency Loan Fund of approx. $1500; Recreation Fund $1000. (employee contributions); War Savings Bonds (pay roll and cash); Group Hospitalization collections, &amp;800. monthly; Est. Trains of OPA Credit Union. Responsible for 3 bank accounts. Investigated insurance &amp; credit companies. Wrote reports concerning and memoranda. Typewriter, adding machine &amp; calculator Excellent efficiency rating

Place Washington, D. C. From Oct. 1942 (Month) Name of employer OPA Addres Washington, D. C. Kind of business or organization Government Number and class of employees you supervised 1 CAF-3 Name and title of your immediate supervisor Ruth C. Proskey Reason for leaving Promotion Transportation Officer Starting 1800. Employee Services Clerk Per YF Final 2000. Duties and responsibilities: Employee Relations duties involving interviewing, organization of various agency campaigns, responsible for safe, setting up and maintaining accounts for above mentioned funds. Transportation Officer - organized car clubs (500) certified applicants for supplemental pensions, wrote reports and memoranda. Worked with various sections of agency (Administrative Officers) in selecting representatives for promoting agency campaigns &amp; war bonds sales. Administrative Assistant to Head of Section. Calculators and equipment used Typewriter, adding machine, &amp; calculator

Place Washington, D. C. From April 1942 (State) To Oct. 1942 (Year) Name of employer same as above Addres Address Personnel Clerk Salary Starting 1620 Per Final 1800. Duties and responsibilities: Transportation Officer for OPA personnel in organization of car clubs. Responsible for planning and setting up of war bonds pay roll allotment plan. Disseminated information regarding all agency campaigns, such as Community War Fund, Red Cross, United R. LIel., etc. Wrote reports and memoranda. Various bookkeeping and accounting assignments. Excellent efficiency rating

Place Washington, D. C. From March 1942 (Month) Name of employer OHM-OPA Addres Washington, D. C. Kind of business or organization Government Number and class of employees you supervised none Name and title of your immediate supervisor Ruth Proskey Reason for leaving Promotion Mechanics and equipment used Typewriter, adding machine &amp; calculator General personnel clerk. Performed various clerical and secretarial duties in the personnel section.

Machines and equipment used Typewriter &amp; Stenotype

If more space is required, use a Continuation Sheet (Standard Form No 58) or a sheet of paper, size 8 x 101⁄2 inches. Write on each sheet your name, full dress, date of birth, and examination title (if any). Enclose, attached, with application.

O-2094-1