Subject: Contract matter/ 1304Y-5 18 Feb 1970, Subject's office

1. At the time of delivering to Subj on the evening of 15 Feb a case of wine that he had requested, the C.O. permitted Subj, at the latter's suggestion, to take a "rush-in" show for his rest with Major Prichard -on 16 Feb at Salemns Restaurant, Instructors, at 0900.

2. Subj reported on 13 Feb the story of his brush-off meet with Sasha on 16 Feb. He told Sasha, when he found standing to the side of the restaurant in Salemns, that he was sick, and had got up out of a sick bed against his wife's instructions, just to show Sash that he wasn't trying to avoid a meeting - but, he was too sick to stay. Sasha accompanied Subj outside and walked with him toward Subj's home. Sasha told Subj to submit to him the findings of the Temple Clinic on Subj's illness, and he would forward them to Moscow (for medical advice). /Comments: Subj has no intention of doing so/.

Subj told Sasha that he had spoken to Jacoboabludovsky about Sassa's questions on U.S. nuclear policy, and that Abludovsky had just laughed at him for putting such naive, silly questions. Abludovsky had said that everyone knows of U.S. interest in curing the spread of nuclear power. Sasha laughed, and said that was only newspaper talk...

Subj expressed concern to Sasha as to why he had been turned over to Valentin Lorinov. Sasha repeated his previous statement that Lorinov had more opportunity for outside contact, even visits to Subj's office as part of his natural consular duties. Further, the changeover had been ordered by their superiors. Sasha said that Lorinov would get in touch with Subj.

3. The C.O. found out that when Subj had mentioned Echovirra to Sasha at an earlier meeting as being a seeker for the presidency of Mexico, Sasha had shown great interest...

The C.O. asked Subj if there were any activity on travel to the Soviet Union (for the purpose of discovering if Subj would bring up the name of Maria de la Paz Cervantes, a Sabena airline employee interested in travel to the Soviet Union). Subj replied that some members of the Jewish community in Mexico were inquiring about a trip to the Soviet Union.

4. Subj to call in whenever he hears from Lorinov about a meet.

FAX

Note: Subj, in anticipation of his housing arrangement of his new agent, requests that by April (or during April) we procure for him 1 case of Scotch, 1 case of Condé, a case of white wife, and a case of Fec - if it is possible, the C.O. suggests gradual accumulation of this lot over the next two months.