Bureau's position, both then and now, apparently is that Souza has little potential as an asset for internal security matters and therefore would not justify any substantial financial obligation. In very low key, it was made clear to O'Brien that the Agency was interested in Souza's Positive Intelligence potential (his access in Havana should be good, given his long friendship with Roa and his closeness to María Celia Girona Fernández (201-327421), cousin of Celia Sánchez Manduley) and well might find justification for providing modest security for Souza's old age.

12. Throughout our conversation it appeared clear that O'Brien was of the opinion that there may be a role for the Agency in the Souza operation. We asked him, therefore, whether or not he felt Souza may still be interested in feathering his nest and, if so, if it would be bureaucracically possible to get word to Souza that such a possibility existed. O'Brien felt that Souza would still be interested and he was of the opinion that he could get the point across to Souza via double talk in a telephone conversation. This approach was accepted and it was agreed that O'Brien would advise us of the results after the call was made. If prospects appeared encouraging, it was agreed that we would then get together again to discuss the next step which might entail arranging direct contact with Souza. O'Brien noted that Souza lives in Jackson Heights and usually drives to work. Possibly a contact could be arranged somewhere along the route. The foregoing generally covers the extent of our discussion regarding Souza. When I met with O'Brien again on 16 September just prior to my departure for Washington, I requested that he not take any action on the Souza case in our behalf until he heard something further from me.

13. During our meeting we reviewed other members of the Cuban Mission with particular reference to DGI types. O'Brien noted that Chafik Homero Saker Zenni (201-335014) undoubtedly is the senior member of the DGI group but even so he was not thought to be particularly active. He reported that Saker had been in contact with Lee Lockwood (see above) on several recent occasions but nothing was known of the nature of the meetings. He also noted that the Bureau was in contact with Saker's Cuban girl friend in New York City whom they had just traced without surfacing any derogatory information. She is cooperating and the Bureau is optimistic about her potential. He did not provide the girl's name but indicated that we should hear about her shortly through channels. O'Brien also acknowledged that the Bureau has a penetration of Prensa Latina in New York. He did not provide the name or any details but on the basis of his comments we pre-

5