(When Filled In)

11 August 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Charlott & Bostn-Vilola

THROUGH : Head of G3 Career Service

SUBJECT : Notification of Non-eligibility for Designation as a Participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability System

1. As you may know, we are in the process of reviewing the employment history and current career field of all employees in the Agency to identify those who are eligible for designation as a participant in the new CIA Retirement and Disability System. In this process, the initial review of each case is made by the individual's Career Service. If the Head of his Career Service nominates him for participation in the System, this nomination is reviewed by the CIA Retirement Board which recommends final action to me. However, if the Head of the Career Service advises that the employee does not meet the basic requirements of HR 20-50 for participation, I have accepted this finding without further review by the CIA Retirement Board. This practice has been adopted in the interest of expediting this screening process so that those employees who are eligible to participate in the System may be designated participants as soon as possible.

2. In your case, the Head of your Career Service has advised me that you do not meet the requirements of HR 20-50 for designation as a participant and I have accordingly made the formal determination required by the regulation that you are not eligible for designation. From a review of your record it appears that the decision of your Career Service was based upon the fact that you do not have sufficient time prior to completing 15 years of service with the Agency in which you could complete a minimum of 60 months of qualifying service as required by regulation. My determination that you are not eligible at this time for designation in no way affects your current status under the Civil Service Retirement System, nor does it preclude consideration of your eligibility to participate in the CIA System if you should meet the requirements for designation in the future.

3. Should you desire further information concerning the requirements for designation as a participant in the CIA Retirement System, I suggest that you read paragraph e of HR 20-50 and paragraph 5 of the Employee Bulletin dated 30 July 1965, entitled "Public Law 88-643, The Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees."

4. It is always possible that the records upon which the determination made in your case may have been incomplete or inaccurate regarding your actual employment history with the Agency. If, after studying the materials cited above, you have questions regarding the determination that you are not eligible to participate in the CIA Retirement System, please feel free to contact officials of your Career Service. They are familiar with the details of your case and will gladly discuss them with you. In addition, you may wish to discuss your case with the CIA Retirement Staff located in Room 205, Magazine Building (extension 2847). If such discussions do not resolve any questions you have regarding your eligibility, you may request that your case be formally considered by the CIA Retirement Board. However, this request must be made within 30 days of the date of this memorandum.

E. H. D. Echols Director of Personnel