at all. the Encounter thing. She doesn't really like it. I hate to mention this.

Revolution and all— She can accept that. The fact is, the reason we have our financial problem, to a certain extent, but— is, because her family is by no means poor. My brother-in-law who has carried us for months, has to pay rent, right this week, and she has practically told him we didn't what he says. So now, there I am, you know. This has caused— I respect, I know what her problem is— very often children that come from very wealthy homes—and her family— She comes from the poorest branch of her family, which is quite wealthy in this country. It's an Anglo-Jewish family, has a sort of monopoly on kosher food prepared kosher food here, sort of like a Manischevitz operation- or racket. One of the relatives is — they're all in business. Her brother, one brother, is constantly having business faliures. He's a very nice fellow, and all, but at one point he made phonographs, now the last thing, he made tape recorders, a little transistor tape recorder, but that's just flopped too. The other brother is a chartered accountant. He has his own firm in the City, which does quite well. He's married. His father and mother living with him.

She gets along very poorly with him. And while I was away, unfortunately relations deteriorated to such a point that I had to tell them don't know quite how I'm going to.

She's happy that she's got this job in the Indonesian Embassy. The only thing she's not happy about is the salary but she likes the job.— It's not serious. The Indonesians spend most of the time telling her, stories about people. If I take a job in this thing in the Indonesian Embassy, the practically in a state of war with Indonesia. Although my wife is English that doesn't give me an automatic right to stay in England, not that I'm terribly (eager) — to be in England. I would much rather be some place on the Continent. I would much rather, for instance.. take a job with some sort of a bureau — Obviously that's out of the question. I could never get a security clearance, but I think a job with some sort of international organization—UN, in Paris, Rome, or Geneva, which would be for me, information. I'd be quite happy at that. As for working for an American outfit, I can't see much possibility either, except this sort of free lance business, which could perhaps be extended, that I would certainly like, but it is precarious— when you have kids, and then, say, what I feel pretty solid commitments by one person's will here— and then 3000 miles of water in between— Brakes at unseasonable!