in the U.S., he reported his address as 4000 NW Fourth Street, Miami, Florida, telephone number 445-7193, home of a lady named Mercedes BORGES Dobarros. Manuel also stated that he would later leave for 433 West 49th Street, New York, N.Y., home of Antonio GOMEZ Lemos. Manuel told I-122 that he and his friend, Jorge BORGES Dobarros, were homosexuals and had been living together since approximately 1963. (Jorge BORGES Dobarros arrived in Miami aboard the same Refugee Airlift flight as Manuel. He is a brother of Mercedes BORGES Dobarros, and he and Manuel went to live in Mercedes' house when they arrived in Miami).

We believe that Manuel cannot be used in an approach to Subject because they have not maintained relations for a long period of years. In addition, Subject might know Manuel' weakness (homosexualism) and might take advantage of this knowledge to blackmail Manuel. Manuel also told I-122 that he had received psychiatric treatment in Havana.

Assessment:

Subject's present position; the positions, all of them important, which he has held before; and the fact that he has been reported as a DGI officer, lead us to believe that we do not have many possibilities of success in an attempt to recruit or defect Subject. The fact that Subject's father has been a militant Communist since prior to 1959 and that Subject's wife has been reported as a supporter of the regime should not be forgotten.

Subject's revolutionary background during the struggle against BATISTA seems to indicate that he is in favor of acts of terrorism. This gave him knowledge and experience in matters related to subversive activities and/or intelligence activities which he could use later.

Therefore, we believe that Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez must be a very useful person for the Cuban regime, in Spain. He has experience in negotiating trade agreements and in handling administrative affairs (he has been working in this field for more than ten years). All this knowledge and experience added to his knowledge and experience in subversive and intelligence affairs make him a man who is not often found in the Castro regime.

1. OTA-1858, 16 January 1970, contains information and/or file traces on Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez, his wife, and other members of his family. OTA-1858 also contains or lists all other references or reports in which Subject has been mentioned.

2. We have the following new traces on Subject and his wife: