In: . as soon as the detach- ment, - situation in the country, - minutes of "Marian" life, of fan- - is and friends. We reached the do- - tachment's camping grounds toward - evening of the third day. That day - we had a hot meal. It was my first - "guerilla" dinner - soup, toast, squar- - tel (very tasty, I must say) and, of - course, coffee. I spent several days - with the guerillas, learning to know - these brave patriots, their habits, - aspirations, ideals and plans.

The commander of the detach- ment-for understandable reasons I or his name-is a 23-year-old of- ficer, who after graduating from the Military Academy, attended a Yan- kee-run "anti-guerilla warfare" training centre. His patricide feel- ing moved him to go over to the side of the people and devote himself heart and soul to the struggle for fair and just justice. Before joining the garit- lice he was one of the leaders of the Allandra de Leon, November 14th, 1968. He (so named in honour of an alleged uprising, in November 1660) or a group of democratically-minded looters against the virtual Edvira- buens government, the government; was supplied and Magnaedia de Leon, or of the insurrection officers who continued the struggle, was then held by the civil police forces). The department consists of a, w, h, has very active and认真地 s k - it is much loved and respected by his comrades-in-arms, and by me, . , . of the resistance. The "anti-gu- rilla" men-hate him intensely.

It is more than a year now that the department has been in the main force. Its members come from various parts of the country: from the city, from Bacatua and other cities, from the Verapaz, San Juan, Zama, and Belal provinces. They are lawyers and politicians, students, civil men and women. In addition to different intellectual levels

only learned to read and write in the (detailed) law of war, of life, - , . of politics and public views and - of the relations fund. There are - : . from 21 to 30. But whether - he or Proletariat, Communist - Party, any of them are united - an d d u n d e r to all the coun- - its one-old backwardness and - monopoly domineering,

detachment has taken the name of Eltar Barca, a popular student leader. Besides being a leader of the United Front of Guatemalan Students, Barca was a member of the Communist youth organization and the Union of Patriotic Working Youth. Everywhere, in the university, in street demonstrations, in clauses with the police, he influenced a revolutionary epistil in the student strata." One of the first civilies to join the guerilla force, he was issued in one of the battles fued at by the Alboran Península front. Now the detail at arms, after him and the others, have found with other a . aļegos to form a sin- - e w - the Aracatá III. Forces.

First the First the Second Plan a quent! composed the military group, a V.II work team, the person of the weight in selling - es. The beg. to . Die . the Dam with state block and to the road and working to whole families. This has won the support of the people. While I was with the general, one at Pan. 6/11. A young man, I did not know the map, and this over the end of a car, and finally, and - . I will not be a joker. Here in the detachment at Pan. 6/11 I was satisfied and happy. We have a friend and women compared, and I house it well in my heart."

R. M. - a vital parameter, as inOmega depends, in the north. The rising up of the country from west to east of Sun- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -