The impact of the Congress on Berlin was terrific and Reuter's part significant. The whole city was very eager and receptive and paid an extraordinary amount of attention to all of the Congress activities. The book display at the Congress itself was only fairly effective, but was extremely telling in the book stores throughout Western sectors, which made special displays of the books and photographs of the authors. Broadcasting by radio RLS seems to have been more or less nominal, although RLS cut tapes of all of the Congress speeches, but the Voice of America team did a first-class and absolutely outstanding job. The Congress was given big coverage by VCRs in several languages. In addition to the records of European publicity that are on hand, a considerable additional amount was produced. For instance, there was daily broadcasting of a French radio station and sporadic broadcasting coverage by other stations. There was a large amount of publicity in France and England and a substantial amount in Italy, Sweden and other countries. Special articles are still appearing in the European press and periodicals. The influence of the Congress on a number of important literary and political leaders appears to be very significant. This was especially true in the case of Frenay and Silone, both of whom under-went an apparent conversion due to the operations of the Congress. On the other hand, the composition of the Congress was unbalanced nationally and also because it was too leftist, too radical.

The irritation caused by the Trevor-Roper article in the Manchester Guardian was a reflection of the attitude of three members of the British delegation, Trevor-Roper, Ayer, and Peter de Lendelssohn. Actually, Lendelssohn (an old buddy of Lasky's) was the cause of the trouble. He is a second-rate writer, a neurotic, frustrated intellectual, who had a chip on his shoulder and unquestionably inspired Trevor-Roper and Ayer with his spirit of antagonism. Another complication was the fact that Ayer and Hoestler have been intellectual rivals and bitterly dislike each other. Ayer was infuriated by Hoestler's prominence and commu-nicated this antagonism to Trevor-Roper. The letter is an exces-sively conceited man (Burnhan added at this point that almost all intellectuals are excessively conceited) and was openly annoyed because he did not figure in the proceedings with sufficient prom-inence. ("Incidentally," says Burnhan, "Trevor-Roper's description of Hoestler as a 'rootless European' follows Pravda, which uses that term as a general description for Jews.") The annoyance felt by Trevor-Roper and Ayer at their relegation to minor roles in comparison to Hoestler found its outlet in articles which both of