21 April, 1969

CONTACT REPORT

A. Agent: LIRING/3

B. Date & Site of Meeting: 1000, 21/4/69; Camino Real Restaurant.

Next Meeting: Same time, place; 25/4/69

D. Reports/Information Given by Agent:

LIRING/3 apologized for not having been able to make the last scheduled meeting with Rowton, 1000 on 18/4/69. He explained that his friend, Iden B , had unexpectedly dropped in to see him at that time and he felt it more important to see him again than to make the meeting with Rowton ( he subsequently left a message with Rowton's answering service).

LIRING/3 continued that he explained to Iden B the emotional strain that LIRING/4 was undergoing as a result of the bad news concerning her father's health. He then asked Iden B to attempt to ascertain the true state of his health through the LIRING Office in New York and gave Iden B the name and telephone number of the aunt of LIRING/4 who appeared to be the best source. Iden B , according to LIRING/3 promised to send a message with the next pouch and hoped to have news for LIRING/3 within the next ten days.

According to LIRING/3, Iden B then suggested that LIRING/3 think about moving to PERUEN for a "lengthy stay, perhaps indefinitely." He explained that he felt he understood LIRING/3's problems, the difficulties, the subtle persecution and the resultant increasingly difficult financial situation he found himself in, and he felt there was no real solution in Mexico. In PERUEN, however, he could arrange much more easily for his wife and child, since most of his basic financial problems would be solved. He added that he was sure that he could find LIRING/3 some sort of work in the cultural field as soon as he returned to PERUEN and then arrange an invitation. LIRING/3 told Rowton that although he regarded this proposition as encouraging ( since he was certain that Iden B had prior approval from the LIRING Office), he took a natural and logical approach in replying to Iden B He stated that he told Iden B that in principle he agreed but he had to face the realities of the situation. First he was not at all certain that he could convince his wife to make such a move, and second, he was not optimistic that Iden B could arrange a good position for him in PERUEN that would permit him to work seriously and, of course, make enough money to meet his living expenses. Iden B

,