SECRET, BY RAT

THE ABove-mentioned norw of the night of in November 1961 at approximately 2100 hours what seemed to be a suspicious situation in attempting to service the LiBuck safeco. As indicated on the attached diagram, the subject parked his automobile two blocks away as indicated on the diagram and approached the target by way of Panuco Street. In the approach running the subject noted a blue Flat parked at the corner of Lerma and Hudson Streets with two male occupants. As the undersigned, on foot, approached the corner of Panuco and Hudson he noticed another Flat parked at the very corner with three occupants. Remembering the other Flat at the end of the block, which was quite visible from the corner of Panuco and Hudson, the undersigned decided to delay entry into the safehouse and casually walk down the block. The undersigned cut across Hudson Street to avoid walking close to the parked car and as he walked on Lerma, noticed the presence of a slow moving car behind him. This did not arouse too much suspicion since this area apparently specializes in street walkers and the local "tenories" cruise the streets looking for them. As the undersigned reached the parked Q.P. car at the corner of Lerma and Duaro the slow moving auto came abreast of the car and the driver almost stopped and stared at the undersigned as he attempted to unlock the car to depart the area. By this time the undersigned got suspicious and attempted to read the license plate, but the plate illumination bulb was out on the suspicious vehicle. The undersigned got in his own car, started down Lerma, passed the suspicious car which immediately fell in behind the undersigned. Not convinced yet of the intent of the following car, the undersigned drove toward Mississippi and made like he was continuing down on Lerma. At the last moment the undersigned swerved into Mississippi, narrowly missing getting clobbered by a vehicle coming down Mississippi. The suspicious vehicle, who was right behind, had to gun his auto to get out of the way so that he had to go straight across Lerma. The undersigned noted as he made the sudden turn into Mississippi that the other vehicle braked as soon as he passed Mississippi and, it seemed to the under-signed, was backing up toward Mississippi. At this point the undersigned poured the coal into the old Green Hornet and left the area. The undersigned then want to the Polanco Bowling Alley instead of home, bowled for approximately an hour and then returned at 2300 hours to inspect the area of action once more. The area was completely free of any parked autos. The undersigned cruised around the area for approximately 35 minutes but could not spot either one of the two Flats.

Conclusions: (a) As previously stated, there may have been nothing to this incident, and perhaps the autos in question were merely the joy cars looking for customers, but at any rate the set-up looked suspicious therefore the undersigned did not service the safehouse in question.

(b) Douglas NISLEY reported to the undersigned that his records that a suspected Polish intelligence agent, Josef DEJ, resided at Hudson 11, two doors down from the LINLUCK safehouse. It is possible that the surveillance may have been on DEJ and that the undersigned blundered into an unpleasant situation.

(c) LINLUCK reported on 14 November 1961 that it was possible that he was under surveillance and it is possible that he was followed to the safehouse.