SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola

1. On 23 October, Mr. Robert Starling of DCD called to say that Matthew McVane (phonetic), a DCD officer who is stationed in Miami, Florida, had received a telephone call from a San Diego attorney saying that he was mailing a subpoena to him. The attorney, E. Mac Amos, Jr., is a member of the law firm of Holt, Rhodes and Hollywood at 1010 Second Avenue, San Diego, California 92101, telephone No. (AC 714) 238-1712. Mr. Amos advised Mr. McVane that the subpoena was for his appearance on behalf of Mr. Merola who was on trial in San Diego.

2. Mr. Starling indicated that the charges against Merola had something to do with exporting airplane parts without a license. I called Mr. Clyde Bryant, Office of Munitions Control, Department of State, to determine if this prosecution was related to 22 U.S.C. 1934. Mr. Bryant called back and said that Merola was one of seven defendants being tried on criminal fraud charges for having engaged in a dimflam operation against the Salvadorian government. The scheme was to establish a facility in Salvador to assemble and service helicopters. The group had assembled a collection of Army surplus parts for helicopters and was in the process of shipping them without an export license and they were seized by U.S. Customs officers on 21 February 1974. Mr. Bryant indicated that the Assistant U.S. Attorney in San Diego in charge of the prosecution was a Mr. Robert Thaller, telephone No. (AC 714) 293-5668. Mr. Bryant also indicated that an individual by the name of Henry Maierhoffer was also one of the defendants and it was Mr. Bryant's recollection that Maierhoffer had some previous connection with CIA.

3. I called Mr. Starling and reported this information to him and he said that Mr. Merola was a real operator in the Miami area, always involved in some scheme to buy and sell weapons but that he had volunteered information to the DCD Office, some of which was useful. I asked Mr. Starling to have Mr. McVane call me when he got the subpoena but that he would not have to go unless they furnished the travel funds.

cc: Chief/DCD Distribution - OVER

John K. Greaney Associate General Counsel