23 JAN 1973

MEMORANDUM IN LIEU OF FITNESS REPORT

SUBJECT: N. Scott MILER-1 April 1970 - 29 February 1972

1. Mr. Miller directs and supervises the Operations Group of CI Staff consisting of 21 people, 16 of whom are officers. This Group gives staff day-to-day guidance, program support and technical guidance and review to the Clandestine Service's area Divisions and Branches on the Agency's current counterintelligence operations and activity. This Group reviews Agency counterintelligence operational plans, projects and amendments. It judges their technical feasibility and recommends changes and/or approval of such operations and programs.

Mr. Miller supervises personally the activity of his operational personnel in the performance of these duties. He conducts liaison, including specialized reporting and participates in working groups with other U.S. government components, in particular with the FBI, on operations and matters of sensitive counterintelligence and counterespionage as directed by the Chief, CI Staff.

Under the direction of Chief, CI Staff he participates in the Inter-Agency Working Group concerned with operational deception. In the course of his work he formulates CI policies, procedures and guidelines, develops new ideas and approaches and targets for CI operational and research projects that cut across Agency and government lines and require central coordination.

2. Mr. Miller plans, develops and conducts special cases including the handling of live operational sources as directed by C/CI Staff. He takes an active part in the maintenance, development and participation in sensitive, personal level working relations with the intelligence and security representatives of four foreign countries.

3. Mr. Miller is one of our counterintelligence leaders. He has a tremendous capacity for hard work and a willingness to perform the work without reference to time or personal interest. He is an extremely loyal individual. He has an extraordinary memory for operations and an ability to work constructively and usefully with details. He is ambitious, self-confident, a driving leader who is

E.2 IMPET CL. BY 055431

STCRLT

24 JAN JAL