FBI Told of Chilean Plot to U.

By Joe Crankshaw The Miami Herald

MIAMI—The Chilean secret police last February attempted to recruit two alleged Cuban exile terrorists to assassinate the nephew of Chile's late deposed Marxist President Salvador Allende, a ranking South American intelligence official told U.S. authorities.

The Intelligence official, Ricardo Morales of the Venezuelan secret police, told FBI contacts that Chile's secret police (DINA) sought the assassination of both Andres Pascal Allende and his companion, Anne Marie Brussier, according to documents made available to The Miami Herald.

Morales, himself a Cuban exile, said the DINA plot, which was never carried out, was reported to him by Orlando Otero, who currently faces trial in Miami on 39 felony charges related to nine terrorist bombings here.

[Suspicions of Chilean secret police involvement in plots against political exiles have been widely expressed in emigre circles.] This was the first reported instance of an allegation to the FBI by a high-ranking intelligence official suggesting complicity of the

Chilean Intelligence service in political assassination activities. Morales had himself been associated with the Central Intelligence Agency and FBI as an operative and informant after fleeing Cuba following Castro's accession to power.]

At the time of Morales' report to the FBI, Otero was a fugitive from a Miami federal grand jury indictment related to the bombings. He was subsequently acquitted of that charge earlier this year at a federal trial in Jacksonville.

Morales quoted Otero as saying DINA had attempted to recruit both Otero and Orlando Bosch for the assassination. Bosch was charged in Venezuela last week with first-degree murder in the sabotage of a Cuban airliner that claimed 73 lives.

Morales quoted Otero as saying DINA offered arms and funds to Cuban exile groups.

Otero refused to do the "favor," left Chile and told the Latin American intelligence official on Feb. 15, then returned to Santiago. He was arrested two weeks later and held until he was handed over to the United States in May.

Bosch was arrested entering Costa Rica with a false passport on Feb. 19. He was charged with plotting to kill U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, Andres Pascal Allende, and Anne Marie Brussier.

No trial was held and Bosch was later deported. He returned to Santiago and apparently remained there until going to the Caribbean area to organize CORU, a militant anti-Castro group, which claimed credit for the Cuban airliner bombing last month.

Morales made the reports to the FBI in an exchange of intelligence with U.S. officials about exiled terrorists' plots.

An FBI spokesman in Washington said Monday the bureau would have no comment on the reported DINA plot [FBI officials in Caracas had no comment on the case in response to independent inquiries by The Washington Post].

Information on alleged DINA Cuban exile conspiracy against the surviving Allende family and government members was suppressed during the federal bombing trial of Otero in Jacksonville in September, 1976.