(Cc)

- Cambridge, Mass., USA

- Attended: Sept. 1947 to Sept. 1948 - A.B. degree awarded, 1948 (in History) - Completed: University requirements completed: M.D. in Medicine

Curriculum:

- Ancient Greek History - English: History from 1600 - U.S. Government - Accounting - Social Philosophy - Science on the New Deal: "The Consumer Party in the New deal" - Chemistry of the Human Body - Chemistry of the Universe - Theory of Knowledge - Social Problems - Director: Reading in American and English History.

In addition, I audited the following courses:

- The Evolution of Man - Governmental Regulation of Industry - U.S. Intellectual History - American Social and Cultural History - The British Empire - European Intellectual History in the 18th & 11th Centuries.

I also entered a lecture course on college algebra.

Educational recommendations may be obtained from Miss Florence Leetch, Graduate Placement Office, Farlow House, Cambridge, Massachusetts)

SEC. 14-3 - (continued from p. 7)

2500 AL INFORMATION-EDUCATION SPECIALIST (MILITARY), (1944-46)

(1) After completing the A&T course at Yale, I was assigned to the 82nd Infantry, 78th Division, Camp Pickett, Va. while there, I completed "Orientation Lectures covering world news and background material on the war" (May 11-June 16, 1944).

(2) Because of my limited-service status, I was transferred to the Supply Section, 1st B.C.U., at Camp Pickett. I performed the duties of a unit Info & Education lecturer -- lecturing on history and current events, maintaining maps and bulletins on battle areas, and enrolling soldiers in LSAFI correspondence courses (May-July 1944). As a result of this work, I was promoted to the Post Info & Education Office.

(3) The Post Information & Education Office had to plan, produce, and disseminate war information and non-military education for all troops permanently stationed at Camp Pickett, and for a hospital on the grounds. The purpose of that program was to help troops to understand why and what we were fighting, and to understand their role in that fight. It was here that building through information.

As Non-Commissioned Officer for the Info & Education Office, I performed both administrative and functional duties. I aided in the development and execution of the policies and content of the education program, and was in immediate charge of the weekly instructional program.

The following are the duties I performed: