Also he was very rough with the airplane in pitch control. On ILS approaches he would vary the manifold pressure from 12" to 30" to try and stay on the glide slope. On short field landing and takeoff after about six of them he started approaching the procedures I was trying to show him, but I was convinced as soon as I left the area he would return to his own style of flying. I recommended that at the end of his six month contract which was about 30 days away he be terminated.

Iden F - This man had previous C-46 experience of about 2000 hours. He showed great interest and did a good job from the beginning. I recommended he be used as PIC in C-46's.

Iden F - This man was suppose to have had a good deal of experience, but his flying left very much to be desired. He had just been convalescening from amebic dysentery. He replied when asked, that he felt up to flying but his performance was very poor. He decided he still didn't feel up to flying and returned to the doctor's care.

Iden G - Had previous multi-engine experience and co-pilot time in the B-26's. He progressed satisfactory and with 7420 hours was released to the field to fly in right seat to observe tactics and gain more experience before moving to left seat as PIC.

Iden H - Had limited experience, however, he was very interested and applied himself to the task of checking out in the B-26K. He was very helpful in reproducing power limitations and power setting for the CB-16-17 series engine and also reproduced the P&W pamphlet on the CB-16-17 series engines, which I had brought along as a training aid. This was made required reading material for all B-26 drivers. This man rode along as an observer while Iden G was being trained, which aided him when he started flying. I recommended he also be released to the field and ride the right seat to observe tactics and gain more experience before flying missions in the left seat.

Iden I - The Chief, Pilot of the group is a very capable pilot who applies himself very well. He appears to be interested in improving the professional standards of his pilots. I had several rides with him (6420) until I felt he would be able to instruct the rest of the pilots in the proper procedures to be used in the B-26K's.

The training program was quite curtailed by the restrictions to Iden K. Most of the pilots were required to remain out in the field to meet operational needs. Also only one B-26 was available in Iden K which

This image does not contain any tables.