TO Chief of Station, Manila HEADQUARTERS FILE NO PPM-5525

B6O 201-41581

FROM Chief, Far East Division DATE 00716 1:39

SUBJECT RE: "43-2" - (CHECK "X" ONE)

I. IRVING DAVIDSON MARKED FOR INDEXING X

None INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

REFERENCE(S):

PPMA-64/70, 13 May 1958, Transmittal of MIRAVELIN Tap Transcripts

1. The information obtained in the name check of DAVIDSON reveals that Subject is an aggressive international businessman who would possibly participate in any business proposition for a commission; however, when negotiating with representatives of other countries, Subject usually protects himself by reporting the business proposition to a U.S. Government agency or official. The name check reveals that the relationship between Drew Pearson and MIRAVELIN may have resulted from Subject's personal contact with both men. The information re MIRAVELIN may have reached Pearson through Subject's office associates.

2. The following are the details of the check on Subject:

Subject, a U.S. citizen, born 19 January 1921, is married and maintains his residence and office in Washington, D.C. As reported by KUJUP, 8 November 1955, Subject shared his office suite in the Wyatt Building with James Farriss, a former OACID employee, and Jack Northam Anderson and Frederick G. Blumenthal, Washington representatives of PARADE magazine. Frederick G. Blumenthal is a former Drew Pearson leg-man while Anderson continues to work for Pearson.

An OENVI report dated 6 November 1957, stated that Subject filed a registration statement, No. 836, 18 April 1955, with the Foreign Agents Registration Section, Department of Justice. Subject listed as his foreign principal President A. Somosa, Republic of Nicaragua. The nature and purpose of his representing the foreign principal was given as purchasing agent for various bureaus of the Republic of Nicaragua, including the military forces. He also stated that he dealt in general public relations and was self-employed. Another OENVI report of 18 June 1957 stated that Subject listed his occupation as a Public Relations Counsel and Business Consultant in a report to a local credit bureau. The report indicated that Subject previously spent some time in Cuba, Mexico, Nicaragua, and the Dominican Republic and is well acquainted with various business and government officials in the above-mentioned locations.

On several occasions in the past Subject volunteered information to various government agencies and offered his assistance to the U.S. Government. In an OENVI report dated 15 September 1950, Subject advised that through a friend, Max Henriques, who Subject claimed to be a representative for the Dominican Republic to the United Nations, Subject had become acquainted with Vincente Toledano, and was sufficiently close to him to obtain important information concerning activities of the Communist Party in Mexico. Subject offered his assistance to the U.S. Government in this matter. According to a KUJUP report, submitted by the Office of International Trade, dated 1953, Subject furnished information regarding travel in 1950 between Mexico and the USSR and information on trans-shipments through Mexico.

FORM

10-57 S3

(40) USE PREVIOUS EDITION <br