MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CI: HEADQUARTERS BY HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

WINSTON, HENRY-201-6887 Vol II of III

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1966 — CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: C/ ROOM: DELETIONS, IF ANY: Third Agency Documents

DATE RECEIVED DATE RETURNED REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

3 sep '75 3 sep '75 Betsy Wolf Betsy Wolf

3 may / 23 may Betsy Wolf JONANNA SMITH Betsy Wolf Shelia Smith

7 nov. '78 BETSY WOLF Betsy Wolf

201-6887 VOL II of III

FEBRUARY 1975

GOUVERNEMENTAL COMMITTEES TO REVIEW ASSASSINSATION CASES, 1966-2017

NO DUPLICATES MAY BE MADE, DISTRIBUTED OR USED FOR any purpose without the written permission of the respective copyright holders. All other rights are reserved. This file is not part of any electronic library or database, and should be treated as a single original document. The Electronic Library or Database of the United States Government is not responsible for its accuracy, completeness, or suitability for any particular purpose. The Electronic Library or Database of the United States Government does not assume any liability for the accuracy,完整性,或Suitability for any purpose of the contents of this electronic library or database. It is the responsibility of the user to determine the accuracy,完整性,或 Suitability for his or her purposes. The Electronic Library or Database of the United States Government's Electronic Library or Database contains information that has not been published previously by any government agency or organization, nor is it a replication of existing publications. No person can make publically available information that he or she did not create. Therefore, no person has created or derived the content of this publication and cannot be held responsible for its accuracy,完整性,或 Suitability for any purpose. However, if you believe that the content of this publication is inaccurate, incomplete, or otherwise incorrect, please contact the Electronic Library or Database immediately. The Electronic Library or Database may remove all copies of this publication from its online database and return them to the producer. In such cases, the Electronic Library or Database will provide you with a link to the removed version, which you may then use in your own works. Please do not use the links if you have access to the original publication. The Electronic Library or Database requests that you notuse its links to the full text of documents, but rather that youuse them to find and obtain other sources of information that may be useful to you in your research or other activities. The Electronic Library or Database also requests that younotuse its links to the images of individuals and organizations, but ratherthat theybe usedby youin your research or other activities. The Electronic Library or Database requests that you notuse its links to the images of individuals and organizations, but rather that they be used by you in your research or other activities. The Electronic Library or Database may remove all copies of this publication and return them to the producer. The Electronic Library or Database requests that you notuse its links to the full text of documents, but rather that they be returned to the producer. The Electronic Library or Database may remove all copies of this publication and return them to the producer. The Electronic Library or Database requests that you notuse its links to the full text of documents, but rather that they be returned to the producer. The Electronic Library or Database may remove all copies of this publication and return them to the producer. The Electronic Library or Database requests that you notuse its links to the full text of documents, but rather that they be returned to the producer. The Electronic Library or Database may remove all copies of this publication and return them to the producer. The Electronic Library or Database requests that you notuse its links to the full text of documents, but rather that they be returned to the producer. The Electronic Library or Database may remove all copies of this publication and