CONTROLLED DISSEM CONFIDENTIAL NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Honduras REPORT NO. OO-B 321/33715-69

SUBJECT Anti-American Sentiment/Apparent Industrial Incentive/Purchase of Armament DATE DISTR-19 NOV 1969 NC PAGES-1 REFERENCES CIRL LA2-69 (2356)

DATE OF INFO. Oct 69 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Tegucigalpa/Oct 69

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE Naturalized US citizen who worked and lived in Honduras for a number of years. He has social and business contacts with officials of the government, the armed forces and the business community.

[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1. For over five years I have been in close contact with Hondurans of different backgrounds and social position. Never before have I seen the anti-American sentiment which is sweeping Honduras at the present time. The feeling is not only evident among student and labor organizations, but among sectors of what is considered to be the best informed and educated individuals in the country. Most of them are convinced that the US has the influence to exert diplomatic pressures on El Salvador in order to settle the pending border dispute, but has failed to do so. They see the US Government as favoring El Salvador.

2. During conversations with several government officials they emphatically stated that Honduras was not going to open the Pan American Highway to Salvadoran traffic. This is the attitude of almost everybody that I talked with. This single issue has served to unite the country like never before. There is a new feeling of patriotism which was lacking before the conflict with El Salvador.

3. The campaign against Salvadoran products has resulted in an incentive for Honduran investors. I have had several inquiries from Honduran businessmen who are interested in establishing production facilities for consumer articles which were normally imported from El Salvador. These individuals are eager to invest and establish factories in order to fill the demand for products which were imported from El Salvador.

4. Honduras has been purchasing arms and ammunition from Portuguese and Belgian sources. Some of this armament has arrived in the country. According to a military informant most of the armament has not been delivered, but is expected in the country before the end of the year.

- end -

U YES

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

GROUP I Honduras has毒 Cocaine

S YES

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph B of DCID-1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organizations or personnel including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the