AMWORLD Meeting in New York, 6 October 1964

SUBJECT: AMWORLD Contingency Plans

1. AMJAVA-4 said that AMBIDDY-1 was very enthusiastic about the AMEIJEURAS operation and felt this was the real key to success of our program to overthrow the Castro regime. He is prepared to concentrate on this operation completely for the immediate future.

2. I asked A-4 if they had done any planning on the basis that the AMEIJEURAS operation might not pan out. He asked me directly whether a decision had been made to continue or to cut off support to AMWORLD. I told him that a decision had not been made but that my Headquarters was very interested in the outcome of the AMEIJEURAS operation on which he was working. He recognized the importance of this operation and stated that he and A-1 had conjectured that future support to AMWORLD might be contingent on success or failure of their handling of that case. I did not confirm or deny this point but told him that the organization would surely be happy if they were able to handle it with success.

3. A-4 then explained that he and A-1 had spent considerable time discussing the future of their program and their prospects vis a vis the Agency. He said that in their opinion one of two things would happen; either the AMEIJEURAS operation would pay off in which case they would be able to continue to operate with Agency support but with a diversion of major objectives or the operation would peter out, in which case they would have to consider what to do without Agency support. He said that A-1 was not only prepared to accept a diversion of primary objective but felt that present circumstances dictated the wisdom of such a move. However, both of them feel that their present paramilitary program must be continued, not because it is crucial to the outcome of the Cuban situation, but because the strength which they exhibit through these operations is the only attraction to AMWORLD that has caused the AMEIJEURAS group to contact them.

FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31

(IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)

AMWORLD