August 26, 1969.

Contact Report

Subject: Jimmy SABORI (P-13,870).

Date of Meet: August 26 at Chez Rene at 1400 hrs

1. The meet was prearranged and S came on time. The meet lasted two hours and 30 minutes.

WRY: Morn; Sept 8 at the same place at 1400 hrs.

2. S apologized for not bringing the copy of the report he gave to AEDIEHARD: he did not think of it this morning when he left the house.

3. I told S that the fact that AEDIEHARD would remain here at least five additional month did not please me, because I was not able to let the things go the way they were going until now and be just an observer. In reply to my questions S stated he was ready and determined to anything we tell him to do: he is willing to drop the association with AEDIEHARD; he is equally ready to do or tell AEDIEHARD anything we instruct him even if it was certain that AEDIEHARD would drop him; he is willing to go through any doing we consider necessary. I believe S was sincere in his statements.

4. I told S not to call A under any circumstances before their next meet (Sept 10); keep away from the Chinese Embassy; if he gets the add from Luau Restaurant S can advise him by phone; take proof of the article as was promised but avoid any comr whatsoever; if Josephine feels like going to the French Club on Sat (Aug 30) S can go with her, but I see no point in him going along alone. S stated that he understood what he was told and he would not do a move without checking with me.

5. S asked in a matter of fact tone that he would like to know where he could work with us; Did we want him to carry out the work we request for patriotic reasons; do we intend give him a salary or make a worthwhile present. I told him that he can rest sure that we realized that he was not in a financial position to be able to work out of patriotic feelings, and consequently, he would be paid for his work as much as it is worth to us.

6. No next meeting: According to the statement of Dr Enrique SOLANOS Cacho, cousin of GDO with whom GDO plays domino every Tuesday.