Question: What is the main objective of the counterrevolutionary groups?

Answer: The main objective of the counterrevolutionary groups was to prevent the return of the Batista, and to stop the暴政.

Question: Do you see any links with us?

Answer: Yes, there are.

Question: What were these bullets prepared for?

Answer: These bullets were prepared over there in Cuba. (Cuban--thoracic) This means that an organization called (CIAT) asked to provide them, in spite of it's facts that I know nothing about it. For instance on June 2, to make sure of the death of the individuals against those leaders. It was made, but they were for specific attacks.

Question: What plans were made in the United States or among the counterrevolutionary circles, what is the main objective sought?

Answer: Well, the physical elimination of the leader of the Cuban revolution, Fidel Castro.

Question: The physical elimination of Fidel Castro?

Answer: Yes, sure.

Question: Those counterrevolutionary groups which operate from Florida, first mainly do they have the approval of the North American government for their actions?

Answer: Almost entirely. For example the most important acts were there were armed cell groups to obtain dollars from the US Department of State assistance, but then the close links among all the organizations, an end with the Central Intelligence Agency. We have, for example, the date of .10/17/65 which corresponds to 19, who? is the agent? and the name of the CTA, etc. and so on. And so on. In this way, by using it as a CIA intelligence agency, that is to say to the宣传of information of the CTA in Cuba, actions against relevant organs are to be taken, are limited to the CIA.

Question: Do you say that you had a real, factual situation with poetic bullets for specific attacks or like?

Answer: Yes, sure.

Question: I would like to clarify something. What specific actions against whom were done by those actions to be made after the fall of regime?

Answer: This question has two parts. First, finance the most presumed future of the revolution according to existing circumstances as far as possible; secondly, to the individuals who were going to participate in the war. Specifically, it is to be a proper list of the names of revolutionaries able to take part in the war, will then be added to the list of the革命ists will be identified.