He feels that he is not being used properly and that there is a power within himself, a creative urge for movement and realization which is highly emotionally charged and which permits him to feel that he is capable of doing much more than he has in the past. However, this energy will have to be rationally harnessed if it is to be productive.

Another aspect in regard to the above is that one of the Subject's chief motives is curiosity. He continually seeks the unknown. However, when he approaches the unknown he experiences emotional insecurity and is ambivalent about proceeding or withdrawing. This may have been a factor which influenced his unsuccessful escape through the Pyrenees. The Subject has a fear about which he doesn't know or understand and is afraid of getting himself into something which he cannot get himself out of. His immediate action is to withdraw without solving the problem. Consequently, it would appear that the Subject needs the direction of superior intelligence in order to help him evaluate the realities of a situation or predicament. He needs firm support, guidance, and direction as regards the consideration of all possible eventualities and alternatives. As was said before, it must be kept in mind that his urge for self-preservation is stronger than his desire to solve problems or to carry through on a venture. On the other hand, the Subject claims that he always tries his hardest to keep his promises. Thus, if he agrees to do something he will attempt to carry it through despite the dangers involved. He may be rash in this regard but feels his rashness is due to the fact that he thinks quickly and is able to rapidly apprehend and synthesize the components and essence of a problem in its various perspectives. In other words, he is alert and quick and gets the point immediately even before you finish your sentence. However, it would be wise not to interpret his intellectual alacrity as a commitment or as an index that he will complete a task. It means merely that he gets your point; it doesn't mean that he will cooperate, especially when the going gets rough.

Another factor of interest to the project is that this person is not likely to change as regards his basic characteristics. He has marked difficulty projecting himself in terms of what he would like to be. It is his opinion that in order to change himself, it would be necessary that he would become an entirely different person. However, he feels that everything is relative and perhaps he should show more strength of character, be little more compromising, more realistic and less sentimental. However, according to him, this would imply that the environment would be such that there was no room for sentiment. In this case, his personality would be