(Let me see what I can find out. . soon as I can. . . now questions and answers. Who invited Verges to Algeria in 63)

He didn't go to Algeria in 63. He went to China. He was already in Algiers. He was in Algiers from the point of independence, that was with the clandestine group, that is, in July of 62. And Verges arrived there — clandestinely — that is, # Ben Bella, Khider, Bitat, I suppose in October or November of 62. He was invited

to China in March of 1963. (How invited?)

The first time he went as the Director of Revolution Africaine and he was (ment with) Sigeria Bouarach, the heroine of the Algerian War, and she got an enormous amount of publicity in the Chinese press; it was there had been given to her. They [in fact] had published a book about her. She was well known for her part in the Algerian war (which is) and in this is how he met the interview with Mao, as he was an official Algerian representative, the Director of Publications sponsored by the Political Bureau of the FLN, and, I think it was, The Committee of Foreign Relations, something like that, that handled the visit.

(When did he marry Djamila?) in Plovdiv

Nobody knows. Nobody knows whether they are really married. This is again one of the things that he loves to keep a mystery. It is rumored, although it has been said by a lot of people that he has a marvelous marriage. We know he was converted to Islam. During the war, the (moral) of the Algerian War, he used a code name, MANSOUR for his contacts within the Front. After he came to Algeria, apparently he became a Moslem, and became J. M. Verges, Jacques Mansour Verges. Now he becomes Mansour Verges, then it becomes J. M. (resembling to The magazine file)

(When he went to China. .)

Here is back already. It must be about the 30th of March. It must be because he and Djamila and my wife and I and our children left Algeria on the same plane for Paris when we left Algiers definitively, until he changing planes in Paris for Moscow, and I going a day or so later to Geneva, not to Geneva, Lausanne.

/checking on name) uses J. M. all the way through. This was only at the last, because this is the last issue, there are sixteen issues here. When he knew that he was under pressure and he tried to protect