The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby amends the initial contract accepted by you in April 1959, to include the following provisions for the period 20 September 1959 through 30 June 1960. During the period of time as indicated, you will be required to perform such duties as may be assigned you by your superiors. All such duties, whether of a research nature or otherwise, will be considered to be of a confidential nature. The terms and conditions of your amended contract are as follow:

Compensation

In consideration of the satisfactory completion of such duties as may be assigned you, you will be paid $400.00 monthly.

Bonus

Due to the nature of the assignments which will be given you to perform, no bonus will be considered.

Medical

You will be provided such medical or dental treatment as may be considered necessary to maintain your physical fitness and permit the accomplishment of your assignments. Periods of hospitalization will necessitate the suspension of salary for the duration of said hospitalization.

Insurance

You will be insured for the amount of $5,000.00 payable upon death to a beneficiary designated by you, provided your death occurs while in the performance of duty.

Termination

If for any reason traceable to you, such as making yourself unavailable for proper performance of duty, you fail to consumate the terms of our understanding by not attempting to perform your assigned duties, your salary will be immediately terminated and you will be resettled in a place to be decided by your superiors, without further compensation or assistance.

Secrecy Clause

You will be required to keep forever secret the contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the Espionage Laws dated 25 June 1948, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.

Term of Contract

The foregoing amendment to your initial contract is for the period as specified, after which the terms of your initial contract will again apply.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED: WITNESS: APPROVED: