CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION SECRET DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER UFGA-4703

who will occupy the position of supreme commander of our liberation army. Whether it be one supreme chief or a joint command must be decided by you.

"Although the National Liberation Army has continued working and acting according to the norms laid down by you and by our late chief, you will understand the urgency of this interview which the bearer will tell you how to arrange. In anticipation of your decisions I sign myself respectfully, Capt. Julio E. "CARRETERO"

59. As mentioned in paragraph 15b above, ODIBEX has some kind of interest in AMFAUNA-3, and it may be that their files contain intelligible answers to some of the questions raised by this development. For instance:

Why did the RAMIREZ organization not know or the arrest of Identity-12, one of its own members, which had occurred at least a month previously?

If the RAMIREZ organization was so poorly informed about Identity-12, how did they know about AMFAUNA-3, and why did they think she would be the appropriate person to give the letter to?

Given the disorganization complained of by the writer of the letter, and the fact that all meetings must have been arranged and held under clandestine conditions, how to account for the fact that in the maximum of six days between 28 May and 3 June when AMFAUNA-1 reported the developments by S/W, something like the following sequence of events must have taken place: (1) (IZQUIERDO) meets (HERNANDEZ) near Trinidad in Las Villas Province, and receives the letter. (2) (IZQUIERDO) travels to Havana and tries to locate Identity-12. (3) (IZQUIERDO) is informed that Identity-12 has been arrested. (4) (IZQUIERDO) returns to Las Villas, reports that the letter cannot be delivered to Identity-12, and is told that AMFAUNA-3 should be given the letter. (5) (IZQUIERDO) goes to Sancti Spiritus and locates Identity-8 who is a personal friend of AMFAUNA-3 and can introduce him to her, and who providentially is able to vouch for the authenticity of CARRETERO's signature on the letter. (6) (IZQUIERDO) and Identity-8 go to Havana and give the letter to AMFAUNA-3.

Future Plans

60. It is difficult if not impossible to give an operation of this complexity the support and direction it needs, when the only communication with the principal agent is by secret writing. There is never enough room in an S/W message for both the positive intelligence reporting and the supporting operational details, and it is the latter that suffer. S/W communication also inevitably involves a time lag which, in the case of this operation, has sometimes run as high as three weeks because of the frequent absences from town of AMCUTLER-1