For Question 16, "Application for Federal Employment," Standard Form No. 57

Fill in this Form only when necessary for completion of Question 16, "Application" on Standard Form No. 57. If not applicable, type write or write directly in Black

2. What is your full name? (First, middle, last)

ANN LORENE GOODPASTURE

Date of birth:

28 Nov. 1918

4. Name of organization (First name) (Middle) (Last name)

Dates of employment: March 1942 - Jan 1944 From: March 1942 To: Jan 1944 Place of employment (city and state): Washington, D.C. Name and title of employer (first, middle, last). If Federal, name department, bureau or establishment and division. OFFICE FOR EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT Kind of business or organization (e.g., wholesale silk, insurance agency, etc.): Government Number and kind of employees supervised by you: 1 CAP-3 Name and title of immediate supervisor: Prosky, Frank C.A.P. Chief/Employee Services. Benson, Mark: Chief, Placement Reason for leaving: Transfer Date of employment: Dec 1941 - Feb 1942 From: Dec 41 To: Feb 42 Place of employment (city and state): Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Name and address of employer (first, middle, last). If Federal, name department, bureau or establishment and division. ELKO PHOTOGRAPHIC FINISHING CO. Kind of business or organization (e.g., wholesale silk, insurance agency, etc.): Commercial Photographic Finishing Number and kind of employees supervised by you: 1 to 15 unskilled technicians Name and title of immediate supervisor: Mr. Gee, Dempsey, Gen'l Mgr. Reason for leaving: Full time employment in D.C. Date of employment: Mar. 1937 - June 41 From: 1937 To: June 41 Place of employment (city and state): Norman, Oklahoma Name and address of employer (first, middle, last). If Federal, name department, bureau or establishment and division. University of Oklahoma Kind of business or organization (e.g., wholesale silk, insurance agency, etc.): University Number and kind of employees supervised by you: None Name and title of immediate supervisor: Mrs. Peters, Dean, FA. Reason for leaving: End of school