4. It is not to be noted that C.A.R., who was born December 7, 1902, will have 65 years credited in March 1973, and in December 1975 he will be 60 years of age.

5. The Station did not indicate whether or not GANNON's overt employment provided his my termination pay or pension benefits. Hence Jan does provide that an individual covered under their "Social Security default" program is eligible for annuity at age 65. Should he retire between the ages of 80 to 6%, he would receive a reduced annuity.

6. I believe the Station's proposal in quite practical except it does, of course, give the individual an option of resigning at any time and still being eligible to receive a "termination payment" rather than what should, I believe, be considered as a retirement payment or program. I, therefore, suggest the following:

That prior to effecting a contract subsequent providing for a resignation payment for acceptable reasons, information be obtained so to whether GANNON would actually be entitled to receive from his overt employer additional payment(s) for termination and/or retirement. This then could be used as a basic figure on which to build in terms of termination and/or retirement.

The proposed schedule certainly appears adequate. As there is no limit on the accumulation, the individual might well reach a point of "temptation" to resign. I believe there should be a maximum limit on accumulation - why encourage the individual to resign?

As both the Station and GANNON want more programs for purposes of security and incentive, I believe more emphasis should be given to such a retirement program rather than on "resignation". Similarly, retirement would not be thought of at age 43.

A retirement program could provide for participation by the individual and also take into consideration what the individual would receive from his country's Social Security program. This type of plan would give the individual a vested interest as well as a feeling of security in terms of the future.