THE WINDFALL

BY ERSKINE CALDWELL

WHEN Waldo Murdock, whose trade, when he felt like working at it, was rendering creatures, came into the unexpected inheritance, there had been no commutation in Brighton to equal it since the time when, eleven years before, one of the Perkins brokers with no more foretelling than a.Prognosticator, was running, ran away in broad daylight with the resident minister's second wife.

As far the townspeople. none of them, not even Aunt Susie Shook, who told fortunes by reading tea leaves or coffee grounds if necessary, had ever had the remotest idea that anything in the nature of sudden wealth would fall into Waldo Murdock's scrawny lap, while at the same time, of course, people were quick to say that if he had not been sitting down, as usual, instead of being up and doing, there would have been no lap of his for it to fall into; and certainly Waldo himself, even though he daydreamed about almost everything else under the sun, had never entertained such a farfetched thought in his mind.

Waldo did not even know he had a brother in Australia and, even if he had known it, he would never have imagined that he would be remembered in a will. From Bangor to Burlington, all the Murdecks especially the home-owning branch of the family, were known throughout the entire region north c. Boston for their trait, which relatives-by-marriage and other outsiders called custody, of not acknowledging kinship with one another. And so it was, it was all Waldo could do to force himself, after having cast aside pride of long standing, publicly to admit blood relationship with another Murdock, even if he had lived in Australia, long enough to go to the bank in Waterville and cash the check the lawyer from Portland had handed him

"Pay no mind to what the people say," he told the clerk in the bank. "There may be others in the State of Maine bearing the name of Murdock, but there's not a single drop of mingling blood that I would own to. I'd sooner claim kinship with my old black cow than I would with a so-called Murdock."

Dessie. Waldo's wife, was. at the beginning, the most levelheaded of all. She maintained her mental balance, if only at the start, much better than Waldo and some of the townspeople. Dessie, although afterward she regretted not having gone along, even remained at home and tended the house chores while Waldo was away in Waterville cashing the check. There was only one thing she did out of the ordinary that forenoon, and that was to make Justine, the hired girl, air the parlor and shake out the scatter rugs, even if it were not Saturday.

During all that time the neighbors were ringing her up on the phone and asking what she was going to do with all that money, but that, too in the beginning, failed to veer the even measure of her thoughts.

"When the check is cashed, if it's not worthless, and it'll be a wonder if it's not, there'll be ample time at hand for me to go out of my way to think about it," she told them. "Right now, and likely forever after, it's nothing but a scrawl and a promise on a slip of paper"

Dessie went back to work with but has a little tighter each time she finished talking to one of the neighbors on the phone. She was not exactly worried, she told Justine, but she was feeling impatient. Waldo failed to come home at the noon hour for dinner, and it was not long after that before she, like everybody else in Brighton who was working himself into a frenzy over Waldo's sudden windfall, began thinking what could be done with the money.

Late that afternoon Waldo drove up to the dooryard and left the automobile standing there instead of putting it away in the shed where it belonged.

Justine came running to tell her.

Mr. Murdock's back." Justine cried, twisting her fingers.

"Hed better get" Desse said "If he hadn't got home wath he did, he could have just kept on traveling, for all the concern I'd ever have"

"I guess Mr Murdock has the real money," Justine said, looking over her shoulder. He looked like he was feeling good about it when he got out of the auto

Dessie leaped to her feet.

"Go on about your tasks, whatever they be," Justine, "she said crossly. "It's none of your money if there is any, anyway."

Justine went to the kitchen and watched Waldo come along the path to the side door,

Waldo came in, throwing his hat on the table. He looked at Dessie for a moment, cocking his head a little to one