he knew nothing about VENDEL, except, that his wife gave a birth to a child during his absence and he added that if VENDEL had returned he would have heard about it.

6. Speaking about Larel he recalled the fact that Carola HIRSH, an Ecuadorian girl of 22 approx. returned to Mexico and she will be taking an intensive course of Russian from L-1. He stated that he spoke to KARTASUK about this girl: she was here and worked with the Olympic committee as an interpreter; after the Olympics she went to Ecuador and now she returned here; she came with her mother who found her an apartment in Rio Elba where they had a worming up party on Friday May 9; her father is a well to do physician in Quito, Ecuador; she has no permit to work in Mexico which means that her father will pay the expenses of her stay here; in view of his nervous crisis he did not keep in touch with her, but he believes that her mother had returned to Quito by now: LOGINOV knows her from some of the parties Ll and his friends were giving during the Olympics or briefly after them.

7. He forgot to tell me that he was with Andrea CATANO (P-13,546) after she returned from her trip to the US and Canada and she told him that she definitely broke with CHERNISH (P-13,042) by telling him that she had a boy friend about whom she is serious and who is a jealous type; he (C) is welcome to come to her (parents) home when he wishes, but she is in no position to meet with him out.

8. I asked L-1 was it possible that LOGINOV, who according to him was driving hard to obtain some success before he leaves, might have attempted to recruit Juan Luis ALVARES, director of the language school on Tiber, during the past 2 months. L-1 stated that he doubted that JLA would even want to see LOGINOV because LOG in many instances ignored JLA's requests through L-1 to pass by the school. L-1 went on to say that if by incident LOG got hold of JLA and made an attempt to enlist his services, L-1 was positive that JLA would have turned him down. to LIOVAL (NOTE: This leaves unsolved what was L-1 speaking about when he spoke about the good time LOGINOV and JLA had together at unknown date).

9. I tried to explain to L-1 that he should do some writing for us along the lines of making our previous agreement. He promised.