CTR/ALT

Staff

Trained: Mr. Daniel Flores Instructor: Mr. Steitz

August 1976-

TO: MIRAD

To assist us in making decisions about future SAI training or application, your answers to the following questions will be most appreciated.

1. Do you feel SAI training was helpful to you? (If you choose to do so, please explain why or how.) This course was extremely useful to me. One of the main features of the course - how to perceive the others persons objectives before your own - was of particular interest because, as an instructor it will be one of the rain tools I will use in evaluating the level of understanding of each trainee. This experience will also be very helpful to me in my career as a case officer. I can think of several instance where SAI could have helped me turn several failures (recruitment pitches) into successes.

2. Did SAI training provide you with any concepts or tools which can be applied in a practical way to your work problems? To your personal life? Any examples you care to mention?

The benefits that this course will provide for me in my job as an instructor are clear. I am absolutely certain that putting the SAI concept into practice will bring forth not only self satisfaction but career benefits as well. This will also be very helpful to me in my personal life. I can see now that some of the concepts will be put to work immediately.

3. What elements, segments, or aspects of the SAI training were of the most interest or use to you?

The greatest revelation from an operation point of view, was the clarification of perhaps an erroneous idea we have about obtaining our intelligence objectives. I always operated under the belief that the most important thing in my work was to attain my objectives, i.e. the recruitment of an agent. SAI revealed that this is true but it also revealed that it is more important to first considered the target's (agent's) objectives. Once we do this our chances (in my opinion after taking SAI) success would probably increase by at least 90 per cent. If I were to stress one point it would be that more emphasis be placed on dealing with the target's rather than the CO's objectives.

4. Would you recommend SAI training for other of our personnel?

I am sure that many people would be recommended for this training and that all would benefit from it. However, I would strongly recommend that personnel officers be given SAI as a prerequisite to their being, if would certainly help them in dealing with large numbers of different people. ...