As you know, ICAP Corporation and BANIF own approximately equal shares of ICAP Iberia. ICAP Iberia, in turn, gives first refusal on all consulting work to BANIF, but receives what amounts to a 30% override on such work. In other words, our indirect interest in consulting work which we get for BANIF through ICAP Iberia is 15%, which comes off the top.

We would be pleased to allocate to you a share in our interest in any such work brought in through your efforts (and recognized for fee purposes by ICAP Iberia and BANIF) as follows: 7% (i.e., half of our indirect interest) of all fees during the first year after the actual commencement of billings for each client; 5% during the second year; and 2% of all subsequent business.

Another sector where you could work directly with ICAP Iberia is related to the foregoing, and is simply U.S. law. To the extent that you could provide an in-house U.S. legal capability for them, particularly with respect to U.S. corporate practice and tax matters, I am sure this would be helpful.

Finally, correspondence is essential to international business. We do not hear from our Spanish friends as we do from George Economakis or Giovanni Manes. The result is that we do not know what is going on in Spain, and do not have them on our minds. I am sure that if you were there you would keep us informed of opportunities, and as a result we could do a more effective job for them. In addition, you could act as the point of liaison between ICAP Iberia and the other ICAP affiliates.

(This would of course involve your knowing the strengths and weaknesses of the other ICAPs, so as a first order of business I would request that you spend two or three weeks in ICAP Hellas, ICAP Italia and on a general prospection in France, Germany, and Benelux.)

2. Activities outside of ICAP Iberia.

By far the most important of these is generating a placement capability for investment opportunities developed by ICAP Iberia. I do not think we expected when we started ICAP Hellas that the most important figure in this company would be one who was not even on the masthead at that time, namely Tony Lykiardopoulos. The really profitable side of our business is, as you know, the entrepreneurial one, not the professional one.