SX-31533 23 May 1977

SUBJECT: Keeping of Large Sums of Money in the Soviet Union

SOURCE : (201-0948382), a foreign-language student from Minsk who worked in numerous jobs throughout the USSR. Born in 1949, he emigrated in 1976. Neither his bona fides nor his reporting reliability has been established.

DATE OF INFORMATION: 1972-76

DATE OF INTERVIEW : 26-28 April 1977

1. Unless you have iron-clad proof that you got the money legally, the balance of your account in any one savings bank (sberkassa) should not exceed a thousand rubles. Each savings bank has a militia representative who reports suspiciously large accounts to the OBKhSS (Department for Combating the Embezzlement of Socialist Property and Speculation) of the militia for investigation. Source got this information from a militia lieutenant who was an OBKhSS officer in his rayon.

2. Since savings banks do not have a centralized accounting system, another way of keeping large amounts of money is to have accounts in several banks, as long as none of them exceeds the thousand-ruble limit.

3. One of the best ways of keeping money when traveling, or even at home, is in the form of an akkreditiv (a personalized cashier's check). An akkreditiv can be bought at any bank or savings institution and can be cashed anywhere at any time but only by the person to whom it is made out and only on presentation of an internal passport. Without the passport, the akkreditiv cannot be cashed, thereby making it a safer form of keeping money than currency.

4. If money is to be kept at home, it is somewhat less suspicious to have it in the form of three-percent government loan bonds (trekhprotsentnyy zaem). These are not personalized and can be cashed at any time at a small discount. They also have the advantage of a prize that can be won at one of the periodic drawings based on their numbers.

SE/SAG/OP: Isabelle H. Domes:ek Distribution: Orig - IP/AN (pls classify into 201-0948382) 1 - , , SE/USSR * 1 - SE/RR 1-SE/SAG/OP chrono

Victor F. Zimin SE/SAG/OP