Origins and Early Successes

Formed from the remnants of the defunct German Reich Party (DRP)--one of a number of ultra-nationalistic splinter groups which have dotted the political landscape of postwar Germany--the NPD quickly established a political apparatus capable of functioning throughout the country. The new party soon distinguished itself by its relative success in attracting the support of other ultranationalistic elements and a variety of political malcontents. Earlier attempts by other groups to unite disparate nationalists invariably had foundered on personal rivalries and tactical disagreements. Some were no more than platforms for self-expression by leaders advocating a particular set of extremist notions. Even the most successful, the Socialist Reich Party (SRP), which at its high water mark obtained 11 percent of the vote in the Lower Saxony Landtag elections in 1951, was unable to establish effective working relations with rival rightist groups before it was outlawed by the West German supreme court in 1952.

During its first year, the NPD encountered many of the problems experienced by its predecessors. The party was unable to put on an effective campaign for the September 1965 national elections and obtained only 2 percent of the votes--short of the 5-percent minimum required for representation in the Bundestag. In local

elections in Bavaria and Schleswig-Holstein in March 1966, however, the NPD showed that it could command pockets of strength. In the Bavarian cities of Nuremberg and Bayreuth, it received between 7 and 10 percent of the vote and elected representatives to the local governing councils. These gains were facilitated by concentrating the party's efforts in selected areas such as the Protestant centers of Middle and Upper Franconia in heavily Catholic Bavaria.

The first clear demonstration that the NPD could attract more than the ultranationalist vote came two weeks later in Hamburg, where the party nearly doubled its vote as compared with the Bundestag election the year before. Although the NPD failed to elect any deputies, the Christian Democrats and the Socialists were concerned about its ability to secure even 3.9 percent of the vote. The threat to the traditional third party, the conservative Free Democrats (FDP) became apparent. The FDP fell a third below its 1965 vote and lost 4 of its 12 seats in the Hamburg city council. Profiting from a decline in the economy which was already under way and the increasing public disenchantment with the leadership of then Chancellor Erhard in Bonn, the NPD accelerated both its organizational effort and its public relations campaign.

The stage was then set for the party's breakthrough in the Hesse and Bavaria state elections