Reel no. 2

( You have an acute memory for the last phrase of yesterday.)

I happen to be a journalist.

(You have a very retentive mind. You do very well about these things.)

As you get older you forget. Doesn't it frighten you sometimes when you can't think of a name - I'm really beginning to feel bad about a something I can't remember - I think my God, what's happening.

Strekkoff is Alexander Strekkoff. He is in his early thirties, son of Russian immigrant parents in France,

(Born in France?)

Born in France. Speaks Russian fluently. His parents were members of Bolshevik Party the Communist Party in Russia, / but with K}onstantin Trotskyite tendencies. That's why they had to get out of Russia after the Revolution but he has so Trotskyist leanings at all. In fact because of his parents, he seems more or less to lean the other way, to be at least verbally, a violent Stalinist. He is married and has three (children), three by one wife, has one illegitimate and several others. He is very active sexually. a He is/very handsome fellow and has a great deal of success with girls. doing He earns his living as a graphic designer. He worked for Hachette Elliott layouts for them, until the great Sinet Massacre scandal, when Mad. de Gaulle finally took umbrage at this. He and Sinet were the two cartoonists who put this out, and (Strelkoff can draw, as well)

Yes. In those things I gave you you will see cartoons by Strekkoff. a cartoonist, He is essentially an artist, though noone ever printed his cartoons before he ran into Sinet because they were considered just too ridic — disgusting for publication . He is really the acolyte, if you will, of Sinet. And any success, any money that he has comes to him through Sinet. He is Sinet's man, and Sinet passes on work to him. They sort of pass around girls to each other and that sort of thing. He does, nevertheless, count for a certain amount in the magazine. He did count, because he was considered reasonably disinterested. That is, he wasn't concerned very much about money. He lives very poorly, with analogous his wife and children, and has made far more sacrifices than Sinet—but he is very loyal, I was going to say, a faithful retainer, of Sinet's. I think that would sum him up. His loyalty is to Sinet and not to Verges.