to send 1/3's 16-year-old son (who was staying with her at the time) around to enquire. 1/4 agreed that till she could be beat and indicated that she would do so the next day. 1/4 also stated that she felt she could get in touch more or less naturally with Raúl Gonzalez through Gerardo Valdez to determine what had happened during the trip to Chicago.

4. Nowton then asked 1/4 to revisit the LIKING offices the following morning to study the lay-out of the back room (LIKING's office) and to use the typewriter again. 1/4 stated that she finally found out that the typewriter in the main office was a German one but had not as yet been able to determine the exact name. She added that the one in the Mexican/Cuban Cultural Relations Office on Calle Habana was a Houston and not the same as the one in the LIKING office. Nowton also asked 1/4 to pick up some blank forms and bettered the paper, as possible.

5. L/4 commented that she had become quite close to Catalina Sepero during the past month and could count on her 7% as a pretext for future visits to the office. L/4 advised that on the previous afternoon Catalina had told her that the salaries of Cubana de Aviación personnel had been reduced and that her husband's salary had been cut from 450 dollars per month to 300 and that the LIKING office informed her that gasoline was being rationed for all mission personnel. Catalina also told her that packages destined for Cuba were not being delivered by Cubana de Aviación and that the backlog was so great that two officials had just arrived from Havana to attempt to resolve the problems involved. Catalina also complained that she was "sick and tired" of working in the office without pay and had tried to quit but was told by LKING/5 that she must continue to help since the workload was so great. L/4 also told Nowton that Catalina had complained of money problems because of the cut in her husband's salary and hinted that she could use any money L/4 could loan her until next payday. Nowton suggested that L/4 lend Catalina 100 or 200 pesos in view of the usefulness Catalina might provide in L/4's continued access to the LIKING offices. L/4 added that Catalina had apparently become so attached to her that she was living L/4 to move into the apartment across the hall from her which had become vacant (Sepero's apartment is 204 at Calle Juanacatla 169). L/4 also reported that Catalina had told her that a new directive had come out prohibiting all employees of the Mission from carrying back to Havana any packages of personal items whatsoever. Catalina commented that for that reason Echegaray (Suarez de la Paz) who left the previous week could not take an ostraciser back with him to her family.

Wallace B. Howden

?