SECRET GFA-541

he can enrol it as a 'walking credential' in Algiers a unique way to suggest to himself is one of iden A's "bors". It would be better on the other hand that this situation provides iden A a unique means of monitoring STERENT/1's activities and contacts.

3. Of seniority interest at this moment, however, is the fact that iden A has expressed to STERENT/1 his dissatisfaction with the progress to date in getting his book (iden P), emphasized in English iden A claims that an Australia is supposed to be working on a translation but that he could nothing from him in over six months STERENT/1 then told iden A that he himself could do the translation job with the aid of friends but that he would have to send some time with iden A to work over five points and to write together a new chapter updating the book. In this way STERENT/1 feels he could consent his personal relationship with iden A.

4. There are obviously operational and statistical policy questions that should be considered in this context. First of all, our sole reporter on the STERENT/1-iden A relationship is STERENT/1 himself. Is he really seeking to get up a meaningful operational summit to be exploited by EUBANK, or is he seeking to regala status among his former peers? He tend to believe he was wrong on the basis of the results of STERENT/1's ACQUISITION examination and his long conversation with his deep cover officer. Secondly, should the damage to the FAMNIST national interest inherent in the publication of iden A's book in English ensnaring the operational sales to be made by putting STERENT/1 in iden A's confidence. STERENT/1 agrees that, on the contrary, the publication of the book in English couldurt so one except possibly ides A himself, because STERENT/1 claims the book is a trueone polemic against one small communist group by another small communist group. While it has no intention of misinforming that EUBAN help get the book in print in any case for that should be iden A's own problem. Thirdly, if STERENT/1 did not undertake too transitory job, the Australian could probably earn through before too long myself.

5. We are sure that enthusiasm can see in this situation the seeds of a useful operational contact with iden A who, according to various reports STERENT/1 is receiving from coast of his contacts in the pre-Chinese factories of the European Communist Parties. Is starting to lose his grip on his old organisation

6. In any event, unless advised to the contrary, we intend to encourage STERENT/1 to continue developing his relationship with iden A, essentially as regards translation of the book. We are forwarding to Headquarters (use) a copy of the book and request that the associate office in KOREA be appointed immediately and asked to provide, on a priority basis, an English-language translation which we can pass to STERENT/1. We could then report this translation content and involve his wife in the editing of it preparing the finalised product to iden A as a family effort of particular importance from a critical point of view is that translations of quantities from non-English sources (raw and less for example) should be consistent with the official English-language version of the quotations.

7. The time element involved is this: KWOLF Career Agent has put P. EUBANK will be meeting STERENT/1 in Rome en or about 15 July. At that time he could have some film sent from KOREA on the status of the translation effort. In matter of fact of course, the ideal situation would be to have the translation in hand at that time through we cannot get from here whether that is sufficient to the result of feasibility in say case SUGGEST would have to have the translation definitely in hand the first week of August when he will be leaving Paris for his second en resting site STERENT/1.