Security Information

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, International Organizations Division,

SUBJECT: National Committee for Free Europe, FR., and isolated matters.

1. This memorandum is to inform you of a number of items which have recently come to my attention and to which I think you, I believe, give consideration and take necessary action. V. C. (Bica) Georgescu, who is an old friend and a very helpful consultant of the Agency, came to see me the other evening and discussed certain aspects of NCA. Bica has been working on both sections of the lunanians in an effort to bring them together, and I think that his criticism is, on the whole, constructive. He states that entirely apart from the question of factionalism among the Romanian groups and other national groups, there is the greatest amount of inefficiency at the deck level of NCA. This results from having too many politicians and diplomats in positions of authority and too few persons of any practical experience; too much time is consumed and too much of the general effort goes completely to waste as the result of endless political discussions, much of it entirely theoretical. It would be desirable to review the entire personnel set-up within NCA at an early date and place in charge of the various departments. Individuals who are capable of administering their people and running a show. Such persons could be advised and assisted by the politicians and the diplomats, but they would have the responsibility for getting things done. Finally, Bica told me very confidentially that he thought Doltearu, who has never been strong, was getting weaker and weaker, and he voiced some complaints about Pemule Yarrow. He said that he does not know Yarrow at all well, but has the impression from others that Yarrow is high-handed and dictatorial in his dealings and that his background is not particularly suitable for a person who is to hold a position of so much responsibility in dealing with Southeastern European nationals.

2. I think I have already told you that Victor Hiesel, the writer of the bottle pieces which you brought to my attention, complained about the treatment that he received from Finais Yarri, who he said had led him to believe that he was going to be called upon for advice and assistance to the Agency. There were no follow-ups and Hiesel was miffed. Hiesel also singled out for sharp attack Captain Ciniger, who he said he believed was in a high place in CIA and who was a thoroughly incompetent and undesirable

Information