The Period after .11:

1. After the return from Kassel Discharging Camp David wanted to register in Paris as a Frenchman, using the name of DATTO. however, a woman servant of the hotel thought to have recog- nized in him his brother Achilles Tzitzicivili. The Sureté Militaire was contacted. David had to give the names of the people whom he had helped during the war against the Germans. finally, he was released, however not allowed to use the name of DATTO.

2. David's parents and his sister Helen with his husband Irakli (NOTE: their children were not mentioned by David) returned from Vienna to Paris in 1946, helped by Acclles.

3. In Paris David worked with Jacques CARRES, 166 Boulevard Voltaire.

4. He learned to know Renée PARRCD, and married her. He has not seen her since 1950. ( for details see - 2.)

5. In Paris Jean ADAI contacted David again and asked him to participate in a hold-up. He refused, reasoning that his mother would die if she would learn of this.

6. David's mother died in 1948, and some two months later his father and sister with her husband returned to the USSR.

7. After the death of David's mother JeanADA! contacted David again, and insisted on his participation in the hold-up in a jewelry. David consented.

8. To start with the hold-up, they needed a car. They hired a taxi for a drive to Cluny, some 10-12 km from Paris. When the car was passing through a forest, David drew his pistol and forced the driver to stop and to abandone his car. The driver was promised that no harm would be done to him if he obliges.

9. They parked the car close to the jewelry shop which they planned to rob. Jean went over the street, and watched the window of the jewelry shop. David entered the shop and asked to show him a ring which was in the window. When the shopkeeper opened the window, this being an agreed signal, Jean entered the shop. David pulled the pistol, and they looted the shop. They fled xx in the car which they later left near the police station, with a 500 Francs bill pinned to the driver's seat - reimbursement for having used the car.

10. One month later they tried an other hold-up, but this did not work. Daviy did not want to continue such things and told this to Jean. David's wife did not like his contact with Jean, although she did not know anything about their common doings.