factories and the reason being given, that the government now makes it impossible for us to keep a full staff, and therefore we are reducing. This, of course, could have very serious effects on any ability of the government to carry through its reforms with respect to minimum wage. Interesting enough, there are even people in the lower classes, who having been confused by what it means, are very definitely against the whole idea of minimum wage. I think, here again, it is a necessity for the government either to acquire a newspaper or to buy a considerable interest in one of them and also to do a job of publicizing and getting the message across with respect to the general class of laborers. However, I anticipate that this difficulty--that the people, with the economic power, are in a good position to at least partially sabotage this particular reform by the simple expedient of just laying people off and blaming it on the government. Let's face it, with respect to political reform in Latin America, the thing that is most meaningful to people is not political liberty, but "bread in the belly." We have got to constantly bear in mind that when we, with our own criteria of political liberties here in the United States, go into Latin America we have got to realize that sometimes the right to vote and the right to express our views is a meaningless concept to a peasant who really is worried about whether he gets one tortilla or two tortillas; it's the bread that is the biggest political factor in any part of Latin America. In this respect, it is interesting to note that whereas the last time I was in El Salvador there was a lot of talk about Fidel Castro that was just kind of spontaneous and extemporaneous on the part of some several hundred people that I talked to. This time I also went through many of the low-income barrios out in the countryside and talked to a great number of people, and a great number of them kept mentioning Martinez who was the president for about 10 to 12 years back, 1934 to 45. Many of them, particularly, the older people spoke rather nostalgically about the times of Martinez when there were jobs and when the prices were low and when even though the wages were low, you could buy a full meal and could get comparatively comfortable housing. Of course, it is known that Martinez is one of the worst tyrants that they have had there; and for a long time the thing they remember is not the repressive measures that he took, not the number of people that were slaughtered under his orders. The thing that is remembered now mostly is the fact that there were more jobs, that the prices were low, etc. We've got to constantly bear