23 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group SUBJECT : Manuel L. DE ARMAS SF#591 865

1. Reference is made to the attached cable traffic which sets forth the "defection" of the Subject to Cuba circa April 1976. In substance, DE ARMAS apparently gave a press conference in Havana on 21 April 1976 in which he claimed to be an ex-CIA agent who had been recruited by a fnu BLACKENHOUSE (no Office of Security traces) in 1969. DE ARMAS also claimed to have been stationed in New York City in 1971 where he maintained contact with BLACKENHOUSE and Richard TOMLEY (probably identifiable with Peter L. B. TOMLEY, Washington Area Recruiting Office).

2. In the cited press conference, DE ARMAS made many allegations concerning purported CIA operations, such as assassination plots and a plan to rupture relations between Venezuela and Cuba. Details of these allegations are set forth in the attached cable traffic and are not treated in instant memorandum. However, interest in DE ARMAS' allegations concerning alleged CIA operations concerns the identities of individuals that he claimed to have been Agency operatives and assets; details regarding these individuals are covered in the latter portion of instant memorandum.

3. Agency interest in DE ARMAS was originally predicated upon the receipt of a letter written by DE ARMAS on 12 September 1972 in which he related details concerning his anti-CASTRO activities through his membership in a group called ABDALA. The letter also contained a request for employment with the Agency. As a result of DE ARMAS' letter, WH Division requested a Special Inquiry by the Office of Security for the purpose of establishing DE ARMAS' identity, which was completed in October 1972. In May 1973 Office of Personnel opened a file on DE ARMAS and apparently went through the normal routine of shopping his file. Interest in DE ARMAS terminated when TOMLEY sent DE ARMAS a letter advising him that the Agency had nothing currently available. Then on 22 January 1973 DE ARMAS wrote TOMLEY thanking the latter for interest following a telephone call