this was all right with him. Therefore, I am scheduling the following procedure:

As of 25 June 1973, Mr. Lynch's signed application for participation in GLIGS, form 3100 and Service Agreement accompanied by AC/SOD recommendation was hand carried to CSIS for board action. AC/SOD also added a note on the routing sheet requesting that the request receive every consideration on an expedite basis.

When the above application is approved, Mr. Lynch should be scheduled for a retirement interview with Mr. Paul Seidel to make application for Disability retirement and be scheduled for any physical examination or medical interview required.

Following the above, Mr. Lynch could commence his leave and proceed to Florida pending the outcome of his application for Disability Retirement. When approval he would continue to utilize his sick leave and exceed annual leave until it was expired. The retirement would then become effective.

In an interview with Mr. Lynch on 15 June 1973, the AC/SOD/SS and the AC/SOD/Tors discussed the possibility of obtaining an Termination Bonus in the amount of $10,000 payable on retirement with Mr. Lynch. This was because of Mr. Lynch's unique situation regarding his service and career with the Agency. It was pointed out that this was definitely not the normal preëxisting procedure, but was based purely on Mr. Gray's status as a Career Agent and the unusual aspects of his termination. It was agreed that although Mr. Gray would become eligible for this bonus, if we were able to get it approved, as of the date of his retirement, we would not make payment until six months Calendar Year 1972 in order to give Mr. Gray benefit of the tax break resulting from the delayed payment, Mr. Gray agreed to all of the above provisions without equivocation.

Mr. Gray was instructed to maintain constant contact with Maritime Branch —at least check with them twice a day to ascertain if there were messages or requirements for his presence or appointments scheduled for him. He agreed to this as he does not have a phone at home and there is no other positive means to contact him. SOD/Personnel is to leave any message necessary for him with the Secretary/Maritime Branch for delivery. (If no other contact possible, try informally through Jerry Sohl.)

D.ROLD D. ALLREDGE AC/SOD/PERSONNEL