SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page 3

3. Orlando GARCIA Vasquez. DPOB: 16 June 1927, Havana, Cuba. GARCIA (at one time a naturalized U.S. citizen/18 May 1945 in South Carolina) became a Venezuelan citizen ca 1962. GARCIA has a long history as a political thug since pre-Batista days in Cuba. He was a member of the Union Insurrectional Revolucionaria (UIR) in Cuba along with Fidel Castro and other persons who were involved in political assassinations. He claims to have served with the U.S. 82nd Airborne Division from 1945-47 and to have returned to Cuba thereafter to attend the University of Havana on the GI Bill. About mid-52 Subject left Cuba for Miami because of a scandal in Cuba over a crime allegedly committed by GARCIA. In 1953 he became a bodyguard for Costa Rican President FIGUERES, who introduced him to Romulo BETANCOURT, who was then in exile in Costa Rica. It is believed that GARCIA's fast rise in the Venezuelan government is based on his earlier service to Accion Democratica (AD) exiles in Costa Rica, where he reportedly eliminated several gunmen sent to kill BETANCOURT. When BETANCOURT became president of Venezuela (1959-64), GARCIA was appointed a division chief in the Directorate General of Police (DIGEPOL), now the Directorate for the Services of Intelligence and Prevention (DISIP). GARCIA left Venezuela for Miami in 1964 for health reasons (ulcers) and during this stay in Miami worked at the Venezuelan Consulate. He returned to Venezuela in 1966 and reportedly held positions within the Venezuelan Ministry of Interior (exact positions not known). In August 1969 GARCIA was assigned as First Secretary to the Venezuelan Embassy in Georgetown, Guyana. He returned to Venezuela sometime during 1970 or 1971 and was assigned as Special Assessor (Advisor), Ministry of Foreign Relations, where he was mainly concerned with Venezuelan national border incidents and violations. According to information dated July 1974, GARCIA was appointed to head a special foreign intelligence service within the Ministry of Interior:

In November 1973 our representative in Caracas was queried by DEA Caracas concerning a report which was prepared on 06 September 1973 in Miami by S.A./ Michael D. Brom, which accused GARCIA of being involved in narcotics trafficking and of being a CIA.