Report No. 314

FRANCO-enters the office. They mention the incident that happened last night at Barajas airport when the plane arrived from Havana. A woman(Spanish) raised her umbrella and threatened HORACIO, while a gusano kept hitting him. FRANCO says that he hit five or six of the attackers real hard, and that he thinks he really hurt one of them quite badly around the face and head. Everyone was covered with blood.

A woman and a man come into the office and talk about the incident(above) also. Then the girl says that she has come to Spain to take a course in Alcala. It seems that the course is connected with UNESCO. She will later go to the University of Santander and on to Paris to take a course there. She says she is a member of the Party, and wants to know how she is going to maintain her contact here in Spain. RUIZ says that they too are members, but that due to the difficulty of public relations that it is a month and a half since they have had a group meeting. He says that the work that they are doing makes it difficult to carry on the Party life, but that nevertheless it is necessary to have group meetings to discuss the members. She says that she would like to live in Madrid, in a student residence, and commute to Alcala by car, or bus every day. Ruiz says that in this way it would be more economical for her and she would have more contact with the other students. She says that she would like to be in some Spanish-American college to get acquainted with the students there. RUIZ says she could be very useful to them with her student connections, and that without interfering with her studies she can also be helping Cuba. He highly recommends that she get every thing she can, culturally, during her stay in Spain. He says that for very much she has read about museums and historical and artistic places it is quite different seeing them.

Ruiz asks her to leave her address at the embassy so that the President of the Women's Federation of the Party can take advantage of her being of use to them in one way or another. Ruiz tells her that anything that might happen to her to come to the embassy and let them know about it. He says there is the danger that they will spy on her or follow her and that there is the possibility of enemies getting close to her. He says that everyone makes mistakes and that if she does to let them know at once so that they can prevent the consequence, and give her good advice.

He has been out of the office for a long time. At about 2:30 pm he comes in with BARREDA and another person. Ruiz says that he has to write to the Deputy Secretary(ot Foreign Relations-?) about the incident at Barajas airport. He is going to point out the permissiveness of the police. He is going to point out that the officials of the embassy were provoked by the others

22 may 1970

85 m3- 262 95

22 may 1970