LIFEAT/Cuban: The most noteworthy LIFEAT contribution to Station efforts in the Cuban operations field was that of providing leads pinpointing the activities of Transcontinental, S. A. in the Illegal transshipment of U.S. materials to Cuba via Mexico. LIFEAT was able to continue coverage of the activities of this company despite the efforts of the company to lose itself in the Mexican business community by changing the name it operated under to Inversiones Mexicanas, S. A. and changing its location and telephone number. Valuable information on the commercial commodities needed by the Castro regime, methods and contacts used in their procurement, and information on the contacts of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico were obtained.

LIFEAT/Czechoslovakian: LIFEAT coverage of the home phones of two Czech intelligence officers provided some leads to their contacts, but more importantly, provided greater security to KUBARK when one of their CIS officers, Miloslav CECH, was singled out for a defection attempt. Through LIFEAT "livemonitoring" of both the original and followup defection attempts, the KUBARK assets were provided maximum protection from possible attempts by CECH to alert his coworkers or arrange entrapment of the KUBARK personnel involved.

LIFEAT/Polish: Probably the most "classic" example of the use of a telephone tap in providing a lead which could develop into a vital penetration of the Polish intelligence occurred recently in the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation. LIFEAT provided the initial leads which made the Station aware of the possibilities of an operation and has continued to provide vital information for Station's development of the operation. It is the Station's opinion that this one instance of service by LIFEAT was well worth the cost of the entire project for the year. (Full information forwarded in MEXI 0462 and MEXI 0463). Also of great interest to the Station were the LIFEAT provided leads which revealed Jan SLUSARZ, Attache of the Polish Embassy in Mexico, had purchased an automobile which had been stolen in the U.S. and driven to Mexico. In this operation, in which a defection attempt was considered, LIFEAT provided not only the initial leads, but also daily operational information vital to the Station's efforts in this case.

LIFEAT/Yugoslavian: In this coverage of the Yugoslavian Embassy LIFEAT is providing the basic data necessary in establishing operations against this target. Since the Station is expanding its coverage of Yugoslavian activities, much vital data on personalities, contacts, and services obtained by the target establishment must be provided. It is this exact type of coverage that LIFEAT is geared to provide in addition to the operational leads which will be forthcoming as this coverage progresses. The interested case officer, noting LIFEAT is his only present source of information, feels the take which LIFEAT provides and will