such care and attention as you receipt, is a result of your participation in such program. You will be returned to this organization. Whether participation in a particular cover plan or program is involuntary will be determined by this organization.

2. Non-official Cover Premium Pay. You are hereby authorized Non-official Cover Premium Pay in accordance with applicable organizational issuances. For your information, currently this premium pay is ten per cent of your base salary plusتك. In addition, taxable compensation to you and all other covered individuals may be allocated under the system.

3. Equivalency Pay. Equivalency Pay is hereby authorized at equal value with No. 1 above for qualified service issues.

4. Travel Allowance. Yes, travel allowance is provided to travel, transportation and equipment. Expenses will be computed from this organization's travel rate. The amount for which travel allowance will be paid is the actual distance traveled by covered personnel will be computed from this organization's travel rates.

5. Return Travel Allowance. You have agreed that your assignment abroad shall be shorter if a two-year assignment is terminated by the Government or its convenience. Your isolation of such agreement may result in reduced travel privileges. HR 226 provides that if the agreement is terminated during the first year of duty abroad, expenses for travel while on the post, including per diem while at headquarters and storage of effects, shall be reimbursed by the Government. If the agreement is terminated after the first year of duty, but before the expiration of the instrumentality agreed to above, return travel and/or the Government's expense shall not be allowed.

AGREED

6. Surrey with Return. You will be granted one leave or recall (this Supplemental Leave or Recall) which, to the best of my knowledge, will be released or waived by the Civilian Post-Officer's Retirement System, with full known benefits and conditions. I further agree that any injury may subject you to criminal prosecution under the Espionage Law, section 25 of title 18 U.S.C., as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.

UNITED STATES COVERAGE

John H. Lrotzke Assistant Attorney General