1. The following information and/or documents are submitted in compliance with reference display:

Original Form 84-69 signed in possession.

Signed statement incorporating bank's transfer instructions for Subject requests that all payments be made locally in pesos.

Since Subject wants his entire net pay paid locally, it is requested that headquarters complete his pay and advise Station of the net pay which will represent his local field allotment.

Subject will be reimbursed actual quarters' expense locally, in accordance with FR 15-1050.

IRMAHUM desires the hospitalization contract, hospitalization application (Contract Plan) to be forwarded hereinafter to duplicate.

It is requested that Headquarters complete IRMAHUM's pay from 30 October 1960 through the present pay period. Upon advice of the 2% amount due Subject, Station will collect any overpayments (or pay underpayments) and If A the correct amount to Headquarters, has subsequently, his net pay will be considered field allotments and amounts paid will be T'A'd to Headquarters.

Certification of IRMAHUM's stock and annual (occasional) leave and the amount paid in a lump sum by his former employer for "accrued annual leave" are being forwarded in a separate document.

IRMAHUM has been advised by the COfI to be affect that he must advise KIJARAH before he applies for OOFICI retirement.

Original signed contract is returned herewith. Copy of this contract has been returned for Station files.

Forwarded herewith is signed certification by IRMAHUM operating lease from his cover activity as required by Para. 7, "Offset", of his contract.

Attached are Report of Medical History and certification from the remaining physician in accordance with Para. 14(b) of Subject's contract,

The station wishes to make the following additional observations:

Better contracts not transmittal, letter indicated the amount of "Cost of Living" Allowance Subject will receive, in accordance with Para. b.(3) of his contract. It is requested that this amount will be remitted with his pay calculation.