DOI-50-10

DDO INSTRUCTION NO. 50-10

OPERATIONS-GENERAL

4 September 1973

(c) Officials or employees of the International Association for Cultural Freedom;

(d) Officials, employees, or grantees of the Ford, Rockefeller and Carnegie Foundations;

(e) Employees of U.S. private detective investigative agencies.

(2) Operational Use Requires Special Extra-Agency Concurrence (see paragraph 8): AND APPROVAL OF SA/ADDO.

(a) Employees of other U.S. Government agencies;

(b) DDO agents or assets in the United States;

(c) Agents and human sources of foreign intelligence registered by other U.S. agencies;

(d) Citizens (or persons documented as citizens) of Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom (including its overseas dependent territories) and New Zealand;

(e) Citizens of Norway, West Germany and The Netherlands;

(f) Merchant seamen on ships of certain countries.

(3) Operational Use Requires Special Approval by the DDO (see paragraph 7):

(a) Publishers, producers, journalists or employees of public information media;

(b) CARE employees;

(c) Individuals engaged in public relations activities;

(d) Officials, representatives, or employees of Communist countries in the United States;

(e) Foreign delegates or employees of the United Nations assigned in the U.S. and U.S. citizen delegates or employees wherever assigned;

(f) Staff members or officials of Red Cross societies;

(g) Officials of the Vatican State;

(h) U.S. Government-funded professors, lecturers, students or grantees;

(i) Members of educational or private voluntary organizations;

(j) Officials or employees of the African-American Institute;

(k) Volunteers to America.

(4) Operational Use Requires Approval by Chief of Area Division (see paragraph 8):

(a) Citizens or alien residents of the U.S. in denied areas;

(b) Non-U.S. citizen delegates or employees of United Nations organizations not assigned in the U.S.;

(c) Members of the academic community.

Operational use of an individual who comes under more than one type of restriction will be controlled by the highest type of restriction applicable in his particular case.

3 SECRET