7. J. MCAV. Valde Baron Monatello 17

It is reported that MCAT discussed on various occasions the mechanics of credit modifications with VÁZQUEZ. It was reported that MCAT mentioned the fact that other business firms had requested loans to modify the letters of credit, and it was also ascertained that the modifications for the letters of credit were done. MCAT may be connected with the Naval foodshop.

ZELLINGER

A man named ZELLINGER also has various deals under discussion with the Soviets, among them being:

Alkalines and Alkaloids: ZELLINGER sought information on establishing a trade in alkalines. It is believed that this deal may be well advanced. ZELLINGER expressed a need for alkaloids and for a special machine needed for this. It is reported that SULFANET informed ZELLINGER that either the machine or information on the machine had already been sent, and that ZELLINGER had an excellent mechanic with General Electric experience to install this machine.

Acids: According to information received, the USSR claimed not to have letters of Credit for transactions involving Red Black and Blue Black acids.

Radios: ZELLINGER claimed to have a market for radios on the condition that these not be imported fully assembled. The purchasing people desired information on parts, assembly, details and pictures. It was highly desirable to import and assemble the radios here. In conjunction with this ZELLINGER claimed to have a market for TV parts.

Drills ('unspecified type'): It is reported that ZELLINGER was involved in a transaction for $8,200 worth of drills (ZELLINGER is reportedly connected with ZIOTNIK, see below).

Medicines: It was ascertained that ZELLINGER had presented a list of medicines most widely used in Mexico. ZELLINGER, according to reports, had stated that he could sell as much of the medicines as could be provided him by the USSR.

Cameras: It was reported that ZELLINGER claimed to have a market for cameras.

ZIOTNIK, Abraham Toltecas 166

ZIOTNIK appears to be both an independent businessman and intermediary for other businessmen dealing with the USSR. It was ascertained that most of ZIOTNIK's transactions during the month of December concerned dyes. According to information gathered, delay on shipment of several types of (un-specified) dyes, was caused by the wait for a letter of Credit. Direct Violet K dye, for which a letter of Credit was opened on or about 30 November 1955, was not sent evidently due to shortage ofrho. It was reported that the Soviet Commercial Office stated that, according to a contract dated 29 October 1955, all the dyes were packed and awaiting shipment from an unknown

EM-1484

5 March 1958

Page 7.

144535