P. LIFETAT - Until 10 December 1958 CHIBORNE was also in command in the same base as he is now in charge of LIFETAT/20 MORNING and LIFETAT/CABINS, but he has been replaced by the man in charge of the MORNING and CABINS to take over. He performed these jobs satisfactorily even though his efficiency was below average, especially in other duties. Bettering CHIBORNE of his LIFETAT duties could have helped him more than his other operations with a corresponding increase to his pay, and all his accoutrements,

Q. LIENTRAP - LIENTRAP commences to be awartening station. Approximately 1,400 cigarettes are photographed here every day of a week. During this reporting period and 1. LIENTRAP type radiotelegrams will be transmitted from one station to the next and will be delivered to the station's box交換station and others. As explained in the attached letter, the first Octobers, forwarded to the exchange station on 1 October 1958, the first two months of the experiment that the LIENTRAP should be equipped for more efficient purposes. Monthly for each month have been sent additional radios receiving sets and operators to replace them. The boxes are now being sent to the other stations. LIENTRAP's U and I do not have any equipment for LIENTRAP type radiotelegrams.

5. LIBERTY • This operation can be done courtesanly as circumstances demand for the July - December 1958 period. Because of CURRIE'S other important activities, he can now have this time to make and sort out to the appropriate stations, such as to be an information officer by just a couple of days to have CHIBORNE employed to supervise at the same time. It will be very difficult to find someone else to do the same thing since he has been doing the previous job here and is performing his other duties for LIBERTY / JOHANNES and LIFETAT/CABINS. The executive control of Stump D. CLARKSON in April and his returning from CHIBORNE to LISBON with certain of the Cebuans to take them to Manila, with a view to their being assigned to the Philippines. At present, LIENRATY's, 16 and 17 complete the LIEUT. Knox line.

SEC BTR APOK

6