use of women provides us an operational flexibility which we would not otherwise have. It is quite evident, furthermore, that the local security services have not focused on the extent to which we do use women. We would like to keep it that way as long as we possibly can, and it is the undersigned's firm belief that statements from Mr. Phillips, obviously authentic, will rather quickly bring the women we do use under increased scrutiny of hostile intelligence services. Further, in opening the Pandora's box of the use of women and minorities in the DDO, Mr. Phillips may be opening both himself and the DDO to unjustified criticism that we are either exploiting women or not hiring enough of them; similarly the minorities.

Page 25: I have known personally for 17 years the girl who, although stripped naked by burglars, managed to save her mother and father from harm. There are others elsewhere in the government and probably outside who are knowledgeable about the incident. The girl, now a lovely lady, is about to be dispatched under very sensitive cover abroad. Mr. Phillips would do well to delete reference to her as being an Agency employee.

Page 26: I think it is unwise for Mr. Phillips to conjecture on the reason why there are few blacks employed in the DDO. His reasoning may be correct, but I would venture that not everyone who reads his book will believe so, and the Agency may come under unfortunate pressure because of it. The specific black cited on page 27 as having removed a flag from the hands of demonstrators is a personal friend of mine. He is under cover. By citing the incident, Mr. Phillips removes that cover, for the black retrieved the flag as an American citizen, not as a CIA officer. In sum, I would suggest the deletion of the section involving women and minorities because it opens a Pandora's box and because, as written, the cover of two highly effective officers is placed in jeopardy.

Page 36: The anecdote on page 36 should at least be modified. The person referred to is the undersigned. I am the only Agency and State officer who owns a Chow dog. All my acquaintances abroad

RETURN TO O.A. Background Use Only Do Not Repro duco

STCCT

UPV