SUBJECT: Gloria Pinto

DATE OF INFORMATION: 26 March 1969. 1300-1355 hours.

PLACE ACQUIRED: Office of John Francis

REPORT BY: John Francis

Telephone call to my office. Gloria called to say she was having some trouble finding clients for my business. She asked when she could see me. I suggested immediately and she arrived about one hour later.

Personal chat prior to business. Gloria followed good Mexican custom in chatting lightly before getting to the matter about which the meeting was called.

Meche and San Luis Potosi I asked Gloria if she were going to San Luis Potosi this year for the Holy Week tennis tournaments. She said that she had planned to do so but was unable to find some one to go with her at the last moment. Pepe did not want to go, and would not let her go by herself unless accompanied by several other women or by Meche. Meche refused to go saying she would have no fun if with her mother and planned to go to Corpus Christi by herself.

Pepe to Europe again. Gloria volunteered that she was annoyed with Pepe. She deplores his Latin attitude about the double standard. She has been prohibited to take several brief trips to various cities in Mexico to see friends and family. She is not welcome to accompany Pepe on his trips. Yet he will soon take another month off to travel either to Europe or to South America. Gloria said that she has been waiting all these years for her children to grow up so that she could go with Pepe on his trips. Now that they are grown up, she finds that she still is expected to stay home.

Gloria watched carefully. Gloria must account for her time very carefully to Pepe during the day. And under no circumstances can she stay out after dark. Pepe apparently disapproves of Gloria working for me. He does not like the idea that she will be visiting businessmen throughout the city both in their offices and homes. He has expressed his disapproval, but Gloria has chosen to ignore it.

Wants to send Meche to U.S. Gloria wants to fight the attitude of superiority over women that Latin men have, but on behalf of her daughter, not herself. Gloria feels that she will never be able to enjoy anything close to equal treatment and consideration with Pepe. But she feels that her daughter should escape from this Latin degradation. Two or three years working in New York or San Francisco is Gloria's dream for Meche.