(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962)

The KGB accomplished only one theft of classified material during 1960-1961. A charwoman who was an agent of BELOGLAZOV stole a bag of papers from the Naval Attache office. The torn and crumpled contents included a draft of a report of Naval Attaches' observation of ships and factories on a trip to Leningrad. The report was only of routine interest to the KGB. The charwoman was granted a cash award.

Custodian of Embassy Security File: Summary and Conclusion

NOSENKO cannot describe the location (even by floor) of any of his own targets, such as ABIDIAN, the military code room, or the State Department communications center. In fact, he cannot describe the location of the office of any individual or unit in the Embassy, even of the Ambassador. When challenged to substantiate his claim to knowledge of the Embassy security file, NOSENKO asserted that he had never read it nor paid any "special attention" to its content in the two years he was file custodian. It is concluded that NOSENKO's claim that he was custodian of the file is an invention.

Audio Operations Against the American Embassy

NOSENKO's knowledge of the KGB microphone system in the Embassy derived from his alleged responsibility as Deputy Chief of the Embassy Section for receiving and routing to appropriate KGB personnel the reports of monitored conversations. Also, in his capacity as Deputy Chief and custodian of the monitoring reports logbook NOSENKO claimed to have attended a meeting at the end of 1960 or the beginning of 1961 at which he learned details of the locations of specific microphones hidden in the Embassy. Lastly, NOSENKO claimed he obtained information on the KGB audio operations against the Embassy, even after he left the Embassy Section, from his former subordinate GRYAZNOV. NOSENKO regarded the information about the KGB microphones, first mentioned in Geneva in 1962, as the most important he provided CIA.

225

TS No. 197124 Copy 10

G001487