CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION SECRET DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER HMMA-38119

3. After several largely abortive attempts to get GERENDE to follow up operational leads (and after noting, at the same time, a fine job he did in recruiting LIRICE-13), the Station decided to present GERENDE with what amounted to an ultimatum: Following a six-week leave at the home of relatives in the US, he was told that in recognition of his past services he was being given a salary increase to $7,000 US per annum (which may not seem like much until it is realized that GERENDE pays no taxes on this, and has the use of a QP car, to boot). He was also told that he would be given a number of leads to follow up (in some cases persons to whom he had natural access; in other cases leads which he would follow up under cover and in alias), as well as agents to handle (in alias). It would be up to him to take advantage of this opportunity to perform up to his level of ability; if he did so, Headquarters would be willing to work out an annuity program which would relieve his worries about eventual retirement. If he did not put out, he could expect to be terminated by the end of FY 1970. GERENDE expressed his gratitude and his willingness to put his shoulder to the wheel, and, in fact, he has done so. In October 1969 he took over the handling of LIANVIL-1 from Oliver G. SCANTLING, and the Station has started to give him leads to follow up. His performance has improved in every way--his punctuality has improved, his written reports are continually improving, and he has made the effort to devise approaches to the various leads and to start to follow up on them.

4. The Station was therefore highly encouraged, until 24 October, when GERENDE reported that his wife wanted a divorce. The problem is basically one of incompatibility of personalities, exacerbated by the fact that GERENDE's operational activities resulted in his being home more often than a man who works a normal office day. GERENDE's wife had taken a long vacation alone earlier in the year, visiting her parents, and the leave taken by GERENDE, referred to above, followed his wife's return and did not include her. Both times GERENDE had the four children. Thus the news of the divorce request did not come as a real surprise. The problem, however, is that both parties want custody of the children, and the dispute becomes daily more bitter and more violent. The station has taken the position that security of GERENDE'S operations must be preserved at all costs, hoping, of course, that the divorce can be avoided. At this writing, the outcome cannot be guessed. If the bitter fight results in the surfacing of GERENDE'S RVROCK employment, LILYRIC and LICALLA are faced with at least some threat of exposure. The MHHARSHers are quite aware that a LILYRIC-like facility exists; whether they suspect LICALLA is a moot question. LICALLA is in many ways more useful, and the MHHARSHers could put it out of business very easily by making their wall higher. Little could, or probably would, be done to prevent LILYRIC from functioning.

5. Other than LIANVIL-1 and the LIEMPTY assets directly handled by GERENDE (LILYRIC and LICALLA personnel and LIEMPTY-4) other Station assets whose security might be affected by GERENDE's current problems include LIENTRAP, LIRICE-13, and the PCM OP. GERENDE is also aware of the fact that some sort of operation, presumably technical, is or has been conducted from the LIMESA complex; he is aware of the existence and knows some of the members of the LIEMBRACE team (LIEMBRACE-1, -2, and -4, among the currently active), and he knows of the existence of LIENVOY and LIFEAT. His wife is LIFEAT-19 and has been a substitute transcriber as late as late 1968, and his mother was LIFEUD-19 (a former LIFEAT basehouse keeper, inactive since June 1964). GERENDE also knows SCANTLING, David M. WILSTED, and Raymond L. BARGENAS, as well as current Station officers Vincent P