14-0000

APPLICATION FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT Form of record: Budget Form No. S-5046

NOTE: Answer every question in this interview. If you are applying for a position with the United States Air Force, please indicate which branch of the service you are applying for (active or former). Additionally, if your application is being reviewed by the Air Force, please indicate whether it has been reviewed already or whether there is any other formal action required by law. All applications must be received by the Air Force within three days of their submission.

1. Name and address of examination center: William King Harvey

2. Optional subject if mentioned in employment announcement: Kentucky OR 2914

3. Place of employment applied for: Danville, Indiana

4. Current City, State and Zip Code: USA Age Last Birthday Male Female

5. Date of birth (month, day, year): 9/13/15

6. Height (inches) or standing residence (state): Married Single

7. Weight (pounds): 5 11 185 pounds

8. What is your present grade and date of last change in grade: If now employed by the Federal Government give present grade and date of last change in grade DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK

For Use of Civil Service Commission Only

OFFICE APPROVED

GRADE LAWFUL EATING-3 points (less) 10 points Wife or Widow Deaf Settling Injured

PARTICIPATION YES NO

INITIALS AND CAYS

NOTE: Answer "Yes" or "No" answer by placing X in proper column.

1. Would you accept short term appointment if offered 1 to 3 months?" X

2. Would you accept long term appointment if offered 3 to 6 months?" X

3. Would you accept appointment if offered 6 to 12 months?" X

(X) Would you accept appointment if offered: In Washington, D. C. X anywhere in the United States X outside the United States X

1. EVIDENCE - You are requested to furnish all information listed below in sufficient detail to enable the Civil Service Commission and the appointing authority of agencies to determine your quality characteristics so that when you are recruiting in the same area described below, use a separate block for EACH position. You may include only pertinent religious, civic, welfare or organizational activities which you have performed, either while or without compensation showing the number at least one per week and during per year in which you were engaged in such activity. Start with your PRESENT practice and work back accounting for all parts of employment. Explain clearly the principal tasks which you performed in each position. Describe your experience in the Armed Services in question (Militarism Experience), (a) if you were ever employed in any position under a same or similar title from that shown in item 4 of this application, give under "Description of your work" for each position, if any, a list. (b) if you have never been employed or are now unemployed, state that fact in the space provided below for Present Position"

PRESENT POSITION

Date of employment (Month year