who can furnish about 1,000 men to flesh out the unit. Case officer acknowledges that we recognized his potential for harmful action, had considered it thoroughly, and hoped he would not do anything of the kind. ARTIME said he had also considered all the possibilities and concluded there was no point in his being childish and trying to "bite us about the ankles."

3. ARTIME accepts the decision and will cooperate in a phase-out program. He does not understand the rationale, and, of course, does not agree with the decision, but he acknowledges our prerogative to make it. If we really wish still to be friends, he is willing, just as he told Mr. Fitzgerald originally. He asks only that we help him make it possible to remain friendly and makes two requests from us: (a) help take care of his men and their families until they can rehabilitate and remettle themselves, and (b) do everything possible to get his parents out of Cuba.

4. The major elements to be considered in a phase-out were discussed with the following results:

Personnel. The first priority is support payments to dependents which were due 1 March in the total amount of $100,000. This must be done at once if ARTIME is to maintain control of the situation. The next most immediate problem is re-entry permission for fifteen of his men who have been stranded in Nicaragua trying to return to the United States since December. These men were ex-filtrated "black" from the United States with our assistance and require special authority for re-entry from Department of State and Department of Justice, which we thought was arranged in early January.

The demobilization plan proposed by ARTIME seemed as realistic and effective as could be hoped for. It proposes to return the bulk of his men, approximately 200, to the United States during March and give them one month's pay on 1 April as a mustering out payment to support them and their families while they seek other employment. The balance of his men, less than 100, will be held in Central America for one month longer as a security and administrative force to muster the group's equipment at Monkey Point from which disposition can be made during the month