CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

SECRET EGOA-18888

TO Chief, AF VIA Chief, EE HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

Chief, WH 32W-120-012/01

FROM DATE

Chief of Station, Germany 12 December 1962

SUBJECT RE: "43.3" - (CHECK "X" ONE)

RYBAT WIROGUE XX

Final Resettlement of WIROGUE MARKED FOR INDEXING NO INDEXING REQUIRED

REFERENCE(S)

1. WIROGUE has received political recognition from the West German government and is fully documented in the name of Georg Frank Sanders. This was accomplished with the cooperation of ODIBEX on the basis of the fabricated story stating that Subject is a Georgian who defected from East Berlin on 14 July 1962 while with a tourist group. It was necessary to acquire political recognition for Subject because this was the only sure means to backstop him if and when he applies for immigration to South America. A Fremdenpass would not withstand the investigation required by immigration authorities.

2. All the South American Consulates in West Germany were contacted with the assistance of CAMANTILLA in an attempt to collect information which would enable HARVARD to select the most likely country to which Subject could immigrate based on his personal preference, opportunities for emigrants, immigration requirements, etc. Columbia, Chile or Peru offer the best possibility.

3. The next step will be for Subject to apply to the appropriate Consulate and begin his processing. Prior to having Subject take this step HARVARD will require Headquarters guidance and thinking regarding the following:

Subject as a prospective emigrant will have to furnish proof of employment or proof of financial solvency. Subject's West German documentation indicates that he is an engineer. This does not mean that he is a diplomaed engineer but rather a master mechanic. This is borne out by the details of his falsified life history and in fact by Subject's actual skills in electrical and mechanical fields. HARVARD feels that Subject can satisfy any South American Consulate that he is experienced enough in electrical and mechanical fields to be of value to the economy of the South American country of his choice. Once Subject is admitted to South America, HARVARD has no doubt that he can find employment if he desires it. The ideal solution, however, would be for Subject to have a firm offer of employment prior to his immigration. If KUBARK can arrange this, HARVARD feels that Subject's immigration could be practically assured. Subject could seek employment through the German language newspaper in Santiago, Chile but HARVARD feels that no South American firm would take the chance of hiring him sight unseen unless he were a highly qualified specialist.

If proof of employment cannot be provided, proof of solvency is the next requirement. Only one of the South American countries has stated what it considers to be the minimum proof of solvency. The prospective emigrant must show that he has the funds to subsist for two years at the rate of $125.00 per month. HARVARD feels that