REPORT ON CONTACT WITH AGENT OR DEFECTOR

SUBJECT: INVOICE

DATE: 22 June 1962 TIME: 0930 PLACE: Ostenstr 1/9

david reisfeld , Case Officer

COMMENTS:

CO met Subj at his ant, and informed him that word was received from his祖国 that due to his services in Kennedy's economy drive Subjs. services were no longer needed. Moreover that he were highly appreciated of his past performances and devotion to us. Subj, who was very calm throughout the entire session, took the news very well and stated that he had expected to learn his above fate.

He commented that now that he will no longer be in our employ he is virtually without means to support himself since the only funds he has is the accounts given him by Mr Burmann. He said further that unless he sold his invention to someone in Germany he not only would not be able to support himself but could also not pay for his fare to South America. (See below) It was agreed therefore agreed that Subj should now make every effort to sell his invention here and to this effect he was given his letter of introduction to the Dr in Dusseldorf where he hoped to go today. If this does not succeed he will attempt to contact a few of the large electrical firms (such as Siemens, Braun, etc.) in the Frankfurt area. He informed him that we will give him sufficient time for him to discover whether or not He will or can sell his invention in Germany. During this time he was told he could remain in our employ until he continues to receive his subsistence from us. (Subj assumed) that since he will not be working for us in the future he is free to leave his own way and will take every effort to let his business run on care of as soon as possible.

Subj was told that in the event he is not successful in selling his invention, we would inform our people in Munich that he is without funds and request financial assistance, especially to cover this period. After he is ready, we would inform him that it is likely that in this invention he intends to copy ours or to buy it.