Creills LANACION EL MERCURIO

GUILTY CROSS

"The Colonial tower of San Francisco—the cause of humorous polemics between the Mayor of Santiago and the Prior of the Franciscan Fathers—has upset local painters. In accordance with an order from the Mayor reconstruction work has begun on the outside walls of the church and tower. Taking advantage of the ascent to the bell towers the Prior ordered that the tilted cross be straightened—the cross is 30 metres above the street and was struck by a strong bolt of lightning during a storm. Local painters have always liked to go into the green gardens of the Order, and from there paint the picturesque tower with ancient tilted cross. But now that they have seen the new position of the cross they have countered with bitter statements: "Now we must remake all our paintings because of the cross".

EL DIARIO ILUSTRADO.

"A headline in a local paper says that our transportation and traffic problems will be studied in Europe.

But along with this way of fixing things, they'd better bring along some European mentality."

The world-famous cancer specialist, Dr. George Pack, who only recently moved to Argentina, and several years ago treated the Maharaja of Kamaraja, India, for theMaharaja of Kamaraja, India, has received his diagnosis. He told patients: "Friday I shall operate in the clinic of Dr De Amo." It will be a modest contribution to the success of this Congress (of Cancer Specialists)."

"Simply by answering a question concerning the yearly export of Chilean nitrate, Professor Charles K. Ranson and his wife have won a free trip throughout South America. The fortunate couple arrived yesterday in Santiago. The luck began on a radio program called "Your Tropical Trip" Professor Ranson was called before a jury and asked about the annual exportation of nitrate from Chile. He answered that it was a million tons a year (the had only ten seconds to answer). His answer was closest to the fact; the actual figure is 690,000 tons per year.

Only last year Professor von another radio prize, a trip to Honolulm, on a program called "Earn Your Vacation"

The Ransoms will stay in Santiago about ten days.

TO THE AUTOMOBILE TRADE

who stole my automobile No. 8 V. 39 from my home, 751, Dr. Cadiz Street, leaving it abandoned at dawn last Sunday. It left Encaala on the corner of Crescon- (E. Frazatriz), you are requested to come by the same spot to carry off the rest of the car that you left behind, after removing the wheels, radiator, etc., in order that I may collect my insurance since so long as there is anything left of the vehicle I can collect nothing. The automobile is still where you left it. Your cooperation will be much appreciated.

THE OWNER

Editor's Note: At press-time the automobile mentioned above had not been re-stolen. The owner of the car has been identified by the local press as Gustavo Campania, newspaperman and radio script writer. Señor Campania's insurance contract carried a clause stating that if the automobilereappeared before the end of ninety days no damages could be collected.

This week's pin-up feature Miss Laurette Greutner, lovely French mannequin, currently visiting the U. S. In a few short months Miss Greutner has managed to pocket the following titles: "Queen of Rising Star, Texas", "Miss Agricultural Products of the Year" and "The Girl We'd Most Like to Change a Tire With", by the Montana Auto Association.

VENDEMOS por orden de uno de nuestros demandantes

EN CALLE PIRINEOS PASADO ALCANTARA!

A corta distancia de trolebuses EL GOLF. Micro en la esquina. Frente al Colegio nuevo de los RR. PP. Alemanes. A 2 cuadras del Villa Maria Academy.

Primer piso: vestíbulo y hall, living, comedor, dormitorio de servicio, toilette de servicio, cocina con muebles, terraza.

Segundo piso: 3 dormitorios con closets, hall, baño.

Loisa ce concreto. Parquet en los dos pisos.

Desde 850.000 a 895.000, incluyendo impuestos de transferencia y gasos de escritura. ( 200.000 al contado y saldo en cuotas trimestrales de 100.000. Se aceptan operaciones por Cajas).

Entrega en Febrero

BANCO SUD AMERICANO

Worande 245 - 4.0 Piso

Pub/PRESS

Jr. splendidos chalets

Creills LANACION EL MERCURIO