"We have come up with another idea which we feel would lend itself to the greatest possible psychological warfare usage. It would also enable us to coordinate our campaign with the objectives and program of the Voice of America.

Tying in the previous accomplishments of the Crusade, namely, facilities for Radio Free Europe, the Freedom Bell and the balloon operation, we feel that we could distribute through our state and local organizations millions of thin paper leaflets, such as those used in the "Winds of Freedom" operation. These would carry a message based on the Christmas theme of peace on earth, good will to men; the Freedom Bell would be printed at the top, and beneath the foreign language messages would be space at the bottom for personal signatures and addresses. And the signatures would be promoted throughout the country on the basis that these messages of good will would be flown in balloons behind the Iron Curtain during the Christmas season. The basic approach to the American people would be that their contributions to this year's campaign would not only go to purchase balloons that would carry their personal message behind the Iron Curtain (we now have stored in Munich 55,000 unmarked P-20 balloons and 5,000 balloons marked "Holocaust"), but would also go to improve and increase the facilities of Radio Free Europe and Radio Free Asia.

The focal point of this campaign would be a balloon itself. We have 20,000 P-20 balloons in Minneapolis. These balloons could be distributed through state chairmen to cities and towns where they could be inflated and placed in front of city hall or public square. Beneath the balloons, receptacles would be placed where both the leaflets and contributions could be collected. For example, each city committee could letter its balloon to read "From the Citizens of Peoria, Illinois, U.S.A."

Actually, none of these balloons would be shipped to Europe, but the leaflets could be air-mailed to New York on December 15th and be forwarded to Munich to arrive before Christmas Day.

Another possibility to be considered is the "gift" from American people idea. We now have in Munich 100,000 razor blades, 75,000 needles, 150,000 cakes of soap and 100,000 zippers. These might be included in the balloons. I think this idea has much to commend it. For one thing, this would give something besides words to the peoples behind the Iron Curtain who are likely to get fed up on too many messages which tell them to keep their chains up. Secondly, it provides an excellent way of countering Red propaganda against the balloon operation: Radio Free Europe will then be able to ask, "Don't your masters want you to receive gifts? Don't they want you to ask why it is so difficult to get razor blades in your country and why the free world has enough of them that it can send them to you?"

I presume that the question will be raised as to what the Communists would do with advance knowledge of the operation. I feel that the answer to this lies in the joint operation of both RFE and VOX, continually reporting during the month of the Crusade of the great drive throughout America to secure