CERTIFICATION

I certify that I have read the names of the above listed organizations.

To the best of my knowledge and belief, I am not, nor have I been a member of, contributed to, received literature from, signed petitions or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any organization listed above, or any organization outside the United States espousing Communist, Fascist, Totalitarian or Nazi causes, except as noted below.

To the best of my knowledge and belief, none of my close relatives are, nor have ever been members of, contributed to, received literature from, signed petitions or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any such organizations, except as noted below.

INSTRUCTIONS

For the purpose of this certification, if an applicant or employee is completing this form, the term "close relative" will include spouse, children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, and aunts. "Close relatives" of the spouse, for this purpose, will include children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, and aunts.

If there are exceptions to this certification, set forth below under Remarks all pertinent information concerning the nature and extent of your activities or those of your close relatives in such organizations, including the names of the organizations, dates of membership, meetings attended, titles of positions held, amounts and dates of contributions, nature of petitions signed falling within the meaning of the above certification and circumstances thereof, titles and authors of literature received, and dates on which received.

In exceptions concerning relatives, include only such information presently known to you or available from your own records.

If necessary, use additional sheets and sign each sheet. Write none if there are no exceptions.

REMARKS: To be completed by Spouse

REMARKS: To be completed by Applicant or Employee

Date 23 JULY 1956 Argentina Ordiero de Rozier (Signature of Spouse) (City and State)

Date 23 JULY 1956 Ross H. Crozier (Signature of Applicant or Employee) (City and State)

Witness (Address)

(Witness) (Address)