This morning, Dr. Uzcategui phoned up my house and asked me to come in - his office at the Ministry of Interior about, I'll am. Once I was there, the other people from P.T.J.(mentioned in previous report), and who - were supposed to form Uzcategui's new group of investigation, joined me, and Dr. Uzcategui talked to them like this:

"....Gentlemen, this is to report you that Dr. OLIVARES RESUMED (P.T.J., Director), has refused the Ministry of Interior, Dr. LEANDRO MORA, the permission of having you here to work with me. Unless you decide to quit your job in P.T.J. and then join my office, I am afraid it will be impossible for us to work together, at least openly.....I think that Dr. OLIVARES'S great fault of cooperation with us, is increasing Dr. LEANDRO MORA'S feeling of unfriendliness towards him and myself as well. So, each one of you, shall have time until the 30 of this month to give me an answer as to about that decision to renounce P.T.J. or not; definitely, due to actual conditions, it is not possible to "borrow you" from P.T.J...."

After everybody left, I stood a little more with Dr. Uzcategui, and he introduced me to a new member of the office: Florida Correías. In fact, the name, (a) "Migdalia", whose cédula number (found out later; is 8-97006, This guy is Cuban, and has just come-in from Miami-Florida. As far as I could find out later on, the man who helped him into Venezuela is Jo. Giral, and an old friend of his...)".

Joannina (please remember that report about him), a Cuban veteran, and an old friend of his...), now BIOFOL Director. In newcomer to Dr. Uzcategui's group, was also a Cuban refugee in Miami, since the 1st January of 1959. Now years ago. The already mentioned Joanita, has got into a relationship with my cousin, has been very impressed by my silencers (or earplugs), which I have just given to Dr. Uzcategui. He says that, while in the States, he used to work with silencers and other technical stuff. He called groups of live actors and also in connection with the...