voluntary action, the program should "and other means through other contractors, or third" its own offices, of arranging dis- posal on a top priority basis. It was not until that the Program was better controlled to meet an effort that any other U.S. Government contractor, and that one of the most importantard- istics of its effectiveness must be in its capacity to handle this type of case. In brief, it is thought was demonstrated that we had perhaps been inelastic in our approach to this problem and pro- disposed to keep a non-public "whispering wind."

I want to bring out one very good point. One of the three OAB meetings and from numerous others here in Washington recently, there has been some circulation of the manner in which eligibility criteria, as being applied by the German country unit. Criteria has been raised on three occasions from (KUBARK), and is also included in the State Department report to the OAB group. The charge is made that the German country unit has been "un conventionally elitist," has adopted overly restrictive measures, and has given too much technical. The statement was made in the OAB meeting that even the all-important Soviet escapees, cases had been turned down on the grounds of voluntary repatriation even though the escapees never got past Berlin. The statement was also made that among the Soviets, only diplomatic and military defectors had been granted eligibility.

3. We are assured by Brown and other USB officials that the final charge made above relating to diplomatic and military defectors is entirely erroneous and this mutation is borne out by our own inves- tigation. In the past, eligibility was withheld from certain "voluntary repatriates" who had in fact, not no further than Berlin on the trek back to the USSR and who later returned to West Germany. However, we are assured that this is no longer necessarily true and that each case is judged individually.

Finally, the German Mission feels that Brown's flat state- ment that any or all assistance can be rendered to any excuse with- out regard to past disqualification, provided KUBARK will designate them to receive such assistance, is evidence of his and his unit's desire to corporate wholly heartedly. We wish to assure Headquarters that the field is now of the opinion that USBP is making a sincere and energetic effort to carry out a most difficult task. We have no com- pliments at the present time as to the handling of that part of the program which touches KUBARK interests. It will be associated if this can be made clear by the KUBARI official responsible for liaison with the Escapee Program in Washington.

Dated: CSRC: w/att (3) 1 - CSO-3, w/o att

2 Mar 54

James H. Karlatt