4. Lilian JIMENEZ Consuegra de LEIVA (P-5169, 201-228386), Salvadoran Communist employed at the Imprenta Madroto to proof-read the Soviet Information Bulletin and paid by the Soviet Press Office. She is married to Paul LFIVA Munoz, a Guatemalan Communist writer. Lilian has been occasionally reported asking for an appointment with Subject in order to discuss unspecified matters. For example, on 22 September 1967 she said she had an urgent matter to discuss with Subject, and Subject agreed to see her at her house at 0900 hours on Monday, 25 September (Source: LIFEAT).

5. Jose Maria ALVAREZ Posada (P-4415) is a Spanish Communist employed by the Soviet Press Office as an editor for their Bulletin. He seems to be very active among Spanish Communists in Mexico and also frequently sets up meetings between Subject and Juan REJANO Porras (P-1027, 201-109935). The latter is one of the leaders of the Spanish Communist Party in Mexico but also has close ties to other Communist groups, particularly the Cubans and Czechs as well as the Mexicans, and on at least one occasion he was seen going to the Cuban Embassy with one of the leaders of the Guatemalan Communist Party in Mexico. REJANO is in almost daily contact with ALVAREZ Posada, often says that he needs to see Subject urgently, has several times asked about scholarships to the USSR for unidentified persons. On 21 July 1967 it was reported that Subject had given ALVAREZ Posada a letter that was to be returned to REJANO, but often Subject arranges to see REJANO personally at the latter's house. (Source: LIFEAT).

6. In view of ALVAREZ Posada's apparent acting as a cut-out for Subject, as described above, the following item may also be connected with Subject. On 29 June 1967 "Max" told ALVAREZ Posada that there was a letter "there" from Guatemala that had been there since 22 June but "Max" had not been able to reach ALVAREZ Posada before. ALVAREZ Posada said he would be home after 1600 hours (so that "Max" could bring him the letter). (Source: LIFEAT). Although it is pure guesswork, the Station suggests that "Max" might be Maximiliano SALAZAR Garcia (201-183293), a Guatemalan Communist living in Mexico. SALAZAR has been very quiet recently, but on 14 July 1965 he was reported in contact with Carlos ILLESCAS Aguirre (cf. below) about finding housing and a job for an unidentified boy, and it is entirely possible that he continues to be active behind the scenes in Guatemalan exile affairs.