According to this report, "after a time it became evident that NOSENKO's interest in her was not only sexual, but also in information to which she had access in the course of her duties." A second official in Geneva told CIA that NOSENKO had definitely tried to recruit the secretary and that he attempted to obtain "disarmament secrets" from her.

At his second meeting with CIA on 11 June 1962, NOSENKO described the same incident, in the context of reporting a possible KGB penetration of British counterintelligence: "I decided to try to take this English girl to bed. And this had nothing to do with work. No, it was simply (sex)...And Yura [Yuriy GUK, First Chief Directorate officer in Geneva] said to me: 'Listen, Yura. Be careful, because we have people even in British counterintelligence.'" NOSENKO described the incident as follows:

"After I had been here a week or two there was a reception for members of the delegation and at it I saw a certain English girl. Then RUSK gave a reception and she was there again. I came to the reception, she saw me, and I went up to her. She said that it was very nice to make my acquaintance, and that's all. M.S. ROGOV (TSYMBAL) was there. He said to me: 'Yura, it looks to me like you are going to bed with that girl.' I answered: 'What do you mean, Mikhail Stefanovich? She just interests me.' I had already decided to try to get her in bed...But, listen further. After this she used to go to the Disarmament Conferences. Well, to make it short, I asked this girl for a date. She is Scottish, Scottish, not English, and works in an office here. We agreed to meet at a restaurant. I asked my friends which restaurant here is the best, where there isn't a crowd. We went to the restaurant and sat there all evening--all alone. There were just the two of us. The restaurant is under the ground and is called 'Day and Night' in Russian, 'Jour et Nuit.' We sat there and then she asked me where we could meet again. A day later we met again. Again in the restaurant and then we took a walk. She got me bothered and then gave me the brush-off. I called her once. She wasn't at home. I called again. Again she was out. I called a third time. She wasn't there. She thought that I was an intelligence officer and that I was interested in her for this reason. This, honestly, wasn't so. I had only one thing in mind. She was quite a woman...But the English girl felt that she was being developed. I met three times with her. Three times we were at the restaurant and she told them [her superiors] this. She knew that I am Russian. She told them this and they [NOSENKO whistled, apparently signifying that they terminated the relationship] at once. She knew from the very beginning that I am Russian, from the very beginning. In short, I told her a lot of things--well, you know--so to get her into bed. Well, we were walking on the quay and I said to her: 'How about going up to your place?' she answered: 'I can't.' 'Why?' I said, 'I'll take off my shoes and come on tiptoe.' She answered: 'Is it possible for me to come to you?' I said: 'You can't come to my place. There would be a knock on the door at once. The Swiss would tell the Americans and that would be the end. I can't do this.' So all I could do was have her next to the parapet. But the English felt--and nothing was heard about this, but