(8) Publication to be in the US first, with a view to subsidisation (if necessary) of editions (possibly abridged) in Western Europe and elsewhere.

(9) Publisher. JRIII: "Dwell would be loug. You'd get no advertising. Simon & Schuster would be excellent if you can get them to do it. Ask Littauer to shop it around."

Simon mentioned Picture Press, which was described in the "NY Times" of 25 June 1950:

"PICTURE PRESS is the newest shingle on Publishers' Roads, hanging from 270 Park Avenue. Editors are Joseph J. Thorndike, Jr., former managing editor of "Life," and Oliver Jensen, an leaves of absence from the magazine. The firm will concentrate on serious, inexpensive photo-text books with a general interest and news slant."

JRIII to Shub: "Ask LST what he thinks about Jensen,"

(10) What type of book? Shub: It should be called "Joseph Stalin", and to the casual reader it should look, at first glance, non-propagandistic. Then, as you look more closely at it, you see the degeneration of the system, in the faces, down to its present "tertiary phase", —the evolution from the early revolutionary dream of a better life for Russia to the present monster regime. The lens captions in it the better.

JRIII: The main theme should be "There are they now?", —all these individuals and countries that have been outflawered and taken over and liquidated by Stalin.

When you are writing for mass distribution, your technique should be: "I will tell you this, I am telling you it, I have told you it".

Shub: The thread running through it, starting with Lenin, could be: Cunningham, plus "Buthloogman" (one of Lenin's favorite words), plus complete intolerance of any opposition to a very narrow and constantly-hedging-purged Kremlin regime. Moral: (1) "Nobody can trust these people", and (2) "Because they tolerate no opposition, they mean War".

/ A possible title, or sub-title might be "Half slave, half free?", the quotation from Lincoln, which would tie in with the campaign to expose the USSR as the true "reactionary" and the US as the true "revolutionary" champion of freedom.

Shub: As far as possible, the photos, and the sequence in which they're arranged, should tell the story. GVI's war-time, 32-page photobook on Hitler ("I am not crazy enough to sent a war") relies too much on captions. We should make a book that Molotov & Stalin would squirm when they read it, and have no answer to. Then it will be good for publication anywhere."

• (11) Shub to move to NYC September 1.

(12) Shub to pay NYC associates $100 for the photos they have already obtained, plus $200 on publication of the book. W.S.S. SECRET