NOTE - The information you furnish on this form will be held in confidence

APPLICANT'S NAME: HYCOELA A. MAKSYMINS POSITION APPLICANT IS: PHOTOGRAPHER CLASS NO.: GS-9 EXAM OF ME: FT-58

The questions and explanatory statements in this table are given as guidelines to the type of information we should like to have, and need not be answered specifically if you consider other factors to be more pertinent.

1. During his period of time, how well, and in what connection has your employer, personnel acquisition, etc., been able to satisfy your requirements, i.e., employment, personal acquisition, etc.?

2. ABILITY. How would you rate the applicant's knowledge of and interest in his specialized technical field? (Is he better or less than informed than the average.) An enthusiastic, an authority! lives herusteels himself well in writing. Does he keep up with new developments? (Contribute some useful, proper old methods!)

3. PERSONALITY. How would you characterize the applicant's temperament and stability? (Is he mopeig! Is he stable?) Is he cooperative? Sometimes stubborn? Is he unstable or uptight? Self-confident? Is he impulsive (Cautious)?

How would you evaluate the applicant's ability to get along and deal with others? (He is friendly! Approachable? Reserved? Hostile! Lences he makes a poor first im-pressical? Improves on acquaintance? Does he talk frequently? Haltungly! Too much! Negatively?)

Do you know of anything in the applicant's background, or does he have any characteristics or personal habits which might adversely affect his efficiency or his relations with fellow-workers? If your answer is YES, please give details.

Do you have any knowledge of behavior, activities, or associations which would indicate that the applicant is not reliable, honest, trustworthy, and of good conduct and character? If your answer is YES, please give details.

4. LOYALTY. Do you have any reason to question the applicant's loyalty to the United States? If your answer is YES, please give details.

To your knowledge, does the applicant belong to any organization whose activities overthrowing or altering our constitutional form of government by force or otherwise means? If your answer is YES, please give details and list the organizations.

In your knowledge, does the applicant associate, or has he associated, with any person who is loyal to the United States to whom belongs or who belongs to or of the types of organization: 40% above? If your answer is YES, I give details. Bis employer since January 1962.

Average - At present, employee is under close supervision, he will continue this until he is capable of assuming duties assigned.

Applicant gets along well with fellow employees and is a cooperative.

Applicants are friendly.

No

Pens PAA~0210 (0-2)