For this reason, it is not advisable to have GERENDE connected with a surveillance team and also contacting and directing the sensitive photo base houses. Therefore, until such time as a suitable asset can be developed or acquired to take over the LIJERSEY team, their actual surveillance assignments will be kept at the minimum.

(5) Recommendations - It is suggested that the LIJERSEY framework be used for the recruitment of at least three competent and higher class local nationals for use on surveillance assignments. After the recruitment of such individuals, it may be suggested that LIJERSEYS-4 and 8 be terminated. LIJERSEY-13 should remain as an independent investigative asset to conduct "credit" and other type of inquiries which he can do without help from other agents. LIJERSEY-5 has already been asked to spot prospective candidates of a higher social standing for use on a new surveillance team; however, even under optimum conditions, one and a half years will be required to get such a team functioning. In order to recruit the type of team member that will be most worthwhile to the Station, we must plan to pay a minimum starting salary of $1,600.00 (MN) per month. The cost of living in Mexico is continually on the rise and where $1,000.00 (MN) was a good salary one to two years ago, it really is not adequate today.

LIFEAT

(1) Target - Conversations coming from two telephone taps, BGMORNING and Cuban exiles.

(2) Personnel - GERENDE lives in the apartment where these two lines are maintained. He personally processes the take from the lines and passes it to OUSLER for Station dissemination to Robert B. RIGGS (BGMORNING) and Cabude K. Shyrock (Cubans).* GERENDE, in accordance with LIFEAT procedures, is supposed to remain in this apartment seven days a week. However, this is impossible due to his other operational assignments and activities.

(3) Communications - GERENDE meets daily with OUSLER to pass the LIFEAT "take" and to discuss other operational matters.

(4) Security - It is not a good security practice to have a LIFEAT monitor working on anything except LIFEAT. Other duties, which GERENDE certainly has, limit one's capability for maintaining the required security alertness for telephone