example of BLANCO's lack of courage, Subject cited the fact that he and his wife attempted to avoid Subject's wife while Subject was an asylee in the Argentine Embassy in Habana. Incidentally, BLANCO's wife's name is Isabelle LAGO de Blanco and [she](...) is on excellent terms with Subject's wife[.] Subject is apparently convinced that BLANCO would welcome an opportunity to meet with him providing he were assured that the fact of the meeting would not become known to his Cuban superiors.

Faure CHOMON Mediavilla (201-270370): In essence Subject was only able to reiterate the background information on CHOMON outlined in paragraph 5 of UFCW 1574, 13 January 1963. In order to place his relationship with CHOMON in perspective, Subject produced a personal letter to him from CHOMON which was written in January 1959 and referred to Subject in the most familiar of terms. Subject alleged that CHOMON has confided in him on many matters of personal and political nature for many years. As an example, he cited a difficulty in which CHOMON became involved during his tenure as Ambassador to the USSR and while Subject was[?] stationed in Moscow. CHOMON at that time was having an affair with a Russian translator/ secretary assigned to him by the Soviets. This person's husband became knowledgeable of the relationship between his wife and CHOMON and beat on the door of the Cuban Embassy one day and proceeded to demand that CHOMON leave his wife alone. Subsequently a formal protest was received through Soviet foreign service channels.[...] As a result of this incident, CHOMON asked Subject to take a walk with him (He didn't trust the Soviets and felt the Cuban Embassy was burgled.) in order to discuss this problem and the possible solution for it. Although CHOMON did not specifically state anything in this vein, Subject obtained the impression during the last two meetings in the Argentine Embassy in early 1962 that CHOMON was anything but happy with his lot under the Castro regime. Subject felt it would be worthwhile and alleged his willingness to prepare a "recruitment letter" for mailing to CHOMON in Cuba.

GROUP-1

Excluded from sale - do not downgrading and declassification

201-3340

SECRE特