of opportunity. This basehouse also provides photographic coverage, concentrated on visitors. (b) LILYRIC which provides clandestine photographs particularly of visitors to, as well as employees of, the LIMERICK installation, prepares weekly reports on LIMERICK employees and their wives, and reports on license numbers of all cars visiting the installation. (c) LICALLA, which concentrates on photographic coverage of LIMERICK employees and their families, as well as providing observation on the apparent positions and jobs of the target employees, and as well as personnel changes. Additional photographic coverage is provided by the mobile LIENTRAP vehicle. Principal agent Raymond H. GERENDE (p) continues to coordinate basehouse activities; principal agent Oliver G. SCANTLING (p) continues to be an independent asset used to follow-up and exploit operational information on target personnel and installations, to case various installations of interest, to acquire property, etc. SCANTLING has managed the surveillance team being transferred to LITEMPO in the interim following the resignation of CLACKETT. The Station notes that activities at the LICALLA basehouse were suspended in September 1960 as the result of the arrest of a knowledgeable TSD technician in another area and it is not known precisely when it will be possible to resume these operations. The Station believes that the GERENDE segment is now operating under optimum arrangements and SCANTLING will soon be relieved from his interim responsibility for the surveillance team being transferred to LITEMPO and can concentrate more on his investigative and casing activities. It is not planned in the coming year to expand project activities.

4. Appropriate Special Staff components concur in recommending renewal. FI Staff notes the Division's assurance that the transfer of the unilateral surveillance team to LITEMPO will not affect its independent status, and remarks that the current project review presents a clearer picture of the usefulness of the several segments than the previous one.