31 January 1963

Havana's International Broadcasting

I. Hours on the Air

The Cuban Government uses three vehicles for its radio propaganda to audiences in other countries: “Radio Free Dixie,” “The Friendly Voice of Cuba,” and “Radio Habana Cuba.”

“Radio Free Dixie” is a one-hour weekly transmission in English to Negroes in the United States, broadcast over the facilities of Havana's 50-kilowatt transmitter “Radio Progreso” and its network of eight relay stations situated throughout Cuba. Robert F. Williams, the North Carolina Negro who fled to Cuba to avoid prosecution for alleged kidnapping, is the director and chief commentator of this program, which is heard every Friday night at 10 p.m. EST. Using “Jazz” terminology and frequently crude language, Williams tells his “oppressed North American brothers” that they are going to have to “fill a lot of jails and a lot of graves, and not just with black boys, either,” in order to achieve “freedom and social justice.” Assisting Williams are newscaster Carlos Moore and “musical hostess” (disc jockey and commentator) Jo Salas.

“Radio Free Dixie” is heard very well in southern Florida and can probably be heard in many areas of the southern United States without elaborate technical facilities.

“The Friendly Voice of Cuba,” formerly a popular Havana radio station known as “Radio Mambi,” began broadcasting in May 1962. Although this powerful station does not so announce, its transmissions are apparently intended for listeners in the United States. “The Friendly Voice of Cuba” broadcasts from 6:00 in the morning to 1:00 a.m. EST. All of its programs, except for four seven-minute Spanish news shows, are in English. Its approach is a shade more subtle than that of “Radio Free Dixie.” It is heard best in southern Florida, but can also be heard in many parts of the southern United States.

The official international service called “Radio Habana Cuba” is considered to be the chief external radio propaganda outlet of the Cuban Government. More commonly known as “Radio Havana,” this station broadcasts weekly a total of 187 hours and 50 minutes of propaganda in languages which include English, French, Arabic, Portuguese, Spanish, and Haitian Creole, to listeners in Europe, the Mediterranean area, and the Western Hemisphere. “Radio Havana” is under the supervision of Marcos Behemaras, deputy director (for international broadcasting) of the Instituto Cubano de Radiodifusion. In addition to the normal information
