East-West Exchange Program

Bucfile: 105-42300

This program originated in 1955 to provide internal security safeguards regarding the admission of Soviet and satellite nationals. Soviet intelligence regards visits of the East-West Exchange Agreement participants as opportunities to promote intelligence activity.

As a result of the last inspection, SAC Letter 70-25 was prepared, which set forth revisions of our investigative action in the field. This change was made as a result of other manpower commitments. The instructions in that SAC Letter provided that no investigations will be conducted of groups or individuals participating in the East-West Exchange Program in the absence of any information indicating affiliation with Soviet intelligence. Bufiles (Bubfiles) are checked on all Soviet participants and, where information is developed showing intelligence affiliation, cases are then opened and the field is instructed to conduct the necessary investigation.

During the period of June–December 1970, 525 individuals entered the United States under the provisions of this exchange agreement, and of this number, we had information indicating Soviet intelligence affiliation on 28 of these individuals.

With regard to Soviet exchange students, there are currently 31 in the United States. Based on information furnished by defector sources and investigations of Soviet students previously in the United States, we have determined that the Soviet Intelligence Services utilize these students in an intelligence capacity, principally as “spotters.” In view of this, we afford these students active investigation. We have also found that a number of these students return to the United States for assignment at one of the Soviet establishments and, in most instances, contacts which they made while in the United States as students are generally reactivated. For example, Mikhail Fomichev, currently assigned to the Soviet Mission to the United Nations as a Third Secretary, was in the United States as an exchange student in 1966. Through a defector source, we learned that he had recruited an American agent for the KGB, and extensive investigation under the code word “Nikotine” (Bucfile: 65-70250) has resulted in the identification of this agent in December 1970. He has admitted his recruitment and

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection  
13 January 1971  
JPL:cgc
