United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams  
Date: April 23, 1975

From: W. R. Wannall

Subject: SENSTUDY 75 — Former Supervisor Lish Whitson Assigned Intelligence Division

At 3:17 p.m., 4/22/75, former Special Agent Lish Whitson, who for many years was a supervisor in the Intelligence Division, telephoned me to advise that he had received a request to appear for an interview by Michael Epstein, staff member of the Senate Select Committee. The interview was scheduled for 4/23/75.

In response to a question by Mr. Whitson, he was advised that, to the writer's knowledge, this was the first former Bureau employee who had been requested to appear for an interview by any member of the staff of the Select Committee. Whitson stated that he was proceeding on the basis that he would respond to questions propounded to him, but he had some reservation in his mind concerning answering questions which would involve material which he knew to be classified at the time he retired. He commented he had noted in the news media that staff members of the Committee were reportedly to be granted clearances through TOP SECRET-Q (Atomic Energy Matters).

Whitson was advised by the writer that while it was true staff members were being granted clearances, the Bureau was endeavoring to establish procedures through the Attorney General whereby highly sensitive and classified material could be revealed on a restricted basis in response to Committee inquiries; for example, in some instances we would request that only the Majority and Minority leaders on the Committee be furnished certain types of material and in other instances only the Senators themselves as opposed to all staff members.

Mr. Whitson said in view of this, it was his intention to be as responsive and candid during the interview by Mr. Epstein as he could be, but if any questions arose in his mind with respect to revelation as to what he, Whitson, considered to be sensitive material, he anticipated he would express his concern to Mr. Epstein and advise him he felt it would be appropriate to check with the Bureau since he is aware of regulations by the Attorney General which preclude revealing FBI information without the Attorney General's specification.

WRW: lml
