B. Intelligence Terminology

People who do not speak and understand a common language have difficulty in communicating their ideas. Even in a country such as ours where English is the common language, words take on different meanings in different geographical locales and in different social, political, and economic environments. Likewise, in professional fields, varying backgrounds and experiences have conveyed different meanings to terms in the professional vocabulary.

In the field of security, intelligence, and counter-intelligence operations, certain professional terminology has developed ostensibly to assist in the exchange of ideas by persons in this field. However, as progress is made in a field or a special segment of the field, new horizons develop which require additional terminology or cause an evolution in existing terminology. This development or evolution in security and intelligence terminology, coupled with individualistic usage, brings further problems in meaning which we also face in the broader aspects of the English language. We have all noted that our dictionaries do not always provide a single meaning and we must be careful in daily conversation that we are not misunderstood when merely using a conversational vocabulary. We face a similar problem in the use of professional terminology in security and intelligence matters as this terminology takes on new meaning with additional experience and takes on varying meanings to different persons.

An additional factor to consider in understanding the meaning of terminology is the context in which a term is used. For example, the term “intelligence” may be vague and confusing without the knowledge of the context in which it is used. It can, as a generic term, pertain to the whole field of activities undertaken by a government in the collection of information, the protection of its institutions, and the conduct of nonattributable activities to facilitate the formation and implementation of government policy. Also, it can relate to the organization devoted to the collection and production of information necessary to the government. In addition, it may pertain to the whole body of theory and practice on the basis of which an intelligence organization operates. Finally, the word “intelligence” may be utilized to mean any part or all of the above.

The following definitions do not include all possible meanings that have been utilized but, instead, are designed to assist the reader in digesting this study.
