United States Government Memorandum

To: J. B. Adams  
From: Legal Counsel  
Subject: SENSTUDY 1975  
Date: 7/29/75

On 7/25/75 at the request of Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordinator Michael Shaheen in the Department, a meeting was held between representatives of the FBI (SAs Paul B. Daly and John Thomas), representatives of the Senate Select Committee (John T. Elliff, Task Force head of the Domestic Task Force, Mark Gitenstein) and Michael Shaheen of the Department. At this meeting Mr. Shaheen advised that the proposed procedures concerning the handlings of requests for documents by the Senate Select Committee had been approved by the Attorney General and in the Senate Select Committee. (A copy is attached.)

Shaheen and Elliff indicated the purpose in meeting on the 25th along with an anticipated meeting on Monday, 7/28/75, was to assist the SSC in the planning of a superseding request in accordance with the newly established procedures concerning document requests. Both Shaheen and Elliff expressed concern at this time that the schedules set forth in the new agreement was such that in many instances the Bureau would not be able to respond in time to meet the deadlines. Additionally, Shaheen expressed concern that the provisions require that the Attorney General adjudicate any question as to the necessity of furnishing a document to the Committee and to make such a decision within 24 hours would be very burdensome.

Messrs. Elliff and Shaheen were advised by SA Daly that this would be true, pointing out that in many instances files are not readily available because of FOIA requests, needs of the Bureau's ongoing investigations and law suits in which it was necessary to view particular files. It was also pointed out that many of the requests of the Senate Select Committee necessitate the review of a number of files and/or numerous volumes of a particular file all of which are not necessarily available immediately. Mr. Shaheen advised that it was the Attorney General's desire that Senate Select Committee requests take precedence over all other matters including the Freedom of Information. It was pointed out to Mr. Shaheen that our responses to Freedom of Information Act are under deadline by law and; if
