Office of the Director

United States Department of Justice  
Federal Bureau of Investigation  
Washington, D.C. 20535

October 21, 1970

Memorandum for the Attorney General

Re: White Panther Party – Youth International Party

Reference is made to this Bureau's memorandum dated August 18, 1970, concerning captioned organizations. By approval of that memorandum on August 19, 1970, you authorized the installation of a telephone surveillance on the headquarters of this group at 1520 Hill Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan, for a period of 30 days. Continuation of this surveillance was approved by you on September 22, 1970.

Since this surveillance has been established, it has furnished information concerning the location of a national conference of the White Panther Party as well as the time and location of meetings of other New Left groups in the Ann Arbor area. It has also furnished information concerning the travel plans of White Panther Party leaders and the location of several communes and future chapters of this organization throughout the United States. It further ascertained the White Panther Party is actively setting up narcotic buys for pushers who deal in the Ann Arbor area.

You were previously advised that White Panther Party leaders and other individuals having access to 1520 Hill Street, Ann Arbor may become involved in violations of the Harboring statute, the Antiriot Law and Sabotage statutes, the Bank Robbery statute, the Kidnapping and Federal Bombing and Gun Control statutes. You were also advised that the interceptions on the telephone at this address could possibly furnish us plans of the White Panther Party – Youth International Party to engage in terrorist activities or to violate Federal statutes as noted above.

This document is prepared in response to your request, and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
