Frank Church, Idaho, Chairman  
John G. Tower, Texas, Vice Chairman

Philip A. Hart, Mich.  
Walter F. Mondale, Minn.  
Walter D. Huddleston, Ky.  
Robert Morgan, N.C.  
Gary Hart, Colo.

Howard H. Baker, Jr., Tenn.  
Barry Goldwater, Ariz.  
Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., Md.  
Richard S. Schweiker, Pa.

William O. Miller, Staff Director  
Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr. (Fredhick A. O. Schwarz, Jr.), Chief Counsel  
Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel

United States Senate

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities  
(Pursuant to S. Res. 21, 9th Congress)  
Washington, D.C. 20510

October 15, 1975

The Honorable Edward H. Levi  
Attorney General  
U.S. Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

The Select Committee is presently investigating the activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation carried on as part of the COINTELPRO program. We appreciate the cooperation of the FBI and the Justice Department in making materials available to us in this area. However, one problem remains to be resolved. The Committee believes its staff must contact and interview certain persons who received information from the FBI in the course of COINTELPRO operations. The FBI has withheld the names of such persons from the Committee's use on the grounds that they were FBI “sources.”

The Committee wishes to stress that it is not interested in questioning these persons about any role as a “source,” but rather as a recipient of information from the FBI. Indeed, in many instances we would not have been aware that the individual was a “source” had not the FBI excised the name from the materials delivered to us. Nevertheless, to minimize any incidental deleterious effects on legitimate FBI operations, the Committee has selected a very limited number of persons whom we desire to contact and interview. (See attached list and materials.)

As you will recall, we originally discussed this matter with you some weeks ago. Since then the Committee has had an opportunity to consider the issue more fully in the light of our experience with other investigations. For example, our inquiry into the relationships between the FBI and the Internal Revenue Service clearly showed the

Enclosure
