United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: A. B. Fulton  
Subject: CIA Director W. E. Colby's 12/24/74 report to the President; Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request to CIA by Morton Halperin concerning information

Date: 7/8/75

Memorandum from Legal Counsel to Mr. J. B. Adams, dated 7/7/75, captioned “Colby Report to the President,” advised of a contact of Legal Counsel by Mr. James A. Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President, during which Wilderotter advised that the report submitted by Director Colby of the CIA to the President dated 12/24/74, which dealt mainly with the issues discussed in a “New York Times” article of 12/22/74 by Seymour Hersh, had been the subject of an FOIA request by Morton Halperin. Wilderotter advised that attorneys for CIA had prepared the material for release and that the material was now in the possession of the White House for their review. He suggested that, inasmuch as the FBI was mentioned in some of the material, it would be desirable for the FBI to review the material prior to its release.

SA Fred J. Cassidy of the Intelligence Division reviewed this material in Room 110 of the Old Executive Office Building on 7/7/75. This review determined that the FBI is mentioned throughout the material being made available to Halperin and that most of the references to the FBI included in the material appear in the Rockefeller Commission Report, which report has been made available to the general public. No FBI sensitive sources or techniques are disclosed in the material to be furnished Halperin.

In reviewing the material, SA Cassidy noted a misstatement in Mr. Colby's letter to the President which relates to the CIA mail intercept project that was in existence from 1953 to 1973. In the Colby letter to the President, he stated that the intercept program was initiated in 1953 and from its inception was fully coordinated with the FBI, which received much of its product. The facts are that we were not advised of the project until 1958.

FJC:fb

Continued over.
