As you are aware, provisions of Senate Bill 30 made it a federal crime in certain gambling operations, and it will not be necessary to prove interstate aspects of the gambling activity.

Top Echelon Criminal Informant Program (TECIP).

The following is an analysis of your Top Echelon Informant Program at this time as compared with the last inspection:

Rating: Excellent — last inspection: 4; present inspection: 3. Very Good — last inspection: 2; present inspection: 3. Good — last inspection: 1; present inspection: 3. Fair — last inspection: 0; present inspection: 1. Poor — last inspection: 0; present inspection: 0. Insufficient Data to Rate — last inspection: 0; present inspection: 0. Totals — last inspection: 7; present inspection: 10.

It is noted your office has penetrated the LCN “families” in both San Jose and San Francisco through the development of member informants. This is very noteworthy, and you are encouraged to make certain that your member informants are utilized to the best advantage of the Bureau. Also, it is noteworthy that you have increased your TE coverage from 7 to 10 since the last inspection.

SF 3058-C-TE (San Francisco file 137-4670; Bureau file 137-17455) was rated fair because of a lack of productivity. You should follow instructions issued in Bureau letter dated July 14, 1970, and if this informant is unproductive for four months subsequent to the receipt of that letter, the informant should be closed.

Although SF 2745-C-TE (San Francisco file 137-3456; Bureau file 137-11174) was rated good, his progress should be closely followed. Although he is noted to be a member informant, the file indicates he is very sick with varicose veins and is very old. The majority of information furnished by this source has been of a nature of past activities, and little present information is being furnished by him. You should endeavor to have him furnish more productive recent information or give consideration to concentrating on a more productive source.
