decrease in official cover as the solution to many of the problems of clandestine activity in foreign areas. Nonofficial cover as used in this sense means an arrangement which provides a plausible reason for the American representative being in the foreign area in a capacity other than as a representative of the Government of the United States. The repetitive advocacy of more nonofficial cover and less official cover is usually for reasons other than the superiority of nonofficial cover in the clandestine collection of intelligence information. We realize that there are other important considerations which make it undesirable to have a disproportionate number of intelligence operatives under diplomatic and consular cover. We contend, however, that only under proper and special conditions is nonofficial cover superior to official cover in the clandestine gathering of information. By and large official cover is more productive. The question of establishing and maintaining under viable deep cover, sources of information who can survive and report through clandestine channels is quite another matter and really has little to do with whether our American intelligence officers are under official or non-official cover. These deep cover sources must be of foreign nationality, at least appear to be so, to operate effectively in a country hostile to the United States and especially in a police state after diplomatic relations have been broken. But the recruitment of such sources and their organization can usually be done more effectively by American representatives under official cover than by Americans under nonofficial cover. Had all the CIA representatives in Cuba at the time diplomatic relations were severed in 1961 been there under nonofficial cover they would probably have been able to remain only a short time longer than our representatives under official cover and those who did remain could not have operated effectively under the surveillance that would have undoubtedly been placed on them. We do agree, of course, that selectively we should make an effort to lay the groundwork for deep cover, clandestine operations that can survive a break in diplomatic relations and other crises.

It is in order to consider briefly the nature, advantages and limitations of nonofficial cover. It is to be noted first and foremost that the CIA as a matter of avowed policy, is committed to the use of nonofficial cover in all instances, where it is available and its use is justified. In many areas of the world, however, nonofficial cover does not exist or, if it does, it exists under such circumstances as to have little use for the conduct of espionage. This is true of the denied areas, more particularly the Bloc countries; the quasi-denied areas such as Iraq and Egypt; and the under-developed countries, where there are no facilities of science, commerce and education from which
