United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: Mr. W. O. Cregar

Subject: SENSTUDY 75

Mr. N. P. Callahan  
Mr. J. B. Adams  
Mr. T. J. Jenkins

Date: May 12, 1975

Mr. J. A. Mintz  
Mr. J. B. Hotis  
Mr. W. R. Wannall  
Mr. W. O. Cregar

Inspection.

This memorandum reports the telephonic contact between former Assistant to the Director John P. Mohr and Mr. Jenkins at which time Mr. Mohr furnished additional information regarding his meeting with representatives of the Senate Select Committee (SSC) Staff on the morning of 5/9/75.

In reconstructing his interview on the morning of 5/9/75 by Staff Members Mark Gitenstein, Thomas Dawson and Lester B. Seidel, Mr. Mohr recalled them asking if he knew who prepared the “surreptitious letters” the Bureau sent in the Socialist Workers Party case. Mr. Mohr advised the Staff Members that he did not know but he presumed somebody in the Document Section of the Laboratory probably prepared these letters.

As reported in my memorandum of 5/9/75, members of the Staff Committee are hoping that Mr. Mohr will be able to arrange an interview of Miss Gandy by members of the SSC providing Mr. Mohr is present. In this regard, Mr. Mohr desired some guidance as to what he could tell Miss Gandy if Staff Members asked her for the names of individuals appearing in the official and confidential files of Mr. Hoover. Mr. Mohr was telephonically advised on the afternoon of 5/12/75 by Cregar that the Bureau could not give him any advice as to what he could tell Miss Gandy recognizing that whatever he told Miss Gandy was strictly between the two of them and not of concern or interest to the FBI. It was further pointed out to Mr. Mohr that neither he nor Miss Gandy should feel under any obligation to report to the Bureau what Miss Gandy decided in this regard as well as what she might tell the Staff of the SSC during her forthcoming interview by them on 5/15/75.

REC-106 62-116395-138

May 23, 1975

On the occasion of Cregar’s call to Mr. Mohr on the afternoon of 5/12/75 Mohr recalled that he had told Staff Members of the SSC Miss Gandy had turned over to Mr. Felt the official and confidential files amounting to one-half a file drawer. Mr. Mohr in speaking with Miss Gandy subsequent to his interview on 5/9/75 learned the official and confidential files turned over to Mr. Felt

62-116395

WOC:ekw (8)

Continued - over

May 27, 1975
