East Coast Conspiracy

Because of the basic responsibility of this Division for investigations involving subversive antiwar groups, overall responsibility for this investigation was assumed by memorandum dated September 10, 1970. This, of course, did not include individual Selective Service violations existing in various stages of prosecution or subsequent substantive violations in which affiliates of this group were suspected of being involved.

This investigation has been specifically targeted to two areas of prosecutive potential. First, to develop sufficient evidence to prosecute leadership of this broad conspiracy to impede the Government's functioning and conduct of the Vietnam war. In this vein, a comprehensive review of pertinent material discloses 16 related incidents from October 27, 1967, at Baltimore, Maryland, to Rochester, New York, on September 6, 1970. Of 97 individuals involved in 16 incidents during this period, 25 persons have been established as being involved in three or more of these incidents. This particular phase of the investigation is most detailed and complex; however, in terms of far-reaching damage to the movement, it is most significant. For example, we have set up an extensive Automatic Data Processing (ADP) project which resulted in a print-out showing over 300 telephone calls of interest between telephone numbers utilized by these conspirators and which corroborate information from the informant regarding calls he received from principal conspirators.

Second, we are developing sufficient evidence to prosecute the perpetrators of the plots to kidnap Presidential advisor Henry A. Kissinger and to blow up the tunnels which contain steam and electrical conduits between Government buildings in Washington, D.C.

Because of publicity given the plots to kidnap Kissinger and to blow up the tunnels in Washington, D.C., it is imperative this phase of the investigation be vigorously pressed toward prosecuting action. Consistent with this objective the Federal Grand Jury has been hearing evidence in this matter since December 18, 1970, and according to Departmental attorney Guy L. Goodwin will return indictments concerning the above-mentioned plots on January 12, 1971. Goodwin states the Federal grand jury will continue to hear evidence regarding other facets of this complex
