United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: Legal Counsel

Date: 5/5/75

Subject: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

This morning the Director asked me to inquire into the status of our understanding with the Senate Select Committee as to whether FBI representatives would or would not be present at interviews of former Bureau employees or current Bureau employees. The Director was concerned that the presence of a Bureau representative could be criticized as an attempt to interfere with the Committee's inquiries. I assured the Director that the purpose of such representatives being present was to assist the interviewer and the witness in determining areas of inquiry of particular sensitivity or that might concern a current Bureau operation. The Director agreed that such was an appropriate reason for the presence of a Bureau representative and asked me to consider preparing a letter addressed to Senator Church stating our desire to make available a Bureau representative and the reasons for the presence of such a Bureau representative.

As a result of a conference with representatives of CIA, Roderick Hills of the White House Counsel staff, and others, it was determined that Walter Lloyd of the CIA Legal Staff would continue negotiations with the Committee in behalf of the entire intelligence community to develop procedures concerning the interview of witnesses and the presence of agency representatives at such interviews. Mr. Lloyd was scheduled to meet with Frederick Schwarz, Counsel to the Committee, on Tuesday, May 6, 1975, to discuss such arrangements.

I scheduled an appointment with the Deputy Attorney General and met with him at 5:00 p.m. on May 5, 1975, accompanied by Inspector John B. Hotis. I told the Deputy of our concern that the interviews by the Senate Committee are continuing even though no understanding has been reached by the Committee and the intelligence community. I told the Deputy that the Director would like to have some

Legal Counsel
