D. The Need and the Potential for Foreign Intelligence in the U. S.

In 1941, the U. S. allegedly had in its possession practically all of the foreign intelligence it needed regarding military and strategic targets in Japan. The information was scattered among various individuals who had personal knowledge or was located in libraries, various Government agencies, private business firms, institutions, et cetera. Tragically, the U. S. Government did not have any mechanism to collect, record and evaluate such information. Intelligence was badly needed in 1941, and we paid dearly in lives and financial resources to accomplish certain missions because the information was not readily available.

Today, the need for foreign intelligence is greater than ever. The stakes of foreign policy have never been higher. The U. S., being a dominating world power, has assumed vast responsibilities enmeshed in delicate political situations throughout the world. The ever-existing threat of an atomic war with communist countries demands a continuing acquisition of knowledge so that policies and courses of action can be designed in the most effective manner possible. The information needed applies to numerous fields of activity, a major area being scientific research and development. In this connection, the revolutionary break-throughs in the scientific category are occurring with unusually high frequency, and if the U. S. is to remain in the forefront, it is absolutely necessary that we obtain an accurate evaluation of the enemy's capabilities and intentions. We have been fortunate to collect high quality positive intelligence through sophisticated collection methods, i.e. high altitude photography, and research in this area is proceeding at an accelerated pace. Nevertheless, electronic gadgets and machines will never produce all that is required. We still need supplementary coverage on a heavy scale, and the human being still continues to be a vital source of information. The individual talks and volunteers information. He talks and his statements are intercepted. All of this produces valuable increments of intelligence. The individual can still provide badly needed data either through his voluntary contribution or through his unwitting divulging
