May 23, 1975

U.S. Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC).

Re: Interview of former Assistant to the Director John P. Mohr (Johly P. Mohr) by SSC staff members.

All information contained herewith not classified.

Set out below is information voluntarily furnished to the FBI by Mr. Mohr following his interview by representatives of the Staff of the SSC in Washington, D.C., on May 9, 1975.

Mr. Mohr was interviewed by Staff Members Mark Gitenstein, Lester B. Seidel, and Thomas Lawson from approximately 10:20 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. He was not placed under oath and he was not advised of his rights or that he could be represented by personal counsel.

At the outset of the interview, it was apparent that its purpose was to assist the SSC Staff Members in trying to understand how the flow of mail proceeded in the FBI under Mr. Hoover's directorship. For example, Mr. Mohr was shown FBI documents relating to the Socialist Workers Party as well as COBALTRO documents which were obtained by Mr. Carl Stern under the Freedom of Information Act. No substantive questions were directed to Mr. Mohr regarding these documents, but they were shown to him in order that Mr. Mohr might identify who the final authority was in approving such documents.

Associate Director. Deputy Assistant Director, Administration. Deputy Assistant Director, Investigations.

Assistant Director: Administration; Computer Systems; External Affairs; Files and Communications; General Investigations; Identification; Inspection; Intelligence; Laboratory; Planning and Evaluation; Special Investigations; Training; Legal Counsel; Telephone Room; Director's Secretary.

In addition to the above, the Staff Members asked Mr. Mohr to explain the difference between an SAC letter and a letter to all SACs. They also asked Mr. Mohr if the Bureau maintained a separate file on all SAC letters.

Personnel File of John P. Mohr.

WOC: ekw.

Mail Room. Teletype Unit. Enclosure.
