Accomplishments

International New Left and Sedition Unit

(Prior to 12/16/70, part of Protest Groups and International New Left Unit.)

A prime responsibility of the Bureau and the intelligence community is to develop intelligence relating to efforts of foreign governments, organizations, and individuals to influence, direct, or dominate the New Left movement in the U.S. In this regard, over the years, there have been a number of international-type conferences often sponsored by international front-type groups frequently under the direction or control of the Soviet Union.

Late last summer this Bureau received information that the Stockholm Conference on Vietnam (SCV), an organization established in 1967 which is controlled by the Soviet-dominated World Council for Peace, intended to hold a World Conference on Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia in Stockholm, Sweden, 11/28–30/70. As the SCV, since its inception, has been a major sounding board for anti-U.S. propaganda, particularly that of the North Vietnamese, we dispatched WF 1777-S to attend the World Conference. The informant's attendance proved of exceptional value. She not only attended preparatory meetings and post-conference meetings, but also participated in all sessions of the World Conference, identifying the entire American delegation, other international organizations involved, and foreign delegations including those representing the Cambodian Government in exile, the Provisional Revolutionary (communist) Government of South Vietnam, the North Vietnamese, and communists from Laos. Informant was able to develop the activity of the American delegation which was led by David Bellinger, a notorious New Left militant, and the obviously directed plans of the Conference to discredit the U.S. at the Paris peace talks. Informant also developed the nature of the international propaganda attack to be directed at the U.S., worldwide action planned in support of the communist position in Vietnam, and plans to “expose” the “criminal” position and actions of the U.S. as relate to Vietnam.

Our coverage of this Conference was of value to officials of other Government agencies and undoubtedly assisted in the formulation of positive U.S. policies relative to the U.S. position in Vietnam. The excellent coverage also resulted in our being able to directly pinpoint the foreign influence of the domestic subversive movement and resulted in a number of important investigations.
