program aimed at precluding acquisition of spare parts for industrial machinery, and other products needed by Cuba, (5) a sabotage program of a general nature, and (6) support of anti-Castro autonomous groups, by giving them money and the means to act, but under an arrangement which insures against attribution to the United States, and which precludes operations from U.S. or British soil. (The CIA philosophy is to back only the potentially powerful and effective anti-Castro groups, and the military is felt to be the best bet.)

The CIA effort represents a shift from external raids to internal sabotage actions. CIA mounts about 10 “black” operations a month, and Castro security forces have taken their toll among the CIA teams. Three operations were conducted on August 17 and 18, and among other things the objective is to give encouragement to dissident Cuban elements such as military officers who see no professional future under Castro, who is unloading military elements which aided him in his initial seizure of the government. (The Special Group, Mr. Dandy and other White House staff note the successful mounting of CIA’s sabotage operations and have asked for more to be conducted. CIA has found it necessary to resist any such pressures for these operations to be increased beyond the present effective capacity which CIA has at this time.)

Again, referring to the Cuban economy, it is hurting badly. The United States has a monopoly on the spare parts for industrial machinery needed by Cuba, and the USSR cannot supply them. The Cuban electrical industry is particularly hard hit in this respect. Castro’s re-emphasis on an agricultural step-up means increased efforts to produce sugar, a crop which presents a good sabotage target. Finally, the Soviet aid at a rate of $1 million a day (military and economic) is not enough to keep the Cuban economy going. Cubans are not starving but they do not eat “comfortably” even in the larger cities. CIA finds that a major problem for their “black” teams is food resupply in areas where the Cubans are hard put to feed themselves.

CIA assets being used against Cuba: Staff: 384 (Washington and Miami). U.S. contractor personnel: 83. Foreign nationals: 525 (mostly Cubans). Personnel at overseas posts: 45. DD/I staff: 12. NPIC: a big effort on U-2 photography of Cuba.
