Accomplishments

Protest and Trotskyist Groups Unit

This unit was formerly known as the Protest Groups and International New Left Unit. As of December 16, 1970, a separate International New Left Unit was organized which took over investigations pertaining to this particular work. Since the last inspection, the intensified investigation of cases has continued to produce positive results.

Selective supervision has enabled us to have advance knowledge of New Left leaders, conferences, and demonstrations. Through this advance knowledge, we have been able to furnish the White House and other interested Government agencies information on a daily basis regarding pertinent activities of individuals and groups of interest to us. We have disseminated voluminous letterhead memoranda, reports, and teletypes concerning plans of leaders of these groups which were most timely, particularly where violence was a possibility. On the basis of material furnished by this unit, two Current Intelligence Analysis (CINAL) were published pertaining to the Student Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam (SMC) and the New Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam (NMC).

These investigations furnished complete coverage of the major antiwar demonstrations in May and October, 1970, as well as sectional and national meetings at which plans for these demonstrations were formulated. This coverage afforded detailed knowledge of the major shift in the antiwar movement, and the view of its leadership pertaining to the degree and amount of militant tactics to be employed. We were able to follow closely the emergence of the National Coalition Against War, Racism, and Repression (NCAWRR) out of the once powerful NMC and the attempts of the Trotskyist groups to exercise greater influence within the antiwar movement through the formation of the National Peace Action Council (NPAC). The NCAWRR has proposed a national action for May, 1971, whereby efforts will be made to close down Washington, D. C., by the use of militant tactics. The NPAC plans national demonstrations in April, 1971, which may very well undermine the impact of the NCAWRR action.

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection

January 12, 1971

JJS:plm
