SAC R. E. Gebhardt

10/22/70

If he failed to pay the debt. This case is currently under investigation with the matter being presented to the Federal Grand Jury at San Francisco for violation of Title 18, U.S. Code, Section 894, Extortionate Credit Transaction Statute.

It should be pointed out that “BILL” Bonanno and Joseph Bonanno, Jr. are the sons of Joseph Bonanno, Sr., a “Commission” member of the LCN in the United States.

The aforementioned subjects are also involved in a separate ECT case involving the shakedown and threats to do bodily harm to William Joseph Ellis. This matter is presently under investigation and will be presented to the Federal Grand Jury, San Francisco, immediately upon completion of Grand Jury action in the Eckstin ECT case.

Since last inspection, investigation has continued in regard to Giuseppi (Giuseppe) Conforte, the reported Vice Lord, State of Nevada, who for years has headed up a major prostitution operation. Through extensive investigation and the placement of SF 3239-C-TE and SF 3369-C, this organization has been completely penetrated, identifying his lieutenants and scope of operation. As a result of the above, it has been determined that Conforte’s operation has spread to the State of Hawaii, being controlled there by one of his top lieutenants, Tommy Seale. San Francisco has under preparation an affidavit for a request of a Title 3 electronic surveillance on the phones utilized by this organization in Honolulu. This Title 3 affidavit has been prepared with the assistance of the Departmental Attorney at San Francisco, who has discussed same with the Organized Crime Section, Department of Justice, which has advised that upon completion of current investigation in Honolulu, the affidavit should be immediately submitted for approval.

As another example of the progress made in the penetration of the racketeering operation since the last inspection, information was received that Harry John Johnson and Alan “Suitcase” Fidler, two Boston “hit men,” received a contract, reportedly by a printer, to travel to San Francisco and “straighten somebody out over a union matter.” Johnson, a former resident of San Francisco, is known as a former associate of Jack Goldberger, top local Teamster official.
