United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: W. O. Cregar  
Subject: SENSTUDY 75  
Date: 2/27/75

Mr. Callahan; Mr. Adams; Mr. Mintz; Mr. Bowers; Mr. Wannall; Mr. Cregar.

This memorandum recommends that we keep Mr. Colby apprised, as the Director of Central Intelligence, through the Ad Hoc Coordinating Group on Congressional Inquiry of any proposed or completed FBI testimony before congressional committees when such FBI testimony impacts on other members of the Intelligence Community, could result in other members of the Intelligence Community being called to testify, or any questions are asked of the FBI which are of proprietary interest to another agency or department of the Intelligence Community.

The Ad Hoc Coordinating Group on Congressional Inquiry, chaired by Mr. John Clarke, Associate Deputy to the Director of Central Intelligence, is made up of representatives of agencies and departments having membership on the United States Intelligence Board (USIB). Its purpose is to serve as a coordinating mechanism for future testimony before congressional hearings.

At a meeting of the USIB on 2/26/75, Chairman Colby commented on the effective manner in which the Ad Hoc Group was functioning. However, he noted that it is imperative all members of USIB be extremely sensitive to the need for prior coordination to insure that the basic interests of the Intelligence Community are served and that any testimony or documents furnished congressional committees are factual and accurate. He hoped that all members will be made aware of what other members are testifying to before a congressional committee as well as the identity of that congressional committee. Mr. Colby noted that it is highly likely that members of the Intelligence Community will be called before various congressional committees other than the Senate and House Select Committees.

REC-6 62-116395-30

The Intelligence Division believes this type of coordination is vital to insure that one agency's testimony is not in conflict with that of another through misunderstanding.

Classified by: JAMZIEG  
Declassify on: 25X1

62-116395

WOC:ebc
