181. 11/6/62 — (IL-28s). As of this date photographic evidence reflected the following regarding IL-28 medium jet bombers in Cuba:

9 already assembled or in the process of assembly at St. Julian.

20 packaged in crates at St. Julian.

9 packaged in crates at Holguin.

4 packaged in crates at a point near Holguin.

Total: 42 IL-28s in Cuba.

182. 11/9/62 — When the DCI met with the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board on this date, he reported that from France he had protested, without success, the conclusions reached by USIB in the SNIE on the Soviet buildup in Cuba, and in commenting upon the lessons to be learned from the recent developments pertaining to Cuba, the DCI (1) expressed the belief that “we were too timid with respect to the conduct of surveillance operations over Cuba in September;” (2) expressed concern because of the lack of weight given to refugee reports by the intelligence analysts; (3) expressed the view that a state of mind had developed in the intelligence community to the effect that the Soviets just simply would not undertake an offensive ballistic missile buildup in Cuba; (4) reported that CIA has been operating three rather ineffective intelligence teams in Cuba but that they have not produced hard intelligence on the subject because they have been occupying themselves mainly with staying alive; (5) advised that there were approximately 40 third-country agents (meaning diplomats) reporting from foreign embassies in Cuba but that CIA “obtained no hard intelligence from them regarding the military buildup;” (6) advised that from the standpoint of reasonable and proper UN verification we do not have satisfactory coverage of Cuba, and that “we have little unofficial on-site information;” and (7) stated that currently CIA “is not getting intelligence on Cuba through conventional means.”

183. 11/9/62 — When the Director, Defense Intelligence Agency, met with the Board on this date, he expressed the view that there was danger in placing undue reliance on photography in seeking answers to questions that plague us from the standpoint of intelligence. He noted that DIA received no significant information from agent sources concerning the Soviet missile buildup. He suggested that the Army should play an increasing role in terms of clandestine intelligence penetration of Cuba. He also noted that an additional important lesson to be learned was that there must be provided to the Washington area a first class photo processing facility if we are to be prepared adequately for similar Cuban situations in the future.

184. 11/9/62 — When Mr. Thomas Hughes, Acting Director of Intelligence and Research, Department of State, met with the Board on this date, he identified the following areas as warranting further examination: (1) The need for establishing an improved capability for the evaluation of indicators as distinguished from the process of preparing intelligence estimates; (2) The need for getting across to top level officials the full brunt of such indicators. Hughes noting that this did not happen in State, and in fact that State received some of the refugee indicator reports as much as two months after they had
