United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: Legal Counsel

Subject: SENSTUDY 75

Date: 6-27-75

Attached is a letter from the Senate Select Committee (SSC), dated 6-23-75, addressed to the Honorable Edward H. Levi. This letter announces the SSC's intent to conduct interviews relating to Douglas Durham, a former Bureau informant. The request obviously relates to our investigation at “Wounded Knee” and our investigation of the American Indian Movement (AIM). This request was received 6-27-75, by Legal Division.

On 6-27-75, Patrick Shea, staff member of the SSC, requested we hold in abeyance any action on the request in view of the killing of the Agents at Pine Ridge Reservation, South Dakota.

Recommendation: For information.

Enclosure.

Attachments to this memorandum are hereby added hereto and adopted into the foregoing by revised amendments to be further read by you as if previously attached. Due careful reading is recommended before executing or delivering upon any significant part of this document. Notice of the provisions of the adoption notice is to be given by postage stamp or by other means so that in no event one year from the date of this memorandum shall it be mentioned outside the period of one year from the date of this memorandum. All other those who are entire to the effect of the provisions of the adoption notice may attempt to show the non-obsolete state of the provisions of the adoption notice by giving early notice thereof to the Department of Labor. If you are an employee of a government or corporate employer, do not show the non-obsolete state of the provisions of the adoption notice. Do not show the non-obsolete state of the provisions of the adoption notice until the first day of the third month after the date of the memorandum. If you are not an employee of a government or corporate employer, do not show the non-obsolete state of the provisions of the adoption notice until the first day of the third month after the date of the memorandum. If you are an employee of a government or corporate employer, do not show the non-obsolete state of the provisions of the adoption notice until the first day of the third month after the date of the memorandum. Do not show the non-obsolete state of the provisions of the adoption notice until the first day of the third month after the date of the memorandum. All others are requested to show the non-obsolete state of the provisions of the adoption notice until the first day of the third month after the date of the memorandum. Do not show the non-obsolete state of the provisions of the adoption notice until the first day of the third month after the date of the memorandum. All others are requested to show the non-obsolete state of the provisions of the adoption notice until the first day of the third month after the date of the memorandum. Do not show the non-obsolete state of the provisions of the adoption notice until the first day of the third month after the date of the memorandum.
