The frail facade of the constitution and the Bill of Rights. The fascists realize that if these two pieces of paper were implemented they would be in their graves tonight because the Constitution and the Bill of Rights contain the moral impetus necessary to bring this foul evil economic and social system to its doom.

U.S.A. fascists have compiled and are still evaluating information received from South American satellite states who are being beset by courageous urban guerrillas waging relentless struggle with amazing (to fascists) and stunning success. Eldridge Cleaver, Minister of Information of the Black Panther Party, has said that we still have a little time left because the U.S.A. fascist ruling clique hasn't programmed all of the people to accept the genocide of the Party and our people yet. For at least a year now, there have appeared in every major newspaper, seemingly innocent space fillers. Articles from UPI-API dealing with the deployment of fascist death squads against the revolutionary forces in South America.

These fillers had the sinister purpose of preparing America for the advent of death squads now in operation in every major urban center. These articles were to prepare the people to accept the first overt actions of the Chicago foul fascist gestapo killer unit. Their objective was to evaluate the response of the people to above-ground counter-insurgency killer groups—to see if the people were conditioned to accept the outright fascist terror tactics directed officially by the fascist ruling clique.

Our Party has been and is still the main target of a national dehumanizing campaign. The fascist-controlled news media has consistently maligned, viciously attacked and branded our Party as a racist band of blood-thirsty murderers out for their own personal gain. The fascist news media seeks to justify the fascist's program of destroying our people's first line of defense, the Party, and all other organizations which refuse to be either bought off with blood money or intimidated by the repressive fascist forces. The fascist attempts to isolate our Party from the people has been a dismal failure. The liquidation of Deputy Chairman Fred Hampton and Mark Clark had top priority on the fascist's pig list. However, neither the people nor our Party were cowed or intimidated by the bestial slaying of these two revolutionaries. The fascist ruling clique made a grave error in estimating the will of the people and our Party. People from all walks of life and every progressive organization saw through the fascist attempts to isolate and destroy their Party. The people mo-Angeles, Southern California, Chapter of our Party, came under attack by fascist killer groups. Although outnumbered and using inferior weapons, our Party repelled and held at bay the fascist shock troops and sounded the end of Chicago-type operations in a fuselage of bullets. We learned valuable lessons paid for with the blood of our revolutionary comrades. The fascist ruling clique has seen the support that their homicidal raids have generated for the Party. They now know that if conditions are favorable, they will receive tit for tat and then some. They now know that Black and all progressive people will not sit idly by and pacify the action of above-ground killer groups. Fascists have tried to rally the support of the American people to their avowed aims and failed.

Now begins the phase of underground, clandestine operation of fascist-directed killer groups. This is all part of the nature of the fascist ruling clique. The fascists will no doubt expand the techniques of their South American lackeys who operate unrestricted, unswayed by either democratic institutions or public opinion. As the tempo of the struggle increases so will the fascist acts of reactionary terror and violence increase. The primary target of forming clandestine kill groups will be both our people and our Party. If we are to survive as a people, this next phase of attacks, and pave the way to victory, it is imperative that our people be armed with the ideology of the Party. For only then will our people be able to cope with both ideological and physical attacks initiated by the insane fascist ruling clique. Huey P. Newton, Minister of Defense, said that our Party must be a living shield that stands between our people and the fascist pigs and that our paper should serve to educate our people so that they will survive.

As the attacks against the Party escalate, so must the awareness of our people be channelled toward acceptance and even more, active participation in urban guerrilla warfare. Phase two of the fascist plans will surely and soundly be defeated. The fascists will awake to find themselves bogged down on that last front. They will be swallowed up in the morass of a people's war. Their graves will be dug by revolutionary urban guerrilla forces amidst the asphalt, concrete and steel of the cities.

ALL POWER TO THE PEOPLE. DEFEAT U.S.A. FASCISM ON EVERY FRONT.

WE'LL ALL BE TOGETHER ON THE DAY OF VICTORY

Randy Williams, Political Prisoner

REVOLUTIONARY HANDIWORK OF THE URBAN GUERILLA

Predawn kill-all—destroy-all mission was launched as a pilot, an experimental operation
