The request for a clerk by the Internal Security Section for a newly approved clerical position mentioned in its write-up has been filled. The Espionage Section may find it necessary to request an additional clerk to handle extra duties assigned to a clerk who is already heavily assigned, if the present system, now on a trial basis, proves unworkable. The New Left Section may find it necessary to request an additional agent and clerk if the present trend of heavy increase in caseload continues. We are watching this closely. As you will note in the write-up by the Nationalities Intelligence Section, we are making a request for two additional agent supervisors at this time. This is necessary due to the recent increase in foreign legats from 11 to 17, increasing our legat personnel from 60 to 88.

To recapitulate, our requests for additional personnel are:

Front Office: two GS-2 clerks.

Racial Intelligence: one GS-4 clerk; one agent supervisor to replace Supervisor Enright; two additional agent supervisors.

Espionage Section: one agent supervisor to replace Agent Quinn.

Nationalities Intelligence Section: two additional agent supervisors.

I firmly believe that our limited requests for additional personnel at this time are fully justified. As you will note in the attached write-ups, we are not asking for additional personnel until, after a trial basis, we have found it absolutely necessary and fully justified. The increase of terroristic tactics by the Weatherman faction of the Students for a Democratic Society and militant organizations such as the Black Panther Party and the Jewish Defense League has made it absolutely imperative that intensive investigation be conducted to identify and locate all members of these militant organizations and secure evidence for prosecution, if we are to meet our grave responsibilities in the extremely vital field of internal security. This has increased the workload of the Racial Intelligence Section, the New Left Section, and the Nationalities Intelligence Section. Because of this increase
