Venceremos Brigade

4. Regarding foreign travel such as that in which the VB is engaged, it is recognized that the best interests of this country would undoubtedly be served by prohibition of such travel. The Internal Security Act of 1950 contained sanctions restricting travel on the part of Communist Party members. After extended litigation, the Supreme Court in June 1958 ruled in the Kent and Briehl v. Dulles passport case that the State Department could no longer deny passports to individuals with a past history of subversive affiliations. In June 1964, the Supreme Court in the Flynn-Aptheker (Aptheher) passport case ruled that the right of U.S. citizens to travel abroad is protected by the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. In January 1967, in the Laub decision specifically dealing with travel to Cuba, the Supreme Court ruled that the State Department could not confiscate an individual's passport simply because the individual traveled to Cuba without State Department sanction. In December 1967, in the Lynd decision, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals ruled that anyone can travel to a restricted country if they did not use their passport to enter that country.

A number of bills have been introduced into Congress in recent years to remedy the above situation, most of which have never cleared committee. The Senate currently has a bill, the Eastland Bill, before the Senate to impose criminal penalties for violation of travel restrictions. A pending bill, H.R. 1493, was introduced in December 1969 to restrict travel in violation of area restrictions. This bill has been sponsored by approximately 20 Congressmen. In view of the above, this Division has not considered it warranted to suggest additional legislation along these lines.

5. As to technical violations regarding false or erroneous statements made by members of the VB on passport applications, all information developed along these lines has been furnished both to the Department of Justice and the Department of State for whatever action they deem feasible. To date, neither Department has requested that additional action be taken in this matter.

6. The Inspector's suggestion regarding the placing of name stops with the Identification Division and the NCIC Unit for information concerning hard-to-locate VB members is well taken. This Division will coordinate this matter with NCIC to determine what information is necessary to place such stops and the manner in which this can best be effected. Instructions will be issued to the field regarding
