United States Government Memorandum.

To: Mr. W.R. Wannall. From: H.A. Boynton, Jr. Date: 2/12/75. Subject: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities.

Pursuant to request of Mr. Adams, Liaison Officer L.F. Schwartz contacted Mr. John Clark of the Intelligence Community Staff on 2/11/75 with regard to suggested security procedures for the handling of classified information by the Select Committee.

Mr. Clark advised that on 2/10/75 he had met personally with Mr. William Miller who has been designated to head the Select Committee Staff. He stated that he discussed with Mr. Miller the proposed guidelines for security and the proposed secrecy agreement for staff members and furnished Miller with copies of both these items. Mr. Clark stated that Miller was generally receptive to the proposed guidelines and felt that they would be acceptable subject to the approval of Senator Church. Mr. Miller was decidedly cool concerning the idea of staff members signing a secrecy agreement but indicated that a final decision regarding this would be made by Senator Church.

Mr. Clark stated that he raised two specific questions which Mr. Colby considers most important with regard to any presentation made to the Select Committee. He advised Miller that the Intelligence Community would desire to not identify specific agents or the details of sensitive operations which might reveal the identities of sensitive sources. Mr. Miller was agreeable to this and foresaw no problem with the Select Committee accepting this proposal. Secondly, Mr. Clark advised Mr. Miller that Mr. Colby, speaking for the Intelligence Community, was opposed to having any dealings with staff members of the various Senators and Representatives other than those assigned to work directly under Mr. Miller as part of the Select Committee Staff. Mr. Miller stated that this was also acceptable to him and he assured Mr. Clark that all of his staff members would be subject to an FBI background investigation and the issuance of a security clearance by CIA.

REC-104. #FMDR16.
