(86. 9/5/62 Continued)

August 30th, the Department wrote a letter to me which arrived at my office just today (9/5/62). This letter—an incredible letter in the light of what has happened since August 30, and indeed what had happened before that—reads in part as follows:

“Several Soviet passenger and cargo ships arrived in Cuba during late July and early August carrying large quantities of technicians of various kinds.

“The Department has established that personnel landed from approximately five of the ships. We have no specific information about the number of persons.

“We have no information that any Soviet-bloc troops have landed in Cuba. Although the full significance of these developments is not clear, there is no evidence that supplies and technicians have arrived in Cuba in such numbers as to provide support for external aggression from Cuba against other countries.” (Source: Congressional Record)

87. 9/6/62—“After further analysis” of the August 29 flight, there appeared in the Central Intelligence Bulletin of 6 September the information which had previously been included by the CIA in the President’s Checklist of August 31, 1962, regarding photography of the August 29 flight which disclosed SA-2 sites in Western Cuba, plus KOMAR-class PT-boats and tanks. (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62)

88. 9/6/62—By this time “more detailed readout of the 29 August mission had . . . led CIA analysts to suspect the presence of another kind of missile site—possibly surface-to-surface—at Banes, on the northeast coast. General Carter so informed the President on September 6. (For this reason the information was never included in the Checklist.)”

Programs were then set in motion to determine the characteristics and range of the missiles at Banes: On 9/9/62, at the request of the Secretary of State, COMOR reviewed the vehicles available for reconnaissance of Banes. On 9/10, General Carter sent a memorandum to the Secretary of Defense requesting necessary actions, including Special Group approval, to provide for “tactical-type reconnaissance” of the Banes area, when directed by higher authority. On 9/14, a Special Group meeting was briefed by JCS on capabilities for low-level coverage of “certain targets” in Cuba—but the Secretary of Defense did not want the operation considered further until there were available the results of further U-2 reconnaissance which had been decided upon at a White House meeting of 9/10.

(On September 18, the CIB reported the results of a further CIA study of the 9/5 U-2 photography, namely, the conclusion that the Banes site was intended for a short-range coastal defense missile.)

“One additional item was picked up by the 5 September mission, the presence of an assembled MIG-21 at Santa Clara airfield along
