PH 92-444

On October 19, 1959, Greenwald advised SA Dean that Thomas Dickson, described above, was contacted by an individual, presumably a John Pollina, in an endeavor to purchase his 2,500-acre plot in Salem, N.J. Greenwald allegedly was told by Dickson that it was demanded that he set a price for his land and that Dickson would be contacted Wednesday evening, October 21, 1959, for his answer. Greenwald said that Dickson had called him and related this information. Dickson was said to be extremely worried over what may happen to him or his family if he does not sell the land.

By letter October 26, 1959, the Newark Division advised that Thomas Pancoast Dickson, on October 20, 1959, was interviewed by SA Robert D. Aldrich and advised as follows:

Dickson did not know other than from rumor who was involved in the sale of land adjoining his property for the purpose of using it as a garbage disposal area. He had been approached to sell his land by Charles Acton, Swedesboro, N.J., a real estate dealer. No threats were made to him, but Acton told him that the people he represented “had to have the land” and for him to name his price and they would buy.

Dickson had heard from sources unrecalled that the Pollinas were the persons behind the project, but he observed that there appeared to be a great deal of political pressure coming from the State of New Jersey regarding the matter. It appeared that the state wanted to use Salem County as a dump ground for the whole state, since dumping on the North Jersey meadows had been stopped.

A. W. W. Howell, Box 459, Parsippany, N.J., told Dickson that the State of New Jersey had made an official investigation concerning the matter. Dickson then called Detective Sergeant Emil Dalint of the New Jersey State Police at West Trenton, N.J., who admitted to him that such an investigation had been made and a file existed, but said that he preferred Dickson talk to his superior, Deputy Attorney General John J. Burgin, for any official information. Dickson did not proceed further.
