China mainland on September 9. On the latter point Dr. Langer inquired whether the Secretary felt that flights over Cuba were in the same category as flights over the Soviet Union or over China. The Secretary responded in the negative, noting that “we felt much greater freedom of action in the case of Cuba.” Mr. Hilsman added on this point that the USIB felt that two U-2 flights a month over Cuba were adequate.

The Secretary recalled that early in October he was requested to authorize overflights based on indications of two specific sites, and he said he immediately approved.

Mr. Gray observed that there appeared to be some confusion as to whether we had a policy of not overflying SA-2 sites, and Secretary Johnson responded that the matter of overflying SA-2s invariably came up in the Special Group but that he could not recall any prohibition on overflying such sites. Secretary Johnson added that in the Special Group he could not recall any kind of operation ever being recommended where the atmosphere was as relaxed as it was in the case of recommendations pertaining to the Cuba problem.

Mr. Hilsman stated that at the operational level there was concern about losing a pilot over Cuba. Consequently, a CORONA mission was programmed for Cuba from September 21 to September 24. Mr. Hilsman thought this concern over the loss of a man may have been a factor which contributed to the low number of U-2 flights flown.

The Secretary was asked whether he was satisfied with the national estimating process and whether he considered that State Department participation therein was provided for adequately. The Secretary thought that State Department participation in the preparation of national intelligence estimates was adequately provided for. He said that from the point of view of the policy officer it is essential that he know what the intelligence people think; that on the other hand the policy officer wants to avoid taking the intelligence view as “the Bible,” and he wishes to find a way for the intelligence community to “throw in contrary indicators in their estimates in order that they might be flagged for the policy maker.”

The Secretary was then asked if he felt that the intelligence community analytical, estimative and reporting functions in the Cuba situation were hindered by international political considerations or by preconceived views of “Sovietologists” regarding Soviet.
