Informant would attempt to maintain contact with Klasa through the entree of automobile service. It is respectfully submitted that a review of both cases, the potential security informant and the intelligence officer against whom he is targeted, shows that these matters were afforded proper supervision at the Seat of Government.

2. The field has and must have the primary responsibility for development and direction of potential security informants against communist intelligence officers. The nature and intensity of the direction of such potential security informants must be commensurate with the apparent authenticity of the informant's relationship to and course of conduct with the intelligence officer against whom he is targeted. Over the years it has been firmly established from both investigative experience and information obtained from defectors that anyone who is aggressively cultivating an intelligence officer is automatically suspected as being under the control of opposition intelligence and, therefore, a provocateur. In the instant case Bokinsky's logical entree to Klasa is Klasa's need for mechanical work on his and the Embassy's automobiles. Given time and cultivation as is being done according to 90-day letters being received in the Klasa case he may develop a rapport or relationship with Klasa that could result in his being upgraded to a security informant. Reviews of the Bokinsky file and the 90-day letters in the Klasa file show this matter is progressing normally and at a tempo in line with the facts of the relationship existing as well as normal experience in these matters. Therefore, it is believed there is no lack of proper supervision at the Seat of Government.

3. It is respectfully submitted that there was no necessity for the Seat of Government to instruct the office of origin to disseminate to Baltimore information concerning Bokinsky and to obtain verification of his employment change as these items were covered in investigation. As a matter of long-standing policy WFO has the responsibility for developing and handling source coverage against communist intelligence officers assigned to diplomatic establishments in the Washington, D.C., area even though the source may live or work in suburban Maryland or Virginia. Review of the Bokinsky file shows that WFO by letter dated 3/17/70 to the Bureau stated that there was no record of information concerning Bokinsky available to the
