I THINK IT'S TIME WE FOUND ANOTHER LINE OF WORK, PHILBRICK...

Retired Agent Questions Morgan's FBI Position

I was appalled to read the story on page 14 of your January 1976 edition, captioned: “Sen. Morgan Calls ‘F.B.I. Most Dangerous Threat.’”

This story reported comments made by U.S. Senator Robert Morgan (D-N.C.) to the Asheville Area Chamber of Commerce on January 15. Mr. Morgan was quoted as saying he considered the FBI to be the nation's most dangerous threat, adding, “It's just rotten to the core.” He elaborated that the FBI has lied, opened mail and wiretapped illegally, and conducted organized campaigns to discredit individuals.

He said that the FBI had recordings critical of Martin Luther King Jr., made to be played for audiences that King would be addressing.

I am a retired FBI agent, with 27 years' service prior to my 1970 retirement, twenty-five of these years were spent in domestic and foreign-inspired intelligence-type operations.

My response is that the charges made by Senator Morgan were not only grossly exaggerated but taken out of context, resulting in his distinguished audience receiving distorted and misleading information.

The abuses alluded to by the Senator must, on reflection, be viewed in context to the times that prompted them; times of bombings, massive riots, destructive confrontations, killings, maimings and peripheral atrocities, many of which were initiated by and led by revolutionary extremists. Nor should we forget the numerous riots, burning and looting of our major cities.

In balance, the nation's need for internal scrutiny protection intensified. FBI employees recognized the danger, felt that they had a responsibility to respond and, in good faith, initiated actions designed to neutralize, deter and contain violent activities as well as those threatening impending violence.

The central question for all of us should be: Has the FBI, with the help of countless dedicated local police agencies and concerned citizens, provided necessary and sufficient protection for the public and country in the domestic intelligence field, in context with a recognition that in any free society there is and should be a prejudice favoring all but the most violent attacks on society?

Remember: The framers of our Constitution were not so sure of the invulnerability of our form of government. Otherwise the preamble thereof would not have provided that our government is to take measures to insure its domestic tranquility and provide for its common defense. This mandate is an endless and often awesome responsibility.

Why is it so necessary for Senator Morgan to castigate and cavil the current FBI under the enlightened and able leadership of Clarence Kelley? I know Mr. Kelley and was privileged to work under his immediate supervision in 1961, immediately prior to his retirement, following which he served as Chief of Police at Kansas City, Missouri. It was only two years ago that he returned to the FBI, this time as its director.

I can certify Mr. Kelley as an honest, extremely competent, dedicated and fearless man.

This is not to assure a sacrosanct and pious position, for no organization is perfect, as is no individual. Our respective judgments as to the correct methods of meeting and solving problems may not always be in accord.

It is one thing to try to correct actual shortcomings and tactical errors of our intelligence agencies, including the FBI; but it is quite another to wreck and demoralize an agency, so vital to this country, by publicly labelling it “rotten to the core” and as “the nation's most dangerous threat.”

William H. Lawrence  
314 Swiss Pine Lake Dr.  
Spruce Pine
