Department of State.

Action: ARA. From: Guatemala City. Control: 14268. Received: December 28, 1962, 4:14 a.m. To: Secretary of State.

Following highlights lengthy GOG press release announcing expulsion of four Cuban exiles to Honduras (which reported separately), recounted history beginning with Cuban armed expedition to Panama in 1959, and including Castro-supported subversion, illegal activities of Cuban Embassy here before rupture of relations, and training of anti-GOG Guatemalans in Cuba, which led to Ydigoras (YDI HORAS) government being “first to realize tremendous danger that Castro represented for all the Americas.” Stated U.S. and many Latin American countries first misjudged Castro as “leftist democracy.” Danger represented by Castro forced Guatemala to go on offensive in order to defend itself better and led to ill-fated (no fault of Guatemala’s but of those who failed to give air support, etc.) Bay of Pigs venture with U.S. Government. From that time on Castro’s “de facto” government undertook many subversive activities against Guatemala, including March–April 1962 disturbances, which communique characterizes as led by unscrupulous Guatemalans, communist-liners, and dupes. Among latter group are those who do not wish to pay income tax.

Castro sponsors many exiled Guatemalans, totaling around 27 persons, led by former President Arbenz (ABENZ). These Guatemalans form group which calls itself “Government of Guatemala in Exile.” Communique then relates subversive and propaganda attempts by Arbenz (ABENZ) and company to cause revolution here and states arms and radio broadcasts, former coming to Guatemala from Belize and Mexico. In addition, many students and laborers are being trained in Cuba, and selected ones sent to Iron Curtain countries. Estimated 600–700 persons trained in Cuba now preparing subversive movement for the first few months of 1963. GOG, through Swiss who represent Guatemala in Cuba, told Castro GOG would recognize government in exile if Cubans did not get rid of Guatemalan exiles. As it almost certain DA in 815779.
