U.S. Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC)

Interview of FBI Special Agent (SA) O. Richard Hamilton by SSC staff members

Trip involving investigations of any FBI matter occurring within that road trip, and such assignments were not necessarily connected with the Security Squad. SA Hamilton advised he was reassigned to the Security Squad in Atlanta during the spring or early summer of 1964 or 1965, and he believed that, according to his best recollection, this was in 1964.

The SSC staff members questioned SA Hamilton as to what, if any, assignment he had regarding the investigation of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., or with the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). SA Hamilton advised that upon his reassignment to the Security Squad, he was assigned to monitor a wiretap on SCLC and on the residence of King. The staff members inquired as to the number of lines monitored and as to the location of the technical installation. SA Hamilton recalled that lines on the SCLC switchboard and SCLC Wide Area Telephone Service (WATS), as well as the residence telephone of King, were monitored. The staff members inquired whether tapes of conversations were made from the technical installation, and SA Hamilton replied that occasionally, when it was necessary to record more than one telephone conversation occurring at the same time, he would tape one conversation while preparing a handwritten log of another, and that thereafter the conversation recorded on tape was reduced to a handwritten log when time permitted. The staff members asked what was done with the recorded tapes following the completion of the recording, and Hamilton advised that when the conversation had been reduced to writing on a log and the tape was used up, as best as he could recall, the tape was erased and then reused. The staff members asked whether such tapes were reviewed by other FBI personnel, and SA Hamilton stated he could not recall any situation where this occurred. The staff members inquired as to whether such tapes were further maintained or placed
