Authorizing emergency apprehension and detention was repealed in October 1971. Under the Emergency Detention Program, while it existed, a great deal of continuing investigative activity was conducted concerning thousands of individuals who were believed to represent a threat to the national security in time of national emergency. Some of our investigative practices today are based on criteria authority growing out of the original Emergency Detention Program.

Now this is not to say that the FBI is in a position of having to defend its investigative policies or practices. If there has been but a single thread of continuity running through our investigative practices and procedures over the years, it is that the individual's constitutional rights are paramount; that nothing is so important as a citizen's rights under the law. Legal Counsel pointed out an extremely important point last year at the time of the Princeton Conference, where a group of FBI critics gathered to expose the FBI's faults. He noted that for years preceding the Miranda decision and the Escobedo decision, the FBI had been warning persons of their rights prior to taking any kind of statement. Every Special Agent knows that the first and perhaps most important element in preparing for a prosecution is preserving the individual's rights guaranteed under the Constitution.

The FBI has legally conducted investigations of individuals and organizations whose philosophies include the overthrow or destruction of the United States Government by force or violence. Whether conducted under a Presidential order or statutory authority, any such investigations were absolutely necessary and continue to be so. For administrative reasons, documents reporting results of investigations often have not always clearly shown the authority, statutory or otherwise. A caption has usually been used for routing and supervisory purposes which is not clearly indicative of the nature or purpose of the investigative activity. Such captions might well be confusing to one not connected with the FBI, and they might well lead to the conclusion that investigation was not based on any legal authority. For example, the caption “Security Matter - Miscellaneous” or “Internal Security - Revolutionary Activity” means little to someone outside the FBI. To those in the Domestic Intelligence Division, such designations identify the type of case and supervising unit at Headquarters.

In other words, there has been nothing wrong with the conduct of our investigations. Only those deserving of investigation under statutory provisions have been investigated. While we would have been more precise to predicate our investigations on a specific authority, whether statutory or Executive Order 10450, we have not engaged in extralegal investigative activity simply because we failed to cite any specific authority to conduct the investigation in such a way as to make it a “closed-end” investigation such as Professor Elliff described.
