Frank Church, Idaho, Chairman  
John G. Tower, Texas, Vice Chairman

Philip M. Reit, Mich.  
Walter F. Jondale, Minn.  
William Huddleston, Ky.  
Robert Morgan, N.C.  
Gary Hart, Colo.

Howard H. Baker, Jr., Tenn.  
Barry Goldwater, Ariz.  
Charles M. C. Mathias, Jr., Md.  
Richard S. Schweiker, Pa.

William G. Miller, Staff Director  
Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel  
Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel

United States Senate

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities

(Pursuant to S. Res. 21, 94th Congress)

Washington, D.C. 20510

July 9, 1975

The Honorable Edward H. Levi  
Attorney General  
U.S. Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

We have received a letter from Clarence M. Kelley, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, dated July 7, 1975, requesting to meet with us for a discussion of certain materials pertaining to the FBI which were compiled by the Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States and may now be in the possession of the Select Committee. The Committee welcomes this opportunity for discussion with Mr. Kelley of these and other matters of concern both to the FBI and to the Committee. Our reply to Mr. Kelley is addressed to you because we believe it is essential that you participate in this meeting in order to arrive at a mutual understanding among the Justice Department, the FBI, and the Committee.

Prompt discussion is especially important because of the Committee's concern about the status of certain requests for documents. On May 14, 1975, the Committee wrote to you requesting documents pertaining to a number of areas of inquiry. The status of the May 14 request was considered by the full Committee on July 8, 1975. The Committee's review of the responses to this request indicates that, although certain documents have been supplied, others in areas of the most vital concern to the Committee are still outstanding. A summary of the outstanding items from the May 14 request is attached.

Enclosure
