Research conducted at Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, NY, on 3/10–12/75.

On 3/10/74, Mr. Donald B. Schewe, Assistant Librarian in the Reference Archives, Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, NY, was advised of our interest in locating any communications bearing upon a conversation between former President Franklin D. Roosevelt and former Secretary of State Cordell Hull in the latter part of August 1936. Mr. Schewe was advised that this conversation was concerned with the security of the US and that Mr. J. Edgar Hoover of the FBI may have participated in this conversation. Mr. Schewe was also advised that Mr. Roosevelt allegedly reduced the subject matter of the above conversation to a memorandum and that we were interested in locating this memorandum or some information bearing upon the above conversation. Arrangements were made to meet with Mr. Schewe at the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library in Hyde Park, NY, on 3/12/75. Mr. Schewe indicated that in the meantime he would conduct some research in this matter.

On 3/12/75, Mr. Schewe advised that he had conducted some research relative to our telephone call on 3/10/75, and inquired if we could be more specific with regard to the dates of the information desired. Schewe was advised that to the best of our knowledge the conversation we were interested in, involving Franklin D. Roosevelt (FDR), Hull, and Mr. Hoover, occurred on approximately 8/24–26/36 and that the conversation concerned the internal security of the US.

Mr. Schewe, at this point, furnished a Xerox copy of a “buck slip” dated 8/24/36, a copy of which is attached, on White House stationery, classified “Confidential” and addressed to the Secretary of State from FDR. Mr. Schewe stated that “buck slips” are nothing more than a cover memorandum utilized to transmit communications which are attached thereto. It is to be noted that this “buck slip” indicates that attached to it was a memorandum for the Secretary of State, unsigned, undated, and recommending coordination of activities of all agents of the Government in foreign countries. Schewe advised.

Enclosure
