Frank Church, Idaho, Chairman  
John C. Tower, Texas, Vice Chairman

Robert A. Hart, Mich.  
Milton F. Morris, Minn.  
Boston D. Huddleston, N.Y.  
Robert Morgan, N.C.  
Gary Hart, Colo.

Howard H. Baker, Illinois  
Barry Goldwater, Nebr.  
Charles McC. Mathias, N.Y.  
Richard S. Schweiker, Pa.

William G. Miller, Staff Director  
Frederick A. O. Schwane, Jr., Chief Counsel  
Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel

United States Senate

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

(Pursuant to S. Res. 21, 197th Congress)

Washington, D.C. 20510

May 14, 1975

Hon. Donald C. Alexander  
Commissioner, Internal Revenue Service  
Internal Revenue Building  
1111 Constitution Avenue  
Washington, D.C. 20224

Dear Commissioner Alexander:

The Committee appreciates your letter pledging the full cooperation and assistance of the Internal Revenue Service in the work of the Senate Select Committee on Governmental Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities. We also appreciate your forwarding the draft resolution which would authorize the Committee to review any “tax-related information” which may fall within the purview of its responsibilities. Such a resolution is being put forward.

In an effort to expedite the Committee’s inquiry into the intelligence functions of the Internal Revenue Service, the Committee asks your cooperation and assistance in furnishing the material and information sought in the enclosed “First Request for Documents from the Internal Revenue Service” and “First Interrogatories to the Internal Revenue Service.” It is the Committee’s desire that most of the material and information requested be provided by May 30 and the remainder very shortly thereafter. We also request that you provide the answers and documents as they are compiled rather than holding those which are initially compiled until May 30.

In the near future, the Committee’s Chief Counsel will be in contact with your General Counsel to work out the mechanics of delivering the requested documents and interrogatory answers and to arrange for close liaison between the Committee’s staff and the Internal Revenue Service personnel with whom the staff will wish to meet.

While we recognize that the enclosed requests are substantial, they reflect the broad mandate given to the Committee by the Senate. We believe that it is in the national interest that we perform our

Enclosure

62-116395-241
