30. All materials reflecting that “with Bureau approval, William C. Sullivan had previously given Ralph McGill some of the basic facts concerning King’s connections with communism and his (deleted),” as indicated in Mr. Sullivan’s January 21, 1965 memorandum to Mr. A. H. Belmont, subject “Martin Luther King, Jr., Security Matter - C.”

31. All materials reflecting contact by Special Agent Alden F. Miller or by any FBI Headquarters officials with Eugene Patterson concerning Martin Luther King, Jr., as proposed by Special Agent Miller in a telephone conversation with Mr. Sullivan on January 15, 1964. (See Mr. Sullivan’s 1/16/64 memorandum to Mr. Belmont, subject “Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters, Internal Security - C.”)

32. All materials reflecting the “further recommendation as to whether we are in a position at that time (the end of a 90-day period, or sooner if conditions permit) to take further action against King and the SCLC without embarrassment to the Bureau,” as promised in Mr. Sullivan’s December 24, 1963 memorandum to Mr. Belmont, subject “Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters, Internal Security - Communist.”

33. All materials reflecting “the suggestion recently made by the Atlanta field office that another conference be held at the Seat of Government with representatives of the Atlanta office and the New York Office,” as indicated in the second paragraph of the Director’s April 1, 1964 letter to the SAC, Atlanta, captioned “Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters, Internal Security - C.”

34. All materials reflecting recommendations for, and approval of, the sending of the Director’s April 1, 1964 letter to the SAC, Atlanta, captioned “Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters, Internal Security - C.”

35. All materials comprising the “separate correspondence” between FBI Headquarters and the Atlanta field office concerning the “specific matters dealt with in Atlanta’s letter (of 4/14/64)” as indicated in the Director’s 4/24/64 letter to the SAC, Atlanta, captioned “Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters, Internal Security - C.”
