January 12, 1976

1 - Mr. R. P. Finzel

U. S. Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC)

Re: December 18, 1975, letter to the Attorney General from Senators Mondale and Baker

On December 22, 1975, the FBI received a copy of a letter dated December 18, 1975, which Senators Mondale and Baker sent to the Attorney General levying certain requirements on the FBI with a request that the responses be provided the SSC during the last week of December, 1975, and the first week of January, 1976.

Item 2 contained a request for any information refuting the suggestion made on page 34 of the General Accounting Office's September 24 report to the House Judiciary Committee, that cases in which violence can be predicted probably represent less than two percent of all FBI domestic intelligence investigations.

Page 34 of the September 24, 1975, report of the Comptroller General before the House Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Constitutional Rights concerning FBI domestic intelligence operations contains the following statement: “There were only 12 instances—or less than 2 percent—in which the FBI obtained advanced (sic) knowledge of planned activities on the part of a subversive or extremist group or individual.” This statement appears, both in form and content, to be somewhat different from that contained in your letter of December 18. One can predict violence when leaders of an organization express an intention to resort to violent means to attain some end, when they further that intention by obtaining weapons and ammunition, and train and exhort their members and followers to take violent action. That, however, is not analogous to the situation where an informant or source is in a position to furnish the FBI advance information with regard to some specific violent action to be taken by members of an extremist or subversive group.

1 - 62-56866 (General Accounting Office (GAO) file)

RPF: vb (11)

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized persons without the express approval of the FBI.
