United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

From: A. W. Gray

Subject: Thomas Riha — Miscellaneous Information Concerning

Date: May 6, 1970

Pursuant to Director's request, Denver District Attorney James “Mike” McKevitt was interviewed 5/5/70 as to investigation of Riha, Czechoslovak-born, naturalized, former professor of Russian history at Colorado University, who departed Denver area 3/69 without notifying friends, associates, or estranged wife. His disappearance has been glamorized and spiced up in newspaper articles by references to Galya Tannenbaum, his paramour. McKevitt stated investigation at standstill, all leads being exhausted. He feels Tannenbaum may have killed subject since bad feeling developed between them prior to his disappearance due to her forging checks on his account. Further, Tannenbaum probably a nymphomaniac who had constant sexual affairs with Riha and used this as a club over his head to prevent disclosure of forgeries. In McKevitt's opinion Riha is dead since he was close to his friends and, if alive, would contact them. Investigation indicates Riha abnormal in his sexual desires and could not leave woman alone. Possibility exists one of these involvements may have resulted in his death.

Dr. Joseph Smiley, former President, Colorado University, where subject employed, is now President, University of Texas, El Paso, Texas. Smiley, after subject's disappearance, stated subject was alive and well. When challenged by McKevitt to disclose basis for statement, he refused and appealed to CIA, his source, for help. Bureau vigorously refuted CIA's claim that Bureau Agent was original source for statement. As result McKevitt publicly announced statement was not true and resulted from “honest mistake.” No indication Smiley has any facts to contribute concerning subject's current whereabouts or basis for this disappearance. Since Bureau has conducted no investigation into Riha's disappearance, interview of Smiley could result in impression Bureau entering case. However, if Director so desires, El Paso will be instructed to interview Dr. Smiley. Bureau files show subject attended Moscow University 9/58–9/59. Our files show CIA gave Riha a short briefing prior to his entry into USSR in 1958. In 1958–59 CIA advised Czech intelligence attempted to persuade Riha to repatriate and later introduced Riha to Soviet intelligence, which attempted his recruitment. After subject's return to US in 1959, no information was developed as to continued interest in him by Soviet intelligence.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee, and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
