Another regular feature in The Black Panther is a weekly article giving detailed instructions for the handling of firearms, or setting forth deportment for urban guerrilla warfare.

The Black Panther, Saturday, May 9, 1970, page 16.

Organizing Self-Defense Groups. How to Combat C.M.I. Part 5.

The principle of Juche (Self-Reliance), clarified by Eldridge Cleaver, the Minister of Information of the Black Panther Party, is “Use what you got to get what you need.” To answer the question of how do you combat the pigs’ C.M.I. (communication, mobility and information), we must first determine what we have going for ourselves. Checking out the practice of self-defense groups, we see that we have the power to determine what is to happen, when it is to happen and how it is supposed to go down. What, When and How (W.W.H.)—the element of surprise. The pigs have C.M.I. and self-defense groups have W.W.H.

To consider a self-defense operation successful is not to just plan and execute but to plan, execute AND escape. There have been too many instances where members of self-defense groups have planned and executed righteous blows against this racist system only to be captured, wounded or killed. These are the consequences for revolutionary activity, however we must keep casualties within an acceptable minimum. The slogan must be Maximum Damage to the Enemy, Minimum Damage to Us. Practice has shown that when planning W.W.H., if it is done with knowledge and an understanding of C.M.I., casualties will be kept within an acceptable minimum. Too often, much attention is given to a plan up to the point of execution without giving the same attention to evasion and escape, that phase of the operation that determines success. This is a subjective approach, a onesided approach. W.W.H. is only one side of the coin, C.M.I. is the other side. Because self-defense groups use W.W.H., the pigs’ C.M.I. does not go into operation until a self-defense group commits itself by actually executing some type of self-defense activity.

Communication. Mobility. Information.

All of us should be aware that once C.M.I. is activated pigs start showing on the set from 30 seconds to 1 minute maximum in every major city in Babylon, therefore the success or failure of a defense operation is dependent upon the attention given to C.M.I. and the planning of evasion and escape. As I see it, learning to deal with the pigs’ C.M.I. is the number one military problem facing revolutionary forces in Babylon today. It is time for all who have something to teach, by example, to step forward. And remember, to die honorably, one does not need company.

Use what you got to get what you need. D.C.

Organizing Self-Defense Groups. Part 6: On Revolvers.

Parts 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 have been in previous issues of the Black Community News Service. This article is on revolvers; it gives a basic rundown on the use of revolvers. Check out all of the photographs and notes to help you understand better the functioning of a revolver.

Safety Precautions:

1. Check to see if gun is loaded. You do this on a revolver by swinging out the cylinder. Pull back on the cylinder latch and gently push out on the cylinder. (See unloading a revolver, photo 2.)

2. Keep your finger off the trigger unless practicing trigger squeeze or firing.

3. Point your gun away from where someone may be shot. Point at the ceiling or to the floor, but wherever you point, make sure no one is in the way and can be harmed.

4. Never leave the hammer cocked on a revolver. (Explanation later on cocking a revolver.)

Kinds of Revolvers:

.38 Snubnose—This gun has only a 2" barrel and shoots .38s. It is very easy to conceal.

.38 Special—Has a 4" barrel and shoots .38s.

.357 Magnum—This is the type of handgun the pig carries. The ammunition for this is .357 Magnum. Metal-piercing bullets will pierce an engine block. This is the best type of revolver to have.

.41 and .44 Magnums—Have more knockdown power than a .357 Magnum. The Highway Patrol carries these to shoot through car doors, but a .357 will go through a car door also and .357 ammunition is more plentiful.

Parts of a Revolver. Photo 1.

Revolver Terms.

.38-caliber cartridge.

Unloading:

Holding gun in
