U.S. Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC)

Interview of FBI Special Agent (SA) O. Richard Hamilton by SSC Staff Members

Upon the retirement of former SA Alan Sentinella in approximately 1970, the Staff Members inquired as to the period of time thereafter that SCLC remained under investigation and what basis, if any, there was for closing the case. SA Hamilton pointed out that since the reassignment of the case to him occurred after the death of King, he felt that question did not directly relate to the investigation of King and that, prior to furnishing an answer to that question, he felt he should confer with an FBI Headquarters representative who was then present in the Atlanta Office of the FBI. The Staff Members advised they did desire an answer to that question and approved of a consultation between SA Hamilton and the FBI Headquarters representative. SA Hamilton conferred with the FBI Headquarters representative then in the Atlanta Office of the FBI, and it was agreed the question regarding the closing of SCLC and the assignment of that case to SA Hamilton was outside the parameter of the authority given to SA Hamilton by FBI Headquarters regarding discussion of Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr. However, in the spirit of cooperation, it was agreed that SA Hamilton would answer the question of the Staff Members in this regard. Thereafter, SA Hamilton advised the FBI investigation regarding SCLC was closed about 1972 or 1973 since a review of the case file failed to reflect any influence by individuals or organizations having affiliations with communist background. In view of that, it was felt the SCLC case should be closed.

The Staff Members inquired as to who made the decision regarding closing of SCLC and whether the matter was first discussed with FBI Headquarters or other individuals within the Atlanta Office of the FBI, or if it was a decision made by SA Hamilton alone. Hamilton advised that, as he recalled, he reviewed the SCLC case file from that time to a substantial period in the past and that he recommended to the supervisor of the Security
