agencies, as delineated in United States v. United States District Court, 40/ U.S. at 309 n.8, and discussed in the testimony of Deputy Assistant Attorney General Maroney before this Subcommittee.

The above three categories are intended to be mutually exclusive.

10. a. The particular United States government departments, agencies, bureaus, divisions, and other United States government entities that engaged in electronic surveillance of domestic organizations and individuals, as described in Question 9a above.

b. The particular United States government departments, agencies, bureaus, divisions, and other United States government entities that engaged in electronic surveillance within the continental United States of a foreign power or foreign agents, as described in Question 9b above.

c. The particular United States government departments, agencies, bureaus, divisions, and other United States government entities that engaged in electronic surveillance of domestic organizations and individuals with significant connection with a foreign power, its agents, or agencies, as described in Question 9c above.

With respect to each such department, agency, bureau, division, or other government entity, please provide the numbers of electronic surveillances installed or in operation during each time period.

11. a. Please indicate whether the figures provided in Mr. Mardian's letter of March 1, 1971, included the wiretaps of 17 newsmen and government officials disclosed by Acting FBI Director Ruckelshaus (Ruckleshaus) on May 14, 1973.

b. For each period, please indicate the total number of other electronic surveillances conducted, directed, supervised, made at the request of, made with the knowledge of, or connected in any way with the FBI or the Department of Justice that were not included in the figures provided in Mr. Mardian's letter of March 1, 1971.

12. On June 5, 1973, the White House released figures on the number of national security wiretaps installed since 1945, reported at page H 4343 of the Congressional Record. These figures seem inconsistent with those supplied to me by the Department on March 1, 1971. In addition, the figures are unclear in certain key respects. I would therefore appreciate your supplying the following information with respect to the figures released by the White House:

a. Do the years indicated refer to fiscal or calendar years?

b. Do the totals include interceptions other than by telephone wiretaps—e.g., microphone surveillances, etc.?

c. Do the figures refer to the sum of all interceptions in operation during the year, or only to those in operation as of a certain date—e.g., December 31st?
