Some might say, "this is all very well and good where prosecutive action is used or intended, but what of the cases where the only purpose of the investigation is to produce intelligence information, with no hope or intent of prosecutive action?" There are unquestionably situations where prosecution would be impossible, but it is doubtful if any situation could be conjured up involving the national security where the elements of one or more statutes would be present to lend statutory authority to an investigation or reason for investigation.

Intelligence Investigations

Recently, in connection with a lawsuit filed by the Fifth Avenue Peace Parade Committee because of investigation by the FBI relative to a huge demonstration in Washington, D. C., the Department of Justice cited Title 28, USC 533, as the lawful authority of the FBI to conduct the investigations in question. The investigation at issue had to do with contacting various transportation facilities in an effort to determine the nature and size of groups traveling to Washington for the demonstration. In a sense, this was purely intelligence-type investigation. The statute cited was nothing more than the statute enabling the Attorney General to direct the FBI to conduct investigations.

This same statute has been cited for other types of investigations where the Department of Justice has requested the FBI to conduct investigations where we might not have clearly seen or understood the underlying authority or reason. It can be seen, however, that under the statutory authority granted to the President in Title 10, USC 331-333, to call up troops to assist local governments to put down an insurrection or restore order, the Attorney General would be within his statutory authority as the President's Chief Legal Advisor to ask the FBI to provide all possible information which might assist the President in making a determination under Title 10. Thus, the FBI would conduct an intelligence-type investigation under the statutory and constitutional authority flowing from the President, through the Attorney General to the FBI. In this case we might not immediately see the potential for prosecuting action, although with the statutes covering antiriot and civil disorder we would no doubt be alert for indications that riots or disorders would occur and that evidence could be collected which would support prosecution. Here, we would be conducting investigation before a violation takes place, not only for the intelligence data needed by the President, but to determine if a Federal violation of law might also occur.

Executive Order 10450

What other authority is also available to the FBI? We sometimes lump Presidential directives and Executive orders into one category as if they were the same. This is a common practice,
