Boulder housewife sure she talked to Riha

By Alan Cunningham  
Rocky Mountain News Writer

A Boulder housewife is certain she talked to Thomas Riha on the telephone last March 17, the day he first called to show up for his history classes at the University of Colorado.

What is even more remarkable than this, in the opinion of those who have been trying to get down the exact date of Riha's disappearance, is the woman's insistence that Riha was cheerful, relaxed and interested in chatting about a local political issue.

The woman, who asks that she not be identified by name, has told the News she was in the process of telephoning a list of Boulder citizens last March, seeking support for a proposed election on whether the city should take over its public utilities.

While she had been involved with the issue for several weeks, she is sure it was on Monday, March 17, that she attempted to reach a dozen people whose names began with the letters "P" and "R." Among the three others whom she was able to reach that day, she insists, was Thomas Riha. She says he answered the telephone at his home at 11:30 a.m.

The professor seemed calm, pleasant and quite interested in the municipal issue, according to the Boulder housewife. In fact, she explained, his name was on the list because he had earlier sent in a reader survey "ballot" from a Boulder newspaper which related to the issue.

As a result, Riha struck her as more informed on it than most others she had talked to in her telephone inquiries, and she believes the conversation lasted about 10 minutes, making it the longest in which she took part that day.

The date, if the Boulder housewife is correct, is significant, since Riha reportedly missed a dinner party to which he was invited the previous night, and could not be reached on Saturday, March 15, by a friend who tried to telephone him repeatedly.

Many people interested in the case have speculated that Riha left Boulder, was kidnapped or died as early as that Friday or Saturday.

The professor who was rumored to have seen Riha on Sunday, the 16th, vigorously dismissed this rumor as untrue when asked about it Tuesday.

But the Boulder housewife who made the series of telephone calls is equally adamant about the date when she talked to Riha. She says she didn't know the man, but recognized his name when a colleague of Riha's started discussing his disappearance at her home the following weekend. She checked, found his name on her calling list, and recalled details of their conversation.

While she didn't write down the date when she made her telephone calls, the woman says she has made detailed inquiries since then—some as recently as this week—to tie in the dates of related events with that of the crucial telephone call.

In Denver Tuesday—Dist. Atty. James D. “Mike” McKevitt told the News he had received an official denial from a Washington source that any of the official agencies which have been named in connection with the case actually had any knowledge of where Riha is now.

The source, which he declined to identify, insisted further that Riha never was involved in espionage of any sort, and that none of these agencies had ever told anyone in Boulder, Denver or elsewhere that Riha was alive and well.

Most frequently mentioned agencies have been the FBI, the CIA, military intelligence agencies and the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service.

McKevitt also reported no reply yet from former CU President Joseph Smiley in his request that Smiley divulge to McKevitt the exact source of a report to him last spring that Riha was alive.

26 Rocky Mountain News  
Denver, Colorado

Date: 2-11-70  
Edition: Home  
Editor: Jack Foster  
Title: Thomas Riha
