tool and can produce the type of intelligence which cannot be obtained in any other fashion.²⁰

On July 14, 1970, Haldeman sent a top secret memorandum to Huston, notifying him of the President's approval of the use of burglaries, illegal wiretaps and illegal mail covers for domestic intelligence. In the memorandum, Haldeman stated:

The recommendations you have proposed as a result of the review, have been approved by the President. He does not, however, want to follow the procedure you outlined on page 4 of your memorandum regarding implementation. He would prefer that the thing simply be put into motion on the basis of this approval. The formal official memorandum should, of course, be prepared and that should be the device by which to carry it out. . . .²¹ [emphasis added]

It appears that the next day, July 15, 1970, Huston prepared a decision memorandum, based on the President's approval, for distribution to the Federal intelligence agencies involved in the plan—the FBI, the CIA, the National Security Agency and the Defense Intelligence Agency.²² In his May 22, 1973, public statement, the President reported that the decision memorandum was circulated to the agencies involved on July 23, 1970. However, the decision memorandum is dated July 15, 1970, indicating that it was forwarded to the agencies on that day or shortly thereafter.

Huston's recommendations were opposed by J. Edgar Hoover, Director of the FBI.²³ Hoover had served as the chairman of a group comprised of the heads of the Federal intelligence agencies formed to study the problems of intelligence-gathering and cooperation among the various intelligence agencies.²⁵ In his public statement of May 22, 1973, President Nixon stated:

After reconsideration, however, prompted by the opposition of Director Hoover, the agencies were notified 5 days later, on July 23, that the approval had been rescinded.

Haldeman's testimony is to the same effect.²⁶ Dean, however, testified that he was not aware of any recision of approval for the plan²⁷ and there apparently is no written record of a recision on July 28 or any other date. There is, however, clear evidence that, after receipt of the decision memorandum of July 15, 1970, Mr. Hoover did present strong objections concerning the plan to Attorney General Mitchell.²⁸

Huston was concerned that Hoover's objections would interfere with the plan's implementation. On August 5, 1970, 8 days after the President states he ordered recision, Huston sent Haldeman a lengthy top secret memorandum on the subject, “Domestic Intelligence,” which strongly attacked Hoover's objections and made a number of recommendations concerning a forthcoming meeting regarding the plan among Haldeman, the Attorney General, the Vice-president, the following language:

At some point, Hully has become totally mental to our do... important to remember that the President and Hoover has now gets his way, it is co... the President. He n... against him. T... stand why the AG i... going to look d... Bennett, and the n... reverse a President- people worked their merits, was a first-rat...

It should be noted that DIA, CIA and the military-recommendations.

Two days later, on Augememoandum to Hully: Attorney General and s... that the Director (Hoo-, and that all intelligenc... once.”²¹ Huston nee l... coast to vacation for 3... the problems surro... be into the new school y... Later, on September 15, claims the plan was reso-lated to the Attorney Gen-ral... our domestic intelligence... added] This memorand... Inter-Agency Domestic T... part of the Huston plan. I observed that Hoover was unit and that it was im- Far from indicating t... mendation to remove re... been withdrawn, Dean, ir- General:

I believe we agree: any blanket removal; priate procedure wo- we need, based on an

²⁰ Exhibit 35. 3 Hearings 1321.
²¹ Exhibit 36. 3 Hearings 1324.
²² New York Times, June 7, 1973, p. 36.
²³ New York Times, June 7, 1973.
²⁴ 3 Hearings 916.
²⁵ Appendix of Legal Documents at p. 628.
²⁶ 7 Hearings 2874.
²⁷
