Reconciliation to Mr. C. U. D. Woodman  
Re: Foreign Liaison Desk (FJD)  
National Insights Intelligence Section  
Domestic (Dominic) Intelligence Division (DID)  
Request for Additional Personnel.

In the meantime, between December 1970, when the new foreign offices were opened, and July 1971, the latest month for which figures are available, there has been a nearly 60% increase in the amount of paper being produced by our foreign offices and requiring review on the FJD. We are most reluctant to ask for help at a time when the Bureau's resources are strained on so many fronts, but we would be derelict in our duty if we did not point out that the situation which the Inspectors in January felt justified additional assistance has since become even worse. What is badly needed is a man with a background of experience abroad plus a language ability who would be able to take hold immediately without extensive training. As an example, we can think of Special Agent John Morris, now in the domestic field, who was forced to ask to be returned to the U.S. due to his wife's condition following the death of their first-born child. There are undoubtedly others of equal capability and potential.

Many foreign officials who visit Washington do not speak English or are not fluent in it. We now have a Supervisor resident in Spanish, and the addition of a French or German capability would greatly reduce our need for interpreters from the Washington Field Office and elsewhere in the Bureau. The Division presently has one Supervisor with French and some with German. There are others with such languages as Spanish, Japanese, Chinese, Polish, and the like. If no one with experience in foreign liaison can be made available, one of these language-trained men could be used, provided a replacement from outside the Division is furnished. There is no way in which help can be provided within the Division without a replacement. We have eliminated and abandoned programs, and we are now assigning Supervisors on a rotation basis to assist on the local cases, leaving their permanent assignments homogeneous for weeks at a time.

Recommendations:

That an additional Supervisor be approved for assignment to the FJD, to come from outside the Division, increasing the Division Agent complement by one.
