Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall. Re: Senstudy 75. 62-116395.

Inquiry of Intelligence Division personnel who might have pertinent information developed the following information, which might be offered to Mr. Ulman:

(1) The only specific instance in which we are aware that the AG is involved in consideration or approval of activities of the FBI regarding foreign intelligence is that when we desire to effect electronic coverage, for ourselves or on request of another agency, for the purpose of obtaining positive foreign intelligence information or foreign counterintelligence purposes, we seek the approval of the AG. Other agencies might do likewise.

(2) The National Security Act of 1947, approved by the President 7/26/47, created the National Security Council (NSC). NSC Intelligence Directive (NSCID) No. 1 was revised on 7/7/49 and added the FBI as a member of the Intelligence Advisory Committee (IAC). By a subsequent revision of NSCID No. 1 on 9/15/58, IAC became the United States Intelligence Board (USIB), with the FBI still a member. USIB concerns itself with foreign intelligence matters. However, inasmuch as the FBI itself is a member of USIB, and historically the FBI has not coordinated USIB matters with the AG, the Bureau's role in USIB is not considered pertinent to the inquiry regarding the involvement of the AG in foreign intelligence matters.

(3) Our records indicate that prior to the establishment of the NSC, former FBI Director Hoover recommended that the AG be a member of the committee which later became the NSC. Apparently the National Security Act of 1947 did provide for the AG to attend NSC meetings as a member if the President so desired. Our records indicate the AG did attend some NSC meetings as a member during the 1947–48 period. However, by memorandum 8/19/49, AAG Peyton Ford informed Mr. Hoover that the AG could no longer attend NSC meetings as a member because of the amendment to the National Security Act made by Section 3 of Public Law 216, 81st Congress, approved 8/10/49.

(4) On 11/5/71, the White House announced the establishment of the

*Except in important policy matters such as the recent revision of NSCID No. 9.
