Racial Informants

The prime purpose of development and utilization of racial informants and sources is to provide intelligence and evidentiary information concerning black and white racial extremist organizations and individuals. These sources are also called upon to furnish information concerning the general racial situation in all parts of the country.

Supervision of racial informants at Seat of Government includes review and approval of new informants and confidential sources, review of progress of informant every six months, review of payments being made to informants, analysis of informant coverage in each field office, analysis of nationwide informant coverage of an organization, coordination of informant coverage of specific functions such as the national convention of the Black Panther Party (BPP), and supervision of special projects such as development of top echelon BPP informant, using informant to develop information concerning a black extremist underground escape route and coordinating utilization of informants abroad with other agencies. All procedures are constantly evaluated in an effort to increase the efficiency of our operation and to provide the field with the necessary supervision and assistance with a minimum of paper work.

As of 1/12/71 we are operating a total of 7,184 racial informants, compared with a total of 5,485 at time of last inspection. This is an increase of 1,699 informants. 584 informants report on black extremist organizations. 376 informants report on white extremist organizations such as the Klan. In line with recent reorganization of Domestic Intelligence Division, supervision of racial informants furnishing information on white extremists will shortly be transferred to the Internal Security Section. We are operating 6,224 ghetto informants who provide general information within the black ghetto areas of our cities.

Informant coverage of black extremist groups has been increased since the last inspection with a significant increase being noted in our coverage of the BPP. At the time of the last inspection we operated 119 informants reporting on BPP as compared with 173 as of 1/12/71, which represents an increase of 54 informants.

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection

1/12/71

JHEH:amk
