United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: Mr. W. O. Cregar  
Subject: Senstudy 75

Mr. J. B. Adams; Mr. J. A. Mintz; Mr. P. V. Daly.

Date: May 13, 1975

Mr. E. W. Walsh; Mr. W. R. Wannall; Mr. W. O. Cregar; Mr. S. F. Phillips.

This informative memorandum records highlights of information relating to an interview by Senate Select Committee (SSC) staff member of retired SA Alan G. Sentinella, as obtained by Supervisor Seymour Fred Phillips of the Bureau's Senstudy 75 Special Project.

Pursuant to Bureau instructions, Phillips went to Atlanta, Georgia, to fulfill the request of Sentinella for the presence of a Bureau agent at the time Sentinella was to be interviewed on 5/12/75 by SSC staff member Lester B. Seidel. Sentinella is presently safety director, Georgia State University, Atlanta. He has been retired from the FBI for about four years and, in the period around 1964–66, he did work on the investigation of Martin Luther King, Jr. For a time, the King case, as well as that of King's organization, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, was assigned to him. Sentinella had been told in advance by Seidel that he was to be interviewed concerning King and Levison (Stanley David Levison, former consultant to King who was under Bureau investigation because of his communist background).

Phillips was in Sentinella's private office at 12:24 p.m. when Seidel arrived. Sentinella explained to Seidel that after Sentinella had agreed in a telephone conversation with Seidel on 5/9/75 to being interviewed, he contacted the Atlanta FBI office because Sentinella was concerned with the sensitivity of the information he knew about King and Levison and wanted to protect the confidentiality of his information and the Bureau's interests, especially as pertaining to current investigations, sources, etc. Sentinella explained to Seidel that the FBI offered to have an agent present, not to monitor the interview, but for consultation purposes should the interview reach into sensitive areas. Sentinella thus accounted to Seidel for Phillips' presence. At this point, Phillips reiterated the reasons given by Sentinella for the presence of an FBI agent, and Seidel was told that Phillips' presence was definitely [incomplete].

62-116395

SFP:ekw

67-432832 (Personnel File, Former SA Alan G. Sentinella)
