The following Klansmen organizations are not particularly prone to sexual immorality, and no information has been received indicating promiscuity on the part of a Klansman's wife or on the part of a Klansman, although informants who furnish information pertaining to these individuals are fairly well acquainted with many of them. Approximately two years ago, one Klansman did become jealous when a single Klan member (unmarried) flirted with his wife at a social function. However, the married member is no longer active, and there is not known to have been any further development of that situation.

Pertinent to this analysis is the following observation: Within the past 70 days, Montgomery, Ala., where activity of UKA and ASRP are centralized, has experienced desegregation of restaurants, hotels, motels, and public schools, pursuant to the 1964 Civil Rights Act and pursuant to orders of the United States District Court at Montgomery. Initially, particularly on 7/4 and 7/6/65, following the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, there was an attempt by Klansmen to gather and conspire for the purpose of interfering with the desegregation of movie theaters and restaurants in downtown Montgomery. However, Mobile informants furnished information well in advance of the actual proposed action, enabling Mobile to notify the Montgomery Police Department. The Police Department acted very promptly and effectively, dispersing Klansmen who had gathered in the danger area, and making it quite clear that no unlawful activity or interference with the enforcement of the 1964 Civil Rights Act would be tolerated. Both the fact that the information was leaked to authorities and the fact that the authorities took effective action were highly demoralizing to the Klan personnel (who are also the only significant personnel of the ASRP). The demoralization was so complete that when Montgomery public schools were desegregated, Klansmen did not even appear in the vicinities of the schools and took no action of any kind, either at the schools or in any other place, in any effort to interfere with the desegregation.

It is therefore fully evident that the purposes sought by the CI program, that is, the demoralization and the rendering ineffective of such organizations, were accomplished by direct investigation and police action. No implication is intended that the work of the Mobile Office has been finally done pertaining to these organizations,
