RE: Interview of Retired FBI SA by SSC

He submitted that had he been furnished a copy of the Committee's rules and regulations for a period of time no longer than 29 minutes before this Committee convened, had such been furnished at an earlier date it would not have been necessary to have asked the question.

"The aforementioned session terminated shortly past 1 p.m."

"It should be noted the Committee took a five-minute break approximately 12:05 to 12:10 p.m., after which questioning continued."

On June 4, 1975, Sentinella advised the FBI of the following additional information concerning this matter.

Sentinella received a telephone call that day from Seidel, who advised him that the transcript of Sentinella's testimony was near completion and that Sentinella would receive a letter advising him it was ready for Sentinella's review, but only in SSC space.

Seidel sought from Sentinella and was furnished names of some FBI personnel who had monitored technical surveillance on King during the pertinent period. Seidel sought information concerning who supervised the King investigation at FBI Headquarters, to which Sentinella replied that he did not know any specifics. Seidel referred back to information from Sentinella both during the original interview and during Sentinella's testimony, and Seidel asked why Sentinella had discussed the matter with former FBI Agent Harding. It was Sentinella's reply that he sought Harding's help in order to rectify what he thought was a wrong answer given to Seidel during the initial interview.

1. The Attorney General

NOTE: Original and one copy to the AG, copy for forwarding to James A. Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President. Information herein taken from Sentinella's verbatim statement, which he voluntarily mailed to S. F. Phillips of the Senstudy 75 Project. The additional information Sentinella furnished 6/4/75 was telephoned by him to Phillips. On that occasion Sentinella also advised that Seidel had inquired of him that day as to whether he had discussed with Phillips the King case after arriving in Washington, D.C., and prior to testifying. Sentinella stated that he had not.
