The Attorney General

Durham further advised that Patrick Shea had informed him that Senate investigators maintained direct contact with AIM attorney Kenneth Tilsen and talked to Tilsen prior to Durham's interview in Washington, D. C., on May 7, 1975.

The “Minneapolis Tribune” on December 14, 1975, published an article captioned “Local FBI Accused of Meddling in Trial,” which in part stated that in 1969 the Minneapolis office of the FBI sent an anonymous letter to the Hennepin County Attorney concerning a defendant in a criminal case and her attorney. The letter alleged that the defendant had “some pretty good connections” and her lawyer held a “Communist party membership.” The article stated that a Minneapolis radio station reporter said on Friday, December 12, 1975, that he was given by Kenneth Tilsen a copy of the anonymous letter. The article further stated that Tilsen had said on December 13, 1975, that he got a copy of the letter from Lock Johnson, an investigator for the U. S. Senate Committee investigating the FBI. The article stated Tilsen said Johnson came to the Twin Cities (Minneapolis–St. Paul, Minnesota) about three weeks ago to interview him and Lemuel Freeman (the defendant in the aforementioned case). Tilsen stated he was not shown the alleged correspondence between the Minneapolis FBI Office and FBI Headquarters in Washington, D. C., but was given a summary of the information. The article further stated that “last night” Johnson confirmed that he had interviewed Tilsen (Tilson) and Miss Freeman and that he had summarized for Tilsen the contents of the alleged exchange between the Minneapolis FBI and FBI, Washington, D. C.

Durham stated he has also been contacted by Ellen Miller, 13316 Rayburn House, 202-225-9751, Washington, D. C., who is affiliated with Congressman Otis Pike’s Committee. She asked Durham to provide her with anything he could offer which would reveal how the FBI and police utilised informants and how they “conned” these informants into providing information.
