Objective for which we want him to perform his task, he was not told precisely what we want him to do. Instead, he was told that we have evidence of Soviet operations among nationality groups in Africa, specifically, Corsicans, and that we would like to have him spot, assess, and recommend some dependable, quick-witted persons for our use. (Comment: It was thought best to withhold our true, specific requirements pending the final decision to use MANKEL.) He agreed to go on the trip for us. It is not clear from this dispatch that Chiefs of Station in Luxembourg and Dakar were completely witting of the purpose for which Mankel is being sent to Dakar. Paragraph 3 contains the following sentence: “Rabney gave Jouvenoy [Chief of Station, Luxembourg] the same briefing concerning our purposes as he had given to the COS, Dakar.” The remainder of the dispatch deals with details of the contacts with Americans which Mankel may make in Dakar if he requires further assistance, including instruction for bringing about a clandestine meeting.

2. Cable dated November 2, 1960, from Frankfurt to the Director with the notation: “Action: C/FI/D-4.” This cable contains the following statement in paragraph 1: “Altman met Mankel 2 November. He accepted offer to proceed Leopoldville. Precise mission not conveyed to him, he only informed that mission might involve large element of personal risk.”

3. Cable, dated November 3, 1960, from Director to stations at Luxembourg and Dakar. This cable contains the first identification of Mankel with the code name QJWIN. The cable reads as follows: “(AUDW) 147 on QJWIN trip Dakar. Pouched both stations 3 November. Confirm receipt by cable.”

“Luxembourg: will advise when to brief him on Dakar mission after receipt further info from Altman per paragraph to (FRAN) 6959/(IN36814) on Leopoldville mission.” This cable contains the following code word references: RYBAT, LAURICLE, ZRACORN.

4. Cable from Leopoldville to Director, with action to C/FI/D4, dated 5 November 1960. It contains the following paragraph:
