United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W.R. Wannall  
From: W.O. Cregar  
Subject: SENSTUDY 75

Mr. J.B. Adams  
Mr. N.P. Callahan

Date: March 5, 1975.

Each Assistant Director  
Mr. W.O. Cregar

This memorandum reports the results of a meeting of the Ad Hoc Coordinating Group on Congressional Review of the Intelligence Community (hereafter referred to as the Group) held on 2/27/75 at CIA Headquarters.

The Group is chaired by Mr. John Clarke, Associate Deputy to the Director of Central Intelligence, and is made up of representatives of agencies and departments having membership on the U.S. Intelligence Board. Its purpose is to serve as a coordinating mechanism for future testimony before various Congressional committees.

At the meeting of the Group on 2/27/75 several items of interest were discussed, which items are set forth hereinafter.

Mr. Colby, in his role as Director of Central Intelligence, and Mr. Clarke met with Senator Frank Church on the morning of 2/27/75. Church advised that it is not his intention to harass the intelligence community and he hopes to reaffirm to both the Congress and the people of the United States that there is a valid and critical need for intelligence. Church is concerned that no inadvertent disclosures result from these hearings, which could prejudice sensitive intelligence community interest. He assured Mr. Colby that he would continue to consider him on any sensitive matters that come before the Committee to avoid such inadvertencies. Senator Church was appreciative of the security guidelines furnished to him for the handling of sensitive information and documents and assured Mr. Colby that the Senate Select Committee (SSC) would abide by these guidelines. With regard to the Secrecy Agreement, which heretofore Senator Church has been somewhat reluctant to have his staff personnel complete, it is now acceptable to the Senator. However, he does want to have the Chief Counsel of the SSC review the Secrecy Agreement and will probably propose certain changes in its wording. (A Secrecy Agreement was developed by a subcommittee of the Group in concert with the Justice Department.)

Enclosures

WOC:bcw (16)
