United States Department of Justice  
Federal Bureau of Investigation

In Reply, Please Refer to File No.

Washington, D.C. 20535

June 3, 1965

Memorandum for the Attorney General

Re: Dominican Situation  
Internal Security — Dominican Republic

Diego Emilio Bordas Hernandez and his brother, Luis Manuel Alfredo Bordas, have emerged in the current Dominican crisis as important financial, political and military advisors to the deposed Dominican President Juan Bosch in the latter's efforts to regain control of the Dominican Government. Diego Bordas is a wealthy shipping executive currently residing in exile in San Juan, Puerto Rico, having been born in the Dominican Republic on January 11, 1923. He served in various high posts under Juan Bosch during the latter's short occupancy of the position of President of the Dominican Republic in early 1963. Bordas spends much of his time at 868 Ashford Avenue in San Juan, using an apartment at that address as his residence during the absence of its owner, Jose Antonio Benitez Jimenez (Jiminez), from Puerto Rico. Jose Benitez is the cousin of Jaime Benitez, the latter the Director of the University of Puerto Rico and a close associate and advisor of Juan Bosch. Diego Bordas also maintains a residence at 21 V, Florencia, Pueblo Viejo, a suburb of San Juan, near the current residence and headquarters of Juan Bosch. Diego Bordas and his brother jointly operate a shipping business known as Bordas and Company at Highway Number 2, Puerto Viejo, Puerto Rico, and his financial dealings in support of the Bosch efforts can reasonably be expected to be conducted from this commercial establishment.

The Bordas brothers have both been the subjects of numerous allegations indicating their cooperation with procommunist and pro-Trujillo factions in Dominican politics and are apparently opportunists who have seized the current situation to enhance their political and financial futures. Luis Bordas is currently in the Dominican Republic acting as the Director of Military Operations of the rebel forces supporting Bosch.

ST-107

109-12-21-

4/14/73
