Mr. Clifford asked whether a defense could be devised, assuming that we are unable to do so, that concealed microphones remain in place. Dr. Wiesner said that aside from the measures already mentioned, one could literally destroy 1 or 2 rooms, i.e., take them apart thoroughly and rebuild them. It might also be well to panel, or paint, the office walls, starting with the offices of the Ambassador, the Deputy Chief of Mission, and the military attaches—but you could not be certain that this defense would be totally effective.

Dr. Wiesner said that he and Mr. Keeny had visited the 2 intercept rooms in the Embassy, and the operating personnel talked freely about what they were doing, with no apparent fear that they were being overheard by the Soviets.

Mr. Gray asked why the Soviets would damage the Embassy switchboard and leave it out of commission as reported in a dispatch just received from Ambassador Kohler. Dr. Wiesner said one could speculate that this was done to salvage something left behind in the switchboard or telephone system. He added that the switchboard is on the ground floor area of the Embassy which is guarded by Soviet guards; and Messrs. Wiesner and Keeny and their wives found it easy to walk through the ground floor area unchallenged. (Dr. Wiesner and Mr. Keeny were not told of the burglary entry and damage to the switchboard even though they were in conversation with the Ambassador and other Embassy officials after the incident occurred. They heard about it from their wives who had learned of the incident in conversations with Embassy personnel.)

Dr. Wiesner also questioned the security of the Embassy practice of sending so many information copies of coded messages to other U. S. posts. He said that he found no evidence of particular concern on the part of Embassy personnel with regard to the bugging development. Mr. Musser, on the other hand, was working around the clock. Dr. Wiesner said that he had lunch with Ambassador Thompson who said he felt that any Soviet intercept of his conversations in the Embassy, and of his messages, would only have served to confirm to the Soviets the sympathetic attitude with which he looked upon the problems faced by the Soviets.

Chairman Clifford, on behalf of the Board, asked Dr. Wiesner to give the Board a brief memorandum suggesting steps which the U. S. Government should consider taking in the direction of getting complete security of the Embassy in Moscow. Dr. Wiesner said he would do so, but pointed out that his suggestions would probably be those already proposed and considered by others, but not acted on for various reasons including lack of funds. He said that Mr. Musser's principal need is for more experts on the scene.

Dr. Wiesner and Mr. Keeny completed their visit with the Board and departed at 9:00 p.m.

In executive session, Chairman Clifford emphasized the gravity of the Moscow penetration development, and stated his intention to have a special Board Panel study made, as soon as the USIB completes its appraisal and report on the subject.

With regard to the Board's May 2 report to the President on the National Reconnaissance Program, Mr. Clifford said that when the DCI's comments are received at the White House, and if the White House asks for Board recommendations,

IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
