5. Since last inspection, we have reduced one agent from the complement of the Racial Reporting Unit as a result of various streamlining measures adopted relative to reporting requirements. This streamlining involved the elimination of a substantial number of letterhead memoranda and airtels previously required from each field office with regard to racial conditions and the elimination of daily cover memoranda to our outgoing racial teletype to the White House.

6. The authorized agent complement for the Section is considered adequate but not excessive at this time.

7. Criteria used in assessing personnel adequacy in this Section include a number of diverse factors. Caseload figures are not applicable to the work of this Section, nor are there any other simple, quantitative measurements of the Section’s work. The work of this Section involves primarily research and evaluation and the preparation of a variety of documents aimed at providing intelligence to the White House, the Attorney General, other interested agencies, and Bureau officials. This Section seeks to summarize into comprehensive and meaningful “package” form information relating to current topics of intelligence interest and concern. The finished product is provided not only to other intelligence agencies and policymaking officials of the Government but, where appropriate, to our field offices for their information and guidance. The type of documents prepared varies from daily teletype summaries regarding racial disturbances and student agitation to detailed monographs containing in-depth research into various facets of our work.

During the past year, there has been a continuing demand for various intelligence summaries, and this Section has been faced with a number of expedited projects on behalf of Bureau officials, including the Director, the White House, the Vice President’s Office, and the Attorney General. The basis for this heavy workload has primarily been interest in and concern over the explosive issues concerning racial and student disorders. The great majority of our projects have revolved around the preparation of material either for internal FBI use or for outside dissemination with respect to these issues.
