Meeting of October 16–17, 1961

During the Board meeting of October 16–17, 1961, the Director of Central Intelligence, Mr. Allen Dulles, commented that the “principle of compartmentation” was being violated by CIA in its dealings with the PFIAB because of the CIA’s effort to meet the convenience of the Board. Mr. Dulles said that one example of this was the action taken by CIA in furnishing the detailed compilation concerning the proprietary and other cover organizations with which CIA has dealings in its covert action programs. Mr. Coyne observed that material received by the Board from the CIA, and more sensitive information received from other U.S. intelligence agencies, is given a greater degree of security in the Board than in the CIA itself. (For use at this Board meeting, a 17-page summary had been prepared in the Board’s offices based on an undated document from CIA containing a listing and brief description of all CIA cover organizations and proprietary activities, including references to the Asia Foundation, Radio Free Europe, Institute of National Labor Research, World Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching Profession, U.S. National Student Association, and many others.)

Mr. Dulles told the Board that the CIA can play a helpful but relatively modest role with regard to the Laos and South Vietnam problems, and he thought it would be well if the Board would suggest ways in which the CIA could more effectively utilize its resources in meeting such problems. The DCI observed that the CIA must do more in all covert action fields because the U.S. faces the most formidable covert action apparatus ever seen. He said that this apparatus is the most effective one ever established, and the U.S. has nothing like it.

During an executive session on October 17, 1961, Board Chairman Killian suggested that Board members give serious thought to the CIA’s use of foundations as covers for operations, and he cited the Asia Foundation and the International Commission of Jurists as examples. Dr. Killian felt that there is danger that the entire foundation systems in the U.S. would be discredited if there were a disclosure of CIA’s connection with them. It was Dr. Killian’s view that the CIA should not place clandestine cover on any student,
