Government departments and agencies when access to sensitive compartmented information is required.

2. Individuals who do not meet the minimum security criteria contained herein and who are, therefore, denied access to sensitive compartmented information shall not, solely for this reason, be considered ineligible for access to other classified information. However, individuals whose access to sensitive compartmented information has been authorized as an exception granted in accordance with paragraph 5, shall not solely for that reason be considered eligible for access to other classified information.

Personnel Security Approval Criteria

3. Criteria for security approval of an individual on a need-to-know basis for access to sensitive compartmented information are as follows:

a. The individual shall be stable, of excellent character and discretion and of unquestioned loyalty to the United States.

b. Except where there is a compelling need and a determination has been made by competent authority as described in paragraph 5 below that every reasonable assurance has been obtained that under the circumstances the security risk is negligible.

(1) Both the individual and the members of his immediate family shall be U.S. citizens. For these purposes, "immediate family" is defined as including the individual's spouse, parents, brothers, sisters and children.

(2) The members of the individual's family and those persons to whom he is bound by affection or obligation should neither be subject to physical, mental and other forms of duress by a foreign power nor advocate the use of force or violence to overthrow the Government of the United States nor the alteration of the form of Government of the United States by unconstitutional means.

4. When there is compelling need to grant access to sensitive compartmented information prior to completion of the full prescribed investigation, such investigative checks as are immediately possible shall be made at once, and shall include a personal interview by trained security or counterintelligence personnel whenever feasible. Access in such cases shall be strictly controlled, and the full prescribed investigation and final evaluation shall be completed at the earliest practicable moment.

Exceptions

5. The exceptions to paragraph 3.b. (1) (2) above may be granted only by the Senior Intelligence Officer of the parent organization represented on the United States Intelligence Board (USIB), including military departments, or his designee, unless such authority has been specifically
