United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: W. O. Cregar  
Subject: United States Intelligence Board (USIB) Meeting of 1/24/75  
Date: 1/24/75

At a meeting of the USIB this morning Chairman Colby spoke briefly about Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) procedures for testifying before the Blue Ribbon Commission (BRC) investigating CIA as well as anticipated problems that might arise regarding future testimony at the Senate Select Committee (SSC) whose membership has not yet been announced. According to Colby, the mandate of the SSC is to examine the extent of overt and covert intelligence activities in the U.S. and abroad. Colby advised that the SSC would involve all member agencies and departments of the intelligence community and for that reason he believed the members of the intelligence community should stay in close communication.

As a result of the above, Colby has selected Mr. John Clarke, Deputy Director of the Intelligence Community Staff, to act as a coordinator for the intelligence community to insure close coordination. He requested that all agencies and departments represented on USIB designate one individual in their agency as Clarke's point of contact to insure the close coordination Colby feels will be necessary during future appearances before the SSC. The Intelligence Division believes this is a desirable procedure and recommends that Section Chief William O. Cregar, who is the Bureau's alternate member on USIB, be designated as the Bureau representative to maintain liaison with Mr. Clarke.

In addition, Colby advised that in his opening statement before the SSC he intends to make a strong pitch for the intelligence community. He proposes to show the value and importance intelligence has played in the past as well as the future; he expects to outline for the SSC how the intelligence business is run and organized. In addition, he proposes in his opening statement to make an appeal for legislation to shore up the protection of sources and methods against planned and calculated leaks of classified information.

REC-111

WOC:ebc

File 62-11639.
