SAC R. E. Gebhardt

10/22/70

On August 5, 1970, Rudolph Rapale, brother-in-law of Mayor Alioto, filed a $2 million libel suit against “Look” magazine and Carlson and Brisson. This article referred to a trip by Papale to Mexico during which Papale met with Frank Bompensiero, “Capo,” of the Los Angeles Family of the LCN residing in San Diego to discuss a lard-selling permit in Mexico for a company of which Papale was former president.

On September 5, 1970, it was reported that retrial of the Alioto $12.5 million libel suit against “Look” was tentatively reset for May 3, 1971.

3. San Francisco top-level informants currently being handled consist of four members of the LCN and six TE informants in the gambling and related criminal fields. Our LCN TE informants and ten PC target informants report on LCN activities of the San Francisco and San Jose Families, as well as LCN activities in other divisions. Our other TE informants and our 36 PC target informants regularly report on matters involving bookmaking, prostitution, pornography, and other criminal matters. As an indication of the level of our informant coverage since last inspection, SF 2689-C-TE assumed the position of “Boss” of the San Francisco LCN Family. These informants, due to their positions and locations, have made it possible to obtain top-level information necessary to provide coverage for Items 1 and 2.

4. Since last inspection, extensive investigation as well as informant coverage led to the first ITAR conviction prosecutions ever in the San Francisco Division (see Item 7 below).

Investigation in the case of Carl Ezekial Eckstin, ITWI, developed a “shakedown” by Eckstin against local bookmaker Victor Romolo. This matter arose out of the failure of Romolo to pay a bookmaking debt owed Eckstin. Salvatore Vincent “Bill” Bonanno, Joseph Bonanno, Jr., Maurice Patrick Hartigan, and Martin Cheipetz Carson, acting as agents for Eckstin, attempted to collect the $1,600 gambling debt and, during contacts with Romolo, threatened him with physical harm.
