SAC R. E. Gebhardt

10/22/70

and reportedly Jimmy Hoffa's special West Coast representative. Johnson and Fidler traveled to San Francisco from Boston in January 1970, and through surveillance and subsequent intensive investigation it was determined that they met with one George R. Duncan, International Representative, International Typographers Union (ITU). It was determined that shortly prior to the travel of Johnson and Fidler to the San Francisco area, a strike situation existed at the San Rafael “Independent Journal” newspaper involving the ITU. Through cooperation and liaison with local law enforcement, Johnson and Fidler were arrested near San Rafael, California, and found to be in possession of handguns and mace. Shortly after the return of Johnson and Fidler to the Boston area, an individual who had knowledge that they had been given this contract was found murdered in Boston, and on his body were found the names and telephone numbers of Johnson and Fidler. Through these efforts, the attempt by Johnson and Fidler to perform the conditions of the contract was thwarted. In addition, this matter is being considered by Departmental Attorney for possible Federal Grand Jury presentation.

Another example of progress made in the penetration in the field of intelligence and organized crime in this area resulted when information furnished by top-echelon informants revealed the presence of Aladena (Alatadeno) James Fratianno residing in the San Francisco territory. Through investigation and surveillance conducted, Fratianno was subsequently contacted and developed as a top-echelon target of this division. Frequent contacts were conducted with Fratianno, and extensive cooperation was obtained from him concerning organized crime. Fratianno was identified as a member of the Los Angeles Family of the LCN and during August 1970 was indicted by a Federal Grand Jury convening in San Francisco for two counts of violation of Title 18, U.S. Code, Section 894, ECT. Although presently incarcerated, Fratianno is being contacted periodically as a target in an effort to continue development of his cooperation.

Increased penetration of racketeering operations since the last inspection is evidenced by the above examples as well as the statistical accomplishments reported hereinafter.
