United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. Tolson  
From: W. M. Felt  
Date: August 30, 1968

Subject: Proposed Transfer of Supervisory Responsibility for Certain Cases from General Investigative Division to Domestic Intelligence Division

Synopsis

General Investigative Division (GID) and Domestic Intelligence Division (DID) propose that supervisory responsibility for substantive violations of the new Antiriot Laws and for bombing cases involving subversive matters should be transferred from GID to DID. Mr. DeLoach recommended, and the Director approved, that the Investigative Division examine the matter to be certain that responsibilities are sharply and definitely fixed.

An in-depth inspection survey reflects that the problem of overlapping supervisory responsibilities between divisions cannot be eliminated unless all investigative and intelligence functions are centered in a single division—not feasible because of sheer volume. There are many investigative situations where occasional overlap occurs, such as the close connection between criminal cases handled by GID and the Criminal Intelligence Program supervised by another division. However, the proposed transfer involves two categories now supervised by GID that are so interrelated with the gathering of intelligence in the racial and security fields that overlap constantly occurs. Accordingly, these two categories, relatively small in case volume, should be transferred to DID, as proposed, to avoid duplication of supervisory review and to promote efficiency.

Antiriot Laws

These laws were enacted on 4/11/68 and prohibit incitement to riot and related violent acts connected with riots and civil disorders. Since enactment, only 11 substantive cases have been opened; however, extensive intelligence gathering is continuously directed by DID relative to organizations and individuals likely to engage in riots, such as Stokely Carmichael, H. Rap Brown, and other agitators throughout the country. Individual acts arising from riots and constituting possible violations of the Antiriot Laws are not practicably separable without causing duplication of supervisory review and loss of continuity in the development of cases.

Antiriot Laws are handled by the Criminal Division of the Department. DID disseminates intelligence material to the Criminal Division and works with them.
