PART D.

1. The La Cosa Nostra (LCN) continues to exist in the Northern California area and includes a San Francisco “family” and a San Jose “family.” There are currently 8 members of the San Francisco “family” residing in this division and 19 members of the San Jose “family” residing in this division. In addition, there are two members of the San Francisco “family” residing in the Sacramento Division, one member in the Los Angeles Division, one in the Chicago Division, and two members presently residing in Italy. There are currently 3 members of the San Jose “family” residing in the Sacramento Division and one in the Las Vegas Division. All of these members have been identified as members of the San Francisco or San Jose “families” by TE informants of the San Francisco Division.

Four top-echelon informants of this division who are members of LCN “families” have failed to indicate that the LCN “families” of this division exercise any control over gambling, narcotics, prostitution, or any other organized illegal activity within this division.

The present leadership of the San Francisco “family” has recently been assumed by Anthony Lima, who took over this position when the previous “boss,” James Joseph Lanza, stepped down in his favor. The “underboss” of the San Francisco “family” is Gaspare “Bill” Sciortino, and this “family” has one Capo de Decina, Vincenzo Infusino, who resides in Modesto, California, in the Sacramento Division.

The leadership of the San Jose “family” remains the same as at the time of the last inspection report, with Joseph Cerrito, the “boss”; Philippo Octavio Morici and Stefano Zoccoli, consiglieris; and one Capo de Decina, Emanuel Figlia. No appointment has been made to the position of “underboss” since the death of the previous “underboss,” Charles Carbone, in 1967.

2. There are presently 8 members of the San Francisco “family” and 19 members of the San Jose “family” residing in this territory. All of these members have been identified by TE criminal informants of this division.

TE informants of this office who are members of the LCN or associates of members of the LCN have been alerted to continue to furnish information and identities of any individuals.
