Adequacy of Personnel

The proposed work adjustments contained in my memorandum of 7/29/71 essentially took manpower from work presently in the Internal Security Section (Klan and White Hate cases and Informant matters) and made them available to other more heavily loaded work areas. The Front Office staff of Internal Security Section will be available for other assignment as well. It also called for Nationalities Intelligence to absorb one of the five men on Ellsberg from that Section's complement because of relatively low caseload.

Details set forth in “Pending Work and Delinquency,” 4-D-1, disclose caseload decreased in Nationalities Intelligence and Internal Security Sections by 19% and 28% respectively, which is proportionately high compared to other Sections.

Espionage Section was proposed to receive a one-half man's time to compensate for the Ironclad case. This is consistent with that Section's 13% decrease in case count under the new procedure.

That write-up also discloses a case count under the new procedure of 275 cases per Agent for the Nationalities Intelligence Section compared as follows: Espionage—303; Extremist Intelligence—303; New Left—334; Internal Security—401. These figures are based on Supervisors assigned to case desks and do not include men on specials in any Section.

I do not believe the problems faced by Nationalities Intelligence Section far outweigh those of other Sections to justify that low figure and, therefore, believe my original recommendation that Nationalities Intelligence absorb one man from existing complement was justified. W. R. Wannall's comments in write-up captioned “Ellsberg Case,” 4-A-3, relative to manpower presently utilized on this case validate this further as he has now utilized manpower in his Section on this case. Obviously, tangential issues will arise from time-to-time in an investigation of this type and can and should be handled on an emergency basis within the Section handling the special. This has been the traditional practice and should be followed.

The second problem is essentially intra-divisional in nature and deals with a Division Head's responsibility and authority to effectively utilize resources available to him to cope with

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection

8/30/71

CDB:mls
