Increase is expected over the next 5–6 years (except for new reconnaissance systems for which CIA might become responsible).

Mr. Gray asked for the DCI's views on the capability of the intelligence estimating mechanism to avoid being influenced by the wishful thinking of responsible officials, as in the case of the erroneous estimate on Cuba prior to the Soviet missile crisis in 1962. Mr. McCone said that a better example than Cuba was the estimate on Brazil which was bitterly resisted by people in Government who nevertheless later saw the accuracy of the estimate proved by developments.

Chairman Clifford observed that at SAC headquarters the day before, SAC representatives suggested that they should have representation on COMOR in USIB. The DCI said that the AF already has a representative on COMOR, and if SAC were specifically added then a similar request would be made by other commands such as NORAD and CINCEUR. Mr. Coyne observed that the representation desired by SAC was on behalf of the SAC Commander in his role on the Joint Strategic Planning Group.

In response to Mr. Murphy's query about Cuba, the DCI said that an estimated 5,000 Soviets had departed since May 1, leaving 2,000 on the island. The Cubans now have control of air defense and coastal defense but the question is whether they have unlimited control of the SAM sites.

Chairman Clifford turned to another subject, asking for any new views the DCI might have on the desirability of creating the position of “Chief U.S. Intelligence Officer” who would be divorced from direction of the CIA. Mr. McCone said he had thought a lot about it but does not believe that such an official could be effective if not linked to the CIA which by law has the responsibility for coordinating all intelligence from all sources.

Mr. Pace expressed the opinion that it is not possible for the head of CIA to render abstract opinions in the capacity of DCI. Mr. Clifford urged the DCI to help the Board explore the possibilities of new organizational approaches to this problem, now that 17 years have passed since the CIA was established under the National Security Act. Mr. McCone said that he sees the problem as having arisen because CIA has become a member agency of the intelligence community as well as being charged by law to serve as coordinator of all intelligence; and perhaps we are not managing properly the arrangement that presently exists.

Mr. McCone agreed to have a study made of the matter raised by the Chairman, as soon as possible.

Mr. McCone and Mr. Kirkpatrick departed the meeting at 5:10 p.m.

At 5:20 p.m. the Board adjourned, closing its 2-day meeting.

A. R. Ash
