Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Senstudy 75  
62-116395

who had cooperated with the FBI in the COINTELPRO operations, be interviewed by SSC representatives so that a more accurate picture could be obtained concerning possible harm to COINTELPRO targets. He indicated there was a deadline set for completion of the COINTELPRO phase of the SSC investigation and time did not allow for extensive interviews; however, he estimated that, given no deadline, a maximum of 36 such contacts would be made and, in view of the deadline, 8 to 12 interviews of the type indicated would be more realistic. Mr. Elliff isolated three cases which he suggested might most easily lend themselves to a compromise on this point and suggested they be considered by the Bureau. If the Bureau saw fit to agree in these instances, he suggested further deliberations be made to select further cases in which the cooperative sources' identities could be made available to the SSC.

SAs Cregar and Larson emphasized to Elliff that the principle involved here was not whether or not the cooperative source was of great and current value to the FBI but that the issue was the FBI's obligation to the source to protect the confidentiality of the relationship. While professing to acknowledge the validity of the Bureau position in this regard, Elliff, nonetheless, was adamant in his stand that the SSC be allowed to contact these sources without the FBI first contacting them to ascertain their amenability to such interview. It was stressed to Elliff that prior contact of these sources by the FBI would be mutually advantageous since it would satisfy the FBI obligation to the source and, if the source then agreed to interview, would provide the SSC with a forthcoming cooperative witness. Finally, after much discussion, Elliff suggested that the three cases presented by him be approved and, following this, he would be willing to consider negotiation concerning further disclosures of identities of sources based on an FBI proposal of prior contact. The three cases proposed by Elliff are briefly set out below:

Continued—over
