After leaving Boulder, SMILEY was advised by Dean William E. Briggs, College of Arts and Sciences, University of Colorado, Boulder, that a letter was received by the University purportedly written by RIJA in which he stated that he would not be returning to the University. Briggs advised SMILEY that in his opinion, the letter was a forgery, since the signature did not compare with that of RIJA.

After the disappearance, SMILEY began receiving a great many inquiries from the news media and he was pressed for a statement regarding his knowledge of RIJA and whether or not he was alive.

The following was furnished by Dr. SMILEY in the strictest of confidence, with the understanding that it was for the information of the FBI and not for dissemination to any outside agency, since he was breaking a confidence with an associate in the Denver office of the Central Intelligence Agency:

Being hounded by the press for a statement, he contacted a source in the CIA office at Denver since he, SMILEY, was formerly a member of the Office of Naval Intelligence, thinking that perhaps that agency could assist him off the record with any information it might possess. SMILEY was aware that the CIA had interviewed RIJA following a trip by RIJA to the Soviet Union. The CIA source subsequently told Dr. SMILEY to merely advise the press that he had information to the effect that RIJA was “alive and well.” This information was subsequently released by Dr. SMILEY to the student press at the University of Colorado, and it appeared in print.

When the Office of the District Attorney in Denver instituted an investigation into the disappearance of RIJA, SMILEY was contacted by the DA’s Office regarding the source of his statement. Dr. SMILEY again contacted the Denver CIA Office source and was advised that he was to state nothing and that he would be recontacted.

Some days later, the CIA source recontacted him and told him that he would be receiving an inquiry from the Office of the DA in the form of a statement, and that he should agree with the statement even though it “was not quite the truth.” SMILEY did not question
