Of the RNA returned to New Orleans, Louisiana, in March 1969, from New York City. Advised a source of this Bureau that she had traveled to Cuba through Mexico City this spring, with the flight to Cuba being paid for by the Cuban Government.

Attended a rally in Cuba which was addressed by Fidel Castro and, following the rally, met with Castro. In the conversation with him, he said that he was unhappy with the dissension among black extremist organizations in Los Angeles, California. Castro added that when the black people in the United States move forward in their revolution, they will receive assistance from Cuba and other countries.

Castro presented literature which he stated concerned the revolution and which would be applicable to the black man's struggle in the United States. He promised to send revolutionary literature in the near future which would be of assistance.

In December 1968, two leaders of SNCC departed from the United States for Cuba, via Mexico, allegedly to attend a Cultural Congress. When they returned to the United States, they were intercepted at the Canadian border by Customs and Immigration officials. They had in their possession a large quantity of North Korean, Soviet, and Cuban propaganda and souvenirs. Included in their personal effects were a five-band portable radio of Soviet manufacture, adaptable for receiving intelligence communications, and a revealing notebook and diary.

Analysis of the notes and diary indicates the two Negro nationalists were on a “mission” on behalf of SNCC and that this mission had been well planned in advance. Their effects also indicated they were placed in contact with the North Koreans in Havana by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Cuba; on February 24, 1969, they flew from Moscow for Korea under the cover of pseudonyms; in March 1969, in North Korea, they received detailed training in revolutionary theory and political and military intelligence; and they spent considerable time in the Soviet Union and Cuba prior to their return. Among their notes were instructions for organizing a committee which would propagandize for the withdrawal of allied forces from Korea and seek the support of the New Left and domestic Negro nationalist movements, as well as domestic.
