United States Government Memorandum

To: D. E. Moore  
From: W. A. Branigan  
Subject: Bureau Informant 200 — Policy  
Date: 4/20/62

1. D. E. Moore  
1. Branigan  
1. Litrento  
1. Papich  
1. Stewart

Tolson; Belmox; Mok; Call-Drum; Contrad; DeLoach; Evans; Malone; Rosen; Sullivan; Tavel; Trotter; Tele. Room; Holmes; Gandy.

In order to insure that Project Hunter will continue to operate under maximum economy and efficiency, we have advised CIA at a recent conference we would review Bureau Informant 200 material received and advise CIA whether or not we desired to continue to receive material on persons whose names appear on the attached list.

The interested Supervisor should, accordingly, indicate by writing “yes” or “no” to the right of his subject’s name whether or not he desires Bureau Informant 200 to discontinue furnishing data on each of his respective subjects.

The attached lists were compiled from a review of the Project Hunter card box indices maintained by Supervisor W. D. Stewart as an administrative aid for routing purposes. The names of subjects on whom we have received no material for the past year do not appear on the attached lists. They have been weeded out separately along with other subjects who have been relatively inactive.

The results of this survey will be forwarded via Liaison to CIA for appropriate action.

Recommendation:

That this memo and its attachment be routed to the interested Supervisor for a determination as to the continuation of receiving Bureau Informant 200 material on his respective subject.

That the results of this survey be forwarded via Liaison to CIA for appropriate action.

105-93089

Enclosure

WDS: blv J.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by the Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.

17 May 1962

As a result of our survey, we will discontinue on 97 of the 200 persons on file.
