Federal Bureau of Investigation  
United States Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

August 24, 1936.

Memorandum

This morning, in accordance with the request of the President conveyed to me personally by him last Wednesday in New York City, I called at the White House at 9:15 and was with the President until 10:15.

He was desirous of discussing the question of the subversive activities in the United States, particularly Fascism and Communism. He had previously received the memorandum which I had prepared covering my conversation with General Smedley Butler and the effort of Father Coughlin to have General Butler head an expedition to Mexico. I informed the President concerning certain recent developments in the Communist activities in the country, particularly the efforts of the Bridges organization in San Francisco and their progressive control of the shipping on the Pacific Coast, the Gulf Coast and their recent expansion to shipping operations on the Atlantic Coast. I told him that while their contract will expire on September 30, 1936, they are endeavoring to have it temporarily extended until April 1, 1937, in order to conform to the same date that the United Mine Workers' contract expires, which organization is headed by John L. Lewis. I told him that the Bridges organization was practically controlled by Communists and that the Communists had now decided to make very definite plans to get control of the Lewis organization.

I called his attention to the activities of the Newspaper Guild headed by Heywood Broun, which has strong Communistic leanings, and which has been responsible for putting out of operation the Seattle Post Intelligencer. I told him that my information was that the Communists had planned to get control of these three groups and by doing so they would be able at any time to paralyze the country in that they could stop all shipping in and out through the Bridges organization; stop the operation of industry through the Mining Union of Lewis; and stop publication of any newspapers of the country through the Newspaper Guild.

I also related to him the activities which have recently occurred within Governmental service inspired by Communists, particularly in some of the Departments and in the National Labor Relations Board.
