62-116395

January 14, 1976

U. S. Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC)

Reference is made to SSC letter dated December 4, 1975, Item 4 of which requests materials concerning Martin Luther King, Jr.; and SSC letter dated November 25, 1975, Items 7c and 8c of which request materials concerning the Washington Spring Project and Sanitation Workers Strike, Memphis, Tennessee, respectively.

The purpose of this memorandum is to effect delivery to the SSC of materials in response to referenced requests.

In respect to Item 4 of the December 4, 1975, request, the only indication of any action taken concerning the recommendation contained in the pertinent memorandum dated March 29, 1968, captioned, “Counterintelligence Program, Black Nationalist-Hate Groups, Racial Intelligence (Martin Luther King)” is the pencilled notation “Handled 4/3/68,” appearing on page one and initials which are believed to be those of former Special Agent (SA) Harold P. Leinbaugh. Among the documents being furnished the SSC is a memorandum dated July 18, 1975, captioned, “Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,” along with supporting documents, which were submitted to the Attorney General concerning background leading up to the proposed action recommended in the March 29, 1968, memorandum. It includes results of an interview of Leinbaugh.

In response to Item 7c, the only indication of any action taken concerning the suggestion (recommendation) contained in the memorandum dated March 26, 1968, captioned, “Counterintelligence Program, Black Nationalist-Hate Groups, Racial Intelligence (Washington Spring Project)” is the pencilled notation “Handled 4/4/68,” appearing on page two of that memorandum and initials which are believed to be those of former SA Leinbaugh.

VT:adn

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.

Enclosure.
