Intentions with respect to Cuba. The Secretary responded that he did not believe that the “Sovietologists” did what has been claimed. He did not believe that they had much influence on estimates. He thought, however, he detected an insufficient alertness on their part to the possibility that the estimates of the intelligence community were wrong. He expressed the observation on this point that the direct indicators came in after the September 19 estimate was prepared.

The Secretary was next queried as to whether we are currently informed in an adequate manner about Soviet objectives and activities in Cuba today. The Secretary responded that the principal gap is our inability to prove the negative because of the absence of on-site inspections. He said we are running overflights regularly; that we have improved our cooperation with allied governments in Cuba; but that we do not know for certain what the Soviet objectives are insofar as Cuba is concerned.

When queried as to U. S. Government knowledge as to the purpose of Mikoyan’s stay in Cuba and as to what Mikoyan accomplished, the Secretary stated that he thought we know a great deal about the Mikoyan mission. He noted that for ten days Castro would not talk to Mikoyan. He said that we are getting much better information regarding Castro and particularly Castro’s efforts in inspiring other Latin American countries. The Secretary expressed the thought that the Soviet Union may be deciding that Cuba is not the proper base from which to launch their Latin American operations. He said rewarding gains have been made in attempting to obstruct travel between Cuba and the Free World. He conceded, however, that we do not have the Cuba-Russian plan, adding that we have not penetrated the Cuban regime as well as he hopes we might be able to later.

The Secretary was asked with reference to the Monroe Doctrine, whether the Department of State has urged an aggressive intelligence collection effort to define any new violation of the Doctrine. The Secretary thought it would not be too profitable to concentrate on this point and it would be more profitable to concentrate on the Rio Pact. He agreed, however, that the Doctrine is violated by the presence of the Marxist-Leninist system in the Western Hemisphere for he said there is no question whatever about the Soviet presence in Cuba.

In conclusion the Secretary stated that he thought “our intelligence on Cuba today is not complete but it is not deficient.”

J. Patrick Coyne
