United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: W. O. Cregar  
Subject: SENSTUDY 75  
Date: 3/21/75

Mr. Cailahan (Callahan); Mr. Adams; Each Assistant Director; Mr. Cregar.

Assoc. Dir.; Dep. AD Adm.; Dep. AD Adv.; Asst. Dir.; Admin.; Comp. Syst.; Ext. Affairs; Files & Com.; Gen. Inv.; Cant.; Inspection; Intell.; Laboratory; Legal Coun.; Plan. & Eval.; Spec. Inv.; Training; Telephone Rm.; Director Sec'y.

This memorandum reports the results of a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Ad Hoc Coordinating Group on Congressional Review of the Intelligence Community, (hereafter referred to as the Group), held at CIA Headquarters on the evening of 3/20/75.

This meeting was chaired by Mr. Colby in his role as the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI). In attendance were Mr. Philip Buchen, Counsel to the President; Deputy AG Laurence Silberman; Associate Deputy AG James Wilderotter; Mr. John Clarke, Associate Deputy to the DCI, as well as officials from Defense, Treasury and the Energy Research and Development Administration (formerly the Atomic Energy Commission).

The meeting was called to have all agencies identify (1) Types of information that could not be disclosed to Congressional Committees, (2) Types of information the disclosure of which was arguable, and (3) Types of information that could be disclosed to Congressional Committees. The FBI was asked to lead off the presentation. The Group was informed that we were reluctant to discuss sensitive matters in such a large group and we asked that the Group be reduced to a select few people who would have to have knowledge of sensitive FBI operations. After some discussion, the White House agreed this was a good procedure and it now appears that Mr. Buchen of the White House, one of his associates and probably Mr. Silberman will arrange at some future date to discuss the sensitive type information embraced in the above three questions. No definite date was set for this review and presumably either Mr. Clarke's office or Mr. Silberman will be in contact with the Bureau regarding this.

REC-28 62-116395-49

Enclosed herewith is a paper prepared by Mr. Clarke which attempts to outline a course the DCI can take in coordinating inquiries from the Senate and House Select Committees. Although

Enclosure

WOC:ebc
