United States Government Memorandum.

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall. From: Mr. W. O. Cregar. Date: May 27, 1975. Subject: SENSTUDY 75. [REDACTED]

1. Mr. J. B. Adams  
3. Mr. J. A. Mintz  
(1-J. B. Hotis)  
(1-Mr. P. V. Daly)  
1. Mr. W. R. Wannall  
1. Mr. T. W. Leavitt  
1. Mr. W. A. Branigan  
1. Mr. W. O. Cregar

This memorandum reports the results of a meeting* between Mr. John Elliff, Senate Select Committee (SSC) Staff, who is in charge of the task force looking into the FBI, and Messrs. Wannall, Leavitt, Branigan, and Cregar. Purpose of the meeting was to acquaint Elliff with the work of the Counterintelligence Branch in the Intelligence Division.

House Select Committee (HSC)

Elliff advised that the SSC is concerned with how the HSC plans to conduct its probe of the intelligence community. He anticipates HSC may hold hearings very shortly and possibly prior to the time the SSC gets underway. At the present time, Elliff knows of no agreement or plans to provide the HSC with copies of intelligence community documents the SSC has been furnished.

Department of Justice

According to Elliff, Kevin T. Maroney, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, has agreed to allow Staff Members of the SSC to review the Department's file on the Intelligence Evaluation Committee (this was a Committee chaired by the Department and evolved from one of the recommendations set out in the “Houston Plan.” During its existence the Bureau had several representatives assigned to the IEC).

Mr. Maroney has also advised the SSC Staff that in the 1966-67 period the Department of Justice did an extensive study on the legal authority for the conduct of electronic surveillances. Elliff was quite pleased that the Justice Department planned to make this study available for review by Staff Members of the SSC in the Department's Building and expressed the hope that the Bureau would also see fit to allow Staff Members to review research and studies the Bureau might have conducted in the area of sensitive investigative techniques.

62-116395

WOC:ekw

*5/22/75
