11. 8/24/60 — Castro charged the U.S. with supporting counter-revolutionaries, and stated that Cuba would be friends with the Soviets and Chinese People's Republic.

12. 11/18/60 — U.S. stated that at least 12 Soviet ships have delivered arms and ammunition to Cuba since July 1960, and that Soviet bloc arms provided to Cuba amount to at least 28,000 tons.

13. 12/19/60 — Cuba and the USSR signed a joint communique through which Cuba openly allied itself with the domestic and foreign policies of the Soviet Union and indicated its solidarity with the Soviet bloc.

14. 1/2/61 — Cuba held a military parade displaying bloc arms, including tanks, assault guns, and field guns. Castro said this represented only a “small part” of the arms which Cuba had received from the bloc.

15. 1/3/61 — The United States severed diplomatic relations with Cuba.

16. 2/23/61 — Armed Forces Minister Raúl Castro declared that the Chinese People's Republic had sent Cuba hundreds of machine guns.

17. 3/24/61 — In a letter to the New York Times, Mr. Juan Bosch of New York City, former Minister of Finance of Cuba prior to the Batista Administration, stated: “Just recently I have received confidential information that in the western part of the Island of Cuba, specifically in the vicinity of the town of Soroa, Province of Pinar del Rio, an installation is being finished that has required hundreds of tons of portland cement, and has led observers to conclude that a rocket-launching pad is being prepared for use by the Soviet Union. Many reports of other secret military installations are being received continuously in my office. Do the American people not realize that these installations may be used to pinpoint atomic destruction to any part of the United States, and that a military base in Cuba would be invaluable to the Soviet Union, not only because of its military value as a base at the very back door of the U.S., but also because of the prestige that this would give the Russians?”

18. 4/3/61 — The U.S. Department of State stated that since mid-1960 over 30,000 tons of arms valued at $50 million had arrived in Cuba from the bloc; the Cuban armed forces were dependent on the Soviet bloc for their armed power; Soviet and Czech military advisers and technicians had accompanied the flow of arms; Cubans had gone to Czechoslovakia and the USSR for training as jet pilots, ground maintenance crews, and artillerymen; and that, except for the U.S., Cuba had the largest ground forces in the hemisphere—at least 10 times as large as those maintained by Batista's and other previous Cuban Governments.
