United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: F. J. Cassidy  
Subject: General Accounting Office (GAO) Review of FBI Operations  
Date: 9/25/75

1. Mr. N. P. Callahan  
1. Mr. T. J. Jenkins  
1. Mr. J. B. Adams  
1. Each Assistant Director  
1. Mr. H. E. Helgeson  
1. Mr. J. G. Deegan  
1. Mr. R. L. Shackelford  
1. Mr. J. B. Hotis  
1. Mr. F. J. Cassidy  
1. Mr. R. P. Finzel

On Wednesday, 9/24/75, Comptroller General Elmer B. Staats testified in public session before the Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Constitutional Rights of the House Committee on the Judiciary. His testimony, and that of several assisting GAO officials, was based on their preliminary review of the FBI's domestic intelligence operations.

A copy of Mr. Staats' revised prepared testimony is attached.

The Committee convened in Room 2141 of the House Office Building (Rayburn Building) at 9:23 a.m. Mr. Staats read his prepared testimony and answered some questions until approximately 12:25 p.m. The Committee reconvened for questioning at 1:52 p.m. and adjourned at 3:03 p.m.

Subcommittee members present were:

Don Edwards, California, presiding  
Robert F. Drinan, Massachusetts  
Herman Badillo, New York  
M. Caldwell Butler, Virginia  
Thomas N. Kindness, Ohio  
Christopher J. Dodd, Connecticut

Congressman John F. Seiberling of Ohio was absent, and Congressman Kindness was present only until 11:00 a.m. and did not return for the afternoon session.

In addition to Mr. Staats, approximately ten other GAO representatives were present, some of whom responded to congressional questions on specific points of the GAO audit. Aside from the rather large GAO contingent, their wives and friends, there was sparse public attendance, and most of the seats in the hearing room were empty. There was limited coverage by press and TV news cameramen, half of whom departed after the morning session.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee, and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.

Enclosure

62-56866, RPF: vb (23)

Continued – over
