“He ran to me and put his arms around me and said, ‘What did you do?’ I didn’t do it, I couldn’t. She said, ‘Why? He was a child.’ Then Beatrice Antelo, who had an agoraphobic mother, went with an agoraphobic sister to the hospital for an evaluation, where she was found to be agoraphobic. But when she went back to the hospital, which is no better, no worse than before, the other diathoretic woman shows up in the ER. She tells me that this is the first time her family has ever known. I held her head down on her lap and sobbed in helpless, hopeless despair.

Helen Hernandez, 10, and her husband Antonio, sat side by side on their couch in a sodden living room, overflowing with clustering photos and photographs of their five sons, ages 2 to 13. They looked stunned, like two people who have tried, yet failed to comprehend fully what has happened to them: this summer.

Which is probably understandable, for nothing in their experience has prepared them to deal with a murder charge against a member of their family—least of all against Oscar, their quietest, clearest son.

A Family Scared on Welfare

Beatrice and Antonio, her two sons, were on welfare until they decided to try another option of care. “Until the boys were old enough to live without me at home,” a friend remembered one day. “Then she took to work at a food bank packingWLTP, where she earned $30 a month. Except on her small, two-bedroom apartment, which is no better, no worse than the next one.” The other dilapidated house shows him living alone, and so are the steps of Norwalk’s half-square mile Mrs. Ramirez lives in. This is a room in

“I don’t know if my story would fit him,” Mr. Antelo said. “But we dress everywhere, I think, of looking for my son.”

Don’t tell anybody. He says, she told to tell the news office, who listened politely, that they had made some grotesque mistake.

She knew her son. He was a good boy. He loved children. He and his girlfriend wanted to have a big family when they got married—which would be as soon as Don found a job. It isn’t easy to find a job when you don’t have a car to look outside the barrio, she had explained.

Meanwhile, she pointed out, Don was a good student at Chavita’s College. He studied hard, made good grades, “was determined to make something out of himself.”

Beatrice Antelo absentmindedly stroked a tiny brown dog sleeping peacefully in her lap. He is her watchdog. When strangers approach the house, he pokes his head through a broken living room window pane and barks with comic ferocity.

Don had been in trouble before, of course, she continued, an edge of bitterness creeping into her voice as she told how he had been thrown out of Excelsior High School four years ago because “he had long hair before it was common.” He had brushes with the police before, too, she said, without elaborating—but most barrio youths have similar experiences.

‘Won’t Care About Saving Him’

“You have to live here to know what it’s like. Police everywhere, poverty you can’t escape, no jobs...” Her voice trailed off in a resigned shrug. She makes less than $3,000 annually, so she can’t afford to hire a private attorney to defend her son, she said. And she’s certain the court-appointed public defender “won’t care about saving him.”

A cough suddenly seized her. The doctor has warned her against interviews, she explained. She doesn’t answer the telephone much anymore either because it often turns out to be somebody calling her the mother of a monster or threatening to bomb her house or, worse still, to harm her older son, 31, a father of two with a job outside Norwalk.

“I guess it makes people feel better to get the hate off their chests when something as horrible as this happens,” she sighed. “I just hang up.”

But her mind clearly wasn’t on herself—it was still on that last night on the scene that had awaited her when she and the two officers returned home.

“They had already found Don and the Ramirez boy,” she said. “They were standing out front, surveying progress. I was a little confused.”

Beatrice and Antonio turned her face away, toward the wall, where a huge calendar of the Ascension. In 2020, to theBinah, The pointer had freed his landlady, which, after all, was a yes, she said.
