For example, both letters contained requests to conduct investigations previously conducted and reported to the Department. Certain other requests contained therein would more logically fall within the province of the Special Task Force Committee established by the Department of Defense to analyze Rand Corporation security procedures. Other requested investigations had previously been initiated by the Bureau, and other investigative requests were not on their face germane to the violations or potential violations of law. Certain of the requested investigations appeared to be based on unsupported assumptions and theories of the involvement of other individuals in the leak of the “Pentagon Papers” but offered no basis or reasons for the requested investigation.

The most recent letter, 8/23/71, contained a request for investigation of Ellsberg’s travel. We have been developing this information since the inception of our investigation, and it has been furnished to the Department on an almost daily basis. This letter also requested inquiries concerning certain telephone calls by Ellsberg, investigation concerning most of which had also been previously initiated. Mar-dian also stated Department files had no information on Leonard S. Rodberg, whose name has recently come up in this case as the possible source of the “McNamara Study” material, which will be published by the Beacon Press in Boston. We have in this and other cases furnished information on Rodberg in approximately a dozen communications.

The analyses of these lengthy letters from Mar-dian require the expenditure of a considerable amount of Agent time. They indicate that Mar-dian’s group, apparently in efforts to direct our investigation, are propounding questions, some of which are relevant but many of which are not relevant to the main thrust of our investigation, some of which should be referred elsewhere, and others of which have been previously answered.

In accordance with instructions issued by the Assistant Director, we are furnishing to Mar-dian copies of the daily teletypes from our field offices. These teletypes contain “raw” investigative results not coordinated. The coordination of these results regularly appears in our investigative reports, which are also furnished to Mar-dian. We feel that the reports resolve many of the questions which have been propounded by Mar-dian in the past, and it would enhance our investigative efforts to eliminate dissemination of the daily teletypes in the future and give to the Department investigative results in report form, supplemented by a weekly summary letter which we regularly forward to him.
