United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams  
From: Legal Counsel  
Subject: SENSTUDY 75  
Date: 8/1/75

Mr. Mintz; Mr. Wannall; Mr. Cregar.

Personnel File: Seymour Phillips (Seymor Phillips).

Mr. Hotis; Mr. Daly.

Michael Epstein, Staff Member, Senate Select Committee, requested that a staff interview be arranged with Seymour Phillips (Seymor Phillips) concerning the Bureau's investigation of Martin Luther King. He requested the interview be held at 10 a.m., 8/1/75. He was advised that this was not possible and that sometime next week would be more acceptable. It was agreed that the interview would be conducted at 10 a.m. on Monday, 8/4/75.

In view of the ongoing discussions between the Department, representatives of the King family, and the Senate Select Committee concerning Committee access to information concerning Martin Luther King, Michael Shaheen was contacted concerning this interview.

It was pointed out to Mr. Shaheen that Mr. Phillips had a great deal of knowledge concerning the King investigation and it could be assumed that information would be disclosed during the interview which might contravene an agreement with the King family should such an agreement become perfected. Since the Department was to meet with representatives of the King family and Senate Select Committee members on 7/31/75, it was suggested that any decision concerning Mr. Phillips' interview be held in abeyance pending a resolution of this problem. Shaheen agreed.

Shaheen subsequently advised SA Daly that the meeting with the King family representatives, Senate Select Committee representatives, and the Department had not resulted in an agreement. He said he had discussed the pending interview of Mr. Phillips with the Committee staff representatives, and they said they would furnish guidelines concerning the topics to be covered during the interview. Shaheen indicated these guidelines would be consistent with the King family's concerns regarding the production of information from Bureau files concerning King.

REG-102

JBH/PVD. Date to: 7/7/75 by SPA Alm.
