Render Tanzania in return. Prior to their visit—it was believed that hundreds of acres had been set aside in Tanzania for the RNA to set up a commune and that Red China had land-clearing equipment and farm machinery to be utilized on this property.

After their visit they indicated that the president of the country would make some agreements with Robert F. Williams concerning commitments and foreign aid to the RNA; however, these commitments would not be made public. The Henrys stated that as a contribution and to show good faith, RNA would obtain medicine and books and send them to Tanzania. In addition, the RNA would assist in organizing the United Liberation Front in Africa, which would attempt to unite all black African nations.

Williams, the RNA's president in exile, is a black extremist who fled the United States in 1961 following his indictment on a kidnapping charge in North Carolina. He resided in Cuba until 1966, at which time he went to Peking, China, where he has since resided.

Richard Henry has indicated that he wants to send Negro militants to Tanzania to establish a cadre for the proposed RNA commune. The purpose of this cadre will be to begin training blacks of the African continent in guerrilla warfare.

In October 1968, a group of American Negroes were in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, where they were allegedly recruiting an army to eventually fight against the United States and take over RNA's rightful title to portions of the United States. These troops allegedly would be equipped with Chinese weapons. Richard Henry and Williams are actively recruiting for this army, and 17 American Negroes are reportedly now active in the affairs of RNA in Tanzania.

In September 1968, Richard Henry discussed the negotiations to establish a Chinese Consulate in Quebec. If it is established, Henry states, RNA will be able to legally purchase equipment through the consulate. Milton Henry, speaking before the National Black Economic Conference in Detroit, Michigan, in April 1969, stated that the black nation of RNA means developing relations with friendly powers, namely, Red China and Cuba.
