to activities authorized by the MONGOOSE Committee (composed of the Special Group, plus the Attorney General and 2 or 3 other officials). MONGOOSE plans are developed under the coordination of General Lansdale, who works with State, Defense, CIA, and USIA elements for this purpose. Mr. McCone said that the first phase of the project was an intelligence-gathering effort. The second phase was to involve sabotage, insurgency, and other actions which were tentatively agreed upon at the MONGOOSE meeting of August 10 but which then fell into limbo during the Cuban crisis until two days ago, when the Executive Committee of the NSC tentatively renewed consideration of the project. Mr. McCone said that he personally does not favor sabotage or guerilla activity for a few months until the dust settles. The DCI said he was disturbed over the possibility of a new confrontation by the Soviets, who could take the stand that there had been compliance with U.S. demands for removal of offensive weapons and therefore any continuance of U.S. aerial surveillance of Cuba will be countered by shoot-downs of our surveillance aircraft by SA-2s. Dr. Langer suggested that the SA-2 defenses might be for the purpose of meeting an anticipated invasion of Cuba by the U.S., but Mr. McCone thought not, pointing out that the SA-2s would be easy to knock out if an invasion should take place.

Turning to the NRO, Mr. McCone said that the Defense Department/CIA agreement had not worked out too well because the Director of NRO feels he should have fiscal control over Department of Defense as well as CIA resources, through a review of programs and the allocation of funds on a monthly basis. This approach, Mr. McCone stated, puts accounting and fiscal responsibility into NRO, i.e., into the Air Force, in effect. Mr. McCone said that he favors more CIA control because it is necessary for CIA moneys spent for NRO purposes have to be defended before special Congressional Committees in a special way, and since $150 million of this CIA money is tied up in NRO (OXCART), the DCI feels he will have a hard time explaining how this money got.
