United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: J. G. Deegan  
Subject: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.  
Date: 7/18/75

During a conference on 7/16/75 between the Assistant Attorney General, J. Stanley Pottinger, and his staff and the Director of the FBI and his staff, a question arose concerning Martin Luther King's alleged moving from one hotel or motel to another hotel or motel in Memphis, Tennessee, prior to his murder on 4/4/68.

Attached is a letterhead memorandum (LHM) setting forth an inquiry including a review of all appropriate Bureau files regarding a proposal made in memorandum G. C. Moore to Mr. W. C. Sullivan dated 3/29/68 in connection with the counterintelligence program wherein it was recommended that information be made available to a cooperative news media source showing King to be a hypocrite. This was to be based on the fact that when violence broke out during a march led by King in Memphis, Tennessee, on 3/28/68, he disappeared. There was a first class Negro hotel in Memphis, the Hotel Lorraine, but King chose to hide out in a white owned and operated Holiday Inn Motel (also known as the Rivermont Motel). The LHM will reflect and document the fact that although a notation appears on the memorandum that it was “handled,” there is no information available to reflect that it was ever actually given to a cooperative news source. Mr. Harold P. Leinbaugh (retired), who placed the notation “handled” on the document, absolutely has no recollection of this matter nor can he state whether or not the information was disseminated.

REC-88

The time elements as documented in this LHM would preclude the proposal contained in the 3/29/68 memorandum of having any effect upon King's choice of a motel in which to reside.

Recommendation:

That the attached LHM along with attachments be disseminated to the Department.

JUL 29 1975

This document is prepared in response to a request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the context may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.

HAN:cah (6)
