Senate (SEKATE) Select Committee of Intelligence Activity (SSC).

Re: Interview of former FBI employee (employer) by SSC.

With regard to the effort made to obtain an Executive Order establishing the FBI's authority in security matters, Mr. Armstrong advised the SSC representative that in May, 1972, one of the principal questions raised by Mr. Gray was concerning the jurisdictional authority of the FBI to conduct intelligence or security investigations. He commented that in May, 1972, a conference was held at Quantico, Virginia, involving a number of Bureau executives and that during this conference the question of jurisdictional authority was discussed. Following the conference, a special team was set up to discuss this subject, including Mr. Armstrong and former Special Agent Thomas Smith of the Intelligence Division.

According to Mr. Armstrong, it was felt that it would be appropriate to develop a new set of guidelines and not to rely on prior statutes and Presidential orders. Armstrong recalled that after several meetings of this group, Thomas Smith prepared a document consisting of 43 pages which was completed approximately six weeks after the group was created. Armstrong recalled that the document was received in the Acting Director's office and was discussed at one of the regular afternoon staff conferences. At that time it was agreed that the document was good but that the timing was not thought to be appropriate. The thought was expressed that it would be held in abeyance until after the coming elections. It was Mr. Armstrong's belief that the matter might have been discussed between Attorney General Kleindienst and Mr. Gray, and it was decided not to push the matter until after the elections. Mr. Armstrong recalled advising Mr. Smith of the location of the document and the fact that it was being held in abeyance until after the elections.

The matter of the above document did not come up again until shortly before the confirmation hearings concerning Mr. Gray. At that time it was Mr. Armstrong's belief that the Bureau should not push for the Executive Order until after a
