Security Informant Program

Basic Revolutionary and New Left Organizations

At the time of the last inspection in January 1971, the Internal Security Section handled informants only in the basic revolutionary organizations and related groups. There was no Security Informant Unit as such, informants being handled on subversive organization desks. On June 16, 1971, a Security Informant Unit was formed and this Unit now handles informants in the New Left field as well as in basic revolutionary organizations and related groups.

At last inspection there were 264 member informants in the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA); at present there are 226, a decrease of 38. At last inspection there were 31 member informants in the Socialist Workers Party (SWP); at present there are 48, an increase of 17. As of July 31, 1971, date of latest monthly tabulation, the Security Informant Unit handled a total of 795 security informants and 671 potential security informants, a total of 1,466. This includes 630 informant cases transferred from the New Left Section to the Security Informant Unit in the Internal Security Section on June 16, 1971.

There has been continuing recognition of the fact there must be no letdown in maintaining adequate informant coverage. However, economy has increasingly become a primary factor. In line with the President's message on August 15, 1971, tightening economic controls and our continuing efforts to hold down expenditures, the field is being instructed by letter to all offices to cut down payments to security and extremist informants and sources by five percent. To assure uniformity and fairness in the application of this cutback throughout the field, each office was instructed to follow this formula: Total expenditures for all such informants and sources for the six-month period ending July 31, 1971; reduce this total by five percent; divide the resulting figure by six months. The resulting figure is to be the guideline for each office.

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection

8/19/71

HEM:cb
