United States Government Memorandum.

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: Mr. W. O. Cregar  
Subject: SENSTUDY 75  
Date: April 15, 1975

Mr. J. B. Adams; Mr. J. T. Jenkins; each Assistant Director; Mr. W. O. Cregar; Mr. S. F. Phillips.

My memorandum to you dated 4/10/75, tickler copies as above, advised of the formal establishment of a task force called Project Senstudy 75 for the purpose of implementing responses to requests for information from Senate and House Select Committees on Intelligence Activities.

From time to time, requests will be made of various Divisions at FBIHQ for assistance in preparing responses. The Office of Legal Counsel has already contributed considerably in support of Senstudy 75 and is an integral part of the Project.

In order that we may keep an up-to-date record of the cost to the Bureau in handling this Project, each Assistant Director is requested to effect the necessary procedures to maintain such records and by the third of each month furnish by routing slip to W. O. Cregar, Room 4063, JEH Building, the following information: (1) Name of Division reporting; (2) Month for which reporting, which will be the month just ended; (3) Man-days devoted to Project assistance, broken down by (a) Agent and (b) clerical, including GS level for both Agent and clerical. An example submitted by 5/3/75 would be as follows: (1) GID; (2) Report for 4/75; (3)(a) one-half day at GS-16; one day at GS-15; three days at GS-14; (3)(b) two days at GS-7; two days at GS-5.

This is effective commencing 4/1/75, and the first routing slip report due 5/3/75 will be for the month of April 1975.

If a Division has not participated during the preceding month, merely submit a routing slip to this effect.

The cooperation of all is urged so that the necessary cost data may be compiled each month. It is recognized that exact figures will not be feasible and that estimates will be most practical and will suffice.

Action: For action as above by each Assistant Director.

62-116395

The Office of the Counsel for the State of New York, delegate to the President of the United States, has been dropped, by a decision of this court, and may no longer be referred to as the Counsel of the Republic of New York, nor may any of them acting in that capacity be called the Counsel of the State of New York until they shall, by order of this court, specify another counsel to act in place of those which are lost or removed from service. Now, therefore, it is ordered, by this court, that the Counsel for the State of New York, delegate to the President of the United States, be nameless and to be referred to as the Counsel of the Republic of New York, nor may any of them acting in that capacity be called the Counsel of the State of New York.
