May 31, 1963

By courier service

Honorable P. Kenneth O'Donnell  
Special Assistant to the President  
The White House  
Washington, D.C.

My dear Mr. O'Donnell:

A source, who has furnished reliable information in the past, has advised that on May 30, 1963, Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., and Stanley Levison held a discussion concerning a conference which Reverend Mr. King reportedly has requested with the President and the Attorney General.

Levison and Reverend Mr. King agreed that this is a good time for such a conference and Levison stated that no Administration has ever been as worried about the Negro problem as is the present Administration. Levison added that this is based upon the Administration's concern with the problems arising from the Common Market in Europe. Levison expressed the opinion that the prestige of the United States is very important at this time and that inability to control the racial situation makes the Administration's task more difficult. He also said that the President is ready for a different policy if it can bring about the kind of controlled situation that he feels he needs.

Reverend Mr. King and Levison agreed that it was necessary to keep the situation moving so that the President will be forced to look for an alternative. It was stated that the President can then be presented with certain alternatives which will benefit the Administration as the President's fear of violence will be done away with. Levison expressed the thought that the President is ready to make a change and that a conference at this time would be fruitful. He added that if a conference cannot be worked out, then the movement must be enlarged. Reverend Mr. King said.

WLM:cag.mpd (14)

Mrs. Victoria Gordon  
10077 N.W.  
Washington, D.C. 20036  
(202) 684-2252  
Fax (202) 684-1249

New York City  
North District  
United States District Court  
The Honorable Robert B. Bentley, Judge

May 10, 1963

The Discoverers of the New World Order

Peter Francis De La Russie

By Rev. Albert T. Conklin

Published by The New Republic Editorial, Inc.  
Associated Press  
Harris & Wolfe Corporation

The White House  
London  
Belgium  
Portugal  
Spain  
United Kingdom  
France  
Switzerland  
Sweden  
Finland  
Denmark  
Scotland  
Scandinavia  
Scandinavian Riggs  
Scandinavian Periodicals  
Scandinavian Progress  
Scandinavian Revolution  
Scandinavian Revised  
Scandinavian Revised Indian  
Scandinavian Revised English  
Scandinavian Revised American  
Scandinavian Revised Breton  
Scandinavian Revised Chinese  
Scandinavian Revised French  
Scandinavian Revised Spanish  
Scandinavian Revised German  
Scandinavian Revised Swedish  
Scandinavian Revised ΕΝΔΟΣ  
Scandinavian Revised ΤΑΡΑ  
Scandinavian Revised ΑΝΙΚΗ  
Scandinavian Revised ΗΛΙΟΣ  
Scandinavian Revised ΑΓΙΟΣ  
Scandinavian Revised ΙΩΑΝ
