Bureau airtel to Chicago, 3/24/70, instructed that office to promptly initiate investigations and interview all individuals who were arrested in Chicago during National Action Week, 10/8–11/69, if such investigations had not already been undertaken. Over 280 individuals were arrested, most of whom were either members of or closely associated with the Weatherman group. Chicago airtel to numerous offices, 4/9/70, restated Bureau instructions.

SAC Letter 70-18 (C), dated 4/7/70, under the caption “New Left and Black Extremist Terrorism—Bombing Matters,” set forth instructions to be followed in bombing and attempted bombing matters. In those instances of bombing or arson that appear to have New Left or black extremist connotations or motivation, and where no Bureau substantive jurisdiction exists or the Department has advised that no investigation is warranted, the Bureau is to be immediately advised, setting forth pertinent data regarding the involvement of subversive groups or individuals suspected in the incident, as well as a recommendation for any additional investigation warranted.

Teletype to all SACs, 4/17/70, set forth specific areas of investigation to be covered by the field in its investigations against New Left terrorist groups and individuals. It also set forth the definition of a commune for purposes of Bureau investigations and instructed the field to conduct sufficient investigation of all members of the commune when they are members of a commune falling within Bureau standards for investigation. The field was also instructed to develop the informant coverage necessary of all communes and/or groups so that advance knowledge of any planned violence could be obtained to ensure preventive action was initiated and prosecutive action brought to bear where possible.

By airtel to all offices, 5/11/70, the field was authorized to interview all Venceremos Brigade (VB) members on SAC authority upon completion of the investigation, except in those instances where the subject is under 21, currently a student or professor, has some connection with an institution of learning, or is a journalist. Bureau approval is still needed concerning the latter individuals.
