V. Domestic “Internal Security” Electronic Surveillance: Alternatives to Keith Prohibition

There are several elements within United States society which pose a threat to the safety and tranquility of segments of that society, e.g., police officers, symbols of the “Establishment,” etc. While some of these elements claim to be “revolutionary” and claim as an ultimate objective the overthrow of the United States Government, there is no responsible opinion that feels any of these elements have any chance of success in toppling the Government. Yet, they do pose a significant threat of inflicting serious, and sometimes extensive, damage on individuals and property.

In combatting these elements, law enforcement is confronted with the opposite of its usual task. Ordinarily, law enforcement is confronted with a completed crime and investigates to identify suspects and to prove guilt; in these cases it has the suspects, e.g., individuals or groups have said they intend to murder police officers, bomb buildings, etc., so law enforcement’s job is then to thwart commission of the crime. This is an intelligence investigation. It is conducted prior to a threatened criminal act, not after the act, and as such ranges wider and looks into more facets of the suspect’s behavior. Yet, it is not a “fishing expedition”; it is based on some solid indication that the suspect intends to, and has the capability of, committing some crime.

Because of the exaggerated rhetoric of many of these elements, which never do actually commit a crime, the difficulties in identifying specific individuals as suspects, in showing a cause-effect relationship between the urgings and claims of group leaders and the act of the actual triggerman or bomber, and in showing suspected imminence of the criminal act, it is almost impossible to make a probable cause showing, as we understand that term today, to support a warrant for restricted types of investigation. Essentially what law enforcement has, or depending on your emphasis, all that law enforcement has, is a suspicion, based on stated criminal objectives of these elements, claims of criminal accomplishments, and indications from behavior and attitudes, that these elements may engage in destructive criminal behavior sometime in the future.
