The Attorney General

Recently, information received indicates that, while Levison still retains his strong communist convictions and still acts as an effective Party advisor to King, he is becoming critical of the party's role in the relationship. She believes the party has lost prestige among Negroes lately because it has not been sufficiently aggressive and effective in promoting civil rights for the Negro and otherwise actively immersing itself in Negro causes.

King reportedly attended a Labor Day weekend seminar in 1967 at the Highlander Folk School in Montclair (Monteagle), Tennessee. According to a publication circulated concerning this meeting by the Georgia Commission of Education, which allegedly has an undercover agent in attendance, the meeting was held to discuss methods and tactics for precipitating racial strife and disturbances. While CPU members were on the school staff and the school followed the policy of welcoming communist students, the CPU was not in control of the school.

In June 1968, the CCL was reported to have had funds from the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakian Embassies and the Romanian Legation in Washington, D.C. Some Committee on Un-American Activities and petitioners requesting the release of two imprisoned Communist Party leaders.

NAACP officials are aware that the NAACP is a communist target. As a result, the NAACP has taken a firm stand against communism and has warned its branches to be constantly alert against communist efforts to infiltrate them. The constitution of the NAACP contains an anticommunist clause which prohibits membership in the organization by known Communist Party members.

There is no indication that any of the key figures of the NAACP are or have been members of the Communist Party. Roy Wilkins (Loy Wilkins), Executive Secretary of the NAACP, has been strongly anticommunist and has encouraged keeping the NAACP free of communists.

The following national officers of the NAACP had communist front affiliations—in no instance extensive—a number of years ago, but none is known to have been a Communist Party member: Arthur Lipczynski (Artur Lipczynski), President; Bishop Stephen G. Spottswood, Chairman of the Board of Directors; and Robert L. Carter, General Counsel.
