Adequacy of Personnel

Assistant Director C. D. Brennan: Attached find the Section write-ups concerning each category of information requested by the Inspector relative to adequacy of personnel. These comments are current as of 1/8/71.

The personnel assigned to the Division Front Office consists of one Assistant Director, two Inspectors, two Special Agent Supervisors, five stenographic employees and 19 clerical employees. This complement includes the personnel directly assigned to the Front Office, those in the Division teletype room, Mail Room and messenger service, the Security Patrol Force in addition to five Agents. I have not as yet requested a replacement for a GS-4 clerical position in the Front Office, which was created with the resignation of James A. Pettingill on 12/24/70. I am attempting to absorb the work of this position with the present personnel complement in the Front Office. This is on a trial basis and if it isn't satisfactory, I will recommend a replacement.

The overall authorized personnel complement of the Division at the beginning of the inspection was 116 Special Agents and 190 clerks compared to an authorized complement of 126 Agents and 186 clerks at the time of the last inspection. We now have assigned to the Division 116 Agents and 188 clerks. The clerical vacancies being the aforementioned GS-4 position in the Front Office and a vacancy in the Mail Room, which was created when a clerical position in the Internal Security Section was filled.

At the present time we have outstanding requests for two Agents to replace Special Agents George M. Quinn and C. Edwin Enright, who are under transfer to the Inspection Division. We also have requests for two GS-2 Mail Clerks for the Division Mail Room to replace the clerk who was transferred to the Internal Security Section and the second to replace the GS-3 clerk who will be reassigned or rotated when the replacement is made available to the Division. The Racial Intelligence Section has submitted a request for an additional clerk for the Black Nationalist - South and Racial Informant Unit. In addition, this Section is now making a request for two additional Agent Supervisors because of the heavy increase in the case load in the black extremist field. (Justification in Section write-up attached.)
