operated from about 1967 to 1968 and was implemented on the basis of conditions detected as existing in WFO but which were not applicable in New York; therefore, instructions were not issued to New York for implementation of similar program but it was kept informed of developments in the same manner that New York is now informing WFO of developments occurring in instant matter. “Sweeper” was discontinued due to lack of positive accomplishments such as those which have been disclosed in the COXMA Program. From about 1968 to 1969, “Blitz Program” was used by WFO to check residences of the more active Soviet intelligence officers to determine the presence or absence of their automobiles with the expectation of disclosing patterns which might be afforded more intensive attention to ascertain nature of activity being conducted during these periods when their presence could not be accounted for. “Blitz” program was also discontinued during weekdays by WFO due to lack of positive accomplishments and, incidental thereto, manpower limitations or need to apply personnel to areas offering more firm possibilities for producing positive results; however, the principle is still utilized in connection with weekend physical surveillance scheduling.

Recognizing the value of accounting for all Soviets during as much of the day as possible, especially when they were away from our sophisticated coverage at the establishment where they are assigned, Bureau pointed out to both New York Office and WFO the valuable information disclosed through “Blitz” of their residences and instructed both offices to develop established neighborhood sources who could furnish information regarding arrivals and departures, use of automobile and odometer readings, as a means of insuring continued receipt of the information which would no longer be available following reevaluation and modification of the program. This instruction was also based on the fact that Soviets now reside throughout the periphery of suburban D. C. due to changing socio-economic conditions making it practically impossible to cover these widespread locations with any degree of sufficiency without some added technique.

During December, 1970, Espionage Section recommended distribution to all Bureau personnel at Seat of Government, WFO and the adjacent Resident Agencies of Baltimore and Alexandria of small card appropriately coded listing license numbers of vehicles used by the ten most active Soviet intelligence officers. This was approved by Director. Rationale here was to add several hundred pairs of eyes to cover individuals who are extremely conscious of and adept at detecting surveillances. Personnel observing these cars would not conduct any activity other than to
