TP 92-1

It is noted that the above-referred-to St. Petersburg telephone number 361-1011 was also called from the CONIGLIO residence as set forth previously in this report.

It has previously been reported that one of the owners of the Columbia Restaurant had been ill at Rochester, New York, and he is now deceased.

TP T-10 advised SAS John A. Ambler and John H. Miller on November 19, 1962, that Jimmy Longo and John Demmi were betting heavily at the Tampa Dog Track on the night of November 16, 1962. Source said that Longo and Demmi were active in a pinball and cigarette vending business which is headed up by the “Santo Trafficante crowd.” Source indicated there was maybe a movement to obtain vending machine installations of the Eli Witt Company.

On November 19, 1962, TP T-11 indicated that Frank Diecidue of Dixie Amusement, Inc., a vending machine business, may have some interest with the Trafficantes in vending machines.

V. Re: Albert Anastasia Murder

On October 30, 1962, Detective William Graff, 18th Squad, New York City Police Department, furnished the following information:

In connection with the investigation of the Albert Anastasia murder, the District Attorney’s Office of New York County was advised by the United States Department of Justice that the Federal Bureau of Narcotics had information of assistance in this investigation. Detective Graff ascertained the Federal narcotics agent with this information was Oscar Leon Davis, presently a Deputy United States Marshal in Orlando, Florida. Detective Graff interviewed Davis and determined his informant was Carlos de Torres, 227 Northwest 13th Avenue, Apartment 5, telephone FR 1-1077, Miami, Florida, business address 303 Ainsley Building, Miami.

De Torres was interviewed by Detective Graff and he stated Santo Trafficante, Jr., Roman Oliverea, one Marceria, and one Cisco were involved in the Albert Anastasia homicide. De Torres claimed Oliverea, Marceria, and Cisco received $35,000.00 for the killing. He said Cisco had been a bodyguard and that Oliverea had the role of “setting up” for Anastasia. Marceria’s role was not known to de Torres.
