United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. Felt

From: L. M. Walters

Date: 12/6/72

Subject: Supervisory Reorganization of Functions and Personnel; Crime Research Division

Purpose: To recommend immediate supervisory reorganization and transfer of all functions and personnel of the Crime Research Division based on survey and analysis conducted by Inspection Division.

Recommended transfer of functions and related responsibilities together with appropriate personnel as follows:

Office of Acting Director

To assume supervision of contacts with the Congress, press and other news media formerly handled by Assistant Director Bishop, his front office Agent personnel and the Administrative Review Unit (Congressional liaison).

Functions and Related Responsibilities:

Congressional liaison; Congressional correspondence; Congressional telephone calls; progress of legislation of interest to or affecting the FBI; review of bills and resolutions introduced into both Houses of Congress and all public and private laws enacted; and review and analysis of the Congressional Record.

Press, radio, television and motion picture contacts; field matters concerning press, radio and television; correspondence relating to an editorial or to a commentary with the White House and Department press offices; review of editorials and articles; review of magazines, newspaper clippings and Washington News Service ticker items; news releases and press inquiries; SAC calls regarding press releases; press contact program; coordinate press matters of possible future use from FBIHQ Divisions.

Review statements and speeches by Director or matters affecting major public relations; invitations for speeches by the Director; assignment of speeches to FBIHQ speakers; review speech manuscripts.

Review material for publication, first-name salutation mail, matters critical of and complaints regarding FBI; letters enclosing autographed photographs.

This document is prepared in response to a request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. It is not limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
