Frank Church, Idaho, Chairman  
John G. Tower, Texas, Vice Chairman

Philip R. Hart, Mich.  
Walter F. Mondale (Nordale), Idaho  
Walter D. Huddleston (Hudson), Ky.  
Robert Morgan, N.C.  
Gary P. Hart (Wat), Col.

Howard H. Baker, Jr., Tenn.  
Barbara Goldwater (Colowater), Ariz.  
Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., Md.  
Richard S. Schweiker, Pa.

William G. Miller, President  
Frederick A. O. Schwarz (Schwant), Jr., Chief Counsel  
Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel

United States Senate

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (Pursuant to S. Res. 21, 94th Congress (8th Congress))

Washington, D.C. 20510

September 29, 1975

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esq.  
Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination  
Office of the Deputy Attorney General  
U.S. Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mike:

Enclosed is a document request for materials pertaining to the King matter.

I would like to set October 6, 1975 as a deadline for delivery of all outstanding previously requested documents pertaining to the King matter and October 13, 1975 for delivery of all documents requested on the attached list.

I would also appreciate your arranging a briefing for Mike Epstein for sometime this week by knowledgeable FBI personnel concerning:

A. The present location and organization of any files and materials which were found to be in William C. Sullivan's Bureau office when he was denied further access thereto in or about September 1971; and

B. A description of the contents of such files and materials.

Finally, we would like to have access to the Department of Justice files pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr. and/or the Southern Christian Leadership Conference for the year 1962. The materials in these “DJ” files will be reviewed pursuant to the terms of the procedural agreement between the Committee and the Department, i.e., subsequent to review of such files certain items will be designated to be screened for delivery.

Enclosure: Domestic Intelligence Task Force.
