ELLSBERG CASE

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR C. D. BRENNAN:

I generally concur with the comments of Mr. Wannall as to the progress and status of this case from an investigative standpoint. I have reminded Mr. Wannall that the development of direct evidence should not be obscured by the broadening of the scope of this case. He has been advised that his objective must consistently be the development of substantial admissible evidence necessary to establish a conviction as to Federal violations charged in the Los Angeles indictment of Ellsberg and others which may develop from other corollary investigations being conducted.

From the outset, as stated by Mr. Wannall, I expressed the importance of this case and instructed him to advise me of any manpower needs. The question of manpower is discussed under the caption “Adequacy of Personnel” found in 6E of this report and was the subject of my memorandum to Mr. Sullivan 7/29/71 captioned “Proposed Adjustments of Work Assignments, DID,” memorandum of W. R. Wannall to Mr. Felt 8/12/71 captioned “Adequacy of Personnel, DID,” and my memorandum to Mr. Sullivan 8/12/71 captioned “Adequacy of Personnel, Leak Cases, DID.”

In reference to Mr. Wannall’s concluding suggestion in his writeup, the procedure of furnishing daily teletypes to the Department in major cases is not unusual. The high level interest of the Department, which will eventually be responsible for the prosecution of this case, as well as the interest of the White House dictates that teletypes in this matter be disseminated consistent with the Director’s instructions, copy attached. It appears we should clarify the Department’s use of these “raw” investigative results as set forth in our teletypes and suggest their detailed reviews be conducted from Bureau investigative reports, which are the normal communication for such use. Mr. Wannall will be instructed to advise the Department by letter with regard to the foregoing pointing out that our weekly summary letters and investigative reports will resolve many of the questions they raise as to information in our teletypes.

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION

8/27/71

CDB:1ml
