In a number of sensitive positions in the Executive Branch of the Government and to a large extent are acquainted with one another, at least on a professional basis. Communications to appropriate field offices dated 7/7 and 12/71 contained instructions regarding the necessity for exploring the various facets of this situation.

The conspiracy aspects of the Ellsberg case as revealed to date are set forth in Item 3 below.

3. Speculation that Daniel Ellsberg conspired with others in obtaining, reproducing and disclosing the “McNamara Study” has some basis in public remarks made by him on 6/28/71 indicating that “It is implicit ... that other individuals helped out in various ways,” and that he and the press share the responsibility for the newspapers’ obtaining the study. We have, however, pursued the possibility of conspiracy from every conceivable angle and while investigation has produced some circumstantial evidence to support this theory, we have not found grounds to indicate existence of an over-all plot or conspiracy, threading its way throughout Ellsberg’s actions.

Count One of a two-count indictment returned by a Federal grand jury on 6/28/71 charges Ellsberg with unauthorized possession, access to, and control over copies of what, in effect, was the “McNamara Study,” from about September, 1969, to approximately October, 1969, while Count Two of this indictment charges that during the same approximate time span Ellsberg willfully, knowingly and unlawfully converted to his own use copies of these documents. We have established Ellsberg legally had access to the Study in the course of his employment with Rand Corporation at Santa Monica, California, but that he also obtained and had in his possession 18 volumes of a preliminary draft of the Study for at least nine months without the knowledge of the Top Secret Control Officer at Rand in Santa Monica. Failure of Rand employees in Washington, D. C., and at Santa Monica to adhere to established, in-house security procedures accounts for the fact Ellsberg was able to conceal his possession of these 18 volumes, and while over-all possession by Ellsberg of the Study and its preliminary draft volumes continues to be closely examined, no evidence exists of conspiracy at this point of the case.

Count Two of the aforementioned indictment, relating to conversion of these documents, is founded on information that Ellsberg reproduced a large quantity of classified documents in October, 1969, at the office of one Lynda Sinav, in the Los Angeles area. Ellsberg’s two children, present at this reproduction session, have identified individuals who assisted Ellsberg in this task, but
