business, and he would join the Board meeting later in the day to report on that assessment. Also, Mr. Clifford noted, the Board meeting would later be joined by Dr. Tordella of NSA, Mr. Bannerman of CIA who chairs the USIB Security Committee, and Mr. Gentile who serves as Director of Security in the State Department.

Mr. Coyne summarized for Board members the highlights of the discovery of the technical penetration of the Embassy in Moscow, with indications that the 41 microphones, the 3 coaxial cables, the wiring, and the fixed antenna in the wall, have all been in place since 1952 when the Soviet Union completed construction on the Embassy building in preparation for U. S. occupancy which took place in 1953.

(Dr. Land arrived at the Board meeting at this point.)

Mr. Coyne drew attention to the fact that the microphone installations included coverage of the Embassy code room. He referred in this connection to the NSA damage evaluation dealt with in Tab C of the June 1 "Preliminary Damage Assessment" which had just been received from the USIB Security Committee. Mr. Coyne thought it regrettable that the State Department security people in Moscow had cut the cables upon discovery of the microphone and related installations. Mr. Clifford agreed, recalling that when he first learned of the development from Mr. Coyne he urged that efforts be made to keep the discovered items in place for the time being. Mr. Coyne said that this was urged on the State Department but certain State Department officials thought the Board was getting into operations, and a cable went out to Ambassador Kohler instructing him to proceed and to lodge a protest with the Soviet government.

Mr. Coyne called Board members' attention to the summary of U. S. Ambassadors' assessments (appearing in the USIB's Security Committee report) which discounted the likelihood of damage to the U. S. from the technical penetration of the Embassy.

Mr. Coyne pointed to the 1962 report of the Soviet defector who informed CIA (which in turn informed the State Department) that the Embassy in Moscow was bugged at various strategic locations. Mr. Coyne said that he had recently asked State Department representatives what had been done on the basis of the defector's 1962 report, and it appeared that no action had been taken by State Department security technicians—until recent digging operations were begun following receipt of a report from a second Soviet defector early in 1964 that microphones were in place in specific Embassy office locations. Mr. Coyne also related the substance of his inquiries made of the State Department Chief of Communications (Mr. Coffey) in the summer of 1963 when Khrushchev boasted to Governor Harriman that he could produce a copy of a message which Ambassador Kohler had sent to Washington regarding the U. S. position on Soviet pipe-line negotiations with West Germany (Mr. Coffey's finding was to the effect that no communications penetration could in fact be established).

IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART
