Memo for Mr. Tolson  
Re: Investigation of Ku Klux Klan and Other Hate Groups

community where the crime occurred; i.e., informants and sources in the Klan, hate groups, and subversive organizations, but also sources not connected with my group, who will report potential violence and individuals prone to violence. We are following the policy of aggressively seeking out persons addicted to violence even though they have not violated a Federal law as yet. He feels that the Division that is going to investigate these cases should forge the necessary tools to use for this purpose.

Mr. Belmont does not feel that the transfer of this responsibility will be helpful to the Bureau from an investigative standpoint nor in meeting the heavy responsibilities we now have in this area.

Views of the Inspection Division:

Inspector feels there is certainly some merit and logic in Mr. Belmont's reasoning, and it is felt the instant issue is not one that is completely black or white.

Under the present setup there is coordination and daily exchange of information between Domestic Intelligence and General Investigative Divisions in that both Divisions ensure that communications and other matters of information are brought to the attention of each other as they arise from matters for which each Division is primarily responsible. However, it seems the real issue today, just as in 1958, is where does the weight of the interest lie in the racial question. In 1958 it clearly lay in the General Investigative Division because, according to information available to the Bureau at that time, in practically no instances had racial incidents been caused or inspired by Communist Party elements, although the Party naturally sought to capitalize on incidents after they occurred. Also, in 1958, it was felt that consolidation would streamline certain operations.

Today it seems clear from information developed by Domestic Intelligence Division that the Communist Party now has evidenced a definite interest in the racial problem, is becoming deeply enmeshed therein, and appears to be exploiting it to an ever-increasing extent. Although prosecution for civil rights and other criminal violations is still an ultimate objective, there is definite need for an intelligence-type penetration of these racial and hate groups so as to keep abreast of and ahead of their plans and activities. This seems more properly the function of the Domestic Intelligence Division.

Analysis was made by Inspector relative to coverage of the Klan and other hate groups. The General Investigative Division has been putting a great deal of pressure on the field to increase informant coverage. They have recently instructed the field to conduct surveys relative to instituting technical coverage on certain key Klan figures, have interviewed at least once all known Klan members, all Klan leaders have been investigated from an intelligence standpoint, and recommendations have been made that intelligence-type cases be opened on each Klan member. A weekly progress airtel is being obtained from the field concerning informant development. However, undoubtedly additional coverage is needed, particularly in the Klaverns that have been formed since the civil rights bill passed. There is no question about
