All Applicants.

Attach an unmounted full-face photograph of yourself, not larger than 2¾ × 2½ inches. Print your name plainly on the back of the photograph. The photograph must have been taken not more than 3 months prior to the date of this application.

17. Physical Data.

a. Height without shoes.

b. Do you now have or have you ever had any of the following: nervous, mental, or emotional disorder of any sort; tuberculosis; epilepsy, fainting spells or severe headaches; diabetes; ulcers; rheumatic fever or heart disease; or asthma? No / Yes. If “yes,” identify, describe, and give dates.

Weight without clothes.

c. Do you now have or have you ever had any chronic or serious illnesses; or have you ever had any serious operations or injuries? No / Yes. If “yes,” describe and give dates.

d. Have you ever been hospitalized? No / Yes.

Dates: Mo. Day Yr. Hospital. Location. Reason.

e. Describe any past or present physical handicap, defect, or disability not previously covered, but including extent of defective vision, if any, with and without glasses (Snellen) and deficiencies in color vision and hearing.

f. How many days have you lost from work or school due to illness during the past five years? Nature of illness(es).

g. Have you ever received, is there pending, have you applied for, or do you intend to apply for pension or compensation for existing disability? No / Yes. If “yes,” specify what kind, granted by whom, and what amount, when, why. If applicable, include Veterans’ Administration claim number.

h. Special Agent Applicants Only: Do you have any physical defects such as, but not limited to, a bone, joint, or other deformity or loss of finger, which would preclude unrestricted, regular participation in all phases of the FBI’s firearms training, physical training and defensive tactics? No / Yes. If “yes,” describe.

I understand that all appointments are probationary for a period of one year during which I must demonstrate my fitness for continued employment by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. I also understand that, in many parts of the Bureau, it has been necessary to establish regular night and midnight shifts in view of which I must be available for such assignments as the needs might require. I further understand that any appointment tendered me will be contingent upon the results of a complete character and fitness investigation, and I am aware that wilfully withholding information or making false statements on this application will be the basis for dismissal from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and constitutes a violation of Section 1001, Title 18, U. S. Code. I agree to these conditions and I hereby certify that all statements made by me on this application are true and complete, to the best of my knowledge.
