ADDENDUM

Assistant Director C. D. Brennan: I have thoroughly studied the Inspector's comments regarding adequacy of personnel, both Agent and clerical, and have the following observations to make:

I certainly recognize full well the need for reorganizing and reallocating personnel to provide manpower assistance to the Nationalities Intelligence Section, which is handling the McLek case. In fact, the proposed reorganization of the Division as set forth in my memorandum of August 3, 1971, was based on the priority needs which arose from the McLek case and which continue to be critical. As set forth in that memorandum, manpower was to permanently be assigned to the Nationalities Intelligence Section in order to avoid disruption caused by handling this important case with temporary assignments.

In meeting the priority responsibilities in the McLek case as well as in other critical areas, I am also mindful that we do not have a surplus of manpower but are undoubtedly faced with the supervision of more complex cases in the security field with fewer Agents than at any other time in the Bureau's history. Crises brought about by terroristic acts of black extremists, Weathermen, antiwar activists, and other extremists are increasing in intensity and from all indications will continue to place heavy demands upon the Bureau. Likewise, the potential of Chinese Communist espionage activity in this country is readily apparent and the increased activity of Soviet Agents is a fact. These facts, coupled with special case commitments, have stretched available manpower to the limit of elasticity.

In making such manpower shifts, we must recognize that there will be a weakening of the supervision of the area from which the personnel are transferred and we must be prepared to accept this, at least on a temporary basis, because in the long run such weakening could be most harmful as well as embarrassing.

For example, the Inspector has indicated that two supervisors could be transferred out of the Extremist Intelligence Section and, in addition, that Section should absorb all Klan and white hate cases, now being handled by two men in another Section. Actually, this means absorption of the work of four men by the remaining men in the Section (18). Put another way, the workload has been increased by almost 25 percent.
