Memo for Mr. Tolson

Re: Investigation of Ku Klux Klan and Other Hate Groups

One of the prime factors in the decision to transfer these responsibilities from the DID in 1958 was the almost complete absence of Communist Party activity in the racial area although at that time the Communist Party sought to capitalize on such incidents after their occurrence.

Mr. Rosen was opposed to the transfer of the functions in question to the General Investigative Division in 1958 and his present position is consistent in that he maintains that the development of informants and the penetration of the Klan and other hate groups are primarily intelligence functions which should be handled by the DID as suggested by Mr. Sullivan. Mr. Rosen feels that the Dunder can best keep abreast of the whole field by having all angles of the racial field united in one division as suggested by Mr. Sullivan. Mr. Rosen points out that the development, supervision and administrative handling of racial and security informants are analogous.

Mr. Rosen feels that there is a tendency toward oversimplification in blaming all racial murders on Klansmen and hate groups. He points out that the murders of Medgar Evers, Postman Moore and even the assassination of President Kennedy were initially and generally attributed to Klan and hate group members whereas investigation showed that the individuals charged with the murders of Evers and Moore were without organization affiliation and the President was slain by an avowed Marxist who was active in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.

Mr. Rosen and Mr. Sullivan both agree that the investigation of individual cases, i.e. bombings, murders, police brutality, etc., should be handled by the General Investigative Division. Mr. Rosen feels that whether subject or victims are Klan members, Communist Party members or completely without organizational affiliation has no more bearing on our supervision of the substantive civil rights violation than it would have if the violation involved were theft from Interstate Shipment, Bank Robbery or White Slave Traffic Act.

Mr. Belmont disagrees with Messrs. Rosen and Sullivan and feels that while the proposed transfer of functions from the General Investigative to the Domestic Intelligence Division is theoretically appealing, it is not a practical answer to our problem. He states that at the time of the 1958 transfer of functions in question the basis was the close inter-relationship between the activities of the Klan and hate groups and the entire civil rights field of investigation. He feels this argument has even more strength today than in 1958, because, overwhelmingly, our interest in Klan and hate groups today is their relationship with integration and civil rights. Mr. Belmont believes the transfer of functions would create an undesirable division of authority and responsibility; that our best chance to break major civil rights cases such as bombings, murders, etc., is through information developed from the inside as a result of coverage established in the
