Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

Country: El Salvador/Cuba. Subject: Visit of Salvadoran Delegation to Headquarters of Cuban Troop Battalion. Date of information: 7 October 1962. Place and date acquired: El Salvador, San Salvador. Date acquired: 23 October 1962. Report No. CS-3/529,533. Date distributed: 27 November 1962. No. pages: 2. References: RD CS-3/529,536; CS-3/529,537; CS-3/529,538; CS-3/525,511. Field report No. HSS-1285.

Source evaluations are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Salvadoran student (C) who had access to the notes of one of the returning delegates. Appraisal of content: 3.

1. On 7 October 1962 the officer in command of Batallón 192 of the Vedado zone of Habana invited the Salvadoran delegation to the First Latin American University Games to meet with the troops of this battalion. The officer informed his troops that the Salvadoran delegation had gone to Cuba to see the Cuban revolutionary movement in action and that the Salvadorans would be given a variety of information concerning guerrilla warfare. Raúl San Román González, a lieutenant in the Cuban militia, who acted as a guide for the Salvadoran delegation, said that the Salvadoran delegates would have a special program because all were members of the Frente Unido de Acción Revolucionaria (FUAR - United Front for Revolutionary Action), a Communist front, and because the Union of Cuban Communist Youth had recommended that this delegation receive training in revolutionary tactics.

2. The officer in command of Batallón 192 explained to the Salvadorans that all revolutionary groups must be reinforced in their early stages of organization by the recruitment of persons of different political views, and that when the revolution is on its way to success anyone who does not accept Communist leadership can be expelled from the group. He said further that this tactic can be used in El Salvador. The officer also recommended that the Salvadorans draw up plans which indicate points of strategic interest in El Salvador, including important intersections (plazas), bridges which could be sabotaged, terrain suitable for guerrilla activity, and airfields. He also said that they should acquire information as to the type of weapons used by the Salvadoran armed forces and as to normal troop movements. The officer pointed out, however, that in organizing an effective guerrilla movement particular attention must be paid to the ideological indoctrination of members of the movement so that each member is convinced that he is fighting for a just cause. If he believes this there will be no morale problem.

3. The officer then showed the delegates a large map of Central and South America. This map contained the location of military forces of the Central and South American countries, the distance between major cities, and key highways and bridges. It also showed the centers of guerrilla activity in Guatemala, Colombia, and Venezuela. In addition, the map contained.
