United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. Felt

From: L. M. Walters

Date: December 14, 1972

Subject: Supervisory Reorganization of Functions and Personnel; Crime Research Division

Per prior approval of Mr. Gray.

Effective immediately, all functions and personnel formerly assigned to the Crime Research Division are reassigned as indicated below. Recipient Inspectors, Section and Unit Chiefs promptly report to respective offices of assignment.

Agent personnel are set forth together with assigned functions. Clerical personnel utilized in handling these assignments are to transfer with listed Agents in accordance with the functions formerly handled by them.

Office of Acting Director

To assume supervision of contacts with the Congress, press and other news media formerly handled in the Front Office of the Crime Research Division, as well as the Administrative Review Unit, which has been redesignated as the Congressional Services Unit and will be handled by

Functions and Related Responsibilities:

Congressional liaison: Congressional correspondence; Congressional telephone calls; progress of legislation of interest to or affecting the FBI; review of bills and resolutions introduced into both Houses of Congress and all public and private laws enacted; and review and analysis of the Congressional Record.

Press, radio, television and motion picture contacts; field matters concerning press, radio and television; correspondence relating to an editorial or to a commentator; liaison with the White House and Department press offices; review of editorials and articles; review of magazines, newspaper clippings and Washington News Service ticker items; news releases and press inquiries; SAC calls regarding press releases; press contact program; coordinate press matters of possible future use from FBHQ Divisions.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside of your Com-

Tommy C. J. E. Limited to official proceedings by nel without the express approval of the FBI.
