Miami, and the car was observed at such residence on October 29 through November 2, 1962.

On November 1, 1962, TP T-3 advised it had just been learned in the past several days that (first name unknown) Nacho Gener is in Miami, that Gener was Chief of Customs at Havana, Cuba, airport when Prio was President of Cuba and that during the time Batista was in power in Cuba, Gener conspired with Prio against Batista. Source recalled that he has already advised that after Castro took over Cuba, Trafficante stayed in Cuba in an effort to take over all gambling activities, but instead Trafficante ended up in jail for a while. This source said that either before or after Trafficante was jailed, he stayed in Gener's house in Cuba. Source heard as a result of his close feeling for Gener, Trafficante allegedly at this time, while Gener was in the United States, was giving $600.00 per month to Gener. Source was of the opinion that Gener would be in contact with Trafficante.

It is here noted that Rafael Nacho (Macho) Gener has been previously interviewed by Miami agents and the results have been previously set forth in a report dated July 24, 1962.

TP T-1 advised on November 9, 1962, that the subject and his wife returned to their residence at 523 Northeast 71st Street on November 7, 1962, and noted the subject's wife paid the rent for the month of November and gave no indication that they made any plans to move. Source related no explanation was offered as to where they had been for the past month.

On November 7, 1962, TP T-4 advised subject had been observed on several occasions in the past in George's Tobacco Shop, 23rd Street and Liberty Avenue, Miami Beach, Florida, but that subject had not been observed there for several weeks. George's Tobacco Shop is next door to Sonny's Restaurant, where subject has been seen several times in the past.

Mr. William Kenney, United States Department of Justice, attorney, at Miami, advised SA Jack Louis Marshall on November 8, 1962, that Harlan Blackburn (Balckburn) of Orlando, Florida, who has been listed in the past as an associate of the subject, was recently arrested by Internal Revenue Service in connection with gambling law violations and that

IRS [JFK Law 11(a)]

On November 13, 1962, TP T-5 advised the subject was on such date seen at the new restaurant which Stefano Anthony
