SECTION 122. RACIAL MATTERS

122A

A. Investigations of Klan-type organizations, hate organizations, and associated individuals.

1. While these are considered criminal investigations, they are considered delicate in nature and require the application of the restrictions necessary in conducting security-type investigations. Therefore, the investigations and reports are to be handled in accordance with the general rules applying to security-type investigations.

2. Caution

Extreme care must be exercised to insure that in every instance there is a proper basis for investigation. Sound judgment must be used to avoid investigation of organizations or individuals that merely sponsor unpopular causes or propaganda but do not meet the standards outlined under item 3a below. The Bureau must insure that there will be no justifiable basis for any charge that these investigations infringe upon constitutional freedoms of speech, press, or assemblage.

3. Investigations

a. Investigation is confined to those organizations or associated individuals that either:

(1) Have been designated pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

(2) Have not been designated under Executive Order 10450 but there is an actual or alleged affiliation or subsidiary relation with a designated organization.

(3) Have adopted a policy or have allegedly adopted a policy of advocating, condoning, or inciting the use of force or violence to deny others their rights under the Constitution.

(4) Have allegedly committed acts of violence.

(5) Have actually or allegedly committed violations of laws within the Bureau's jurisdiction.

b. During the investigation of Klan-type organizations and hate organizations, the following information should be obtained:

(1) Organization structure: Headquarters; officers; location of klaverns or local chapters.

(2) Objectives.

(3) Publications and propaganda.

(4) Finances.

(5) Activity of klaverns or local chapters: name and address; officers; estimated membership and recruiting activities; meetings, including date, type (open or closed), place, and estimated attendance.

c. Follow through public source material and established sources activities of organizations which do not qualify for investigation under above standards. Initiate investigation upon receipt of information which brings organization within investigative criteria and at the same time advise Bureau this action taken and basis therefor.

d. Conduct no investigation regarding individual acts of violence allegedly or actually committed by an organization in absence of information indicating violation within Bureau's jurisdiction. However, concerning each such incident, the following information should be obtained through informants and sources in connection with investigations of such organizations:

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its role is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.

2-6-59
