United States Government Memorandum

To: A. H. Belmont  
From: S. B. Donahoe  
Date: 9/23/60

United Arab Republic Reaction to Speech of Senator John Kennedy  
Internal Security—United Arab Republic

The United Arab Republic (UAR) Ambassador to the U.S. advised that Senator John Kennedy delivered a speech to his country's Congress regarding a solution to the Arab-Israeli dispute. The Ambassador stated the speech contained fallacies, exaggerated statements, and promises. The UAR Ambassador was subsequently contacted by Senator J. W. Fulbright, Chairman, Foreign Relations Committee, who apologized for Kennedy's speech and explained it was dictated by political expediency.

On 9/22/60, the National Security Agency furnished an intercept of coded diplomatic traffic from the UAR Ambassador to Cairo, dated 8/26/60, classified as it relates to communications intelligence.

According to the intercept, the UAR Ambassador claimed Senator Fulbright stated Kennedy's speech was not an expression of what could be considered the policy of a Democratic administration with Kennedy as President.

The UAR Ambassador reportedly advised Senator Fulbright of the Ambassador's official displeasure with Senator Kennedy's speech, as it was complete with fallacies, bias, and disparagements regarding UAR rights and disregarded UAR feelings, thus indicating Senator Kennedy places personal interest before justice and the interests of the U.S. Senator Fulbright was advised continued efforts to obtain Jewish votes at the expense of Arabs would have serious consequences, and the UAR Ambassador expected Senator Fulbright to exert efforts to end such activities. Senator Fulbright stated he would attempt to comply with this request.

The UAR Ambassador advised his superiors that Senator Fulbright contacted him probably after consulting with Senator Kennedy, whose speech was motivated by Senator Kennedy's desire to obtain Jewish, Catholic, and Negro minority votes in order to compensate for his loss of votes among the Protestant majority, which opposes Kennedy because of his Catholicism. The Ambassador was
