United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

From: C. D. Brennan

Subject: Foreign Support for Revolutionary Protest Movements in the United States

Date: June 30, 1969

The Director approved my memorandum of 6/23/69 which advised we were preparing a report for Mr. Tom Charles Huston, Staff Assistant to the President, at his request regarding our coverage of foreign communist support of revolutionary youth activities in the United States to reach him by 6/30/69. We advised Mr. Huston such a report would be forthcoming.

Our report sets forth the traditional channel for communist support of revolutionary activity in this country by the established basic revolutionary groups under foreign domination such as the Communist Party, USA, and the Socialist Workers Party. We also cover the capabilities of hostile intelligence operations directed at the United States by the Soviet Union, Cuba and Communist China.

Next we show the newer, bolder avenues of support and direction being utilized by revolutionaries, often without any attempt to conceal their purpose. These include international conferences which in this period of history are ostensibly for peace in Vietnam but which also have the usual underlying goal of destroying United States prestige in world affairs. The ease of international travel and communication with revolutionary intent by New Left and black extremist adherents from the United States and abroad is then set forth.

The section dealing with our coverage of the above threats to our internal security clearly shows our strong reliance upon the use of live informants and physical surveillance techniques contrasted by the highly selective and limited use of electronic coverage.

Enclosures (2)

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
