Was a serious internal security threat, with law enforcement as its immediate target. He utilized the Director's comprehensive testimony on the BPP before the House Sub-Committee on Appropriations on 3/5/70 in bringing out the revolutionary and terroristic threat presented by BPP and its leaders. He concluded the program with the opinion that “we are subsidizing our own destruction if we allow this to continue.”

To drive a wedge between BPP and many of its contributors, data concerning the anti-Zionist and anti-Semitic nature of BPP was furnished to a news media source. As a result, articles were published during June and July 1970 in various newspapers throughout the U.S., including “Long Island Press,” Long Island, New York; “Daily News,” Springfield, Massachusetts; and “Mobile Register,” Mobile, Alabama. These articles discussed the close alliance developed between BPP and Al Fatah, an Arab terrorist organization waging guerrilla warfare against Israel. These articles emphasized that numerous pro-Arab and anti-Israeli articles had been published in the BPP newspaper, and some of the latter articles called for the complete destruction of Israel.

The above articles, as well as many other counterintelligence operations authorized since the last inspection, have contributed materially to drying up contributions to BPP. Loss of revenue is one of the BPP's greatest problems, and perhaps the best illustration is the drop in the size and circulation of the BPP newspaper, the Party's primary propaganda device. This paper has declined from 20 or more pages to 12 in its 1/2/71 issue, and circulation at the end of the year was less than 100,000 after a high of 183,000 in October 1970.

Counterintelligence action has also contributed or led to disruptions, dissension, and factionalism in the BPP, the most important of the black extremist organizations. Sources have reported that internal strife has developed among top BPP leaders, and there is a growing distrust among them of one another. For example, Albert Howard, national leader who has been supervising BPP activities on the East Coast, and Robert Bay, a BPP leader in New York, have been recalled to national BPP.
