United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: J. G. Deegan  
Subject: SENSTUDY 75  
Date: 6/13/75

This is to advise of a meeting with representatives of the Senate Select Committee (SSC) on 6/12/75 in my office in accordance with the request set out in Legal Counsel to Mr. J. B. Adams memorandum dated 6/4/75.

IS-1 Section Chief J. G. Deegan, Number One Man William H. Atkinson, Unit Chiefs Homer A. Newman, Jr., David Ryan, Garnett T. Tunstall, and Special Agent Paul Daly of the Legal Counsel Division met with Jack Smith and Lester B. Seidel of the SSC staff.

At the outset Mr. Seidel indicated that SSC would do case studies on various organizations against which the COINTELPRO was directed. Black Panther Party (BPP) had been chosen for the start because many BPP members had been involved in and convicted of criminal activity. He distributed copies of a document, a copy of which is attached, outlining the purpose of the meeting and setting out requests that will be made of the Bureau through appropriate channels in connection with this case study. Included in this document, along with requests for various Bureau documents regarding COINTELPRO as it pertains to the BPP, were requests for a list of all local police departments and personnel contacted, a list of all media persons contacted, and a list of all FBI personnel connected with this program and their present locations.

The investigative responsibilities of the Bureau, as relates to the BPP, were described generally to Messrs. Seidel and Smith, highlighting the origin of this violence-prone organization and the series of violent confrontations in which it participated in the late 1960s. Mr. Seidel stated that he was specifically interested in ascertaining the extent of COINTELPRO and how it related to the investigation of the BPP in San Francisco–Oakland and Los Angeles. COINTELPRO was stressed only as a REC-102 procedure which could have been followed in the course of our investigation. No specific

Enclosures: 2.  
62-116395  
GTT:eks (10)
