Nevertheless, the cover foundations which are in fact influenced by CIA continue to do legitimate work as, for example, in the case of a labor training school supported by the Asia Foundation in Pakistan, and in the case of a teacher-training grant at the University of Rangoon; and in the case of the National Student's Federation, Mr. Meyer pointed out that CIA financial support is normally funneled through a variety of channels and CIA money goes to the National Educational Association through a cut-out arrangement. Mr. Meyer expressed the opinion that CIA's budgetary control over the use of moneys contributed to international student groups would deter any effort to impose foreign influence upon U.S. student organizations.

Mr. Meyer informed the Board that CIA cover organization activities are approved by the CIA Project Review Committee, with the State Department being made knowledgeable. Mr. Helms stated that since January 20, 1961, there had been no review of such activities by the NSC nor by the Special NSC 5412/2 Group.

Next, the Board was briefed by CIA representatives Amory, Breitweiser, and others concerning CIA paramilitary involvement in Laos and South Vietnam. In the latter country, this activity included ground reconnaissance teams and intelligence teams, and a recent requirement on CIA “to harass Soviet air drops of supplies” in the Southeast Asia area.

When the Board met with President Kennedy on the afternoon of October 17, 1961, the Chairman read to the President the text of the Board's report on paramilitary activities, and he mentioned to the President the highlights of presentations which the Board had heard earlier that day concerning developments in Laos. The President directed Mr. Coyne to discuss this subject with Mr. McGeorge Bundy, with a view to a review of paramilitary activities in Laos, to be conducted by the Special NSC 5412/2 Group. This was discussed by Mr. Coyne with Mr. Bundy, who said that he would have the review made of the paramilitary activity in Laos and the question as to whether the responsibility for the activity was properly assigned to the CIA.
