The memorandum to the President was as follows:

In the Special Group we are aware that we have been proceeding on a day-by-day basis in requesting authority for overflight reconnaissance. At our meeting yesterday, we took a long look ahead at the estimated requirements for the next few months and agreed that the following program is the minimum which meets military requirements. Cuba: two flights monthly; all U-2 flights with CIA civilian pilots. We would like to get your approval in principle of the foregoing program with the understanding that on the first of each month you will be presented with the specific flights recommended for that month.

Minutes of August 9, 1962 Meeting of the Special Group

Those present were General Taylor, Mr. McCone, Mr. Hilsman, and Mr. William Bundy.

On the subject of “Cuba Reconnaissance,” it was stated that the Group agreed that the second mission authorized for August should be flown whenever the DCI decides that the immediate situation with respect to Soviet materiel justifies it. It was noted that this would use up existing authority for August, and if a third mission should become necessary later in the month, it should be considered on its merits at that time.

Minutes of August 30, 1962 Meeting of the Special Group

Those present were General Taylor, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, General Lemnitzer, and Mr. Bundy.

The minutes reflect that in connection with the Agency’s monthly forecast, General Carter mentioned that there might be an additional requirement for flights over Cuba. (In the “Memorandum for the Record,” October 21, 1962, on the subject “Reconnaissance of Cuba,” attached hereto, there appears beside the item dealing with this meeting the penciled notation “primarily low-level.”)

Minutes of September 10, 1962 Meeting of the Special Group

Those present at this meeting, which took place in Mr. Bundy’s office, were the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Acting Director of Central Intelligence, “and others.”
