# A summary of the proceedings in this case, and of the decision of the Court. The意见ofthe court is as follows: —The parties have been allowed to present evidence on both sides, and the evidence has been heard. The court considers that the evidence has not established any fact which would require an order under section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act. Section 35 requires an order to be made only where there are “probable grounds forbelieving or having reasonable cause to believe” that a person is guilty of an offence. In the present case, there was no reasonable ground for thinking that any one other than the applicant was responsible for the act, so that application cannot be made to section 35. The court considers that the applicant is entitled to an order of acquittal. However, the court thinks that it will be better for public interest to grant him leave to appeal. The terms of section 35 are such that they do not allow an applicant to appeal without further review by a higher court, so the grant of leave must be reviewed by the High Court of Australia. As the applicant has not shown himself to be a person of character and behaviour likely to lead to bad results, he is granted leave to appeal. The terms of section 35 also require the production of written reasons. The court considers that written reasons are not necessary in this case, as there are good grounds for thinking that the applicant is guilty. However, even if the court were to find that there are good grounds for thinking that the applicant is guilty, the court considers that it should not make the order sought. It is therefore agreed that the order will be remitted with directions for further investigation.

The terms of section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act require that in all cases where an order of acquittal is made, written reasons shall be given. In this case, written reasons were not given. The court considers that there are good grounds for thinking that the applicant is guilty, so that the order of acquittal must be quashed. The court considers that the terms of section 35 are such that the grant of leave to appeal under that section could not properly be considered. The terms of section 35 are such that the grant of leave to appeal under them could not properly be considered. However, the court considers that it is better for public interest that there should be some recognition of the reasonableness of the grant of leave, so the court grants leave to appeal under those terms. The terms of section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act require that the grant of leave to appeal under that section should be reviewed by a higher court. In this case, the grant of leave was not reviewed by a higher court, so the grant of leave cannot be reviewed under section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act. The terms of section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act require that the grant of leave to appeal under that section should be reviewed by a higher court. In this case, the grant of leave was not reviewed by a higher court, so the grant of leave cannot be reviewed under section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act.

The terms of section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act require that the grant of leave to appeal under that section should be reviewed by a higher court. In this case, the grant of leave was not reviewed by a higher court, so the grant of leave cannot be reviewed under section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act. The terms of section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act require that the grant of leave to appeal under that section should be reviewed by a higher court. In this case, the grant of leave was not reviewed by a higher court, so the grant of leave cannot be reviewed under section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act.

The terms of section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act require that the grant of leave to appeal under that section should be reviewed by a higher court. In this case, the grant of leave was not reviewed by a higher court, so the grant of leave cannot be reviewed under section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act. The terms of section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act require that the grant of leave to appeal under that section should be reviewed by a higher court. In this case, the grant of leave was not reviewed by a higher court, so the grant of leave cannot be reviewed under section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act.

The terms of section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act require that the grant of leave to appeal under that section should be reviewed by a higher court. In this case, the grant of leave was not reviewed by a higher court, so the grant of leave cannot be reviewed under section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act. The terms of section 35 of the Australian Evidence Act require that the grant of leave to appeal under that section should be reviewed by a higher court. In this case, the grant of leave was not reviewed by a higher court, so the grant of leave cannot be
