Federal Bureau of Investigation

Date: April 8, 1968

Reverend Ralph David Abernathy, 690 La Verne Drive, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia, was interviewed at the Memphis Police Department at 10:55 p.m., April 4, 1968. Reverend Abernathy was advised of the Agent's identity and of the nature of the matter under investigation.

Reverend Abernathy, who described himself as Vice President at Large and Treasurer of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, stated he was Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s closest associate and stated that he and Dr. King always shared a room whenever they travelled together. He stated that at about 10:30 a.m. on April 3, 1968, he and Dr. King registered at the Lorraine Motel, Memphis, Tennessee.

Reverend Abernathy stated that on April 4, 1968, he and Dr. King did not leave the motel and spent most of the day in their room, #306, which is located on the second floor of the motel. He stated that he and Dr. King had been gone from their room for approximately one hour or less when they returned to the room at about 5:30 p.m. He said they got dressed as they were going to dinner at the home of Reverend Billy Kyle and that at almost exactly 6 p.m. they started to leave the room. Reverend Abernathy stopped for a moment and Dr. King walked out onto the balcony just outside the door to his room. Reverend Abernathy was still inside the motel room but could hear Dr. King discussing the dinner engagement with other associates who Reverend Abernathy believes were standing in the parking area of the motel underneath and to the front of the balcony on which Dr. King was standing.

Reverend Abernathy stated he heard what sounded like a firecracker and then heard the screams of persons to whom Dr. King had been talking. Reverend Abernathy went then to the balcony and discovered Dr. King lying there wounded in the right side of the face and neck. He said he believed Dr. King attempted to speak to him but was unable to do so. Reverend Abernathy said he instructed someone to call an ambulance and then accompanied Dr. King in the ambulance to the hospital where Dr. King subsequently died.

On April 4, 1968, at Memphis, Tennessee. File # Memphis 44-1987.

By SA Joe C. Hester. Date dictated: April 8, 1968.
