United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: Mr. W. O. Cregar  
Subject: SENSTUDY 75

Distribution: Mr. N. P. Callahan; Mr. J. B. Adams; Mr. T. J. Jenkins; Mr. J. A. Mintz; Mr. J. B. Hotis; Mr. W. R. Wannall; Mr. W. O. Cregar.

Date: May 9, 1975

This memorandum reports the results of a meeting between former Assistant to the Director John P. Mohr and representatives of the Staff of the Senate Select Committee (SSC) on the morning of 5/9/75.

Memorandum Legal Counsel to Mr. J. B. Adams dated 5/5/75 recommended that a Bureau representative be available for consultation by Mr. Mohr during the time Mr. Mohr is being interviewed by Staff Members of the SSC 5/9/75. REC-100.

Prior to Mr. Mohr's interview by the Staff of the SSC, Section Chief William O. Cregar met with him. Mr. Mohr was advised that should representatives of the Staff pose any questions to him which could lead to the identification of sensitive sources, sensitive methods of FBI operations or material derived from other U. S. agencies or foreign governments, he could decline to answer such questions until he had an opportunity to consult with a Bureau representative. Mr. Mohr understood the purpose of Mr. Cregar's presence and assured him that should the inquiry by Staff Members of the SSC get into these areas of inquiry, he would certainly consult with Cregar prior to responding.

Following our arrival at the New Senate Office Building, Mr. Mohr and Cregar were met by Staff Members Mark Gitenstein, Thomas Dawson, and Lester B. Seide. As we proceeded to the office where the interview was to be conducted, Mr. Gitenstein referred to a previous conference he had with Assistant Director Wannall at Quantico on 5/5/75 at which Mr. Cregar was present. Gitenstein observed that this meeting had proved very, very beneficial and that he believed that future personal contacts between members of the Senate Select Committee Staff and the FBI could prove useful and allow the SSC Staff to better understand how the FBI was administered at Headquarters.

62-116395

WOC:ekw
