Substantive Error Write-Up

Robert P. Bokinsky  
PSI - PO  
Office of Origin - Washington Field  
WFO File 134-9096  
Bureau File 134-19651  

Inspector E.S. Miller:

The Washington Field Office by letter to the Bureau dated 12/31/69 advised that the subject, a body shop mechanic employed by Amatucci Chevrolet Company, Wheaton, Maryland, was interviewed on 12/30/69, concerning his recent contact with Jan Adam Klasa, Assistant Military, Naval and Air Attaché, Polish Embassy, Washington, D.C., who has been designated a known intelligence agent with defection potential. The subject appeared to be frank and cooperative during the interview and indicated his desire to assist the FBI. Accordingly, the Washington Field Office felt the subject had definite informant potential.

In the same communication the Washington Field Office furnished the Bureau with sufficient background data relative to subject and his wife and requested the Bureau to check indices.

The Bureau advised the Washington Field Office on 1/7/70 that Bureau files contained no record of the subject or his wife.

The Washington Field Office by letter to the Bureau dated 3/17/70 furnished results of background investigation concerning the subject and requested authority to recontact the subject and attempt to develop him as an informant in the Polish field.

The Bureau by letter to the Washington Field Office dated 4/1/70 granted authority to recontact the subject in accordance with provisions of Section 107 of the Manual of Instructions. The Bureau further instructed the Washington Field Office to furnish results of recontact with the subject along with recommendations concerning future utilization of subject.

The Washington Field Office by letter to the Bureau dated 6/30/70 advised the Bureau that the subject had not been recontacted by Klasa of the Polish Embassy, but due to subject's continued cooperative attitude and willingness to assist the FBI, again requested the Bureau to grant authority to develop the subject as a

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection

1/21/71

ESM:wmj
