Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams

Re: SENSTUDY 75

Advised that he had to again postpone the executive session testimony of Assistant Director Bassett because of scheduling conflicts and that the testimony would be sometime during the week of 2/2/76. He could not give a definite time nor assure that the testimony would take place during that week.

On the morning of 1/29/76, Epstein requested that Assistant Director Bassett appear in executive session at 2 p.m. on 2/3/76 to give his requested testimony. After consultation with Assistant Director Bassett, Epstein was advised that Assistant Director Bassett had delayed his departure from Washington, D.C., to conduct Bureau business in order to be available for testimony and that on two separate occasions the Committee had found it necessary to reschedule his testimony. He was advised that Assistant Director Bassett would be available during the week of 2/9/76 and that we requested he be given the opportunity to testify during that week or some other mutually agreeable time. Epstein stated that it was the intention of the Committee to go forward on 2/3/76 without Assistant Director Bassett and mentioned that former Acting Associate Director W. Mark Felt, who had been head of the Bureau's Inspection Division, would be available to testify concerning this matter. It was pointed out to Epstein that Mr. Felt is no longer with the FBI and is not in a position to act as spokesman for Bureau inspection policies and procedures which are currently in existence under Director Kelley. Epstein again indicated that the Committee would go on without a Bureau representative.

John T. Elliff, Director of the Domestic Task Force of the Senate Select Committee, was immediately contacted and advised of Epstein's decision and the background concerning this matter. Elliff was advised that the Committee certainly would want all the information available concerning inspection procedures in the Bureau to get a fair picture of this area of Bureau operations. Elliff agreed and stated he would insure Assistant Director Bassett would be given the opportunity to testify as to the Bureau's current inspection procedures and policies. This testimony, however, may not be at the same time as the appearance of W. Mark Felt, et al.

Recommendation: For information.
