United States Government Memorandum

February 12, 1970

To: Director, F.B.I.  
From: SAC, Denver  
Subject: Thomas Riha

On the late afternoon of February 10, 1970, I was called by Mike Todorovich, who is in charge of the CIA office here in Denver. Todorovich stated he had instructions from his Washington office to contact Denver District Attorney James McKevitt (MC KEVITT) and tell McKevitt that CIA Agent John D. Fritz, who is stationed in Boulder, Colorado, had told Dr. Joseph Smiley, former President of the University of Colorado, that Fritz had been told that Thomas Riha's disappearance was merely a marital matter and that Riha was, in fact, all right. Todorovich then told me that Fritz got this information from an FBI agent in Boulder.

I told Todorovich to give me the name of the FBI agent, and he stated he would not do so. He then stated the FBI agent told him, Todorovich, the same thing. I again requested the name of the agent. He again declined to give it to me. I very emphatically told Todorovich that until he gave me the name of the agent who supposedly gave him and Fritz this information, I would not believe that either he or Fritz had been given any information such as this by any agent of this Bureau. This was based on the fact that no agent would have any reason whatsoever to make such a statement, since we had not conducted any investigation in this matter, nor did we have any information concerning Riha and, therefore, we would not be in a position to make such a statement as to whether or not Riha was all right.

I then also pointed out to Mr. Todorovich that if he gave the information to Mr. McKevitt and advised Mr. McKevitt that the information had come from an FBI agent, and if Mr. McKevitt contacted me, I would certainly advise him that the information did not come from anyone in the FBI, for the same reasons as set forth above.

I am enclosing, for the Bureau's information, an article which appeared in the February 11, 1970, issue of The Rocky Mountain News, a Denver newspaper. The article is captioned “Boulder housewife sure she talked to Riha.”

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee, and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
