United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: W. R. Wannall

Subject: Select Committee of the Senate

Date: February 7, 1975

This communication is classified since the information herein and in the attachments has been so classified by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).

On 2/6/75 the writer was furnished the attached material by Mr. William E. Colby, Director of Central Intelligence, during a meeting in his office which was also attended by Lt. General Lew Allen, Director of the National Security Agency (NSA). General Allen was provided copies of the same material. It includes a three-page statement containing a listing of categories of activities of subject matters that require stringent protection during testimony before the captioned Committee by any members of the U.S. Intelligence Community. The FBI had input in connection with the compilation of this information and the material we furnished has been included.

Also among the material is a copy of a statement which Mr. Colby is hopeful of securing permission to present at the very beginning of the Select Committee hearings in order that he can emphasize the importance of and need for intelligence operations, its processes, the processes for collection of intelligence, how they are controlled and overseen, why there is an overriding need for secrecy in certain areas and what Congress can do to enhance U.S. intelligence collections.

The third paper lists eleven papers which Mr. Colby intends to turn over to the Committee whether or not he is permitted to make his opening statement. These papers supplement his statement and have been the subject of previous memoranda. The FBI has prepared the last two papers listed and is coordinating with all other interested Intelligence Community members to assure that all of the papers will be in such form as not to conflict with Bureau interests.

EX-IJ7 REC38 62-116395-22

A review of Mr. Colby's proposed opening statement has been made. Among the highlights are the following:

He points out (page 2) that it is important that our intelligence activities be viewed in proper perspective and that the few.
