“must be examined carefully, even though it would run counter to current Soviet policy; (4) Soviet planners might see some utility in deploying MRBMs and ICBMs to Cuba in order to supplement the limited number of ICBMs now believed to be operational in the USSR and to reach targets beyond the range of submarine-launched missiles; (5) the establishment on Cuban soil of a significant strike capability with such weapons would represent a sharp departure from Soviet practice, since such weapons have so far not been installed even in Satellite territory . . . the Soviets might think (it) would be worth a good deal if they could get away with it; however, they would almost certainly estimate that this could not be done without provoking a dangerous U.S. reaction; and (6) although the Soviets may see some military advantages in Cuba as a strategic strike base, the risks would be great and the political implications would run counter to the kind of policy they are actually pursuing in Latin America. They do not propose to win the region for Communism by military conquest. They count instead on a process of political action . . .

CIA’s retrospective comments on SNIE 85-3-62: (1) the judgment on the degree of risk which the USSR was willing to accept was gravely in error and the community was virtually unanimous in support of this judgment; (2) the deployment of ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons outside the USSR was unprecedented; (3) while the first ballistic missiles had probably arrived in Cuba between 9/7–15/62, the first reports by ground observers who had seen them had not arrived in Washington by 9/19/62, and there was no evidence that MRBMs were on the way; (4) the estimate failed to give adequate weight to the pace at which Soviet operations were moving and to the great probability that the new installations were manned by Soviet personnel; (5) the community was still thinking in terms of rather deliberately paced Soviet military aid programs for the UAR, Iraq and Indonesia, and for Cuba in the 1960–1962 period, but there was already good evidence that the Cuban program had departed from this pattern; (6) also the Indonesian situation had broken the Soviet pattern only a month before when the USSR showed itself willing to accept a substantially increased degree of risk “for the sake of a political gain something less than vital to Soviet interests”; (7) the USSR had shown in the Indonesian affair that it was “willing to take some risk of military engagement with an ally of the United States, albeit the degree of risk involved was far less than in the Cuban venture”; and (8) “. . . For the record, there is no evidence that the existence of SNIE 85-3 had any inhibiting influence on later decisions. It was not, for instance, cited to support an argument against continuing overflights. Nor did it affect current intelligence reporting; this is conducted independently of the estimative process and provides a check on the continuing validity of standing estimates.” (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/14/62)

118. 9/20/62 — CIA disseminated an agent report quoting Castro’s personal pilot, Claudio Morinas, who said on 9/9/62: “We have 40-mile range guided missiles, both surface-to-surface and surface-to-air. . . . There are also many mobile ramps for intermediate range rockets . . . .” This report was considered “too general to be used in the process” (in which CIA analysts made up target cards). (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62)
