Based on the foregoing, reliance on the September 1939 directive or even the earlier confidential arrangement worked out by the President, whether considered a Presidential directive, Presidential mandate, or some other manifestation of Executive power, for current investigative authority appears to be unwise. Placing the 1939 directive and the earlier arrangement in their proper perspective is very important. Both were laid in a period when the world was on the brink of World War II. The concern for national security was related to two international movements. There were no laws, such as the Smith Act of 1940 or the Internal Security Act of 1950. Although there were undoubtedly some purely American groups which received no direction or control from abroad, there was no national concern for indigenous anarchists or other groups desiring to overthrow the Government.

PRESIDENTIAL DIRECTIVES SUBSEQUENT TO 1939

As mentioned previously, the directive dated September 6, 1939, was reiterated subsequently by directives dated January 8, 1943; July 24, 1950; and December 15, 1953. The directive dated January 1943, signed by President Roosevelt, was simply a reaffirmation of the earlier 1939 directive and was broadened only to the extent that it called on all patriotic organizations and individuals as well as local law enforcement officers to report information to the FBI. The July 1950 directive, signed by President Truman, contained the phrase “subversive activities and related matters,” which on the surface would indicate that President Truman intended to broaden the scope of authority it might convey to the FBI. However, closer examination reveals that the Truman directive actually misquoted the earlier two directives of President Roosevelt and included the phrase “subversive activities and related matters” which did not appear in the Roosevelt directives.

Since no information is available concerning Executive intent behind the issuance of the 1950 directive, it cannot be determined whether President Truman was aware of the possible additional authority he might have conveyed to the FBI as the result of changing the language of the two prior directives to include the phrase “subversive activities and related matters.” The fact of the matter is, the United States was at the time engaged in the “police action” in Korea and there was unquestionably a great deal of domestic subversive activity at the time, most of which could be traced to the Communist Party. We do know that President Truman signed the 1950 directive on the advice of the National Security Council.

There is one document available which tends to reveal the concern President Truman had relative to increased subversive activity involving domestic cases. In a letter dated July 17, 1946, the Attorney General said he felt that in the troubled period in international affairs, accompanied by an increase in
