will be admitted to UN membership and that its representatives will appear in New York City between October 1971 and September 1972. When this almost certain development takes place, we will be faced with grave internal security/intelligence problems.

In appraising the above situation and noting that the Chicomms, should they gain UN membership, would be entitled to the largest delegation and largest percentage of UN Secretariat employees of any member nation, we would clearly require a substantial increase in the number of Agents handling Chinese work in the New York Office. Such an increase would include assignments to that office of as many Chinese-speaking Special Agent personnel as may be available and examination of the need to train additional Agents in the Chinese language. Dependent on the size of a Chicom UN delegation, it might be necessary to establish a Chinese Section in New York Office. Should a substantial increase in case load in the Chicom field come about as a result of Chicom entry into the UN, it would also suggest an increase in the number of Supervisors in this field at the Seat of Government.

With regard to the investigative aspect of Chicom entry into the UN, it is felt that the Chicomms, on arrival, will proceed cautiously at the outset in any program of covert or overt intelligence activity. That intelligence efforts will be undertaken, there is no doubt inasmuch as information in our files and sound logic demand the conclusion that the Chicomms will rely on a variety of methods by which to gather information to assist in the planning and execution of political moves as well as to combat or neutralize technical and scientific progress and military moves made by this and other countries. The Chicomms, with a base at the UN, might limit early intelligence efforts to political matters until they have their feet on the ground. Knowledge of their collection of such intelligence, however, could be of as much benefit to this country as would knowledge of Chicomms efforts to collect other types of intelligence.

The inevitability of the appearance of a Chicom delegation at the UN requires that we marshal all the assets we have in this field in order to be in a position to have broad quality coverage in the informant area and the ability to spring into quick and effective action from an investigative standpoint.

4. On 7/15/71, President Nixon announced his plan to visit Red China before May 1972. The FBI may well be called
