And, in addition to this, spelling both (B. L.) and will do so, the hernia deals with the added solace, unlike Beatrice A., tely of having a private affinity, a family friend, who will represent their son in court.

“The Easygoing”

“Oscar was so quiet, so easily going, he stayed home most of all the time,” says Helen Hernandez, proudly, “I watched television, he read a lot of books and sport; made magazines. And he always helped me around the house. Every morning we made the beds together and washed the dishes.”

Abruptly, she vanished into a back room, returning unexpectedly with a bulging photograph album. It turned out to be what, in her heart, Helen Hernandez considers immutable proof of her son’s innocence in this bizarre episode.

The book was filled with pictures Oscar had taken in Vietnam—photos of children. Waifs, orphans, refugees who hung around with Oscar and Oscar’s friends.

“He loved children,” said Helen Hernandez, as Antonio nodded vigorous agreement. She looked suddenly grim, as if she had realized, maybe for the first time, how seriously important that point might eventually become.

“I haven’t visited him yet,” she said, self-consciously admitting she was “afraid to see that he’s really locked up in jail.” She would probably just cry, she said.

But, she added, she’s gotten past her initial hysteria with a dose of tranquilizers—and by having her telephone number changed. Like Mrs. Antelo, she was getting hate calls at a daily rate.

“I’ve been trying to get clothing, shoes, clothes to (heal),” she said nervously, fingering the album in her lap. “But, I guess I’m anxious. I just don’t know what to say to her. Except that I know how she must be feeling. And I cry for her child, too, just as I cry for Oscar.”

Normally, 12 people live in the four-room household of Miguel Ramirez, 38, a disabled construction worker. At present, however, there are only 10 because his wife Rose is visiting an ailing brother in Mexico and his son Michael, 17, is in jail.

On a recent hot weekday morning, eight family members were scattered about the tiny squalid living room, dank with the sour odors of diapers, cooking foods and too many bodies packed too close together without benefit of even a fan.

There was Ramirez himself, a raw, grizzled man who sat in his undershirt in a corner chair, somehow projecting rock-solid stability in an otherwise incredibly fluid human scene unfolding before him.

Three of his four daughters—all mothers, all unmarried and two of them to him, pregnant again—sat sprawled on the ragged, dirty air and couches. All three rendered inordinately ill-tempered by the miserable heat, they said:

And four of Hernandez’s grandchildren—two boys and two girls, aged 2 to 4—crawled, ran ... scrambled into a shrinking, laughing fur through the house, chasing a single revared dog and, more often than not, taking advantage of one of their own, too—a pathologic 4-year-old boy, the red-eyed victim of chicken pox.

Senior daughter

On a couch, half covered by a sheet, Yolanda Ramirez, 24, the senior daughter, was outshouting a Popeye cartoon blaring on the television. Now seven-months pregnant, for the third time, she was trying to resolve the question of a missing blouse with her sister Marina, 21, six months pregnant, who sat methodically rolling breakfast beans into tortalas, burrito style, at the end of the room.

A near-obese third daughter, Sylvia, mother of two of the rampaging children, sat bulging out of her tight shorts, fanning herself with a purple crochet doily which she had snatched from a screaming baby who had spun it wildly in the air long enough finally to knock the fire off her cigarette and get smacked for it.

“God, they’ll all get the pox and what a mess that’ll be,” lamented Sylvia.

“Well, hell, they all gotta get it sometime,” observed Yolanda sagely, demonstrating that, of the three women, she is by far the most philosophic.

“None of us are married,” she said.
