I likewise informed him that I had received information to the effect that the Communist Internationale in Moscow has recently issued instructions for all Communists in the United States to vote for President Roosevelt for reelection and against Governor Landon because of the fact that Governor Landon is opposed to class warfare.

The President stated that he had been considerably concerned about the movements of the Communists and of Fascism in the United States and that while the Secret Service of the Treasury Department had assured him that they had informants in every Communist group, he believed that if that was true it was solely for the purpose of getting any information upon plots upon his life, whereas what he was interested in was obtaining a broad picture of the general movement and its activities as may affect the economic and political life of the country as a whole. I told him that there is at the present time no governmental organization which is getting any so-called “general intelligence information” upon this subject. He inquired what suggestions I might offer relative to this matter. I told him that the appropriation of the Federal Bureau of Investigation contains a provision that it might investigate any matters referred to it by the Department of State and that if the State Department should ask for us to conduct such an investigation we could do so under our present authority in the appropriation already granted. He stated that he is reluctant to have a formal request come through the State Department because of the many leaks therein, but that what he would do would be to put a handwritten memorandum of his own in his safe in the White House, stating he had instructed the Secretary of State to request this information to be obtained by the Department of Justice. He stated he would have the Secretary of State at the White House tomorrow afternoon, and asked me to call at the White House at 1:45 p.m. to see him, the President, and the Secretary of State, at which time the matter could be further discussed and an oral request could be made of me by the Secretary of State for investigation so as to avoid any possibility of any leak.

He suggested that I endeavor to coordinate any investigation along similar lines which might be made by the Military or Naval Intelligence Services. He stated that the Secret Service was not being brought in on this investigation as they should confine themselves strictly to the matter of protecting his life and the survey which he desired to have made was on a much broader field.

John Edgar Hoover.
