United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: T. W. Leavitt  
Subject: SENSTUDY ’75

Distribution:

Mr. N. P. Callahan  
Mr. J. B. Adams  
Mr. P. L. Mack  
Mr. J. A. Mintz  
Mr. D. W. Moore  
Mr. W. R. Wannall  
Mr. T. W. Leavitt  
Mr. J. G. Deegan  
Mr. W. O. Cregar  
Mr. F. A. Tansey

Associate Director; Deputy Assistant Director—Administration; Deputy Assistant Director—Investigative; Assistant Director; Administration; Complaints Systems; External Affairs; Files and Communications; General Investigations; Identification; Inspection; Intelligence; Laboratory; Planning and Evaluation; Special Investigations; Training; Legal Counsel; Telephone Room; Director’s Secretary.

Date: 1/27/76

At 6:10 p.m., 1/27/76, at the request of Executive Assistant to Deputy Associate Director (Investigative) Paul L. Mack, Deputy Assistant Director Thomas W. Leavitt requested that we determine facts surrounding a United Press International (UPI) news release dated 1/27/76 indicating the Senate Select Committee (SSC) was conducting an investigation in San Diego concerning the alleged FBI-promoted warfare against blacks. Facts set forth indicated additional SSC members were currently in San Diego and, according to news reports, were to interview SAC, San Diego, Ronald L. Maley.

Intelligence Division Night Supervisor F. Anthony Tansey subsequently contacted SA Paul V. Daly, Office of Legal Counsel; SA Seymour F. Phillips, SENSTUDY project; and IS-I Section Chief Joseph G. Deegan. It was determined that two SSC investigators, Michael Madigan and Lester Seidel, were both in San Diego last week investigating information concerning FBI and Secret Army Organization (SAO) involvement in specific activities in the San Diego area. Previous FBIQ clearance had been obtained, and “waiver of confidentiality agreement” authorizations were approved for those two Committee members to speak to two current Agents and two former Agents in the San Diego area concerning SAO investigations. No one was aware of any current Committee investigators being in the San Diego area in connection with any other investigation involving the FBI.

At 7:21 p.m., SAC Maley was telephonically contacted by Night Supervisor Tansey and was apprised of the UPI dispatch dated 1/27/76 at San Diego. Maley stated this was a new situation pertaining to the Black Panther Party and the US Organization, different from the matter regarding the SAO, wherein two SSC investigators interviewed two current and two former FBI Agents last week. Maley stated the first he learned of this was an article in Monday night’s newspaper, followed by a clarification in the San Diego “Union” newspaper on Tuesday, 1/27/76.

REC-100 62-116375 1366

Enclosure

FAT:dsh

Enclosure

Continued & lower.
