Briefly referring to his visit to the NPIC quarters at the Naval Gun Factory, General Doolittle noted that the facility has considerable room for expansion and the activity is being carried on there under greatly improved conditions. The Department of Defense personnel contingent which is housed at the facility operates as a self-contained unit. Mr. Lundahl, Director of the NPIC, reports that although the facility does not possess insufficient manpower to handle a double load which might be imposed should two emergency situations occur simultaneously, he nevertheless feels that the space and equipment expansion now under way at the new quarters would accommodate the additional personnel who would be required in such a situation.

At the Chairman's request, Mr. Murphy briefly informed the Board concerning the meeting which he and Mr. Gray and Mr. Coyne had recently with Mr. Cord Meyer of CIA on the subject of covert action programs. Mr. Murphy pointed out that Mr. Meyer's briefing covered operations in Latin American countries, but the subject of Cuba was excluded inasmuch as that subject was to be covered at today's Board meeting. Mr. Murphy said the briefing consisted primarily of light touches including information on the China frontier situation. Nothing new was brought up with respect to Europe or the Middle East, Mr. Murphy said. The CIA briefing reflected the existence of positive evidence that the entourage of the Brazilian President Goulart is communist-penetrated. Mr. Murphy observed that this briefing had been presented by CIA at the request of Mr. Murphy and Mr. Gray, and it was Mr. Murphy's impression that the briefing was rather routine in nature, and therefore seemed to downgrade the importance which the Board attaches to the subject of covert action operations and requirements.

Dr. Land observed that from his experience, every time that secrecy is used as a cloak for an assumed efficient but sensitive operation, one may well later find on removal of the cloak that there was nothing there. Dr. Land thought that
