On the following page of these papers, the paragraphs are numbered again from one. On this page a large ink X has been placed over the page; however, it is still legible. Paragraph 1 of this page reads, “Maximum security plus within KUBARK only (e.g., How much does Sivagusa now know?). Limitation on number code clerks for enciphering and deciphering. Guise of LAURICLE objective.” Paragraph 5 reads, “No chain of connections permitting blackmail.”

2. Memorandum, dated February 19, 1962, from Richard Helms, Deputy Director (Plans), to William K. Harvey, subject: “Authorization of ZRRIFLE Agent Activities.” This memorandum authorizes Harvey to retain the services of agent QJWIN “and such other principal agents and subagents as may be required.” Memorandum does not state the purpose of the ZRRIFLE project.

3. Filed immediately after a memorandum dated March 6, 1969, from Richard Helms to William K. Harvey, is a normal business-size white envelope containing the following notation on the front in penciled handwriting: “Lloyd very personal from Bill H.” Within this envelope is a small yellow piece of paper containing the following notation in penciled handwriting: “John Rosselli, alias John Ralston—Wm. Walker.”

4. A memorandum dated June 27, 1963, for Chief, Foreign Intelligence, from William K. Harvey, subject: QJWIN. This memo states that QJWIN is currently not being used for any operational purposes. It discusses whether or not he should be retained as an agent. Paragraph 2 seems to indicate that the executive action portion of QJWIN’s project, if any, has been terminated. This paragraph reads: “As far as the ZRRIFLE aspects of this operation which has been covered under the QJWIN authorization for security reasons and with which Fletcher M. Knight is fully familiar as I orally advised you on June 26, 1963, except for one precautionary ‘lifeline,’ aspects of this case have been terminated and need no longer, except perhaps for minor accountings, be considered as a part of this project.”

A last file of the ZRRIFLE series examined is entitled “ZRRIFLE Name Traces/Personality Sketches.” Items of interest in this file are as follows:
