Legal Attaché Offices

Foreign Liaison

Comments of Section Chief W. R. Wannall: In response to the Inspector's inquiry, comments follow concerning (1) the 11 foreign offices in operation prior to the expansion in December 1970, (2) the 6 new offices opened in December 1970, and (3) the 6 additional offices which we proposed be opened in response to the Director's inquiry in May 1971. With respect to categories (1) and (2), it is noted that these 17 offices have just undergone inspection, most of them during the current month. As very few of the inspection reports are yet available, these comments are necessarily based upon those facets of the work which it is possible to observe from the Seat of Government.

(1) Offices in Operation Prior to Expansion

Bern

Our operations in Switzerland are most delicate because of the fierce independence of the Swiss, who would not permit the use of “Legal Attaché” as it was considered too widely identified with the FBI. As a result, our representative is known in the Embassy and in Switzerland merely as an Attaché. The office has become increasingly important in the criminal field very recently as a result of the large-scale thefts of securities in the United States and their transportation to and attempted sale or hypothecation in Switzerland. In addition, it has long been the goal to obtain access to information concerning bank accounts opened in Switzerland by subjects of our investigations. Progress has been slow, but we have been able to secure limited information, and the cooperation received is the direct result of the personal liaison of our Legal Attaché.

Productivity

During fiscal 1971, the office located 7 fugitives and arranged 4 “informal deportations.” Its pending caseload as of 6/30/71 was 83, which is approximately average on a per-agent basis in the foreign field. Through 8/23/71, Bern had submitted 7 HILEV items, of which 5 were actually disseminated. This is the smallest number of submissions of any Legal Attaché and the second-smallest number of acceptable items.

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection

8/23/71
