United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: W. O. Cregar  
Subject: SENSTUDY - 75

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams  
1 - Mr. T. J. Jenkins

Date: 5/23/75

1 - Each Assistant Director

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

Reference is made to my memorandum dated 5/19/75 which attached a copy of a letter to the Attorney General dated 5/14/75, from Senator Frank Church, Chairman, United States Senate Select Committee (SSC) with appendices A thru D. The memorandum noted the ambiguous nature of some of the SSC requests and that Mr. K. William O'Connor (O'Conner), Deputy Assistant Attorney General, who is the Department of Justice coordinator for SSC matters, is presently negotiating the 5/14/75 requests with the SSC Staff.

Even though the negotiations are still under way, we believe that ultimately we will be required to provide substantial responses to the 5/14/75 requests. To this end we have begun to gather together the necessary data from our files in anticipation of the substantial responses we will be required to prepare. The various requests set forth in the May 14 letter have been analyzed and specific assignments made to prepare responses. The primary assignments have been made to representatives of several Sections of the INTD. It is anticipated that in some circumstances it will be necessary for these INTD representatives to convey requests for information and material to other Divisions. When such action is necessary contact will be effected through the designated representatives of the other Headquarters Divisions. A list of such other Divisional representatives is maintained by the SENSTUDY Staff on the basis of designations made to assist in previous SSC requests, and is set forth below.

Division: 1-Identification. Representative: James T. Stewart. Extension: 4219.  
Division: 2-Training. Representative: James E. Reilly. Extension: 3472.  
Division: 3-Administrative, 62-116395. Representative: Fred Woodworth. Extension: 4132.  
EWL/SFP:cmc.

ASSOC. DIR.  
DEP. AD ADM.  
DEP. AD INV.  
ASST. DIR.  
ADMIN.  
COMP. SYST.  
EXT. AFFAIRS.
