United States Government Memorandum

To: Director, FBI (157-8589)

From: SAC, Chicago (100-44963)

Subject: DEMCON

Date: 8/23/68

On August 12, 1968, USA Thomas A. Foran contacted SAC, Chicago, advising that Warren Christopher, Deputy U.S. Attorney General, desired to meet with the SAC, Chicago.

As a result of the above request, SAC, Chicago, and Supervisor Richard L. Strain met briefly with Mr. Warren Christopher and Mr. Wes Pomeroy of the U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, D.C., in the presence of USA Foran in his offices.

Mr. Christopher was most congenial and expressed his high regard for the FBI and asked for a current evaluation of activities in the Chicago area which could possibly affect the Democratic National Convention (DNC) being held the last week of August, 1968. Mr. Christopher was advised that all information had previously been furnished to him by letterhead memoranda and was in his possession, and he was assured all information coming to our attention would be immediately furnished to the Department and to the USA in Chicago. A brief discussion of current trends followed relative to current intelligence regarding the activities of anti-war and Negro militant organizations which had proposed disruptive tactics at the DNC.

At one point in the discussion, mention was made of the fact that the Youth International Party, aka Yippies, was currently holding talks with the city administration in an effort to obtain necessary park permits to have their followers live and sleep in one of the Chicago area parks during the week of the convention and hold a “happening” which the Yippies referred to as the “Festival of Life.” During this discussion, USA Foran confidentially advised that when he had received the FBI’s notification of the anticipated plans on the part of the Yippies, he had contacted certain city officials known to him and attempted to persuade them against the issuance of such a permit in view of the known moral conduct of such groups. USA Foran advised he had been assured that such permits would not be granted. He stated these permits had as yet not been granted and that his sources had indicated no serious consideration had been given to the request by responsible Chicago city officials.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
