Frank Church, Idaho, Chairman  
John G. Tower, Texas, Vice Chairman

Philip A. Hart, Mich.  
Walter F. Mondale, Minn.  
Walter D. Huddleston, Ky.  
Robert Morgan, N.C.  
Gary Hart, Colo.

Howard H. Baker, Jr., Tenn.  
Barry Goldwater, Ariz.  
Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., Md.  
Richard S. Schweiker, Pa.

William G. Miller, Staff Director  
Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsel  
Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel

Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities

(Pursuant to S. Res. 21, 26th Congress)

Washington, D.C. 20510

December 18, 1975

Attorney General Edward H. Levi  
Room 5111  
Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear General Levi:

We have been asked to chair a special subcommittee of the Select Committee on Intelligence which will concentrate on matters relating to domestic intelligence activities of the Federal government. Our mandate is to prepare for the full committee's consideration a draft report of findings of fact on alleged abuses or excesses by the FBI and other domestic intelligence agencies; the causes of such alleged abuses or excesses and recommendations which the Committee might make to remedy the problems we have uncovered.

We are aware of the fine work in which your staff has been engaged in these areas and hope that they will be available to work with the Committee staff on these matters. However, the Subcommittee finds the Committee record needs to be supplemented in several important respects and therefore finds it necessary to direct a number of requests to the FBI for further information which we hope will be treated on a priority basis so that the Subcommittee can meet the deadlines set by the full committee. These and future requests which will be handled between the two committee counsel or Mr. Elliff, Domestic Task Force Leader, and Mr. Shaheen, Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, will pertain to both information necessary for us to formulate meaningful recommendations and to pursue matters on certain specific issues. Delegated abuses which remain unsettled. Among the future requests will be questions pertaining to your guidelines on "Domestic Security Investigations" and on manpower and budget statistics for the FBI's domestic intelligence program.

For us to meet the deadline set by the full committee, it is essential that the information requested below be
