And the steps being taken by each office to develop full financial data. This summary enables the Bureau to keep abreast of all financial developments regarding the BPP on a national and international basis.

By airtel to all continental offices on 11/6/70, all field offices conducting an active BPP investigation were instructed to submit a biweekly airtel containing specific comments regarding underground BPP operations within the area of each field office. This includes progress in the identity and interviewing of expelled BPP members who, it has been determined, are the logical candidates for membership in the BPP underground. The underground operation of the BPP has an ultimate goal of terroristic guerrilla warfare. It is a recent development in the operation of the BPP which is the subject of an intensive investigation. The biweekly summary enables the Bureau to keep abreast of all developments in the underground and to intelligently coordinate the investigation thereof.

In recent months the Black Panther Party has formed a corporation known as Stronghold Consolidated Productions, Inc. (SCPI) to control all BPP funds and assets and to act as purchaser and/or lessee of any property utilized by the BPP. The corporation and its activities are under intensive investigation which has revealed that its activities are centered in San Francisco and New York. By airtel on 1/7/71 to San Francisco and New York, these offices were instructed to submit a weekly summary in form suitable for dissemination of all pertinent developments concerning the corporation during the previous week. This summary keeps the Bureau aware of SCPI operations and also enables us to regularly fulfill our dissemination requirements.

It is noted that there are currently 32 field offices conducting active investigations of the BPP. Our intensive investigation has enabled us to identify its leaders, members and new branches. In addition, we have developed detailed information concerning its operations and activities including
