(99. 9/10/62 Continued)

“Of alarm or a feeling that urgent action was required . . . confirmation came not as a shock but as a problem to be dealt with deliberately . . . it may have even served to relax the sense of urgency generated by the President's decision of 23 August, the known usually being less alarming than the unknown . . . . The participants therefore felt that the next step was to provide systematic coverage of the areas covered by the two previous missions (of August 29 and September 5).”

(3) “Finally, the participants (at the meeting) were operating in the atmosphere of the time . . . . The Soviet diplomatic and propaganda apparatus was attempting to focus attention on Berlin . . . . throwing up a diplomatic smokescreen . . . . Furthermore, they (the participants at the White House meeting) must all have been acutely aware that Cuba was potentially the campaign issue that could most seriously damage the Administration in the election campaign then beginning.”

(4) The CIA proposed two extended overflights covering the remainder of the island not covered in the August 29 and September 5 missions.

“The Secretary of State objected” and insisted that “coverage of the rest of Cuba should be designed so that peripheral flights over international waters would not be combined with overflights of Cuban territory.”

(5) “To meet (the Secretary of State's) wishes, the program was divided into four flights, two overflights and two peripheral.” The overflights were to be: (a) over the Isle of Pines, and (b) over the east of Cuba to cover Guantanamo and Banos. The peripheral flights were to be: (a) over the north coast of eastern Cuba, and (b) the south coast. All four flights were to be designed for maximum safety, and the overflights were to be quick “in-and-out” operations. In obtaining approval for the tracks it was necessary to provide assurance that there would not be flights over known SA-2 sites.

“The President approved this program” for four flights in September.

“Thus the record shows that the President authorized everything the Special Group requested.” (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/14/62)

100. 9/11/62 — Senator Tower, speaking in the U.S. Senate:

“Russian tanks, rockets, military planes and high velocity artillery have been brought into Cuba. They threaten the entire U.S. east of the Mississippi. Pads for light rockets have already been built in Cuba by Russians and Chinese. . . . I am reliably informed that launching pads for medium rockets with a 1500-mile-plus range can be built in under 4 days.”

(Source: Congressional Record)
