At another point in the Board meeting there was a discussion of the need for identifying the President with clandestine intelligence and covert action activities. One Board member suggested that in any event the public probably has an idea that the President is fully aware of covert actions undertaken by our Government; however, Mr. Clifford pointed out that an attempt has always been made to maintain a separation of the President from intelligence agency operations all down the line in Government, and this separation should be preserved.

Chairman Killian observed to Board members that when the DCI arrived at the Board meeting later in the day, the matter of previously withholding information from the Board concerning covert operations would not be brought up unless the DCI himself should bring it up for discussion. Dr. Killian added that steps should be taken by Mr. Coyne to contact the DCI and reschedule the CIA briefing of the Board Panel on Covert Actions, preferably within the next two weeks.

When the DCI, Mr. McCone, joined the Board meeting for a discussion of intelligence matters, at one point the DCI referred to his recent extensive field trip in South Vietnam. Mr. McCone said that training is being given to South Vietnam villagers in civil defense, arms and training are being supplied to hamlet leaders who train and arm others, and there are plans for additional similar projects if the Special NSC 5412/2 Group approves. The DCI described the extent to which CIA is involved in the conception and administration of these programs, which are backed by U.S. military teams. He added that CIA trains mountain people as trail watchers to report on the infiltration of communist forces from North Vietnam; and CIA is installing communications between villagers and is equipping military units with communications.

In the course of a discussion with the DCI concerning CIA budgetary matters, Mr. Gray observed that at times in the past the Budget Bureau had been prone to look into policy decisions which had been arrived at with respect to covert action programs in the Special NSC 5412/2 Group. Mr. McCone said that he anticipated no such problem in the Bureau of the Budget in the future, with the recent appointment of Mr. Robert Amory (formerly DD/I at CIA) to fill the Budget Bureau post which is concerned with CIA budgetary matters.
