United States Government Memorandum.

To: Mr. J. B. Adams. From: Legal Counsel. Subject: SENSTUDY 75. Date: 6-6-75.

Former Special Agent Richard H. Davis of the Atlanta Office telephonically contacted SA Paul V. Daly of this Division on 6-4-75, at which time he explained that he had been contacted by Michael Epstein of the captioned Committee. Epstein requested that Davis make himself available for interview in either Atlanta, Georgia, or travel to Washington, D.C. Davis informed Epstein that he would have to obtain Bureau approval prior to submitting to interview, inasmuch as he had to obtain a release from his employment secrecy agreement.

Mr. Davis informed SA Daly that he was reluctant to agree to being interviewed by the captioned Committee concerning his activities as an Agent. It was pointed out to Mr. Davis that the decision as to whether to agree to the interview was his, but he was advised that the captioned Committee has subpoena power and might attempt to force him to furnish information through the use of a subpoena. He was informed that the Bureau was cooperating with the captioned Committee and its inquiry into FBI operations.

It was explained to Mr. Davis that if he desired to allow himself to be interviewed, the Bureau would make available an employee at his request to be available but not present during the interview. He was also advised that this Agent would not represent him as private counsel. Mr. Davis was advised that the Bureau’s concern was not with matters of historical fact, but rather that testimony might be required which could impair the Bureau’s efforts to discharge its responsibilities. It was also explained that the Bureau representative would assist him in determining whether his response to a particular question would identify confidential informants, impair ongoing investigations, divulge information derived from other Government agencies or foreign sources, or expose sensitive investigative techniques and, therefore, a response should not be given.

REC. 102. 62-116395.

Dated: 6/19/75. By: SPAN/MAC MDR-16. PVD: dkg (8).
