Mr. F. C. Sullivan

August 12, 1971

C. D. Eronan (C. D. Brennan)

Addition of Personnel Leak Cases  
Domestic Intelligence Division (DID)

Memorandum of 8/4/71 from Mr. Felt to Mr. Tolson captioned as above. Mr. Felt recommended and the Director approved that the number of Agents handling leak cases in DID be increased immediately from 5 to 7 using DID manpower. Mr. Felt also recommended that the proposed adjustment of manpower in DID be deferred pending his study. The Director agreed and noted “Expedite.” The following is offered for consideration:

This involves two problems:

(1) The proposed manpower adjustments recommended in memorandum from C. D. Brennan to W. C. Sullivan on 7/20/71. The Inspection Division concurred (occurred) with the proposed changes in that memorandum except for moving the Special Coordination Unit which coordinates legal attaché matters out of the National Intelligence Section. The Director agreed, subject to final approval of the organizational charts. The charts were submitted by memorandum from C. D. Brennan to Sullivan 8/3/71, which led to Mr. Felt’s memorandum of 8/4/71 recommending a further study.

(2) The second problem involves manpower needs for the Ellsberg and other leak cases which have arisen since 6/15/71. These are handled in the National Intelligence Section under Section Chief W. M. Vallanzil.

When the Attorney General requested we investigate the Ellsberg case on 6/25/71, I advised Vallanzil this was a matter of the highest priority and instructed (industry) him to use sufficient manpower to handle it. He advised me after his initial assessment that he would need the assistance of 3 additional supervisors. These were immediately temporarily reassigned to him from other sections. He subsequently said the problem was expanding and he would need 2 additional supervisors. These were also promptly temporarily reassigned to him from other sections.

This placed a heavy overall burden on all sections and led to my recommendations in my memorandum of 7/20/71 for manpower changes within DID to ensure that manpower was being used on priority items.

Enclosure

CD: lnl (B)

1 - Mr. Hohr  
1 - Mr. Sullivan  
1 - Mr. Felt  
1 - Mr. N. P. Callahan  
1 - Mr. Poder  
1 - Mr. D. R. Moore  
1 - C. D. Eronan (C. D. Brennan)

(CONTINUED - OVER)
