Supporters were disenchanted, bringing to a halt the flow of donations into the organization. The resulting strain added to the paranoia of Newton, causing him to create complete chaos within BPP national headquarters. Newton, in an effort to justify his position and to criticize Cleaver and his dissident followers, claimed that Cleaver and his appetite for violence were the root of all of the BPP problems in the recent past. Newton maintained the BPP was really nonviolent but was led astray by Cleaver and that he, Newton, will now return the organization to a position of nonviolence and community work.

In summation, our COINTELPRO efforts split the BPP, cut off their supplies of outside funds, and created chaos within.

As a result of the ever increasing information being reported by our informants regarding the acquisition of weapons by black extremist groups, on 5/17/71 an airtel was sent to all SACs setting forth instructions regarding the handling of such information. This airtel sets out in detail the possible gun law violations under the National Firearms Act, State Firearms Control Act, and the unlawful possession or receipt of firearms. The field was instructed that we have secondary investigative jurisdiction in such matters and that information developed by our informant coverage regarding possible gun law violations should be handled by us and vigorously pursued, looking to the ultimate prosecution of the black extremists involved.

The Black Afro Militant Movement (BAMM) was organized in the Miami Division in the early part of 1970. The leader of this group was Alfred Dwight Amos Featherstone, an articulate black extremist and an admitted communist who had in the past visited Fidel Castro in Cuba. Through the outstanding informant coverage developed by the Miami Office and the aggressive investigative techniques used, this dangerous extremist organization has been completely destroyed and is no longer a factor in the extremist activities in the Miami area. Our informant coverage developed information regarding the participation by BAMM leaders and members in fire bombings in the Miami area, including a bombing at the University of Miami. Through this coverage and other investigations, an excellent criminal case was developed.
