Attachment 6

1. The Huston Plan

The earliest evidence that this concept of presidential power existed is found in a 1970 top secret document entitled “Operational Restraints on Intelligence Collection,”¹⁸ and the various memorandums from Tom Charles Huston to H. R. Haldeman which were first revealed by John Dean.¹⁷ In preparation for his testimony before the Select Committee, Dean placed these papers, some of which bore the highest security classification, in the custody of Chief Judge John Sirica of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. This step was taken by Dean, on the advice of counsel, to avoid violation of any Presidential directive or Federal laws prohibiting release of Government documents affecting national security. After due consideration, Judge Sirica released one copy of these papers to the Department of Justice and one copy to the Select Committee, pursuant to its motion. (United States v. John Doe, et al., Misc. No. 77-78, May 14, 1978.)

The committee, with the aid of various intelligence agencies, reviewed these documents. While the committee sealed a few items therein, which could involve national security considerations, it concluded that these papers, for the most part, dealt primarily with domestic affairs and were unrelated to national security matters.¹⁹ The papers, as sanitized by the committee, were entered into the committee’s record during Dean’s testimony.¹⁹

These papers and the President’s own statement of May 22, 1973, disclose that the President approved the use of illegal wiretapping, illegal break-ins and illegal mail covers for domestic intelligence purposes. The President was fully advised of the illegality of these intelligence-gathering techniques prior to approving them. In the top secret document entitled “Operational Restraints on Intelligence Collection,” the recommendation for surreptitious entries (break-ins) contained the following statement under the heading “Rationale”:

Use of this technique is clearly illegal. It amounts to burglary. It is also highly risky and could result in great embarrassment if exposed. However, it is also the most fruitful.

¹⁸ Exhibit 35. 3 Hearings 1062, 1319.

¹⁹ Exhibits 36–40, 42. 3 Hearings 1062, 1324–33, 1338.

²⁰ 3 Hearings 1060, 1062.

²¹ Exhibits 35–41, 3 Hearings 1062, 1319–37.
