Memorandum for the Attorney General

and order but on war level which will force the calling out of the Army. Plamondon refers to this new level of violence as involving “bombs and sabotage.” He further states that financial problems are severe and that “they” are going to have to get into “ripping off banks like our brothers in South America.” He also suggested that the example of “the brothers in South America” who kidnap American ambassadors to trade off for prisoners should be followed.

Milton Taube, a White Panther Party national officer, was also arrested with Plamondon on July 23, 1970. Taube is known to have been a contemporary and extremely close associate of William Ayers, a Weatherman member who is currently a Bureau fugitive. Taube, at the time of his arrest, was a resident at White Panther Party headquarters and has resided at this address for several years. Furthermore, all business transactions of the White Panther Party are transmitted through this address. Investigation by this Bureau has indicated that only some half dozen top leaders in the White Panther Party are privy to sensitive White Panther Party information. We have one live informant who has access to some information in this organization.

A telephone surveillance on the headquarters of the White Panther Party—Youth International Party is expected to provide extremely valuable information concerning the whereabouts of Weatherman fugitives as well as to the New Leftists who are currently being sought by local or Federal authorities. It can also be expected that information concerning possible violent plans on the part of this organization will be obtained.

It can be expected that any individuals who have access to the White Panther Party headquarters may become subjects of either local or Federal criminal violations. It is also anticipated, based on the above information, that results of a telephone surveillance at this address will be introduced as evidence in court or that leads to evidence may be obtained; therefore, this request is being made not only for the purpose of obtaining intelligence-type information, but also on the basis that evidence will be obtained that will be used in court. In line with instructions on page 5 of your referenced letter, the following information is set forth:
