SAC, Los Angeles

6/25/70

Director, FBI

Jane Fonda (JANE FORDA)  
SM - AFA

I - Mr. R. L. Strain  
I - Mr. J. F. Morrissey  
I - Mr. T. J. Millar

All information contained herein is unclassified. Date 11-14-00 by S. L. Avan.

A review of available information concerning captioned individual indicates that she has been extremely active in the antidiscrimination and anti-Vietnam movement; has made sizable contributions to black extremist groups, and has, by her actions and statements in general, indicated anarchistic tendencies and a definite propensity for fomenting violence endangering the internal security of this country.

If you have not already done so, you should initiate a security-type investigation of captioned individual in accordance with instructions contained in the Manual of Instructions, Section 87D, relating to such matters. The purpose of your investigation is to determine the extent of subject's anarchistic tendencies, a resolution of all ramifications regarding her association with various aspects of the New Left movement and black extremist groups and to ascertain if indeed her actions do pose a definite threat to the security of this country. In view of subject's position of prominence in the theatrical field, your investigation must be handled by a mature and experienced agent. No action should be taken which could result in embarrassment to the Bureau.

Results of the above investigation should be furnished the Bureau in report form, accompanied by recommendations as to whether or not subject's name should be considered for inclusion on the Security Index.

Re: MO 10 11-14-70 - 1962-73-

For your investigation, the Denver Office is requested to furnish the Los Angeles Office with a copy of all portions of information concerning the subject. This originated in the position investigation of the subject.

Tolson (Toison) - Denver file 14-05  
Duffie - Denver file 14-3077  
Kellogg  
Satters  
Salor  
Schop  
Cooper  
Gallivan - 2 - Denver

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
