Files and Their Disclosure

I. Problem:

Mr. William D. Ruckelshaus, in item #8 of memorandum to the Director dated 7/20/73, stated, “The whole question of files and their disclosure must be studied with a view toward understanding why files are kept, what categories of files there are, what information is contained in the files and whether the purposes for maintaining files are being met under present policy. In the issue of disclosure, when, where, and to whom must also be thoroughly examined.”

As problems involved in creation and maintenance of files and disclosure of information contained in them are rather complex they are being discussed separately. Identification Division records consisting of fingerprint cards and identification records (Rap Sheets) are not considered to fall in this category of “Files” and their use is not being commented upon.

II. Present Policy

A. Why Files Are Kept:

Age of information in FBI files covers a relatively short span of years. FBI had very few files until the President in 1939, directed the FBI be responsible for the Internal Security of the United States. In view of this, and as the number of violations of law over which the FBI has jurisdiction has nearly doubled since 1939, the vast majority of FBI files have been created since 1939.

Regulations of National Archives and Records Service, (NARS) General Services Administration, which are based on Title 44, Chapter 33, Sections 3301 and 3302, U.S. Code, govern the type of material which we must maintain. Record material is described as including “all books, papers, maps, photographs, or other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by an agency of the United States Government under Federal Law or in connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the informational value of data contained therein.”

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
