United States Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Copy to: 1 - USA, Miami.

Report of: SA Stephen J. Labadie. Date: 12/3/62.

Field Office File #: 92-1. Title: Santo Trafficante, Jr. Office: Tampa. Bureau File #: 92-2781. Character: Anti-Racketeering.

Synopsis: Telephone toll calls from the residence of Evaristo Garcia Vidal, Miami, to Tampa, Florida, identified as residences of Frank Coniglio, 610 Luzon, and Mrs. Francis Cacciatore, 1915 Carmen. Call to Garcia Instant Service Station, identified as the place where the subject's family has had cars serviced in the past. Also, call to the subject's Tampa residence, 2505 Bristol. Toll calls obtained for a six-month period from the above locations, and leads set out to identify connections. Subject's whereabouts unrecorded at Miami or Tampa during the latter part of October, and subject reported on November 6, 1962, at Columbia Restaurant, Tampa, and at the office of Tampa attorney Pat Whitaker, 308 Tampa Street. Subject and wife thereafter reported at Miami residence November 7, 1962, and rent paid for the month of November. Subject observed in Miami in contact with Stefano Anthony Randazzo and at Sonny's Restaurant, Miami Beach. Subject's past associate Harlan Blackburn arrested on IRS case, Orlando, and subject may be subpoenaed before FGJ, Orlando, 12/10/62, as to his connections with Blackburn and general gambling in central Florida. Car used by subject in Miami observed at Miami International Airport 11/23/62. No further action reported on Albert Anastasia murder case, NYC. Telephone toll calls obtained from a telephone available to subject's associate James C. Longo and set out to determine connections. Subject should be considered armed and dangerous due to his past associations in criminal activities.

Details.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.
