United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. Belmont

From: A. Rosen

Subject: Hunter Pitts O'Dell

Internal Security—C

Date: 2/5/63

All information contained herein is unclassified by S-2 ALM.

Date: 1/8/63

Assistant Attorney General Burke Marshall of the Civil Rights Division has asked that we give him a statement concerning the Communist Party affiliation of Hunter Pitts O'Dell. We have called to his attention current reports which have been furnished to the Security Division, Attention Mr. Walter Yeagley, concerning O'Dell's activities.

Marshall was interested in O'Dell's association with Rev. Martin Luther King and he was given a copy of a report of Special Agent James F. O'Connell dated 12/20/62 at New York, which was classified “Confidential,” which had been disseminated to Walter Yeagley of the Security Division. This report reflected the current association of O'Dell and the organization of Rev. King, namely, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). In addition to the above we also furnished him a copy of a memorandum from the Director to the Attorney General dated 12/6/62 and another dated 1/23/63 pertaining to O'Dell.

Marshall stated that upon review of the above information which was furnished to him, he would like to have a statement from the FBI concerning the present Communist affiliation of O'Dell, particularly, whether O'Dell actually is a member of the Communist Party at this time.

I advised Marshall that an appropriate memorandum would be prepared and furnished to him concerning his request. There is attached hereto a memorandum which has been prepared by the Security Division indicating that we have developed evidence through our coverage of the activities of the Communist Party, USA, which indicates that as of July, 1962, Party leaders considered O'Dell to be a member of the Party. It is being pointed out that this information is highly sensitive and confidential.

Enclosure (1)

REC-63

1—Mr. Evans

1—Mr. Sullivan

AR:mpd (8)

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
