C. Type of Information Contained in the Files

Generally speaking, there are no limits as to the type of information in our files. The FBI, by the very nature of its jurisdiction and its worldwide reputation as an elite law enforcement agency, attracts information. In addition to being responsible for investigations relating to interstate criminal activity throughout the United States, the FBI is also responsible for the internal security of the United States. Any intelligence organization survives on information uncovered by investigation or received from other sources. Citizens write to the FBI regarding any matter which they feel is against the best interests of the United States or where they feel an individual or organization might be violating a law. The average citizen is not aware of the jurisdiction of the various investigative agencies, local, state, or Federal, and many of them bring their problems to the FBI. The FBI will promptly disseminate any matter which is under the jurisdiction of another agency to that agency. The nondisseminated information is either acted upon and filed, or filed because no action is required.

In addition to the filing of material relating to criminal and security matters, the Bureau is responsible for a number of applicant-type (background) investigations, and the information developed during these investigations is filed.

D. Disclosure of Information in FBI Files

1. Responsibility for Proper Utilization of Information

Among the foremost of the FBI's responsibilities is the proper utilization of information received either through investigative activities or through other means, as this information may be of vital interest to another Government agency or a local law enforcement agency. It is extremely important that the FBI keep these agencies informed concerning matters in which they would have a legitimate interest. Information is disseminated at both field and Headquarters level, with FBIHQ making the information available to Federal agencies at the national level.

2. Basis for Dissemination

a. To Government Agencies

The FBI is under obligation to act as a clearing house for information which affects the internal security of the United States. This obligation is based on the following:
