These instructions, since he felt that CIA knew what should be done in this type of case. He received a telephone call from the DA's Office and a statement was read to him to the effect that the information which he had received and made public to the effect that RIJA was alive and well was in error. SMILEY told the caller that he agreed with the statement and nothing further came of this.

Dr. SMILEY does not know what part, if any, the CIA has in this case, but since he, SMILEY, is himself a former intelligence agent he did not feel that he had the right to question something which might be of vital importance to his country.

Dr. SMILEY requested that no hint or inference be given to the CIA which would indicate that he has revealed to the FBI his contacts regarding this matter with the Denver office of the CIA.

He stated that though he has no evidence to substantiate his belief, he cannot get it out of his mind that RIJA may have been a double agent for the Soviets or the Czechoslovaks (Czechoslovakts). He is aware that one Mrs. TANNENBAUER, a woman indicted for a number of frauds and a suspect in two arsenic poisonings, is considered a suspect in the disappearance of RIJA. He never knew RIJA to be associated with any such woman, but stated that he was not acquainted with the personal life of RIJA, who was somewhat of a "loner".

RIJA, when he joined the staff of the University of Colorado, was single, but in 8/68, an individual came to visit RIJA ostensibly for the purpose of arranging a marriage between RIJA and the man's sister. The intended bride was a Czechoslovakian girl who was born in Prague, Czechoslovakia, and this "brother-in-law" was entertained by a member and colleague of RIJA in the History Department. This individual indicated to SMILEY that although the "brother-in-law" supposedly did not speak any English, and had RIJA translate every statement into Czech, it was apparent from the gestures and expressions of the "brother-in-law" that he understood more than he let on. Three weeks after the visit of this man, the woman who became Mrs. RIJA came to Boulder, Colorado, where she and RIJA were married. The marriage resulted in divorce a short time later, and the girl reportedly returned to the East Coast from whence she came.
