53. 8/15/62 Continued

“Of a fixed site.) It is not possible to say how soon after 15 September the activity might have been recognizable from the air as an IRBM site.” (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62)

54. 8/18/62 — CIA’s President’s Checklist reported that “There are grounds for thinking that the large influx of Soviet military equipment and technicians into Cuba lately could be connected with the beginning of construction of surface-to-air missile sites. What we know so far is that the shipments have included quantities of electronic, transportation and construction equipment, some of it similar to Soviet equipment which showed up in Indonesia for the building of SAM installations, and that many of the arriving Soviets are construction personnel.” (The CIA Chronology at this point states that “Soviet operations in August involved primarily the establishment of surface-to-air missile and coast defense missile positions. By the middle of August CIA was receiving a large volume of agent and refugee reporting which, while understandably garbled and fragmentary, enabled its (CIA’s) analysts to pinpoint areas of construction and identify some of the equipment coming in.”) (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62)

55. 8/20/62 — “The COMOR Targeting Working Group (chaired and staffed largely by CIA) set up the first comprehensive card file system for Cuban targets.” (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62)

56. 8/21/62 — At a meeting in Secretary Rusk’s office, attended also by Secretary McNamara, Under Secretary Johnson, the Attorney General, General Taylor, General Lemnitzer and Mr. McGeorge Bundy, the DCI said that “information available since 10 August indicated the extent of Soviet aid was much greater than previously thought, and that this probably included highly sophisticated electronic installations or missile sites, probably ground-to-air.” “The possibility of Soviet MRBMs in Cuba was again raised by the DCI, which developed a discussion of possible U.S. courses of action. . . . It was agreed that the DCI would fully brief the President the next day (which he did) and that Rusk, McNamara, Gilpatrick, Taylor, Bundy and the DCI would discuss the situation with the President on 23 August.” (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62)

57. 8/23/62 — A meeting was held with the President, with Messrs. Rusk, McNamara, Gilpatrick, Taylor, Bundy and McCone in attendance. This meeting resulted in the issuance of NSAM (National Security Action Memorandum) #181 dated 8/23/62, reflecting that “The President has directed that the following actions and studies be undertaken in the light of evidence of new bloc activity in Cuba. . . .

“2. What information should be made available in the United States and abroad with respect to these new bloc activities in Cuba?”
