Agents' Handbook, Part II, Pages 12 and 12B, instructs that at the beginning of an interview with any known subject of a Bureau case, the subject be advised of the name and official identity of the interviewing agent and the nature of the inquiry. The fact that the subject was so advised is to be recorded in the opening paragraph of the FD 302.

EXPLANATIONS REQUESTED:

SA MILLER is requested to explain his failure to advise the subject of his name and official identity and the nature of the inquiry and to record on FD 302 that this was done.

Relief Supervisor LUEBBEN is requested to explain his failure to detect this delinquency at the time he approved the report on 9/3/70.

Comments of SA ANDRESS and SAC requested.

SA RICHARD GUY MILLER: At the beginning of the interview at the Humboldt County Jail, Eureka, California, I exhibited my FBI credentials to the subject and advised him of the nature of the inquiry. I apparently inadvertently failed to record this in the opening paragraph of the FD 302 and on review of this FD 302 I inadvertently failed to note this had been omitted from the FD 302. Care will be exercised in the future to insure this does not recur.

SA RICHARD E. LUEBBEN: I was Relief Supervisor on Desk #6 in the absence of the regular supervisor and due to the exceptionally high volume of mail handled by this desk I inadvertently failed to note the above omission from FD 302 of SA MILLER dated 9/1/70 when the report was signed out by me. Every effort will be made in the future to avoid a repetition of this delinquency.

SA RAYMOND MANDRESS: In reference to the report of SA RICHARD GUY MILLER signed out by SA LUEBBEN on 9/3/70, SA LUEBBEN was one of the Relief Supervisors during my extended sick leave during this period. SA LUEBBEN is an experienced Relief Supervisor and supervises the desk in a very efficient and commendable manner. Due to the exceptionally heavy volume of mail during this time, he inadvertently overlooked the omission in the FD 302 of SA MILLER. The importance of advising Bureau subjects of the identity of agents and nature of interview will be discussed with the Relief Supervisors periodically and will be followed closely to insure this does not recur.
