TP 92-1

They had arrived to investigate a business for someone in the United States. They are believed to have made several trips to Guatemala. While in Guatemala, they stayed at the Hotel Maya Excelsior and also at the Pension Suiza and in both places cashed “No Fund” checks. As a result, they were arrested. Nothing ever came of the business which they had invested in, and they are not known to have any contacts in Guatemala at the present time.

He advised that Aureliano Sanchez Arango, a Cuban, was in Guatemala City less than a year ago, at which time he was in the offices of Julio (ULIO) Prado Garcia Salas, together with Cubans Julio Garceron and Eusebio Mujal. The only matters discussed were political matters pertaining to Guatemala and Cuba. Mr. Prado stated that he had heard that Sanchez Arango is in Panama at the present time.

On October 20, 1962, Randall Petrie, Assistant Manager, Hotel Maya Excelsior, Guatemala City, advised that he is certain Larry de Joseph, Donald Richard Sanders, and Aureliano Sanchez Arango have not been guests at the hotel in the recent past. He said that he feels certain if they were guests of the hotel, it was at least several years ago. He advised he had never heard of any plan to construct a hotel and gambling casino in Guatemala.

Roy Critton, Manager, Pan American Hotel, Guatemala City, advised on October 20, 1962, that he had never heard of a plan to construct a hotel with gambling casino in Guatemala City.

III. General Activities at Tampa, Florida

On October 25, 1962, TP T-6 advised he went to Miami over the past week and efforts to contact James Duca, previously described as an associate of the subject in Miami, only determined he plays golf on a regular basis.

On October 26, 1962, Tony Licata, 901 West Fribley, advised SAS John R. Brett and Stephen J. Labadie that he had been closely associates in years past with many of Tampa’s publicly described racket figures. He said he has been in the vending machine business for many years, but that in relation to Santo Trafficante and his family, he had nothing whatsoever to do with them and did not know their business or operations, if any.

TP T-7 advised on November 6, 1962, that Santo Trafficante walked into the Columbia Restaurant, alone, at
