(139. 10/3/62 Continued)

With few changes or omissions, the DIA's 10/3 draft of the intelligence justification for revised overflights of Cuba was forwarded by COMOR on 10/5 to the USIB for consideration and approval. Similarly, on 10/6 COMOR sent to the Director of NRO, at his verbal request, the intelligence justification and statement of target requirements for overhead reconnaissance of Cuba (with copies also being sent by COMOR to the USIB for information and any comments prior to the Special Group meeting on 10/9/62).

In summary, the intelligence justification, and the listing of requirements and specific objectives, which went forward to NRO from COMOR on 10/6 included the following:

(1) A statement of the pressing need for photographic coverage of the Soviet arms buildup in Cuba, particularly with regard to (a) SA-2 sites, (b) possible MRBMs, (c) MIG-21 aircraft, and (d) tanks, artillery, and other conventional weapons and equipment “which are arriving in large quantities.”

(2) SIGINT coverage to obtain up-to-date intelligence on the Soviet-furnished air defense buildup in Cuba which is known to include (a) radar—EW, GCI, HF, MC, AQ and FC; (b) missile systems consisting of 3 confirmed and 1 probable cruise-type coastal defense short range missile sites, 15 SA-2 sites, and missile storage and support facilities; (c) MIGs—60 MIG-15/17/19 and 36 MIG-21s estimated; and (d) a general dispersal throughout Cuba of 30mm, 37mm and 57mm AAA to defend airfields, ports and military installations. (“... a two-fold collection program is necessary: first, a continued coverage of the early warning (EW), ground control intercept (GCI), and communications networks which is now adequately covered by peripheral air, shipborne and ground efforts; second, overflight missions by a vehicle capable of stimulating this defense system into an offensive reaction. From this reaction, the readiness and effectiveness of weapons can be determined.”)

(3) Conclusions: “Some of these requirements are currently being met by peripheral means. However, only overflights will permit the accomplishment of all objectives. COMOR will provide a continual review and updating of requirements.”

(4) Recommendation: “It is recommended that reconnaissance programs be initiated to satisfy these requirements.”

(Source: DIA letter to Coyne, 11/13/62)

140. 10/4/62—The Director, DIA, established a Cuba “Situation Room” operated on a 24-hour basis.

141. 10/4/62—On this date at a meeting of the Special NSC 5412/2 Group, the DCI noted that U-2 flights were now restricted by the presence of SAM sites to the southeastern quadrant of Cuba. The DCI questioned whether this was a reasonable restriction at this time particularly since the SAMs were almost certainly not operational.
