United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: W. G. Cregar  
Subject: SENSTUDY 75  
Date: 7/21/75

Mr. J. B. Adams; Mr. H. N. Bassett; Mr. W. V. Cleveland; Mr. R. J. Gallagher; Mr. J. A. Mintz (Mr. J. B. Hotis); Mr. W. R. Wannall; Mr. W. O. Cregar; Mr. J. E. McHale; Mr. J. W. Hines; Mr. J. P. Thomas.

Associate Director; Deputy Assistant Director, Administration; Deputy Assistant Director, Investigation; Assistant Director: Administration; Computer Systems; External Affairs; Files and Communications; General Investigation; Identification; Inspection; Intelligence; Laboratory; Legal Counsel; Planning and Evaluation; Special Investigation; Training; Telephone Room; Director Secretary.

This recommends representatives of Special and General Investigative Divisions review material from inspection reports which may be requested by the Senate Select Committee (SSC) to determine whether any excisions would be necessary before it is made available to the SSC.

By letter dated 5/14/75, the SSC, Appendix B, Item I, Number 5, requested access to annual inspection reports and related surveys for the past 10 years with respect to the Intelligence Division and 10 field offices. At a conference between members of the SSC Staff and representatives of the Department of Justice and the FBI (FBIQ) SENSTUDY staff, 5/30/75, it was agreed that in response to the above request we would make available to the SSC Staff, for review at FBI (FBIQ), copies of the reports of the two inspections conducted of the Domestic Intelligence Division in 1971 and the inspection of the San Francisco Office during October, 1970.

These reports have been reviewed by both the Intelligence and Inspection Divisions and necessary excisions agreed upon. The SSC Staff is being notified by LHM 7/22/75, transmitted through the Attorney General by letter dated 7/22/75, that excised copies of the aforementioned three reports are available for review in Room 4171 JEH. The LHM alerts the Committee to the fact that all portions of the San Francisco report which pertain solely to criminal matters, without security ramifications, have been removed from that report but can be made available for review should the SSC.

JPT: lhb/lhb

Continued—over.

See addendum of Special Investigative Division.
