Central Intelligence Agency.

Country: Brazil/Cuba/Latin America. Report No. CS-3/536,690. Subject: Activities of the Society of Friends of Cuba in Preparation for the Continental Congress in Support of Cuba. Date distributed: 8 February 1963. No. pages: 1. References: RD. Date of information: 15, 21 January 1963. Place and date acquired: Brazil, Rio de Janeiro, 23 January 1963. Field report No. HBR-3301.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Brazilian (F) with good contacts in the Society of Friends of Cuba. Appraisal of content: 2.

1. The World Peace Council (WPC) was expected to pay for the expenses of the Continental Congress in Support of Cuba, which is to be held in Rio de Janeiro from 28 to 30 March 1963, according to comments made by General Luiz Gonzaga Leite, president of the Society of Friends of Cuba (SAC), at a meeting of the SAC on 21 January 1963.

2. As of 21 January the SAC had not received any replies from the invitations sent to the African nations to participate in the congress. It was announced at the meeting that Valerio Konder, acting president of the Brazilian Pro-Peace Movement and a member of the SAC, was planning to go to Tanganyika to attend the Third Afro-Asian Peoples' Solidarity Conference in early February and would take a copy of the convocation for the congress with him.

3. Plans were made for painting slogans concerning the congress all over the city and for placing large signboards along some of the main parkways. The possibility was discussed of persuading a well-known painter, such as Emiliano di Cavalcanti, to paint a picture for the congress, which would be raffled off for the benefit of the congress.

4. At a meeting of the SAC on 15 January a series of pro-Cuba meetings, which would be held before the congress, was planned. The possibility of inviting certain Brazilian artists to perform at the meetings in order to attract a large crowd was discussed. The SAC was also trying to obtain the signature of Dias Gomes, the theatrical producer, on the convocation of the congress. Gomes planned to go on 19 January to Cuba, where he was to direct a play.
