62-116395

May 29, 1975

U.S. Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities

Re: Interview of Retired Special Agent (SA) Charles D. Brennan by Staff Members of the Senate Select Committee (SSC)

Set out below is information voluntarily furnished to the FBI by retired SA Charles D. Brennan following his voluntary interview by Mark Gitenstein and two other individuals whose names Brennan did not get. Gitenstein as well as the two unnamed individuals identified themselves as Staff Members of the SSC. The interview, which took place in Washington, D.C., on May 22, 1975, lasted approximately two hours. Brennan was not provided with a copy of Senate Resolution 21; was not provided with a copy of the Rules of Procedure of the SSC; nor was he advised of his rights, including his right to private counsel.

The interview, which was not conducted under oath, covered three specific areas: the organizational structure of the FBI; Martin Luther King, Jr.; and COINTELPRO.

With regard to the organizational structure, they asked Brennan to describe what a unit, section, and division constituted at FBI Headquarters. They showed him several copies of C. D. Brennan to W. C. Sullivan memoranda, asking him about specific facts contained in these memoranda. When Brennan failed to have intimate knowledge of the memoranda, they wondered why he had such a poor memory when in fact they were memoranda from him. Brennan then proceeded to explain how such memoranda were prepared. Memoranda are prepared in the name of the Section Chief, i.e., Brennan, to the Assistant Director, i.e., Sullivan, but this does not necessarily mean that Brennan would prepare or even see the memorandum in all instances.

Associate Director; Deputy Assistant Director, Administration; Deputy Assistant Director, Investigations; Assistant Director; Administration; Computer Systems; External Affairs; Files and Communications; General Investigations; Identification; Inspection; Intelligence; Laboratory; Planning and Evaluation; Special Investigations; Training; Legal Counsel; Telephone Room; Director’s Secretary.

1 - 100106670 (Martin Luther King, Jr.)

See note page two.

Enclosure.

GWD 954-546
