William W. Hamilton (of this Section)  
Joseph M. Sizoo (of Research Section)  
Tony J. Seabaugh (of Internal Security Section)  
James P. Benedict (of Internal Security Section)

Harrell, Wagoner and Hamilton are regularly assigned to the Nationality Unit, Morgan to the Middle and South American Unit, Belanger to the Cuban Unit and Hagy to the Chinese Unit.

(1) All positions were occupied as of close of business 8/17/71, although one transfer out was pending and one resignation was pending.

(2) By letter dated 8/16/71 Linda Marie Blum, Clerk-Stenographer, GS-4, was transferred to Phoenix Office. Carol A. Maslow has resigned effective close of business 8/27/71. Letter acknowledging this was dated 8/2/71.

(3) Kendall Wayne Shull, Clerk, GS-4, was assigned to Section 7/22/71 for training purposes pending clerical opening within Division to which he would be permanently assigned.

(4) The additional work involved in the handling of McLek and related specials has to date required the assignment of nine Agents. There has been additional clerical work involved which to date has been handled by clerks regularly assigned to the Nationality Unit plus the clerical assistance rendered by Kendall Wayne Shull from 7/22/71 to 8/17/71 and by Wayne T. Smith who, for training purposes, was assigned to this Section from 7/7 to 8/3/71. If reorganization results in setting up a special unit to handle McLek and related matters, we would require a GS-5 Secretary (Stenography) for the Unit Chief and a minimum of three clerical employees, one to handle lead cards, one to handle dissemination and the third to handle indices searches, file requests and related matters. We would endeavor to fill two of the three clerical positions from clerical complement presently in the Section by diverting one clerk from the present Nationality Unit and one clerk from the Middle and South American Unit. We would request that the clerical position which has existed since 7/7/71 for training purposes be made permanent by an increase in the clerical complement. This would result in adding to the overall Section complement one Secretary (Stenography), GS-5, and one Clerk, GS-4.

(5) The principal manpower savings effected since last inspection was brought about through a voluntary reduction of overall case load within the Section to preclude the necessity for requesting an additional Agent for assignment to the 13 operational desks within the Section (those existing in all units except the Front Office, the Special Coordination Unit, and the Division Stenographic Pool Unit). The case load reduction was effected by streamlining.
