The above-noted chart is believed to be representative of the high volume of communications received daily. Many of these communications were lengthy and/or complicated, requiring close analysis by one or more supervisors assigned to this “Special.” Also, a check of the work devoted to the preparation of daily summary memos and weekly summaries disclosed that a supervisor would arrive at the office at approximately 5:30 a.m. each morning, Monday through Friday, to have the daily memos dictated and typed by 8:15 a.m. the same day, and the supervisor responsible for the weekly summary due each Monday would spend approximately 6 hours preparing this communication on the prior Sunday. Noteworthy, too, is the fact that many responses to the letters from the Attorney General’s Office require extensive research.

With the approval by the Attorney General to interview newspapermen, it is anticipated that the workload will increase rather than decrease in the immediate future. Initially, there will be at least 75 newspapermen to be interviewed, and numerous additional leads will be developed from these interviews. This investigation involves numerous facets and requires extensive work and supervision.

Presently, there are 9 supervisors assigned to this case, and their responsibilities are as follows:

E. R. Harrell, Unit Chief, reviews all outgoing correspondence, reviews incoming reports in the Ellsberg case; supervises preparation of daily summary memorandum and weekly White House memorandum in the Ellsberg case, SALT Leak (SALT Lek) case (leak of classified information concerning Strategic Arms Limitations Talks appearing in “The New York Times”), and the Toll Leak (Toll Lek) case (leak from State Department cables concerning alleged misconduct of Bert M. Tollefson, Jr.); assists in setting out leads from daily teletype correspondence from the field.

J. R. Wagoner, as case agent in McLeak (McLek), is responsible for review of all incoming reports as to adequacy of reporting and leads; maintains and supervises operation of lead box in the Ellsberg case; is responsible for follow-up communications on outstanding leads; has basic responsibility for preparation of weekly White House summary; assists in preparation of daily memorandum summarizing the prior day’s investigative activity in the field.

J. R. Hagy, as case agent, has all supervisory responsibility for Toll Leak (Toll Lek); conducts research on all New Left aspects of the Ellsberg investigation and is responsible for preparation of comprehensive analysis of New Left implications in the case; is responsible for setting out leads relative to New Left associates and contacts by Ellsberg; is responsible for following field investigation; corroborating attendance by Ellsberg at New Left functions; assists in leads obtained from daily teletypes in McLeak (McLek) and Toll Leak (Toll Lek) cases.
