Memorandum to Mr. Tolson

Re: Proposed Transfer of Supervisory Responsibility for Certain Cases from General Investigative Division to Domestic Intelligence Division

That Division on specific violations such as the current sedition case against Stokely Carmichael and prior requests of the Criminal Division concerning activities of H. Rap Brown. Since enactment, 11 specific cases have arisen, the most recent being in connection with allegations of police brutality during the Democratic Convention in Chicago involving injury to over 70 police officers.

BOMBING MATTERS

The same principle of duplicate supervisory review is involved in those bombing cases that arise from the activities of subversive organizations and individuals which are supervised on a day-to-day basis by DID. Examples are foreign nationalist groups, Ku Klux Klan, militant black nationalist groups, and New Left groups. These cases should definitely be supervised by DID for maximum efficiency. All other bombing cases will remain with GID.

The Internal Security Division of the Department now has responsibility over these foreign nationalist groups as well as the Klan and black nationalist organizations. Mr. Yeagley’s Division is also charged with the development of criminal violations in the recent bombings by the so-called Cuban Power group. The Civil Rights Division of the Department usually has jurisdiction over other bombing cases arising from white and black hate groups, but again DID has liaison with that Division on intelligence matters affecting those groups and has engaged in specific investigations to observe and photograph demonstrations at the request of the Civil Rights Division.

Guidelines to delineate the proposed consolidation of supervision have been drawn and are set forth in an appropriate SAC Letter to so inform the field (attached for approval).

EFFECT ON WORK LOAD AND PERSONNEL

The change proposed herein deals only in the two specific categories of Anti-Riot Laws and certain Bombing Matters cases. Special cases that arise in the civil rights field such as the murder of Martin Luther King and the murder of the three civil rights workers in Mississippi will not be affected by the proposed changes. Review of all pending cases that are affected by these changes discloses only one group (11 cases) that should now be transferred—these are the recent bombings instituted by the Cuban Power group.

Analysis of all work load factors represented in the proposed switch of supervisory responsibilities indicates that, if approved, it would be appropriate at the same time to reduce personnel complement of Civil Rights Section (GID) by one Ag supervisor and increase complement of Racial Intelligence Section (DID) by one Ag supervisor.
