Please refer to the attachments to the July 9 letter:

Page 3, Paragraph 2, Subsection A. All of the FBI files on the so-called “Kissinger 17” surveillance will be made available to you and specifically appropriately cleared staff in Room 4171 of the Hoover Building. These documents may be reviewed and studied there, and you and such staff may take such notes as you deem appropriate; we have agreed that the notes are to be left in the secure room of the Hoover Building during your study. When your study is completed, you may prepare a summary of the information which you consider to be appropriate for Committee use. The summary must be checked with senior Bureau executives to ensure the protection of national security matters, protection of confidential sources of information, and observation of privacy considerations. Thereafter, the approved summary may be removed to the Committee’s office and all the staff notes will be destroyed. You may check the summary back to the original documents as extensively as necessary, in Room 4171.

Page 3, Paragraph 2, Subsection B. Materials have already been transmitted regarding the Kraft matter and the agreement between his attorney and the Attorney General. When you have reviewed those materials, and have contacted Mr. Kraft’s attorney, should you deem that appropriate, I understand you will contact me if further information is requested.

Page 5, Paragraph 3, A & B. As you may know, representatives of the King family, including Mr. Harry H. Wachtel, attorney, have formally expressed to the Department a special concern regarding any public disclosure of any derogatory information regarding Dr. King which may be contained in Bureau files. Subject to your reaching an agreement with such representatives of the King family, and the acceptance by the Department of such a written agreement, all of the materials related to the electronic surveillance of Dr. King, in the custody of the FBI, will be made available to you and specifically appropriately cleared staff under the same conditions and with the same agreements as specified above with regard to the “Kissinger 17” surveillance.

Page 6, Paragraph 4. Those materials in the custody of the FBI which reflect and relate to electronic surveillance of the Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City in August 1964 will be provided under the same conditions as articulated above with regard to the “Kissinger 17” surveillance.
