43. 8/1/62 — The DCI circulated NIE 85-2-62 on “The Situation and Prospects in Cuba,” which stated that “the capabilities of the Cuban armed forces have been and are being greatly enhanced by the Soviet Bloc’s provision of military equipment and instruction. Cuban military capabilities, however, are essentially defensive. We believe it unlikely that the bloc will provide Cuba with the capability to undertake major independent military operations overseas. We also believe it unlikely that the bloc will station in Cuba bloc combat units of any description, at least for the period of this estimate.” (The estimate was “over the next year or so.”) With respect to this estimate, CIA reported that “The Intelligence Community view of the Cuban problem in this period was crystallized in NE 85-2-62 . . . as the intelligence foundation for MONGODB.” (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62)

44. 8/4/62 — CIA’s President’s Checklist (“not being under a requirement for USIB coordination was able to report the accumulating information fully to the President”) stated that “Eleven Soviet ships are on their way to Havana and we strongly suspect they are carrying arms. Such a delivery would not be far short of the total amount of arms delivered in the first half of 1962.” (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62)

45. 8/5/62 — “The first of the two Cuban U-2 missions authorized for August was flown on August 5, probably just too soon to detect significant reflections of the Soviet equipment entering the island at that time.” (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62)

46. 8/8/62 — “Observations (in reports later reviewed) at the port of Mariel suggest that preparations for construction of the Guanajay MRBM sites were being made in early August. Prefabricated concrete slabs up to 12x4x2 feet in size and more than thirty dark colored cylindrical tanks about 30 feet long and 10 feet in diameter were off-loaded about 8 August. Tubular and semicircular shaped concrete forms arrived in Mariel during the same period. Similar items have been photographed at the IRBM sites in the Guanajay-Bauta area. One source reported that this material was designed for use in building missile bases, and that some of the cargo was delivered to the Bauta area. . .”

“Concrete forms similar to those observed at Mariel were off-loaded at the port of La Isabela (in the Remedios IRBM site area) during August . . .” (Source: Joint Evaluation Report, 10/24/62)

47. 8/8/62 — “The DCI briefed the Republican Policy Committee, emphasizing the arrival of Soviet military equipment and technicians.” (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62)
