The Third Agency Rule

1. As early as November 1953, the third agency rule was included in Executive Order 10501, which has now been revoked. Section 7(c) prohibited the dissemination of “classified defense information originating in another Department or agency” to an agency “outside the receiving Department or agency without the consent of the originating Department or agency.” The only exception to this rule is that dissemination may be made under the authority of Section 102 of the National Security Act. This section authorizes the Director of Central Intelligence “to correlate and evaluate intelligence relating to the national security, and provide for the appropriate dissemination of such intelligence within the Government using, where appropriate, existing agencies and facilities.”

2. Historically, the responsibility of the DCI to disseminate intelligence has referred to “finished intelligence.” This product is the end result of contributions from members of the Intelligence Community. Therefore, in this situation the finished product is a homogenous product and therefore the approval for further dissemination beyond the receiving agency must come from the Central Intelligence Agency.

3. Executive Order 10501 was superseded by Executive Order 11652, which became effective 1 June 1972. This Executive order did not specifically cover the third agency rule. However, it does provide the following controls: Section 9, Special Departmental Arrangements. The originating Department or other appropriate authority may impose, in conformity with the provisions of this order, special requirements with respect to access, distribution and protection of classified information and material, including those which presently relate to communications intelligence, intelligence sources and methods and cryptography.

4. In anticipation of the implementation of Executive Order 11652, a directive was issued on May 17, 1972, entitled “National Security Council Directive Governing the Classification, Downgrading, Declassification and Safeguarding of National Security Information.” This directive does not contain the term “third agency rule” but does have four subsections which relate to procedures which are similar to what historically had been called the third agency rule. These sections are:

A. (2) Determination of Need-to-Know. In addition to a security clearance, a person must have a need for access to the particular classified information or material sought in connection with the performance of his official duties or

Enclosure. 62-11639-64. Date: 1/16/72.

File classified by order contained in all the information. This matter may be known to anyone else, except for the addressee. Due to its special importance, this document is not being disseminated until further notice is given by the Secretary of Defense. [Signature] M.D.

APR 16 DEC 72.

The Office of the Chief of Navaigan. The Office of the Aaron Harris Library. The National Academy of Science. The Proceedings of the American Academy of Science. The American Society of Engineers. The American Society of Physicists. The American Society of Chemical Engineers. The American Society of Industrial Engineers. The American Society of Metals Engineers. The American Society of Minorities and Racial Research. The American Society of Statisticians. The American Society of Electromagnetic Industries. The American Society of Magnetoimages. The American Society of Plasmas. The American Society of Electrospinning. The American Society of Electrochemistry. The American Society of Chemicals. The American Society of Chemical Engineers. The American Society of Chemical Industries. The American Society of Chemistry.
