ment of Weatherman sympathizers. Approval has been obtained for this Unit to supervise this Pine Street case in view of its intimate connection with the overall Weatherman investigation. Approval has also been obtained for this Unit to supervise a New Left–Violence case in Tucson, Arizona, which involves Unlawful Possession or Receipt of Firearms (UPRF) charges. This Tucson case concerns five New Left extremists, three of whom have now been indicted by a Federal Grand Jury. Two of these have been apprehended and the third is a fugitive. Another subject in this case has been sentenced to jail for contempt of court for refusing to testify before the Grand Jury.

An example of the salutary effect of vigorous investigation and prosecution of New Left extremists is seen in the Seattle area. There, a radical group called the Seattle Liberation Front (SLF), which was composed of former Weatherman members, had fomented continuing violence. Then SLF leaders were tried in Federal court on anti-riot charges. This trial ended in a mistrial, but the SLF leaders were cited for contempt of court. Since that mistrial in December 1970, SLF has been disbanded and most SLF members have left Seattle. There has been a noticeable reduction in New Left violence in Seattle.

In the several cases referred to above, it is noted that in each instance information crucial to the prosecution of New Left extremists was provided by New Left informants.

In recent months significant accomplishments were made in a case involving two extremists in Ohio through the use of a TESUR installation. These two extremists were Nancy Kurshan and Howard Emmer, who were leaders of the Youth International Party (YIP). Between February and June 1971, a TESUR covered the activities of Kurshan, Emmer, and others with outstanding success. This source provided advance information concerning the plans of May Day leader Rennie Davis for the recent May Day national action. The source also provided extensive information on planned demonstrations and strikes at Kent State University on May 3 and 4, 1971, the anniversary of the killing of Kent State students by the National Guard in May 1970. This source furnished information concerning activities and movements of suspects in the Capbom case and other New Left extremists. This source also developed information on plans for the Women's March on Washington on April 10, 1971.
