United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

From: A. W. Gray

Subject: Thomas Riha—Miscellaneous Information Concerning

Date: May 6, 1970

Pursuant to the Director's request, Denver District Attorney James “Mike” McKevitt was interviewed on 5/5/70 as to the investigation of Riha, Czechoslovak-born, naturalized, former professor of Russian history at Colorado University, who departed the Denver area in 3/69 without notifying friends, associates, or his estranged wife. His disappearance has been glamorized and spiced up in newspaper articles by references to Galya Tannenbaum, his paramour. McKevitt stated the investigation was at a standstill, with all leads exhausted. He feels Tannenbaum may have killed the subject since bad feeling developed between them prior to his disappearance due to her forging checks on his account. Further, Tannenbaum was probably a nymphomaniac who had constant sexual affairs with Riha and used this as a club over his head to prevent disclosure of the forgeries. In McKevitt's opinion, Riha is dead since he was close to his friends and, if alive, would contact them. Investigation indicates Riha was abnormal in his sexual desires and could not leave a woman alone. The possibility exists that one of these involvements may have resulted in his death.

Dr. Joseph Smiley, former President of Colorado University, where the subject was employed, is now President of the University of Texas, El Paso, Texas. After the subject's disappearance, Smiley stated that the subject was alive and well. When challenged by McKevitt to disclose the basis for his statement, he refused and appealed to CIA, his source, for help. The Bureau vigorously refuted CIA's claim that a Bureau agent was the original source for the statement. As a result, McKevitt publicly announced that the statement was not true and resulted from an “honest mistake.” There is no indication Smiley has any facts to contribute concerning the subject's current whereabouts or the basis for his disappearance. Since the Bureau has conducted no investigation into Riha's disappearance, an interview of Smiley could result in the impression that the Bureau was entering the case. However, if the Director so desires, El Paso will be instructed to interview Dr. Smiley. Bureau files show the subject attended Moscow University from 9/58 to 9/59. Our files show CIA gave Riha a short briefing prior to his entry into the USSR in 1958. In 1958–59, CIA advised that Czech intelligence attempted to persuade Riha to repatriate and later introduced Riha to Soviet intelligence, which attempted his recruitment. After the subject's return to the United States in 1959, no information was developed as to continued interest in him by Soviet intelligence.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee, and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
