United States Government

Memorandum

To: Clarence M. Kelley, Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

Date: December

From: Robert H. Bork, Acting Attorney General

Subject: Study of FBI Programs and Policies

As you know, a general study of the programs and policies of the FBI was initiated in July by former Attorney General Richardson, former Deputy Attorney General Ruckelshaus, and yourself.

As Acting Attorney General, I have continued to support this effort and you and I have discussed various approaches to further implementation of the study. In addition, I have discussed the matter with Senator Saxbe to assure that he is properly advised of on-going matters pending before the Department. As a result of my conversation with him, I am certain the study will continue to receive the highest priority when the new Attorney General assumes office.

A new dimension was added, however, as a result of a suit filed against the FBI under the Freedom of Information Act by a reporter for the National Broadcasting Company, Carl Stern. The suit brought to my attention certain information which demonstrates anew the importance of the study. In my capacity as Solicitor General, I decided that the law and the public policy expressed in the Freedom of Information Act did not warrant appealing the district court's decision that the documents in question must be provided to Mr. Stern. I understand that the material is in the process of being turned over to Mr. Stern.

ST-114

Meanwhile, it is appropriate—indeed imperative—that you complete as rapidly as possible the inquiry into investigative techniques that you and Mr. Ruckelshaus had begun. As you and I have agreed, the study should focus in particular on the programs and activities referred to in the documents involved in the Stern litigation. I ask that you report on these matters as expeditiously as possible, and that your report include a detailed summary of conduct in the past under such programs and actions taken to insure that the rights of individuals are not violated while essential FBI investigations are pursued. In terms of priority, I think that the program COINTELPRO—New Left should receive first

December 5, 1973

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
