Bureau airtel to all offices dated 11/4/70 instructed the field to initiate investigation of all members of SDS and members of pro-communist, militant New Left-type campus organizations who follow SDS advocacy of revolution and violence. Each individual under investigation should be considered for the Security Index.

Bureau airtel to all offices dated 11/5/70 concerning informant development in New Left groups noted that each SAC was to make this matter his personal concern in order that penetration of these groups by top-quality informants would be accomplished in the immediate future. Each SAC was directed to submit to the Bureau by 11/13/70 a complete analysis of his informant coverage in New Left groups, clearly setting forth the weaknesses and productive steps being taken to rectify these weaknesses.

Current Bureau instructions require development of adequate informant coverage of Strategic Air Command and Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Bases of the United States Air Force (PROSAB) to ensure that our investigative responsibilities in the sabotage, espionage, and internal security fields can be properly discharged. Semiannual reports are submitted by each office having a Strategic Air Command Base or an Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Base within its territory. A review of semiannual reports submitted by the field as of 7/1/70 disclosed that a total of 1,281 informants have been developed.

Bureau airtel to all offices dated 9/9/70 advised the field that a special single fingerprint file on Weatherman fugitives and other New Left terrorists had been started. The field was instructed to immediately review files for the identity of individuals who fit the category of a New Left terrorist and whose fingerprints should be included in this special single fingerprint file. Names of these individuals were to be submitted to the Bureau with sufficient identifying data, and as new names came to the attention of the office, the Bureau was to be promptly furnished with them.
