G. Areas of Conflict, FBI–CIA

Any differences between FBI and CIA are first related to a basic problem existing in any country among the major powers, namely, “How does a law enforcement agency coordinate its internal security functions with an intelligence organization which must operate as a clandestine service?” The very nature of the functions of the two organizations immediately introduces potential areas of conflict. One essentially operates overtly and the other covertly. This alone is enough to create an atmosphere fraught with controversies and confusion. Because each agency was molded differently and because responsibilities differ, there naturally will be conflicting approaches to national security objectives. For example, in the field of intelligence the Bureau is basically a counterintelligence body. CIA, to the contrary, has a much broader responsibility in intelligence, which includes collection of foreign intelligence, political and psychological warfare, interagency coordinating, evaluation, research, etc. Counterintelligence within CIA is actually a relatively small component of the agency. Personnel in the two organizations is recruited under different criteria and standards. Training is likewise at variance. In a final analysis, the experienced FBI Agent and the seasoned CIA intelligence officer are not of the same mold but certainly are tailored as two entirely and distinctly different instruments. We should bear in mind that little has been done to introduce truly substantive cross-fertilization of outlook, approach and operational philosophy between the two agencies. This could be advocated from a Utopian point of view, but it also could be argued that there are distinct advantages to maintaining sound compartmentation.

Separate from the above basic and fundamental situation, the differences between FBI and CIA also relate to other factors such as:

1) FBI was first on the scene and was well established long before CIA came to life. This led to a conception in the early years that CIA was an intruder.

2) The seed of CIA was the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), an organization whose personnel, activities and free-wheeling were the sources of numerous conflicts.
