The key to investigations of this type is the initial interview, which is conducted after the field office covering the alien's residence has developed sufficient background information on the subject. These interviews are designed to have the subject personally verify information he may have furnished to U. S. authorities at some time in the past and, in cases where significant discrepancies are disclosed through the interview, we will intensify the investigation, looking toward the possibility that the subject is now unable to recall a previous cover story. In the event the initial interview is satisfactory, the case is closed subject to being reopened after two years for a second interview. The second interview, which is conducted for the same purpose as the first interview, will determine whether or not additional action is to be taken. If the second interview is satisfactory, no subsequent action is taken with regard to the subject. Cases investigated under the citizenship program are handled in a similar manner.

Our investigations in both these areas produce intelligence information of various types which is valuable to other U. S. agencies having a primary interest in developments in mainland China. The two programs have produced tangible results in that a number of sources in the Chinese field have been developed through interviews.

Chinese alien cases originate with Legal Attache, Hong Kong, who views appropriate records and thereafter submits pertinent data to the Bureau regarding those aliens who fit the criteria for investigation or any others whose backgrounds are deemed to be so unusual that investigation may be justified even though they do not fit the criteria. Cases in the citizenship category are initiated by the Washington Field Office after review of passport records. Alien and citizenship cases are handled on the desks of two Supervisors and constitute only a portion of the work on each desk. Results of investigation are carefully reviewed and evaluated in line with our objective of determining if the subject is or may be of investigative interest.

It is felt that these two programs are fully justified for continuation since they cover areas which may be utilized by the Chicom to introduce illegal agents into this country. No other U. S. investigative agency carries out investigative activity along this line. In addition, these programs provide us with sources and positive intelligence of
