To: Harris City Charter School District. From: Academic Committee of Integrity and Accountability Selector (ACIAAS). YTD December 2021.

Hold the security.

Received teletype unit. Date: 23PH 7/25. Time: 9:59 AM. Position A. Invoice No. 49899.

Classification of order is confidential, not public. This information may be used by the order owner as indicated. The order owner may review, use, or dispose of this information at his/her choice at any time. This notice goes with the order. If it is no longer available, it must be returned to Mercy Community Security Office by the order owner. Please report any observances or suspicious activities as soon as possible. Thank you for your time.

A. A. Deneault. For personal use only. I have not received a copy of this document prior to its release to you. This may contain confidential and/or sensitive information that requires reading permission.

The Mercy Security Committee has the sole responsibility for reviewing and implementing all requests for disclosure of confidential information.

This document may be disclosed to authorized personnel only after review by the Executive Director and a report to the Mercy Security Committee. In no event shall this document be distributed to any third party without written approval from the Executive Director.

The Mercy Security Committee will act in its best interest to prevent unauthorized access, modification, or disclosure. This document is intended for the use of Mercy Security Committee personnel only. All other employees are restricted from accessing this document. Any employee found to have accessed this document will be terminated by the Company.

The Mercy Security Committee will make every effort to update the list of authorized personnel on a regular basis. The list of authorized personnel will be updated on an ongoing basis when new personnel are added to the committee or when existing members leave the committee.

The Mercy Security Committee will maintain a log of authorized personnel and provide it to the Executive Director upon request.

All questions about this policy should be directed to the Executive Director. This document may be reviewed at any time by the Mercy Security Committee.

If you have any questions about this policy or require a copy of this policy, please contact:

Mercy Security Office  
P.O. Box 4989  
Mercy City, Texas 76260  
Telephone: (512) 824-6363  
Electronic mail: security@mercytx.org  
Website: www.mercytx.org

Youth, Family and Community Service Organization.
