That this base should be retained; that what was needed from then on was expansion, strengthening and refinement of capabilities in various fields of activity. During the past year CIA has made progress in expanding, strengthening and refining its capability in the clandestine collection of intelligence information in Latin America. CIA has opened new stations in Kingston, Jamaica; Georgetown, British Guiana; and Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana, and has opened bases in Cordoba, Argentina; Merida, Mexico; and in Belo Horizonte, Curitiba and Salvador, Brazil. During the past year, CIA personnel in the field in Latin America has been increased by 54, including 24 officers under nonofficial cover. This makes a total of 365 officers in Latin America. A substantial additional number of officers under non-official cover will be assigned to the field during the coming year. Increased emphasis on the collection of intelligence information in Latin America during the past year has resulted in the activation of 263 additional clandestine sources of information. CIA now has 1949 agents approved for use in Latin America—an increase of 242 in the past year. Penetrations of Communist Parties and Front Organizations in Latin America now number 142.

3. The recommendation of the Board. We recommend, while it is still possible, continued high-level and low-level (as required) aerial reconnaissance of Cuba as one means of acquiring photographic and signals intelligence concerning the military installations, the military forces, the modern military weaponry and the highly sophisticated communications facilities which the Soviets retain in Cuba. This surveillance effort must be accompanied by priority planning for the development of acceptable substitutes (such as drones, improved satellite reconnaissance, etc.) in lieu of present aerial reconnaissance coverage, when and if such coverage is denied us by air defense systems now being installed by the Soviets in Cuba on a scale matched only by Soviet air defense installations in the areas of Moscow and Leningrad. We also recommend the launching at the earliest possible date of a vigorous clandestine agent program to provide surreptitious collection of on-the-ground photography of intelligence targets in Cuba, as an essential supplement to aerial surveillance of the island.

Comment. We agree in general with this recommendation. High-level aerial reconnaissance of Cuba acquiring both photographic and signals intelligence concerning the military installation, the military forces, the modern military weaponry, and highly sophisticated communications facilities in Cuba is continuing. At present low-level reconnaissance is not included in the Cuban reconnaissance program. Authority will be sought for its use.
