There appears to be much confusion in professional circles regarding the use of the term “positive intelligence.” Some professionals use the term “positive intelligence” synonymously with the term “foreign intelligence.” In still another usage, “positive intelligence” and “intelligence” are used interchangeably. In another usage, which is closely related to the definition utilized in this study, “positive intelligence” is described as what is left of the entire field after “security intelligence” has been subtracted. This source continues that both “positive intelligence” and “security intelligence” can be against domestic targets, as well as against foreign targets. For example, the Department of State, in connection with its formulation of foreign policy, encounters a large number of organizations of Americans whose parents came from foreign countries. Many of these organizations—the Poles, for example—have strong views on what United States policy should be toward Poland. The views of these organizations regarding our foreign policy are likely to be a matter of some importance to the Department of State in its policy formulation. The knowledge of what these organizations think and do can be a very significant phase of what might be called “domestic positive intelligence.” In addition, the connections which these organizations may have with the foreign country, such as Poland, sometimes provide a source of “foreign positive intelligence.”

Scientific intelligence pertains to the progress of scientific research and development, and usually this intelligence is within the framework of how it affects military or economic potential of a nation.

Security intelligence is basically the intelligence behind the police function to protect the nation and its members from those working to our national and individual detriment. For example, this would include intelligence regarding clandestine agents sent to the United States by a foreign power.

Sociological intelligence pertains to the social, cultural, psychological, or ethnic structure and characteristics of a people.

Strategic intelligence is the intelligence required for broad and usually long-range planning, especially with regard to military operations.
