This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized persons.

December 11, 1970

Memorandum for the Attorney General

Re: White Panther Party - Youth International Party  
Internal Security - Anarchy

Reference is made to this Bureau's memorandum dated August 18, 1970, concerning captioned organizations. By approval of that memorandum on August 19, 1970, you authorized the installation of a telephone surveillance on the headquarters of the White Panther Party at 1520 Hill Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan, for a period of thirty days. Continuation of this surveillance was approved by you on November 19, 1970.

The White Panther Party is a self-described revolutionary organization which is a strong white support group for the Black Panther Party. Some of its current leadership presently advocates the use of violence to achieve revolutionary change in the United States. Recent communications from incarcerated White Panther Party leaders John Sinclair and Lawrence Plamondon indicate that the White Panther Party must strengthen its ties with all revolutionary peoples and nations throughout the "Third World" by participating fully in the new world liberation front. Furthermore, if the White Panther Party is moved against "in an unlawful violent manner by the force of reaction or their pawns, we will defend ourselves with arms and force."

Since this surveillance has been established it has furnished information concerning identification of the leadership and membership of the White Panther Party, both in the State of Michigan and nationally. It further ascertained that this organization is in dire need of operating funds and what steps must be taken to obtain additional funds. This surveillance is also furnishing information concerning a possible national conference of the White Panther Party to be held in the near future.
