On 7/29/65, WF1683S advised that Concepcion Maria Fernandez Planas (105-98201) had been married for a couple of months to a Cuban exile named Alfredo Cepero, a lawyer who was believed to be employed in Virginia. During the first days of the Castro regime, she had dated Jose Machado Ventura, who served as Castro's Minister of Public Health in Cuba. At one time (date not indicated), Fernandez also dated Manuel Artime of the famed Brigade 2506, which had invaded Cuba during April 1961. WF1683S was aware that Artime had traveled to Washington, DC, for the sole purpose of visiting Fernandez at her residence (address not given). WF1683S stated that Cepero was extremely jealous and he was almost certain that Fernandez had not revealed her past association with Machado and Artime to Cepero.

105-98201-13, enclosure, page 2.

*Cuban national employed at the Pan American Union, Washington, DC (see 105-98201-8).

Documents furnished by OACSI-Army included a G-2 USARSOUTHCOM report advising that an unnamed source who was Chief of the Presidential Guard, Republic of Panama (RP), indicated on 8/16/65 that the source had been visited in his home on both the preceding Friday and Saturday by Cuban revolutionary Manuel Artime (Artimes). The source said that Artime was a friend of General Somoza, Chief Director of the Nicaraguan National Guard, and of the source's sister-in-law, Mrs. Yolanda de Corrales; also, that Artime knew the source's brother-in-law, Lt. Humberto (Gumberto) Corrales, Assistant to General Somoza. Artime, who had been unable to contact President Robles, asked the source to confidentially inform the President that a conspiracy was being planned for the purpose of assassinating the Presidents of Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and the RP. Files of the 470th INTC Group, Fort Amador, Canal Zone, revealed background data on Manuel F. Artime Buesa, born 1/29/32, Camaguey Province, Cuba. His father was shown as Manuel Artime F. and his mother as Otilla B. de Artime. It was suspected that Artime wanted to meet President Robles to obtain from him a letter of introduction, for unknown reasons, to Jack Vaughan, former US Ambassador to RP and present US Assistant Secretary of State.

(continued)
