The Black Panther, June 20, 1970, p. 8.

EXPELLED

So let this be heard throughout the black community of Atlantic City, New Jersey. That Leonard Weeks is no longer a servant of the people. That he is no longer the breakfast coordinator for this community center, or for that matter no center ran by the Black Panther Party. He has become slipshod in his duties as a servant to the people, and about his duty to the people's children. He deserted the children of the black community; there were days he would not attend the breakfast program, because he said that he was tired or that he overslept.

Well, we cannot adhere to this because as revolutionaries we must prepare ourselves to be a match for a hundred. We must prepare to run ourselves to death if need be, so that the people shall be served, and to see to it that they truly have a right to the best. And we have no time for slipshod niggers. We must hold ourselves responsible to the people. Every word, every act, and every policy must conform to the people's interest, and if mistakes occur, they must be corrected; that is what being responsible to the people means.

ALL POWER TO THE PEOPLE

Black Panther Party N.C.C.F. Community Center

Atlantic City

FOOLS RUSH IN

Harold Wright, number one fool in Pittsburgh, rushed out of here and into Baltimore.

HAROLD WRIGHT, FOOL

The National Committee to Combat Fascism has no time for crazy dumb fools who run around pimping off the people's just struggle for freedom and self-determination. This modern-day madman can't seem to find himself or anything else for that matter. He started out helping to put this office together and after a long train of ... was put out. Harold didn't like this and started to hang around our office trying to give the community the impression that he was still a member of the revolutionary ranks of Babylon.

After a few days of the breakfast program, his wife Michelle decided that she loved Harold more than the people and went with him.

We say goodbye to the Wright family and other love birds, like the Johnsons, who can't deal for the people.

So let this be heard, Harold and Michelle Wright are not members of the National Committee to Combat Fascism nor will these tools ever be.

ALL POWER TO THE PEOPLE

Committee to Combat National  
574 Brushton Ave.  
Pittsburgh, Penn.  
(412) 242-4728

The Black Panther, June 20, 1970, p. 8.
