United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. Callahan

From: J. B. Adams

Subject: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities; House Select Committee on Intelligence Activities

On 3/7/75 Mr. Mintz and I called on Senator Church and his staff director, Bill Miller, to further discuss the procedures for investigating and clearing staff employees of the Committee, particularly where information might be developed raising a question as to the propriety of a clearance. It had previously been approved that the FBI would conduct the background investigations, furnishing the results to Senator Church, and after his determination that the individuals met the required criteria for access to classified information he would notify CIA of his determination and intent to employ the individual involved, at which time CIA would grant the necessary clearance based on the certification by Senator Church.

In discussions between CIA and FBI representatives, we raised the question as to whether CIA would review the results of the investigation prior to granting clearances and CIA representatives indicated they did not intend to and were reluctant to inquire of Senator Church as to whether they could be furnished the results of any investigations involving derogatory information.

In discussing this matter with Senator Church, I inquired whether he had any objection to our bringing to the attention of CIA any questionable cases in order that CIA representatives, who have the responsibility of granting the actual clearances, would be in a position to advise and counsel with Senator Church on those individual cases. He had absolutely no objection to this and, in fact, felt there should be an open communication between FBI, CIA and his Committee to insure that no one was appointed and cleared who did not measure up in every respect from a security standpoint.

I discussed with him the particular case of Stanley Rawson Sloan, the results of which I had brought for delivery to Senator Church. Sloan was

JBA:ams

1 - Mr. Cleveland  
1 - Mr. Wannall

The text of the original document is not legible from the blurry photocopy. The handwriting seems to be of a man's left side, and the document appears to be written on a typewritten form. The format is inconsistent, with some lines being bold and some italicized. The text reads like a transcription error. It also contains someamilary references that are not present in the original document or the transcription.

The transcription shows that the document begins with “THE following are the items related to the information contained in the attached memorandum.” This is followed by a list of items, including “1. The following is a list of the information contained in the attached memorandum: (a) the contents of the document entitled ‘MEMORANDUM’ dated as follows; (b) the title of the document entitled ‘MEMORANDUM’ dated as follows; and (c) the subject matter of the document entitled ‘MEMORANDUM’ dated as follows.” Each item is followed by a period and a line break.

The list of items continues in the same style until it reaches a total of 22 items. After that, the list changes to “(d) the general description of the content of the attached memorandum, which includes the following:” (a) the first item states that the “following is a list of the information contained in the attached memorandum; (b) the second item states that “the following is a list of the information contained in the attached memorandum;” and (c) the third item states that “the general description of the content of the attached memorandum, which includes the following:” (1) the fourth item states that “the general description of the content of the attached memorandum,
