Cuban Unit

This Unit has responsibility for neutralizing Cuban intelligence and subversive Puerto Rican independence activities against the United States. The Cuban Mission to the United Nations (CMUN), New York City, is the focal point for Cuban spying operations, but Puerto Rican terrorist endeavors are carried out by several groups, some being strictly local. San Juan operations and others, under Cuban direction, carry out incendiary bombings and acts of sabotage in the New York City area, as well as in Puerto Rico.

Cuban Intelligence Matters

We currently have 11 active, 21 potential and one inactive double agents in the Cuban intelligence field. Through a concerted effort mounted against the CMUN in February 1970, we had developed 24 DESECO-type sources at the time of the last inspection. Since that date, 19 other similar sources have been cultivated, and each is being used in some capacity on a continuing or intermittent basis in our efforts to establish blanket coverage of the known intelligence officials at the CMUN (9 out of a 15-man complement) and to develop a defector-in-place there.

Recently we have developed documentary proof that an Attaché at the CMUN is illegally purchasing television cameras in violation of United States regulations, and the State Department is considering persona non grata action based on this data. One of our sources has obtained the repair contract for CMUN automobiles, which assures us continuing access to them.

In March 1971, the Director's approval was obtained to carry out a concerted defection effort against a CMUN Second Secretary, using a Special Agent of the New York Office who has a Latin American background and who has gained the complete confidence of the Cuban intelligence official through his facility with the Spanish language and his finesse in posing as a Washington, D.C., businessman who is looking ahead to the time when the United States will reestablish trade relations with Cuba. The State Department is preparing back-up material for this operation. The White House has been offered this arrangement as a vehicle to feed disinformation to the Cuban Government, and it has responded with enthusiasm that serious consideration is being given to use of this communication channel.
