On Chairman Mao Tse Tung's Declaration of 20 May 1970

In this declaration, Chairman Mao Tse Tung has set forth a brilliant and timely analysis of the qualitatively new situation that exists in the world as a result of the treacherous new acts of aggression launched by the fascist, imperialist Nixon-Chinese people.

This declaration pulls together into clear focus the revolutionary struggles and the liberation struggles of the people of the whole world, including the revolutionary struggle of the American people themselves.

Speaking specifically for the Black Panther Party, but reflecting the sentiments of millions of oppressed people inside the United States, it has become crystal clear to us that rampant imperialist aggression on the international scale and vicious fascist repression on the domestic scale are the two faces of the criminal government of the United States and the calculated policy of the American ruling circles. For 400 years now, Black people inside the United States have been the long-suffering victims of fascist violence and repression. But under the Nixon-Pentagon clique, this reactionary violence and repression has been escalated to new heights of barbaric cruelty. At the same time, in order to put down the already gigantic and still growing mass movement among White Americans against the reckless and sanguinary policies and imperialist adventures of the U.S. government, the cowardly Nixon-Pentagon clique has unleashed a bloodbath against the American people as a whole, creating for itself new enemies who have joined hands with those who were already determined to carry out a struggle to the bitter end against an economic, political, and social system that is dominated by the madmen in the Pentagon and that is responsible for the misery and bloodshed all over the world today.

Chairman Mao Tse Tung captures the truth of the situation when he points out the unprecedented isolation of the Nixon-Pentagon clique. Never before have these criminals been so exposed and isolated as they are today. And never before has it been so clear that this criminality can only be ended by the people rising up to seize their own destiny from the handful of willful exploiters and murderers that now have the power in their hands.

Coupling a revolutionary call to arms with revolutionary optimism in the assurance of victory, Chairman Mao Tse Tung, the great leader of the Chinese Revolution, hero and teacher of the revolutionary people of the world, has performed an invaluable service to all mankind by stepping forward at this time to renew the people's indictment of the common enemy of us all—U.S. Fascism and Imperialist Aggression. These courageous words of Chairman Mao Tse Tung will give new heart to the peoples in their lonely and difficult struggles to throw off the shackles and chains of oppression now being held in place by U.S. Fascism and Imperialism.

Lastly, we wish to point out that only the enemies of the people and those who shirk their revolutionary duties and who are afraid of their own shadows will find fault with Chairman Mao Tse Tung's declaration. For our part, we welcome it, because we have learned, by shedding our blood, that only through relentless struggle, by resorting to arms inside the very house of U.S. Fascism and Imperialism itself, can we gain our freedom and liberation. This is what our experience has taught us and this is the faith that will sustain us as we push forward our struggle.

LONG LIVE CHAIRMAN MAO TSE TUNG!  
LONG LIVE THE VICTORY OF THE PEOPLES' WAR!

DEATH TO THE U.S. FASCISM AND IMPERIALIST AGGRESSION!

ALL POWER TO THE PEOPLE!

Eldridge Cleaver, Minister of Information, Black Panther Party, U.S.A.

The Black Panther, June 20, 1970, page 16
