and storable high-energy propellant fuel.

As for Soviet MRBMs and IRBMs, Mr. Cline said that there are over 700 launchers, mostly in the Western USSR; deployment is almost complete; and there is evidence of some hardening (four silos have been discovered).

Mr. Cline said that it is not certain how much the USSR intends to invest in the development of an anti-missile missile. Satellite photography is the key. A March 1964 photo of Leningrad shows five distinctive bays at launch sites, but it is indicated that the USSR probably suspended construction in 1963.

In further emphasis on the importance of special search satellite photography, Mr. Cline said that a GAMBIT mission has not yet been run over a huge mystery structure recently revealed in photography of Moscow.

Mr. Cline reported that yesterday the Soviets had launched a space probe to Venus, the time of arrival estimated as July 22.

Concerning the recent release of the CIA estimate on the Soviet economy, Mr. Cline said that despite the welter of denials and counterattacks by the USSR, the CIA has indications that its estimate was correct. The first “Pravda” blast contained statistics confirming the CIA’s estimate of a 3 per cent gain in the Soviet GNP. The next issue of Pravda omitted these statistics.

As for the Sino-Soviet conflict, Mr. Cline stated that this deep and bitter struggle reflects opposing national interests and policy views, and is a contest for dominance which is nearing the breaking point. The anti-Soviet vituperation coming out of Communist China is unprecedented. CIA’s clandestine reporting indicates that the Chicomы (Chicoms) are attempting to subvert Soviet leadership around the world, and to discredit Khrushchev in the USSR. Exchanges of secret Party letters indicate that a Sino-Soviet break must come. The basis of the dispute seems to be the failure of the USSR to provide the economic and military support which China needed in order to enlarge its industrial capacity. Public exchanges of insults, and intelligence from various sources, show that the breach began in 1960 from differences of policy with regard to the degree of risk of war which should be acceptable to Communism in its actions affecting the West. Also there is a lot of prejudice against China in the Soviet military. Mr. Cline does not think that Sino-Soviet differences can be resolved so long as Mao and Khrushchev are in positions of leadership.

With regard to Indian border action by the Chinese Communists, Mr. Cline thought that this move was for the purpose of getting control of a part of the route for a transcontinental railroad.

In Vietnam, Mr. Cline said, the U.S. mission has given General Khanh a breathing spell to get a grip on the political and military machine. There is a little more confidence within the South Vietnam government. The Viet Cong has not launched attacks on the larger scale expected when Khanh took over, but guerrilla activities have increased and three province chiefs have been killed or kidnapped in the last few weeks. In North Vietnam, recent intelligence indicates,
