D. Alarms

All exterior doors to the auditorium will have contact (microswitch) alarms. The Remington Rand safes, being obsolete, will be protected by a proximity alarm. The compartmented storage room and an adjacent reading area will be protected by a volumetric alarm. For fire protection, a smoke detector/rate-of-rise alarm will be installed in the compartmented area. All alarms will enunciate at the guard desk at the entrance to the auditorium. The ADT Company will install and maintain the alarms.

E. Safes

The facility has 22 safes. Sixteen 4-drawer Remington Rand safes are located below the movie screen. Three Class 6 Mosler 5-drawer safes, two Class 1 Diebold 2-drawer safes, and one Class 2 Diebold 4-drawer safe are located in the compartmented storage room. With the exception of the Remington Rand safes, all other safes are in good working order.

The safe combination and repairs are under contract with the Safemaster Company. The safe combinations were recently changed by that company. All safe combinations are under the control of Mr. Marshall. However, assistance with day-to-day operations is provided by Mr. Pat Shea, Assistant Staff Director, who acts as backup for safeguarding the combinations to the safes in the compartmented storage room. Messrs. Larry Kieves, John Petersen, and Ms. Jan Orloff are backups for the combinations to the sixteen Remington Rand safes. Mr. Marshall was given two change keys in the event he decides to change the combination himself should staff personnel rotate.

F. Document Control

Incoming CIA documents will be delivered by Agency courier to the guard at the entrance door to the auditorium. The registry officer will receipt for them and take them to the Registry Section, where all documents will be logged. Compartmented and Top Secret material will be taken to the Compartmented Storage Room and placed in a safe after it has been logged in Registry. Individuals on an access list promulgated by Mr. Marshall draw the compartmented documents from the safes but must read them in the adjacent area dedicated for this purpose. Documents classified below TS/Codeword will
