SAC R. E. Gebhardt

10/22/70

8. Subsequent to the submission of the last inspection report, through information from top-echelon informants in this office, information has been developed that SF 2689-C-TE has assumed the position of “Boss” of the San Francisco LCN Family.

SF 2656-PC has reported the return to the San Jose area of Stefano Zoccoli, consigliere of the San Jose LCN Family, from Los Angeles, where he had been residing for the past year.

During November 1969, SF 2656-PC reported that George Adragna, a member of the Western Pennsylvania Family of the LCN, was coming to the San Jose area to live. Subsequently, SF 2656-PC and SF 2689-C-TE reported that Adragna’s membership had been transferred to the San Jose LCN Family, and he is currently residing in the San Jose area.

Subsequent to the submission of the last inspection report, SF 2689-C-TE reported that James Fratianno, a member of the Los Angeles LCN Family, had moved into the San Francisco area, where he remained until August, when he commenced serving a prison sentence imposed by the State of California.

During October 1969, information was received indicating that Jerry Lisner, a major bookmaker in Los Angeles, California, was in contact with John Castelli, a bookmaker in Oakland, California. The purpose of this contact was for Lisner to establish a base of operation, particularly bookmaking, for his criminal activities in the San Francisco area. Investigation subsequently established that Lisner and others commenced a bookmaking operation in Alameda and Contra Costa Counties, East Bay Area, using as its front A-1 TV Service, Oakland, which is owned by John Castelli. Following extensive investigation in cooperation with the Oakland Police Department, no evidence was developed to indicate any violation of Federal statutes. On November 22, 1969, the Oakland and Berkeley, California, Police Departments simultaneously arrested Salvatore J. Bernice, John Trapps, and two other associates who were engaged in Lisner’s bookmaking.
