An examination of the services of the democracies mentioned above, viz., Britain (Britian), Australia and Canada, reveals that all do distinguish between the pure law enforcement function and the counterintelligence/internal security function; however, there is not a total separation of the functions. For example, the British Security Service (MI-5) handles counterintelligence exclusively with MI-5 case officers, but places its internal security investigations in the hands of the Special Branches of the local constabularies (comparable to the intelligence divisions of local U.S. police departments). The Australian Security Intelligence Organization (ASIO), modeled after MI-5 and of recent vintage (post-W.W. II), handles all counterintelligence and internal security investigations with its own officers; however, it is rivaled to some extent in the internal security field by the Intelligence Bureau of the national Commonwealth Police. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police, a truly national police force with extensive local and federal jurisdiction, has branched off its intelligence division into a new, near-autonomous Security Service, with operational procedures more akin to MI-5 and ASIO than to traditional law enforcement.

In short, these countries recognize that the political, social and foreign policy considerations which must go into counterintelligence and internal security investigations make them a different animal from “routine” criminal investigation; yet, they also recognize that the agency with internal security jurisdiction must also have an intimate and close working relationship with a law enforcement agency.

Complete separation, at least of the internal security function from law enforcement, does not appear to be practically feasible. MI-5 and ASIO were originated without law enforcement powers, and MI-5 candidly admits it would like to become part of a national police force. RCMP Security Service case officers would not consider surrendering their police powers.

Separation of the counterintelligence function would be more practically feasible; however, the commingling of counterintelligence and internal security interests, and the threat of a merger of the counterintelligence function with the positive foreign intelligence collection agency, especially in the U.S., are both practical and political reasons militating against this course.
