119. 9/20/62 — Intercepted messages (COMI) indicated the presence in Cuba on this date of Lieutenant General Pavel B. Dankevich. Dankevich is believed to have held a command in Vinnitsa (Vinnista), probably as late as November 1961. Vinnitsa is the location of a probable Soviet MRBM command and the headquarters of a Long Range Air Army. It is not known how long Dankevich may have been in Cuba prior to September 20, 1962. The intelligence publications available to the Board fail to reflect that any particular significance was attached to Dankevich's presence in Cuba until after the President made his public address relative to MRBMs and IRBMs in Cuba. On October 27, CIA distributed a memorandum stating that Dankevich's presence in Cuba “indicates the high priority assigned by Moscow to the missile bases in Cuba.” (Source: CIA memorandum of 10/27/62; DIA Intelligence Summary 10/27/62; Joint Evaluation Report, 10/27/62.)

120. 9/20/62 — On this date the DCI sent a final cable to CIA from the Riviera, commenting to General Carter on the conclusions of SNIE 85-3 of 9/19, which had been cabled to the DCI. The DCI's cable expressed reservations on the SNIE conclusions and stated: “As an alternative I can see that an offensive Soviet base in Cuba will provide Soviets with most important and effective trading position in connection with all other critical areas and hence they might take unexpected risks in order to establish such a position.” These views were provided to the DD/I and the Board of National Estimates. (We have no evidence that the intelligence community was informed of the views expressed by the DCI in his several cables from the Riviera. The State and DIA members of USIB advised the Board on 11/9/62 that they had not been informed of the DCI's views.) (Source: CIA Chronology, 11/7/62.)

121. 9/20/62 — The Defense Intelligence Agency on this date attempted to obtain broad area coverage of Cuba through CORONA. On that date the DIA member of COMOR addressed a memorandum to the Chairman of COMOR with the request that COMOR recommend the programming of an engineering pass of the CORONA vehicle over Cuba “where the western end of the island is, temporarily at least, off limits and where we need to know if any other SA-2 sites have been constructed . . .”

122. 9/21/62 — An article in the Washington News by Virginia Prewett, under date of 10/31/62, entitled “Why Didn't JFK Act Earlier?” stated that a report made by Miami's Cuban Student Directorate on 9/21/62 stated: “One of the European Ambassadors in Havana recently reported to his respective country ‘that if the countries of this hemisphere do not take military action against Castro immediately, or at least before the next six months, Cuba will possess Russian missile bases armed with atomic and nuclear weapons capable of destroying in a few minutes the most strategic zones in the United States. Besides, it is known that the construction will be carried out secretly, with this end in view—that while the work continues, the American government will go on believing that the military installations are purely defensive measures.’”
