Be kept informed concerning these activities.

Dr. Killian remarked to Dr. Langer that the Board Panel on NSC 5412/2 matters should conduct a continuing review, with the objective of the Panel becoming fully informed regarding covert action programs, following which the Board would determine the next step to be taken.

Meeting of June 25-26, 1962

In Executive Session Chairman Killian informed Board members that recently there had been scheduled a CIA briefing of the Board Panel on covert action programs. However, the day before the briefing was to have been given by CIA officials Chairman Killian received a telephone call from the DCI, Mr. McCone, who said that he hesitated to provide the information requested by the Board Panel because only the President was privy to some of the covert operations involved. Mr. McCone told Chairman Killian that he had discussed this matter with the President who had concurred in the DCI's suggestion that the briefing of the Board Panel be limited to procedural aspects of the Special NSC 5412/2 Group. Dr. Killian's reply to the DCI was to the effect that this would be a waste of time because the Board was already fully informed concerning these procedural matters, and therefore the Chairman expressed his intention to discuss this matter with the President, and the DCI indicated that he favored this course of action. Thereafter, Chairman Killian discussed the problem with Mr. McGeorge Bundy who felt that under the Board's Directive it should have full information in order to carry out its duties. Continuing his report to the Board, Dr. Killian said that on the preceding evening he had dined with the DCI who on this occasion said that he was prepared to give the Board whatever information it needs, including information on CIA operations in the covert action field. The Chairman added that Mr. McCone planned to brief the Panel himself from a book prepared for the first time in CIA with regard to all of the activities involved. Mr. Gray stated that the ability of the Board to get complete information concerning covert action activities was essential if the Board were to be able to discharge its responsibility to the President. Mr. Clifford thought that the gravity of this issue with the DCI was such that it warranted mention to the President when the Board met with the President the following day, and the President should be told the background of the problem and how the matter had been resolved.
