5(c). At the present time there are nine Agent Supervisors assigned to this matter.

Investigation was instituted 6/15/71, and from then until 6/23/71 manpower assignments were handled within the Section.

On 6/23/71 two additional Agents were placed in the Section on a loan basis, and they were assigned to operational desks, as Agents permanently assigned to those desks from within the Section were assigned to the McLek case.

On 6/28/71 an Agent was assigned on a loan basis from the Extremist Intelligence Section, and this loan Agent has been rotated on a weekly basis since. He has been utilized to cover an operational desk while one of the regularly assigned Agents in the Section, H. J. Morgan, has been assigned full time to this case.

On 7/8/71 an Agent from the Research Section was assigned full time to prepare a “book” on Ellsberg and has worked on this exclusively, with the exception of an annual leave period from 9/2–13/71. He has not participated in any other phase of the case on a day-to-day basis.

On 7/8/71 one man on a weekly rotating basis was assigned temporarily from the Espionage Section and continues to the present time. This loan Supervisor has been utilized to cover an operational desk within the Section while the regularly assigned Supervisor on the desk, J. R. Hagy, has been utilized full time on instant case.

On 7/29/71 an Agent from within the Section, L. E. Belanger, was assigned part time to handle special aspects of the Ellsberg case, relating specifically to electronic surveillance checks on potential witnesses.

A memorandum from Mr. Felt to Mr. Tolson dated 8/4/71, captioned “Adequacy of Personnel, Leak Cases, Domestic Intelligence Division (DID),” recommended, and the Director approved, that the number of Agents assigned to handle leak cases, including the Ellsberg case, be increased immediately from five to seven, these two additional Agents to be diverted from other assignments in the Domestic Intelligence Division, with at least one to be diverted from the CP, USA Unit. The Director approved this. At that time we had five men working full time on instant and related cases, including J. M. Sizoo, who was involved exclusively in preparation of a “book” on Ellsberg.

On 8/9/71, in the absence of additional manpower from outside the Section, the number of Agents committed to instant and related cases was increased
