James O. Eastland, Mississippi, Chairman

James McClellan (Clellan), Arkansas  
Philip A. Hart, Michigan  
Edward V. Kennedy (M. Kennedy), Massachusetts  
Thomas J. Dodd (Th), Indiana  
Quentin N. Burdick (N. Burbick), North Dakota  
Robert C. Byrd (L. Byrd), West Virginia  
John V. Tunney (Unncy), California  

Roman L. Hruska (Huuska), Nebraska  
Hiram L. Fong (Fons), Hawaii  
Hugh Scott, Pennsylvania  
Strom Thurmond, South Carolina  
Marlow W. Cook, Kentucky  
Charles N. G. Mathias, Jr., Maryland  
Edward J. Gurney, Florida  

Edward M. Kennedy, Massachusetts, Chairman

Philip A. Hart, Michigan  
Birch Bayh (Rayh), Indiana  
Quentin N. Burdick, North Dakota  
John V. Tunney, California  

Strom Thurmond, South Carolina  
Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., Maryland  
Edward J. Gurney, Florida  

James P. Flue (Fluo), Chief Counsel

United States Senate

Committee on the Judiciary

Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure  
(Pursuant to Sec. 3, S. Res. 24, 1970 Congress)

Washington, D.C. 20510

October 10, 1973

The Honorable Elliot L. Richardson  
Office of the Attorney General  
Department of Justice  
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

As you know, the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure has played an active role in the area of electronic surveillance over the past several years, including its role in the development and processing of the legislation which eventually became Title III of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 and its hearings on warrantless wiretapping last year.

On February 5, 1971, I wrote Attorney General John Mitchell seeking certain information about electronic surveillance installations without court orders. The Department was good enough to provide me with most of the information I sought. The information extended by the Department was extremely useful in enlightening both the Committee and the public about the extent and significance of such surveillance.

The information sought and supplied dealt only with the period June 19, 1968 through calendar year 1970. Since then, of course, the United States Supreme Court has held that domestic security surveillance without a court order is unconstitutional, United States v. United States District Court, 407 U.S. 297 (1972). Shortly after the Supreme Court decision, our Subcommittee held hearings on warrantless wiretapping, during which a detailed inquiry was made into the Justice Department's practices and procedures in implementing the decision. At the hearings, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Kevin Maroney testified that in response to the Supreme Court ruling, a certain number of installations “in cases involving domestic security,” to use the description in Mr. Kleindienst's statement of June 19, 1972, were terminated. In a letter dated August 2, 1972, Mr. Maroney indicated the numbers of surveillances in place on
