We developed Gimme, a member of the Czechoslovakian Intelligence Service, in 1962 and operated him until he returned to Czechoslovakia in November 1963. Thereafter, he was in continual clandestine contact with the CIA until his return to Washington in January 1969, where he was again operated successfully until his overt defection in June 1970.

WF 1373-S was a Yugoslav diplomat and intelligence officer who was successfully recruited and operated from July 1962 until September 1965. He was believed to be the first professional intelligence Yugoslav officer recruited anywhere in the world.

From early July 1966 through the first week in November 1966, we were in contact with an extremely sensitive defector-in-place in the Washington, D.C., area. Knowledge of this defector-in-place is and has been limited to very few Bureau personnel. Only four men in the Espionage Section are aware of his past cooperation. While in contact, this defector-in-place furnished extremely valuable counterintelligence and has the potential for reassignment to the United States. We are currently operating a double agent developed by this source in an effort to bring about his reassignment to this country. In addition, we have taken action against those Soviet intelligence officers in the same department as this source in an effort to force their recall, thus opening up the way for the source to be reassigned to the U.S. as their replacement. Should we succeed, his knowledge would give us an insight into the KGB legal apparatus in the U.S. that we have never previously had.

In addition, we have been in contact with numerous Soviet-bloc officials both through double agents who were carefully directed by us and by Bureau agents. At the present time, we are in contact with Henryk Cieslak, an employee of the Polish Embassy. Agents have talked to him several times and have an appointment to clandestinely meet with him this Saturday, January 29, 1971, at National Airport. He has indicated willingness to cooperate with us but has some reservations in view of his family situation. We expect to overcome this. In addition, in New York, Alexander Adam Messing-Mierzejewski, Chief of the Representation and Liaison Unit, Office of Interagency Affairs, United Nations Secretariat, a Pole, has been contacted and expressed agreement to cooperate. We are continuing our contacts with him and hope to develop him fully.
