Became greater. But even if this flight had been conducted, in Mr. McCone's opinion there would not at that time have been obtained information of a more convincing nature than was later obtained as a result of the October 14 mission. Mr. McCone said that on September 7 he made a recommendation that more frequent flights be conducted, and it continues to be Mr. McCone's view that there should have been more intense U-2 coverage during September.

Mr. Clifford asked why and from where was there concern over a possible U-2 incident involving Cuba. Mr. McCone said that this view was held within the NSC 5/12 Group and in CIA as well. Mr. McCone said that he held a different view but he was away at the time. He cited as a current example of concern attaching to the possibility of U-2 incidents the fact that today the Special Group considered a U-2 flight over the China-India border, and great concern was expressed in the Group because the mission would have to include an overflight of Burma, and the prospect of the Burma overflight creating another U-2 incident was a matter of considerable sensitivity within the Group.

Mr. Clifford observed that while this concern might well be understandable in the case of Burma, he was nevertheless unable to understand why there should be a similar concern about reaction to a U-2 incident which might arise with respect to Cuba. Mr. McCone said that such concern with respect to Cuba does not exist today and, as a matter of fact, on that very day there were being conducted ten low-level and 3 U-2 missions against Cuba.

Mr. Clifford made the comment that he feared that the Board might possibly be subjected to criticism in the light of the fact that there was no photographic reconnaissance over Cuba between September 5 and October 14, despite the DCI's own suspicions and the content of refugee reports with respect to a Soviet missile buildup in Cuba.

Mr. Murphy inquired of Mr. McCone as to whether clandestine agents are being successfully operated in Cuba. Mr. McCone answered by saying that there have been three rather ineffective teams operating in Cuba with the principal objective of organizing dissidence against the Castro regime rather than obtaining intelligence. He said that there are approximately 40 third-country agents planted in various foreign embassies in Cuba, but we obtained no hard intelligence from them regarding the military buildup.
