Memo for Mr. Felt

Re: Reorganization of C.R.D.

Review statements and speeches by the Director or matters affecting major public relations; invitations for speeches by the Director; assignment of speeches to FBIHQ speakers; review of speech manuscripts.

Review material for publication, first-name-salutation mail, matters critical of and complaints regarding the FBI; letters enclosing autographed photographs; special photographs in the Director’s Office; American Legion and veteran liaison matters.

Office of Acting Associate Director:

Section Chief Gordon E. Malmfeldt and SAs Homer R. Hauer (Number One Man), Ralph W. Engelmeier, Marion S. Ramey, Paul L. Andrews, John W. Dalseg, Robert C. Dean, and Richard E. White.

To assume review and analysis of correspondence received by the Director and the FBI and preparation of replies to the correspondence. Formerly handled by the Special Correspondence Unit (correspondence of special importance to the Director and Nation) and the Non-Special Correspondence Unit (correspondence from the public and requests for publications).

Functions and Related Responsibilities:

Replies to correspondence regarding subversive activities and field divisions; file reviews and necessary research to determine the identity and pertinent background of the correspondent; file review and research necessary to reply to inquiries and requests from private citizens, law enforcement, government representatives at the local, state, and national levels; initiate instructions to field offices in connection with correspondence; processing of letters dealing with public relations and general news media; requests and inquiries from law enforcement officials, government representatives, and others in foreign countries; chronic mail; and requests for publications.

Office of Legal Counsel:

SA James C. Farrington.

To assume formal liaison with the American Bar Association, National District Attorneys Association, National Association of Attorneys General, Federal Bar Association, and the American Law Institute. These functions were formerly handled by the Administrative Review Unit. Also research and preparation of legal briefs in connection with urgent policy matters, formerly handled by the Research Unit.
