Suggestion Memorandum

Maximum Utilization of Ghetto Informants

Inspector Edward S. Miller:

Since the implementation of the Ghetto Informant Program in 1967, it has developed into a productive source of accomplishments for the Bureau. Experience has shown that in addition to being mere listening posts for black extremist action, these informants, when motivated by specific assignments, also furnish valuable criminal information. As a result of conferences held at the Seat of Government, the field was instructed in March 1970 to give more positive assignments to ghetto informants. The Director noted, “This is most important.”

The number of ghetto informants now stands at more than 6,200, and it is essential that we continually make certain we are achieving maximum results from this vast reservoir of information. It is believed one additional step toward this goal would be the giving of more specific assignments to these ghetto informants, especially concerning black extremists living in their locality, such as subjects on the Security Index and selected Agitator Index subjects with extremist tendencies. Such assignments would include the development of detailed information concerning black extremist targets such as data relating to their daily activities, sources of income, and information as to whether the black extremists are operating in violation of Federal or local statutes. Ghetto informants would be assigned to black extremist targets with whom they are acquainted or who reside or work in the same area. It is also probable that in many instances ghetto informants could also be targeted against similar subjects of interest to the New Left Program.

Based on our experience to date, there appears to be little doubt but what these additional specific assignments, if fully implemented throughout the field, would not only increase our intelligence coverage of black extremists, but could also be the vehicle for putting more of these militants in jail on criminal charges. The success of this approach would, of course, be commensurate with the enthusiasm of the individual Agents in the field and it is necessary that pressure be kept on it. A suggested means for checking on the Program’s progress at the Seat of Government would be to amend Form FD-405 under the heading “Racial Informant Accomplishments” to require the field to specifically list major accomplishments attributable to ghetto informants during the previous month.

Comments of Section Chief G.C. Moore, Section Chief R.L. Shackelford, and Assistant Director Charles D. Brennen requested.

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection
