Extensive police work needed for such coverage would certainly not have been put forth by the Spanish police had they not had a close personal friendship with and confidence in our Legal Attaché in Madrid.

The Legal Attachés in Manila and Mexico City combined in a joint effort which resulted in the capture and return to the U.S. of a fugitive in connection with the theft of over 1 million dollars in California. This individual had fled to Australia in 1970 and extradition was impossible. The Legal Attaché, Manila, who handles Australia, determined that subject regularly traveled to Mexico. The Legal Attaché, Mexico City, arranged for his apprehension by Mexican authorities on a visit to that country.

Another example of the importance of foreign offices concerns the kidnapping of a Mexican child in Pueblo, Mexico, by an American citizen. Ransom in the amount of $105,000 was paid in New Orleans and the child was safely recovered in a motel in Louisiana. Mexican police authorities developed very little information concerning this matter. The Legal Attaché, Mexico City, however, through investigative guidance established the identity of the kidnapper and the fact that he had an estranged wife residing in Australia. The Legal Attaché, Manila, working through Australian police had this woman interviewed with negative results. Australian police authorities were then guided into checking her finances and determined she had received large sums of money from Tel Aviv, Israel.

The Legal Attaché, Tel Aviv, through Israeli police located the subject, recovered part of the ransom money and arranged for his extradition to the U.S. where he is awaiting trial in New Orleans. There is no doubt that this case would not have been solved had we not had Legal Attachés in the above-mentioned locations. The foreign police agencies involved had come up with negative information and only through personal contact and on-the-scene counsel by our experienced Legal Attachés, were local authorities able to produce the information required for the successful conclusion of this case.

The Legal Attaché, Tel Aviv, has effected a close working relationship with Israeli police and intelligence agencies and regularly furnishes information which is vital to our coverage of the militant Jewish Defense League's activities in the U.S. and of Arab terrorist activities. It is extremely doubtful that we would regularly receive such information were it not for the presence of our representative in Israel.
