National Security Information. Unauthorized disclosure subject to criminal sanctions.

The Attorney General

ST-116

Director, FBI: 57-6-133

Request from Senator Mike Monroney (Jon Money) concerning current racial agitation

July 17, 1963

For your information, there is enclosed a copy of a letter dated July 12, 1963, received from Senator A. J. McAleer Monroney, which is self-explanatory. I have advised Senator Monroney by letter of this date that, in line with Departmental policy, I am referring his letter to you.

In substance, the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA) is not able to assure a role of leadership in the racial unrest (racial arrest) at this time. However, the party is utilizing the current racial situation through propaganda and participation in demonstrations and other activities wherever possible. Through these tactics, the party hopes ultimately to progress from its current supporting role to a position of influence as leader.

Much of the CPUSA's hope to play a more decisive role is limited with Stanley Levison's role as an advisor to Martin Luther King. Party officials regard Levison, a secret member of the CPUSA, as being engaged in the most important work in the party today because of his association with King. Levison has reported that King is a wholehearted Marxist who has studied it (Levison), believes in it, agrees with it, but because of his being a minister of religion, would not be exposed to it publicly. Levison is reputed to have written the speech which King delivered at the convention of the American Labor Congress of Labor-Congress of Labor Organization (AFL-CIO) in Florida in December, 1963.

When King indicated in June, 1962, that he wanted another administrator, Levison recommended handler Pitts U'Vell, who had been to the National Committee of the CPUSA in December, 1961, under the pseudonym of Coran Janus. King adopted Levison's suggestion and employs U. M. in all organizations, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). King identified U'Vell as a co-founder in 1963–1964. King announced that U'Vell would be associated with the Civil Rights Act from the SCLC. However, U'Vell continues to associate with King to this day.

Note: See memorandum, Smith to Sullivan, 7/17/63, RSG:JMS/aab:jdd, re: Senator A. S. Mike Monroney, request for current racial agitation.

RSG:JMS/jdd:aab

2 August 1963

Telephone 7-17-
