SAC R. E. Gebhardt

10/22/70.

Are known to exist between all Resident Agencies and the local law enforcement agencies in their territories. No evidence or information has been made available to this office to indicate that there is any corruption in law enforcement in this division.

As the Bureau is well aware, Mayor Joseph Lawrence Alioto was the subject of an anti-racketeering investigation by this office several years ago; however, this matter has been closed. Alioto, prior to assuming the position of Mayor of the City of San Francisco, was a prominent and well-known attorney, particularly in the field of antitrust matters. He is known to have been the attorney for Tony Lima, a former “Boss” of the LCN in San Francisco. He also represented a number of other LCN figures and their associates.

Prior investigation revealed that the cousin of Alioto’s father, John Alioto, was the former “Boss” of the Milwaukee LCN Family. John Alioto attended the inauguration of Mayor Alioto in San Francisco in January 1968.

As a result of an article published in “Look” magazine, September 23, 1969, linking Alioto with many LCN figures, Alioto filed a $12.5 million libel suit against “Look” magazine and the authors of this article, Richard Carlson and Lance Brisson.

On May 15, 1970, Federal Judge Bruce Thompson declared a mistrial in San Francisco on this suit in that the jury was unable to agree on the key issue of whether the article linking Alioto with the “Mafia” was published with “malice and reckless disregard for the facts.” The jurors told newsmen that the article was defamatory to Alioto and that at least 50 percent of the 27 points were indeed untrue. There was no agreement as to whether the falsehoods and the article’s general claim that Alioto was “enmeshed in a web of alliances” with the “Mafia” represented “malice and reckless disregard for the facts.” The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that such a finding is essential to a libel judgment sought by a public official.
