U. S. Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC)

Interview of FBI Special Agent (SA) Alden F. Miller by SSC staff members

It was some sort of engineering company, but at any rate, it would have been the same name utilized in requesting telephone service. SA Miller was asked further whether the owners of this building and top management were cognizant of the real identity of the renters of this apartment, to which he replied he had no way of knowing but was of the opinion for security reasons no one knew or was aware that this apartment was being utilized by the FBI.

SA Miller was asked further whether he had anything to do with the installation of utilities and furnishing of this apartment used in the monitoring operation, to which he replied he had nothing to do with this other than the installation of certain wooden shelves utilized for equipment necessary to such monitoring and neither did he have anything to do as it related to the utilities.

SA Miller was asked whether he ever actually monitored this installation, to which he replied that on several occasions when regular monitors were ill and there were other technical needs at the facility, he would serve as a monitor. SA Miller was asked whether he had ever furnished supplies to this facility, to which he replied the only kind of supplies he would have taken to the facility were those necessary to insure trouble-free technical monitoring. SA Miller was specifically asked whether he ever replenished the supplies or tapes for recording purposes, to which he replied he did not recall such, other than at the initial inception when a sufficient supply of tapes were made available and these tapes were used over and over.

SA Miller was asked specifically whether he ever made any technical installation on phone service at the Ebenezer Baptist Church, the church where Martin Luther King was on the staff, to which he replied that no such installation to his knowledge was ever made. SA Miller further informed that he did not know whether city police authorities or state authorities had made such an installation and further, he was not in a position to be aware of any such activities on the part of these law enforcement agencies.
