SPECIAL COORDINATION UNIT

During December 1970, six new foreign offices were established. As a result of personnel moves, 19 Special Agents and 16 clerks were transferred to foreign offices, each requiring passports, visas, and Department of State and Embassy notification. The numerous contacts with State and the outgoing letters (two for each person transferred) were handled in this Unit, together with the memoranda and notification to the White House regarding various phases of the operation. A special one-week indoctrination session was arranged and attended by most of the new Special Agent personnel. The Director's instructions that the expansion take place were issued 11-20-70. Each of the new offices was open and operating during December 1970.

Through liaison with appropriate officials at the White House, the interest of those officials in proposed legislation that would provide increased retirement benefits for FBI personnel has been maintained. The advice of these officials concerning channels to be used in promoting this legislation was secured and has been followed.

Since the last inspection, SA Haynes has expedited and coordinated visits of the Director to the White House on approximately six occasions. This has included meeting the Director, taking him to the meeting site, introducing him to persons present if not known to him, and assuring his return to his car by the most direct route following the meeting.

Through carefully controlled contacts with the Commission on Campus Unrest, it was possible to secure a copy of their report in advance in order to ensure that there were no unfavorable comments concerning the FBI. The left-wing staff of this Commission was very active in areas of direct interest to the Bureau, and SA Haynes was able to avoid any conflict, and there were no derogatory references to our work made by this group.

Direct personal liaison was established during the period with Washington representatives of two additional countries: the Union of South Africa and Japan. The representative of the Bureau for State Security of the former and of the National Police Agency of the latter are now working directly with representatives of the Unit.
