stating requests for applications be directed to P. O. Box 1182, Pine Bluff. In this leaflet it was pointed out that the KKK was striving for a lawful settlement of the difficulties brought on by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAAC) and that it is opposed to violence. This leaflet further set forth that this was a chartered, legalized movement and it is no more illegal to be a member of it than to be a member of other organizations.

At various times in the past the klavern has attempted to organize “action” groups within the klavern, but on each occasion the project has died from lack of interest.

In line with Bureau policy of dissemination of information, the main activities regarding the Pine Bluff Klavern have been disseminated confidentially to Chief of Police Norman D. Young, Pine Bluff, (NA) on a regular basis. Chief Young has exerted every effort to keep down the possibility of violence. Through his confidential sources he is also well aware of the identities of the klavern members and their activities. He personally has warned particular klavern members against any violence and has stated they will be met with immediate arrest if any violence occurs. As an example, Chief Young was advised through his own confidential source of the time and location of the klavern meeting on the night of October 5, 1964. Chief Young sent a lieutenant of his department in uniform to check the location, record license numbers, and to be seen checking the meeting so that the klavern members would know that he was checking on them. This has had a strong influence on making the klavern follow a line of legal activity. It has also resulted in the more responsible leading citizens of the community being made aware of certain klavern members, causing these klavern members to be discredited in the eyes of the public. This was borne out in the recent school board election on 9/29/64 when two klavern members, one of whom is J. F. Butram (J.-F..BUTRAM), were miserably defeated.

The klavern has during the past few months urged its members to solicit and obtain new members. The ineffectiveness of their program is shown by the
