Central Intelligence Agency.

Country: Colombia/Venezuela/Cuba. Report No. CS-3/535,595. Subject: Cuban Subversive Activities in Colombia and Venezuela. Date acquired: Colombia, Cali, 7 January 1963. Field report No. HLB-3158. Date of information: 1962–January 1963.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Member (F) of the Communist Party of Colombia in Cali. Appraisal of content: 6.

1. During a discussion on 5 January 1963 between Amado de Jesus Zapata, member of the Department of Valle Regional Committee of the Communist Party of Colombia (PCC), and P. I. Plata, whom Zapata describes as a Cuban deep-cover agent working with the Seventh of January Worker-Student-Peasant Movement (MOEC) in Colombia and Venezuela, both criticized the PCC for its soft policy and fear of taking a more active role in the guerrilla activities in Colombia. They indicated there is a split between the followers of Gilberto Vieira White, Political Secretary of the PCC, and those who advocate the Castro-Communist concept of active participation in the guerrilla bands. Both agreed the only hope for the PCC is to follow the Castro policy, as have the Communist Parties of Peru, Venezuela, and Bolivia. Plata said it is possible there will soon be a change in the position of the PCC leaders in Bogota.

2. Plata said the MOEC is not a local movement but rather part of a Latin American concept which is being assisted by Castro and the Cuban Government. He said he has been in Cali for one year on a special assignment from the top leaders in Cuba to see that arms, propaganda, and instructions from Venezuela, originating in Cuba, get into the hands of the MOEC groups. Plata said he has also been helping to recruit Venezuelan youth, largely from schools and universities, to fight with the MOEC bands in Colombia.

3. Plata said he lived for many years in Caracas and that his apartment there is still a meeting place of Cuban guerrilla leaders operating in Venezuela. Two Castro agents, who represent themselves as being anti-Castro, live in his apartment now. He added that the apartment is a center that maintains contact with Colombia through associates in Bucaramanga (Ducaramanga), Cucuta, and Bogota, and that several Cubans and Cuban-trained Colombians are working with the MOEC in Colombia. He said that Pedro Emilio Castro, Fidel's older brother, lived for a long time at his apartment in Caracas, but has now returned to Cuba, where he is not involved in politics. Plata added he has visited Cuba several times, the last visit in February 1961, when he was introduced to Fidel.

Information Report. Dissemination: State, Army, Navy, Air, NSA, OCR, DIA, FBI, REPCINCLANT, CINCARIB.
