Mechanism has been functioning effectively. We have frequent conferences. Bureau personnel lectures before CIA officers. Dissemination of information is excellent. The atmosphere for negotiating and discussing unusually complicated problems is very good. Personnel can work in the same area with a minimum of problems, as evidenced in the Dominican Republic. We attend USIB meetings and are actively engaged in the work of several committees attached to USIB. All of this is commendable progress and certainly beneficial to national security.

All of the foregoing was set forth in the way of background in order to better understand the current source of differences with CIA, namely the Agency's desire to assess and recruit foreign intelligence sources in the U.S. in the foreign diplomatic establishments, including United Nations, and to some extent among foreign visitors. CIA fully acknowledges our internal security and counterintelligence responsibilities. This is clear-cut and free of any debatable question; however, CIA feels that we have no legally-established responsibility in foreign intelligence collection and that somebody (in this case, CIA) should be fully exploiting the foreign intelligence potential in the United States, bearing in mind that there are approximately 10,000 foreign officials and employees in this country. CIA argues that a foreign diplomat can be recruited anywhere in the world but maintains that there is no better place than the United States for assessment, recruitment, training and orientation of an informant. CIA further maintains that if the Agency moves on a target, such as an Argentine diplomat who may be a career officer not connected with a foreign intelligence service, there should not be any conflict because the activity is in no way related to the internal security functions of the Bureau. CIA has also expressed the attitude that in the communist-bloc field CIA should be permitted to assess and recruit those individuals not connected with an intelligence or internal security service.

There are some people in CIA who are of the opinion that in the field of foreign intelligence the Bureau should be exerting more effort to actually assist CIA in spotting sources and, when needed, give CIA support in developing an individual through such means as surveillances, neighborhood investigations, etc. When CIA is permitted to
