Letter to Division

E: Cooperativities Program  
197-0-4

3. In no instance does his individual tax return show or indicate the source of income for his position as Imperial Wizard or President of the USA. However, his returns do incidentally show that he has received money salary payments from each source as “Tax Warrants,” “J.J. Gasson,” “Inland Tire Company,” “J. E. Molton Express Co.,” and “Fon B Johnson Incor.” In addition, as your employees have advanced Molton advances which cover all his time on Klan (Illan) business, and he is paid almost $10,000 annually by the Klan (Illan), it would appear those salary sources are covered for tax payments made to him by corporations for his Klan (Illan) employment. Necessary investigation should be conducted to resolve the true source of Molton’s income.

4. Molton’s return for 1969 shows other income received from a writing firm in Nashville, Tennessee. This source of income should also be checked to determine its legitimacy. It is possible Molton’s relationship with this writing firm also represents a cover for Klan (Illan) activity or that the payments made to him were for offsetting an impropriety of the Klan (Illan).

5. In no instance does Molton indicate any interest or dividend income. It is unknown how he has a bank account at the First National Bank of Tuscaloosa. An attempt should be made to determine if he has failed to report interest actually billed. It is also noted the corporate returns filed by the USA do not in any instance indicate interest received.

6. Molton’s return for 1983 lists other income of $500 as received from “correspondence—Dixie Engineering Co.” Your attention is directed to an editorial that appeared in the Tuscaloosa “News,” edition of 9/12/84, wherein it is indicated Molton had been listed on the payroll of a Sabillo (Sabileo) engineering firm as a public relations man. Investigation should be conducted to determine Molton’s relationship with the Dixie Engineering Co. and also whether this company had a contract involving the use of federal and/or state funds.

7. The corporate returns of the USA, as filed by Molton, in no instance indicate salary payments, although both Molton and his wife have been reported by your informants as full-time employees.
