December 1, 1977

Mr. Monahan  
Mr. Peelman  
Mr. Foster  
Mr. Aldhizer  
Legal Counsel

House Select Committee on Assassinations  
U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated November 3, 1977, which requested certain information from FBI Headquarters files in connection with the HSCA's investigation into the death of Martin Luther King, Jr. Under Item #2 of this letter information concerning the National States Rights Party (NSRP), Marietta, Georgia, for the period 1967 through 1968, limited to areas covered by offices in Savannah, Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, Memphis, Tennessee, Birmingham, Alabama, St. Louis, Missouri, and Springfield, Illinois, was requested. Under Item #3 information was requested concerning Jesse B. Stoner.

By letter from Mr. Blakey to the Attorney General dated November 8, 1977, the above requests were modified. Under Item (c) this letter requested the FBI's complete file on Stoner and that the agent(s) in the Office of Origin assigned to the Stoner investigation for the period 1966 through 1968 be made available for interview by the HSCA. Concerning the NSRP, under Item (d) this letter asked the FBI to provide information in its files to cover the period 1967 through 1968. In addition, the case agent(s) in the Office of Origin for the same period would be made available for interview.

In response to the above requests, information in FBI Headquarters files concerning the NSRP (period 1967 through 1968) and Jesse B. Stoner have been processed and are available for review at FBI Headquarters by the HSCA. Where information is not provided, it is either not retrievable from FBI Headquarters files or is not being produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding.

Original and one sent to Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, and one sent to Office of Legislative Affairs.

Note: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 12/1/77, captioned, “House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA).”

Enclosure.

FBI/DOJ
