That continued priority must be devoted to attacking this problem through our present and planned use of intercept and direction finding facilities employed at vantage points on land, in the air and at sea. In addition to such coverage we strongly recommend that: a) clandestine agent programs be devised and set in motion at once in Cuba, with a view to acquiring through surreptitious means, including the use of portable recording equipment capable of concealment on an agent's person, the emanations from Soviet encoding machines which are captureable at reasonable distance from the communications centers at which they are employed, and b) that steps be taken to ensure the readiness of commando-type or covert action plans and task forces as may be required for the pre-emption of Soviet communication sites and encryption machines in the event that opportunities for such action should be provided under circumstances of successful internal revolt or invasion.

Comment. The collection of Signals Intelligence from within Cuba has been under way for some time. The most sophisticated of Soviet equipments were not identified as being in Cuba until October 28, 1962, and it has not yet been possible to identify their precise location, through either electronic or agent means. Arrangements are now underway which may enable NSA to provide the Clandestine Services with considerably more accurate supplementary D/F results. An airborne D/F “homing” technique will be utilized to attempt to pinpoint the locations of transmitters in other than heavily populated areas. The first target mission is now scheduled for approximately February 1, 1963. Under most favorable conditions, however, it is not anticipated that this effort would yield position accuracy of better than a kilometer. Further refinement of such results would be dependent upon a clandestine close-in effort to determine the exact locations where the devices are being used. There is no information available to indicate that these installations are “permanent”, although there is no doubt, as of this date, that they are under complete Soviet control. Without question, Cubans are not permitted access to the areas in which the machines are located nor are Cubans being trained in the use of the machines. The identification of the more sophisticated equipments comes from Signals Intelligence, and the variety of agent sources available to us in Cuba has not reported on any aspect of this equipment, indicating that the Cuban officials themselves with whom our agents are in touch are not aware of the nature of the equipment the Soviets have put into Cuba.

Inasmuch as the only information on these devices has been derived by purely cryptanalytic attack, no data are available concerning their technical
