Potential Double Agent Program  
Espionage Section  
Domestic Intelligence Division

5-A-1-d

Inspector E. S. Miller: “Double Agent” (DA) is a commonly and frequently used term in the field of espionage and counterintelligence. In the Bureau’s activities in these fields, DAs are a distinctive group of Security Informants (SIs) utilized against foreign intelligence operations in the United States. “Potential Double Agent” (PDA) is a unique term used by DID to identify an individual under development as a DA; one who is in contact with a foreign intelligence officer but who has not yet been solicited by his foreign contact to perform clandestinely or covertly for the benefit of the foreign intelligence group.

During this inspection a representative number of files were reviewed to determine the extent of supervision afforded PDAs. A similar review was conducted last inspection. It is realized, however, that a comparison is not possible in view of recent DID instructions regarding the administrative handling of all SI and PSI files.

Subsequent to last inspection DID established procedure whereby those SI cases requiring day-to-day supervision or PSIs still under investigation should remain in active status; informant-type cases requiring only periodic review are closed and placed on administrative tickler, to be made pending 15 days after the six-month justification letter is due. DA and PDA files are included in these categories.

During the last inspection 237 files were reviewed. Included in that group were PSIs and DESECOs, and not limited to PDAs. All of the files were then in a pending status. During this inspection there were 65 files on PDAs in a pending status and 212 PDA files in a closed status. These were strictly PDA files and did not include other PSIs or DESECOs. It has been determined that at any given time there will probably be approximately 70 such cases in a pending status, if the number of such investigations in the field remains constant.

Of the 65 pending files, 58, or 89%, were reviewed. Of these, 22, or 38% contained specific instructions, directions or other guidance to the field.

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection

8/27/71

JON:wmj

5-A-1-d
