March 2, 1965.

Memorandum for Mr. Tolson, Mr. Delmont, Mr. Gale, Mr. Rosen, Mr. Sullivan, and Mr. De Loach.

The Attorney General called and advised that he had talked to Senator Long last night. Senator Long's committee is looking into mail covers, et cetera. The Attorney General stated he thought somebody now already present to Senator Long, or so he said, did not want to get into any national security area and was willing to take steps not to do this. The Attorney General stated that Mr. Fensterwaki was present for part of the meeting and Mr. Fensterwaki had said that he had some possible witnesses who are former Bureau Agents and if they were asked if mail was opened, they would take the Fifth Amendment. The Attorney General stated that before they are called, he would like to know who they are and whether they were ever involved in any program touching on national security and, if not, it is their own business, but if they were, we would want to know. The Attorney General stated the Senator promised that he would have a chance to look at the names if he wanted to, personally and confidentially, and the list would have any names involving national security deleted and he would tell the Senator how many but no more.

The Attorney General stated that the Postmaster General is going down there this morning, almost when he, the Attorney General, thought would be helpful to Chief Inspector Montague of the Post Office Department.

The Attorney General stated that Senator Long also said he is not going to propose legislation to abolish mail covers as he thought they served a useful purpose, but he also thought that control should be tightened. I stated I thought there was great laxity in the matter of mail covers and the matter of tapping telephones.

Tolson: I stated I have always been of the view and recommended back when.

Belmont: I have always been a strong supporter of the.

Mohr: I have always supported the.

DeLoach: I support Tom Clark, who was Attorney General, that no agency of the Government should tap.

Casper: I support a telephone except with the written approval of the Attorney General.

Collohan: I stated I will take all telephone call records.

Contrad: I stated I did not say I will not take any phone calls.

Felt: I stated I felt that I should have the right to be free of such telephone calls.

Gale: I will report what I hear.

Rose: I will report what I hear.

Sullivan: I support J. L. Sullivan.

Travel: I support it.

Trotter: I support it.

Tele. help: I support it.

Holmes: I support it.

Gondy: I support it.

March 3, 1965.
