Division. While it is realized that logically these should be placed in the New Left or Extremist Intelligence Section, to balance workload, they could be considered for assignment to the Internal Security Section if the proposal is approved. The Research and New Left Sections would each be decreased by one Special Agent Supervisor, the Extremist Intelligence Section by two. The Nationalities Intelligence Section, excluding the Front Office, would be increased by one Special Agent Supervisor.

Observations:

Considerable time has been devoted to this phase of the inspection to assess as accurately as possible manpower requirements of the various Units and Sections. In addition to ticklers and file reviews, your outgoing mail was reviewed for one work week.

During the course of this mail survey covering a five-day work period, 715 pieces of mail, or 143 pieces per day, were generated and reviewed. Of this number, 268 pieces, or 37%, were directed to the Front Office for review, and 497 pieces, or 63%, went directly to the field or other agencies without Front Office review. This indicates an average of six pieces of outgoing mail per Agent being prepared per work week. 55.6% of the total pieces of mail were of a routine nature, setting forth a minimum degree of supervision and direction. 36.1% contained a moderate degree of supervision, and 8.3% contained a considerable degree of supervisory instruction or direction.

Of the average of six pieces of mail per Agent, 3.3 pieces were of a routine nature requiring minimal supervision; 2.2 pieces required moderate supervision; and 0.5 pieces—one-half letter, etc.—required considerable supervisory instruction or direction per week.

Examples of minimum supervisory content would be communications permitting routine interviews or informant payment (stamp). An example of moderate supervisory content would be a letter to the Attorney General with a cover memo bringing the Attorney General up to date in a particular case. An example of supervisory content of considerable degree would be instructions to interview key witnesses on top-priority cases, setting out pertinent points to cover in the interview, or furnishing supervisory direction of a substantive investigation.
