November 25, 1975

Special Agent Seymour Phillips  
Federal Bureau of Investigation  
506 Old Post Office Building  
Washington, D. C. 20535

RE: Testimony before Senate Select Committee on Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities by J. Brooke Blake, November 21, 1975

Dear Mr. Phillips:

On November 21, 1975, I met Committee attorney-investigator Robert K. Kelly at Room G-308, Dirksen Senate Office Building, Washington, D. C. He suggested we have lunch in the building cafeteria. During those thirty minutes he spoke in generalities about the Committee's work, and I was able to keep the conversation on a theme of my asking about his background and current activities. He did ask if I knew Roy Moore. He was informed I knew Roy in Birmingham and that he was one of a very few “trouble shooting” inspectors who traveled throughout the United States as agent in charge of major case investigations. He asked my opinion on why Roy, and I answered my guess was his experience and ability to rally agents. I explained the latter as Roy Moore being the type boss for whom most agents enjoyed working.

Throughout lunch—and the deposition—Kelly seemed infatuated with informant Tom Rowe. EXJOI, REC-51.

Kelly took me to Room 155 of the Russell Building, where he introduced a Committee contract court reporter, Fred Ward. The room contained many empty conference tables and chairs and is one used by Senators' wives for some program they have with the Red Cross.

Ward and Kelly were the only persons present throughout the deposition, which was tape-recorded by Ward using the court reporter's transcribing equipment. The official deposition started at 2:07 p.m. and ended at 2:52 p.m. Kelly gave me the attached subpoena before being questioned. There was an approximate four-minute interruption by a telephone call for Kelly, which I had to answer, and then he politely asked me to leave the room. The informal way.

Trust Company of Georgia / P. O. Box 4418 / Atlanta, Georgia 30302 / (404) 588-8216
