U. S. Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC)

Interview of FBI Special Agent (SA) Charles T. Haynes by SSC Staff Members

preceded Haynes as supervisor. He asked why Harding was replaced and Haynes stated it was a decision made by the Bureau which was an administrative matter and not pertinent to the inquiry regarding Martin Luther King, Jr. Epstein did not pursue this question any further.

Epstein asked when the investigation regarding King started and if there was a file open prior to the time the investigation was authorized. Haynes replied he did not know when the file was opened or when the investigation was authorized. Haynes was asked when the technical coverage regarding King was instituted and when it was discontinued, and he replied to the best of his knowledge it was instituted during about November, 1963, and Haynes monitored it until about January 4, 1964, when Haynes became ill from a kidney stone attack, thereafter entering the hospital in Atlanta on January 8, 1964. Epstein asked Haynes if he returned to monitoring the surveillance later and Haynes replied that he did not return to the assignment on a full-time basis, but probably relieved other individuals monitoring several times during a period which may have continued as long as a year.

Epstein asked when the King case was closed and Haynes replied he did not know, but felt sure it was sometime prior to April, 1968. Haynes was asked who made the decision to close the file, and he stated he did not know. Epstein asked when the SCLC case was closed and Haynes stated he did not recall, but did remember that SCLC activity “wound down” considerably prior to King's death, and even more so after King's death to the point that the information did not warrant maintaining the file in a pending status. When asked who gave instructions to close the file, Haynes stated that he did not recall but that it was possible that the Atlanta Office took the action closing the file, and it was even possible that Haynes may have approved such action administratively; however, he does not recall.
