Assistant Director C. D. Brennan,

The following are my comments requested in Inspector's Suggestion Memorandum entitled “Preparation of Interview Reports (FD-302) in Security Type Investigations.”

Inspector notes at outset that from a review of the FBI Handbook, Manual of Rules and Regulations and Manual of Instructions in regard to the various types of security investigations, no mention is made that information which may be the subject of later testimony in judicial or administrative type hearings must be made a matter of record on an interview report (FD-302). Inspector does recognize that the Manual of Rules and Regulations, Part II, Section 4, page 4a, makes reference to the preparation of interview reports in security type cases.

In Section 4, Part II of the Manual of Rules and Regulations, which section pertains to Communications, there is a subheading entitled “Reporting Information That May Become Testimony,” which is covered on pages 4 and 4a. It is specifically stated on page 4, paragraphs 2b and c, that FD-302s should be used when information is obtained which may be the subject of testimony. At the very top of page 4a, a specific reference is made to security-type cases and the use of an FD-302 in these cases. The requirement for using an FD-302 is further reiterated in paragraph 6 on page 4a.

Part I of the Handbook has a section commencing on page 36, item 48, entitled “Reporting Information That May Become Testimony.” This is the counterpart to the Manual of Rules and Regulations provisions cited immediately above. The requirement for the use of an FD-302 is enunciated in item number 48.

Of particular significance is the fact that both the Manual of Rules and Regulations and the Handbook provide in their respective indices for the requirements discussed above. In the Manual, the material is indexed under “Reporting information that may become testimony” as well as under “Testimony—reporting information that may become.” The Handbook index has the same two references. It is therefore obvious that the requirements for the use of an FD-302 are logically and easily retrievable by reference to either or both the Manual and Handbook.

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection

8/24/71

SFP:rrd
