(145. 10/9/62, Continued)

Under Secretary of State Ball now admits that 85 ships have delivered troops and war goods to the island. He admits that 15 missile sites have been established, and it is estimated that the total will eventually reach 25. This knowledge has been possessed for a long time by many of us. Under Secretary Ball said . . . that four missile sites of different types have been identified. He said that these sites are similar to known Soviet defense missile sites which are believed to contain anti-shipping missiles having a range of 20 to 25 miles. The significant sentence, rather buried away, is that several more such sites will be installed.

“Many other facts have been stated which have been known to some of us but which have not been publicly stated before. The statement was made that 4,500 troops are stationed in Cuba. It will be remembered that the first figure given was 3000. I stated that there were at least 5000. The first figure given by the President was 3000. That was advanced to 4200. It has now been advanced to 4500. I stand on my statement that more than 5000 troops are stationed in Cuba. Five thousand is a modest figure. But I commend the Under Secretary of State for revealing these additional facts.”

(Source: Congressional Record)

146. 10/10/62 — USIB discussed the COMOR submission on “Intelligence Justifications and Requirements for Overflight of Cuba,” in response to the Special Group’s request of 10/9 for USIB opinion regarding the COMOR-approved paper, especially as regards frequency of coverage for the various groups of objectives and targets proposed by COMOR. After discussion USIB agreed that the DCI should express to the Special Group USIB’s view that (a) the targets in Groups II and III should be surveyed as promptly as possible and that the results of such initial surveillance should determine the subsequent frequency of coverage to be recommended, (b) COMOR submit for USIB consideration at its 10/17 meeting a specific list of those priority targets in Group IV which should be covered.

Group II and Group III listed “those targets for which surveillance is desired primarily to provide order of battle and operational status information. Ground resolution of 2-5 feet or better will suffice for this purpose. Group II includes targets for monthly coverage; Group III includes targets for weekly coverage.”

Because the records of the NSC Special 5412/2 Group have been unavailable thus far to the Board’s staff, we are not clear as to what action was taken by the DCI on the basis of the USIB discussion of 10/10/62. (It may be that by this time, or shortly thereafter, action on the USIB decision was overtaken by decisions at higher levels in Government, including the decision of the President to transfer from CIA to SAC responsibility for operation of U-2 missions over Cuba.)
