Mr. W. C. Sullivan

August 16, 1971

G. D. Brown

Adjecture of Personal Domestic Intelligence Division (DID)

To attached memorandum Worrall (Warrall) to Brown, 8/12/71, requesting one additional supervisor to be approved from outside DID for the Foreign Liaison Team (FLOT) because of a heavy increase in work volume.

I agree expansion of our Legal offices has produced work increases which would justify additional supervisors on FLD. However, in regard to Worrall's (Warrall's) recommendation, conducted by the Branch Chief, Inspector D. E. Moore, that it should come from outside DID, I am mindful of the Inspection Division's control of work in DID during the week of 7/10/71 following a request for additional supervisors in the Emporium (Impenium) Section. The Inspector concluded that the present supervisory capabilities of DID are adequate to handle existing work.

The Inspection Division's analysis of work in DID as of 7/1/71 compared with the last inspection in January 1971 revealed a stability of overall responsibility from a core load standard. The average case load per supervisor in January was 328 and in July 300. Worrall's (Warrall's) average case load in January per supervisor was 273 and in July 294—an average rise of only 8 cases in the Division and of only 16 cases in Worrall's (Warrall's) section in six months. (206 cases)

Ordinarily, I would point out to both Inspector Moore and Worrall (Warrall) those factors mitigating against requesting additional supervisors from outside DID. Inspector Moore had access to the same facts and could have explained to Worrall (Warrall) how to follow traditional patterns in requesting an additional man, i.e., adjusting within the Division's overall manpower and workload capabilities and responsibilities. The obvious answer is for Worrall (Warrall) to reassign a man from within his section to the FLD. This would (1) alleviate the workload there and (2) bring his case load closer to the Division's supervisory average for men. At the end of 90 days he could then reassess his situation and consider any action the facts then warrant.

However, the significance placed on our recent Legal expansion may be an overriding factor to the Inspection Division or Mr. Telt, who enclosed.

Cullins (9)  
H. Sullivan  
L. Kinn  
R. Cullinaa  
L. Schack  
G. D. Brown
