December 6, 1962

Director, FBI

Hunter Pitts O'Dell

Internal Security—C  
Internal Security Act of 1950

On November 2, 1962, I forwarded to you a copy of an editorial that appeared in the October 25, 1962, edition of the “Augusta Chronicle,” Augusta, Georgia.

This editorial identified Hunter Pitts O'Dell, a concealed member of the National Committee, Communist Party, USA, as employed under the alias Jack H. O'Dell in the capacity of “Acting Executive Director” for the Reverend Martin Luther King's Southern Christian Leadership Conference.

Subsequently, various newspapers contained accounts of a statement issued by the Reverend Martin Luther King on or about October 31, 1962, wherein it was stated O'Dell had resigned from his position with the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. Reverend Martin Luther King is quoted in this statement as denying knowledge of the communist affiliations of O'Dell and further describing allegations that O'Dell was the Southeastern Director of his organization as false in that O'Dell functioned “purely as a technician with 90 per cent of his work taking place in the North...” King further stated that the Southern Christian Leadership Conference has a policy “that no person of known communist affiliation can serve on the staff, executive board or its membership at large.”

I thought you would be interested in the fact that our New York Office has developed information that on November 23, 1962, O'Dell identified himself as affiliated with the New York office of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and during late November and early December 1962, he was actively engaged in New York City in the work of this organization.

REC. 5

100-358916

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel.

The Deputy Attorney General

Mr. J. Walter Yeagley  
Assistant Attorney General

DR:bgo: (13)

1 - 100-106670 (Martin Luther King)
