United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. Belmont  
From: A. Rosen  
Subject: Eugene Thomas, et al.; violation of victims' civil rights—election laws  
Date: 11/24/65

Inspector James McGovern, San Francisco, has advised that Gary Thomas Rowe, our informant whose testimony is needed in the Federal civil rights trial of the Liuzzo shooting in Montgomery, Alabama, beginning 11/29/65, had exhibited feelings of reluctance to testify for the Government and set forth certain conditions under which he would agree to testify.

These conditions consist of an agreement from the Attorney General that his testimony would not be required in any future proceedings, that he be assisted in obtaining employment, and that some assurances be given him for the future security of his ex-wife, children, and parents. He also expressed a desire to visit his wife and children in the Tampa, Florida, area over the Thanksgiving holiday.

Rowe's conditions were discussed in detail with Assistant Attorney General John Doar. Mr. Doar advised that he would discuss these conditions immediately with the Attorney General and requested that we arrange for Rowe to visit with his family in Tampa over Thanksgiving, 11/25/65, and that he would then personally meet with Rowe in Tampa on Saturday morning, 11/27/65. He said that he is planning to try the case personally in Montgomery and that Rowe's testimony is vital to a successful trial. He will make every effort to build Rowe's confidence, resolve the conditions set forth by Rowe, and obtain his testimony.

Action:

On December 1, 1965, Inspector McGovern was telephonically instructed to proceed immediately with Rowe to Tampa, where appropriate arrangements would be made for Rowe to meet with Assistant Attorney General Doar on the morning of 11/27/65.

Attached for approval is a teletype to Mobile and Tampa advising them that Inspector McGovern and Rowe are proceeding to Tampa and that a meeting will be arranged in Tampa between Rowe and Assistant Attorney General Doar.

Enclosure
