Accomplishments

Klan and White Hate Group Unit

Membership in Klan-type organizations and other white hate groups has experienced a continuous decline for the past four years. The Klan reached a post-World War II membership high of approximately 14,000 in 1966. From that point on, there has been a continuing decline in membership. At the present time, we have 18 Klan organizations made up of 225 Klaverns (units). There are, of course, in addition to the membership, many thousands of sympathizers. Investigation in the white extremist field for organizations other than the Klan is centered around the Minutemen, the National States Rights Party (NSRP), and the National Socialist White People's Party (NSWPP). There are numerous other small groups which likewise fall within this category. This reduction in Klan and other white hate group membership is attributable to the continuous attention given these investigations by the Seat of Government and the field, with specific attention given to hard-hitting investigations, counterintelligence programs directed at them, and penetration of these groups at all levels by our racial informants.

The year 1970 showed a continuing decline in the membership and effectiveness of the various Klan and white hate groups throughout the U.S. As of January 1970, Klan membership totaled approximately 5,300. Our present figures indicate that Klan membership now totals approximately 4,300. The largest Klan group is the United Klans of America, Inc., Knights of the Ku Klux Klan (UKA), under the direction of Imperial Wizard Robert M. Shelton. The membership of this group in January 1970 was approximately 4,100, whereas it now numbers 3,500 members, or approximately 80% of the membership of all Klan organizations. These recent figures represent an approximate decrease in overall Klan membership of 17% and a 15% decrease in UKA membership. Membership in white hate organizations other than the Klan, which has always been relatively smaller membership-wise, has likewise experienced a relatively similar decline.

With the arrest of Robert DePugh, National Coordinator of the Minutemen, in July 1969, and his subsequent conviction for Federal Firearms Act violation and incarceration, this group.

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection. 1-12-71. Jvw:ljw.
