It is suggested that in order for the Bureau to receive full credit for statistical accomplishments attributable to all FBI informants, the new form devised by the New Left and Internal Security Sections should include statistical accomplishment data as currently required on FD-405.

Comments of Section Chiefs Arbor W. Gray, Robert J. Shackelford, and Assistant Director Charles D. Brennan are requested.

Section Chiefs Shackelford, Wannall, and Gray: The Inspector's suggestion appears to have merit. The New Left, Nationalities Intelligence, and Internal Security Sections agree that FD-405 could be adapted to fit security informant evaluation in the New Left movement and in basic revolutionary organizations and related groups. It is proposed that representatives of each of these three sections implement the Inspector's suggestion by revising the form for security use and preparing the necessary instructions to the field requiring quarterly submission of this informant status report concerning organizations under investigation. Coordination, routing, and statistical compilation of the incoming forms would be the responsibility of the Special Records Unit of the Research Section, which maintains security informant records, but the substantive sections involved would be responsible for evaluation and any necessary action on the basis of their content. It is believed further that, should this procedure meet our needs for evaluation of member security informants, we should consider the elimination of the annual security informant report now submitted by each field office. It is proposed, therefore, that this suggestion be implemented for a six-month trial period (two submissions) to determine its feasibility and whether it does meet our needs for member informant evaluation. At the end of that trial period, the results will be analyzed and a commensurate recommendation submitted.

Assistant Director C. D. Brennan: I agree that it would be desirable to carry out this suggestion at least on a trial basis to determine its feasibility. I will follow this matter, and at the end of the trial period the procedure will be carefully analyzed to determine whether or not it should be continued.
