Mr. W. C. Sullivan

August 16, 1971

C. D. Brennan

Adequacy of Personnel  
Domestic Intelligence Division (DID)

The attached memorandum from Wannall to Brennan, dated 8/12/71, requests that one additional supervisor be approved from outside DID for the Foreign Liaison Desk (FLD) because of a heavy increase in work volume.

I agree expansion of our Legal offices has produced a work increase which would justify an additional supervisor on FLD. However, in regard to Wannall's recommendation, concurred in by the Branch Chief, Inspector D. E. Moore, that it should come from outside DID, I am mindful of the Inspection Division's survey of work in DID during the week of 7/19/71, following a request for an additional supervisor in the Espionage Section. The inspector concluded that the present supervisory capabilities of DID are adequate to handle existing work.

The Inspection Division's analysis of work in DID as of 7/1/71, compared with the last inspection in January 1971, revealed a stability of overall responsibilities from a case load standpoint, shown by the fact that the average case load per supervisor in January was 322 and in July 330. Wannall's average case load in January per supervisor was 278 and in July 204—an average rise of only 8 cases in the Division and of only 16 cases in Wannall's section in six months.

Ordinarily, I would point out to both Inspector Moore and Wannall those factors mitigate against requesting additional supervisors from outside DID. Inspector Moore had access to these facts and should have explained to Wannall the need to follow traditional patterns in requesting an additional man, i.e., adjusting within the Division's overall power and work load framework of capabilities and responsibilities. The obvious answer is for Wannall to reassign a man from within his section to the FLD. This would (1) alleviate the work load there and (2) bring his case load closer to the Division's supervisory average per man. At the end of 90 days he could then reassess his situation and consider any action the facts then warrant.

However, the significance placed on our recent Legal expansion may be an overriding factor to the Inspection Division or Mr. Jelt. Enclosure.
