United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. W. R. Wannall  
From: W. O. Cregar

Subject:

Date: 6/5/75

On 6/4/75, Mrs. Dorothy Skillman, former Executive Assistant to Mr. Clyde Tolson, was interviewed by Mr. Mark H. Gittenstein and Miss Mary Deoreo of the Senate Select Committee Staff. Mrs. Skillman was escorted to the interview by former Assistant to the Director John P. Mohr, who remained outside the interview room during the interview. Prior to the interview, Mrs. Skillman was met by SA L. F. Schwartz, at which time she advised that she had been advised by Mr. John Hotis, Office of Legal Counsel, that the interview was to be concerning Mr. Hoover's Official and Confidential (OC) files and that if questions came up during the interview on other matters which might impinge on sensitive sources and methods, current Bureau investigations, etc., she was free to request an interruption of the interview to consult with Mr. Schwartz.

The interview of Mrs. Skillman commenced at 2:30 p.m., and it was terminated at approximately 4:30 p.m. On only one occasion toward the end of the interview, Mrs. Skillman asked to consult with Mr. Mohr and Mr. Schwartz. She advised that the interviewers had asked her concerning her knowledge of what might have been in certain cartons which were reportedly stored in the recreation room area of the late Director's residence. Mrs. Skillman stated that she thought these cartons contained many of the gifts and mementos that had been collected by Mr. Hoover over a period of years. After consulting with Mr. Mohr, she realized that she knew this only from comments that had been made to her by Mr. Mohr and had no firsthand knowledge of the contents of the cartons. On Mr. Mohr's advice, she advised the interviewers that she had no firsthand knowledge of what was in the cartons but that she knew that Mr. Mohr was aware of what was in them because he was present when the appraisers of Mr. Tolson's estate inventoried the entire house, including these cartons. At the conclusion of the interview, Mr. Gittenstein commented to Mr. Mohr that he might have further questions to ask him concerning the contents of the cartons but would probably handle that by a telephone call to Mr. Mohr.

Richard K. Schwartz  
Deputy Director  
Civilian Rescue Officer

Schwartz, Richard F.  
4555 N.W. 17th Avenue  
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55416  
(612) 627-6000  
(612) 627-6200 x101  
(612) 627-6500 x102
