The Deputy Attorney General

October 16, 1973

Director, FBI

Should the Federal Bureau of Investigation be an Independent Agency?

In response to your request, the following is submitted regarding Question #5, “Should the FBI be an independent agency or continue as part of the Justice Department?”

1. Problem: Should the FBI be an independent agency or continue as part of the Department of Justice?

2. Policy: At the present time the FBI is a bureau within the Department of Justice and, as such, is responsible to the Attorney General.

3. The Issues Raised: The question has arisen on several occasions whether the FBI, with its vast resources and knowledge, should be under the control of a political appointee, the Attorney General, or separated from the Department of Justice and established as an independent agency within the Executive Branch.

MCO-88

4. Options for Future Policy: The main options for the future of the FBI are two: (1) Remove it from its position as an integral part of the Department of Justice and establish it as an independent agency, or (2) maintain the present status of the FBI in its role as the investigative arm of the Department and, as such, responsive to the directives of the Attorney General.

A brief look at history indicates that in 1908 Congress created the Bureau of Investigation and designated it as a part of the Department of Justice. The main reason for this action was that a certain void existed prior to this time in the enforcement function performed by the Attorney General. While the Department traditionally bore the responsibility of enforcing the laws of the United States and prosecuting violators of these laws, there existed no permanent group of individuals who could.

Cover memo, Baker to Callahan, 10/4/73, re “Issues Raised by Mr. Ruckelshaus re future of FBI” (JFA:CSH).

This document is preprinted in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.
