This might be termed a balancing approach, an approach which has been unrecognized by many of the FBI's critics.

Moreover, in an effort to balance the right of protection from violations of privacy against other rights, don't we have to decide, among other things, how much law enforcement agencies should be allowed to infringe on the privacy of suspects in order to protect the privacy—and all the rights—of other citizens—above all, the rights of those latter citizens not to be victimized by lawbreakers and/or politically or revolutionarily motivated suspects? This is a major dilemma.

I'm not opposed to Congressional guidelines or oversight of the intelligence agencies. But oversight and guidelines are fraught with problems. For example, is it possible for our current or future Congressmen to clearly and decisively predict conditions which may confront the FBI and CIA years or even months from now? For this reason alone, some flexibility is paramount.

Another perplexing issue comes to mind. Will Congress be accountable if it is the ultimate judge or decision-maker for our intelligence and counterintelligence operations?

In raising these questions, I'm confident that Congress will ultimately pass some guideline legislation for our intelligence agencies and will include therein a certain amount of oversight provisions stipulating some sort of prior restraint on proposed tactics or intelligence strategies.

With this in mind, we have to recognize that internationally there has always been a need for this country to learn things that people would not ordinarily tell a foreigner—or that domestically, there are things that a criminal or revolutionary would not ordinarily tell a public official; nor would this type of person lay his or her activities bare to public scrutiny. It follows that these natural manifestations of reluctance and secrecy have always implied the use of extraordinary, often covert investigative means. Therefore, can we have that desirable degree of and quantity of oversight without jeopardizing, often in advance, major intelligence efforts?

Can certain necessary operations be taken if public officials, especially elected officials, must stand up and take responsibility for them—or for the failure to take them?

In reality, anyone who knows about an intelligence operation in advance will have, in effect, a veto over it. For the simple decision taken by oneself that “for the country's good” a plan must be made public will automatically scuttle it.

Moreover, there will be situations when a group of elected officials will be charged with deciding, often after only short emergency briefings, squeezed in between other important and distracting public business, whether to approve or disapprove some audacious emergency covert operation. And will they want to publicly
