United States Government

Memorandum

To: Mr. Tolson

From: J. H. Gale

Date: July 30, 1964

Subject: Investigation of Ku Klux Klan and Other Hate Groups

Mr. Sullivan has proposed that the development of informants in the Ku Klux Klan (KKK) and other hate groups as well as the investigation and penetration of these organizations from an intelligence standpoint be transferred from the General Investigative Division to the Domestic Intelligence Division (DID). He bases his recommendations on the premise that organizations like the KKK and supporting groups are essentially subversive in that they hold principles and recommend courses of action that are inimical to the Constitution as are the viewpoints of the Communist Party. He does not maintain that the actions of the hate groups constitute the same menace as the Communist Party inasmuch as they are not controlled by a foreign power.

He feels that the DID over the years has developed wide experience in the penetration of subversive organizations through informants, anonymous sources, sophisticated microphone and technical surveillances, interview programs of a highly specialized nature, etc., and that his division could put this experience to excellent use in penetrating the Klan and other hate groups.

Mr. Sullivan feels that the DID would be in a position to launch a disruptive counter-intelligence program against the Klan and other hate groups with the same effectiveness that they are now doing insofar as the Communist Party is concerned. He also proposes an immediate series of regional conferences to instruct pertinent field personnel and to devise imaginative, aggressive and highly specialized programs to carry out the responsibilities in question. He states the Communist Party is increasing its activities in the field of racial matters and civil rights, directing more and more of its fire against the KKK and similar organizations to confuse the issue. He feels that because of the stepped-up activities of the Communist Party in this area it would help prevent marked confusion from developing in the areas of activities being handled by the General Investigative and Domestic Intelligence Divisions if the DID assumes these responsibilities.

The functions in question were formerly handled by the DID up until 1958 when they were transferred to the General Investigative Division. This matter was considered by the Executives Conference 10/1/58 and the transfer recommended.

JHG; wmj (7) Enclosures
