United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. J. B. Adams

From: W. R. Wannall

Subject: SENSTUDY 75—Former Supervisor Lish Whitson Assigned Intelligence Division

Date: April 24, 1975

Memorandum captioned as above, dated April 23, 1975, reported on an interview of Mr. Whitson by Michael Epstein, staff member of the Senate Select Committee. The interview related to Whitson's trip to Miami in 1964 at the instructions of former Assistant to the Director William C. Sullivan to mail a package to Martin Luther King.

Whitson telephoned my office twice this morning. At 10:35 a.m. he advised that Epstein had asked him by telephone how Whitson had made the trip to Miami, meaning how it was paid for. Whitson told him he had issued a Government Transportation Request (GTR). Epstein asked whether there was any prior written authorization for Whitson to make this trip and Whitson told him there was none. Epstein asked what kind of record would have been made covering the trip. Whitson explained that the only record that he knew of would be the expense voucher he submitted covering the expenses involved and possibly the copy of the GTR which he had issued. He explained to Epstein the voucher would merely show the GTR had been issued for a round-trip to Miami and how much per diem had been claimed in connection with the trip.

In advising of the foregoing, Whitson stated it was his recollection he had made the Miami trip either in the late summer or early fall of 1964 and that Martin Luther King was “away” at the time.

In my absence from the office, Whitson called again at 11:05 a.m. to say that Mr. Epstein asked him as to whether he had registered at the Airport Hotel in Miami and, if so, whether it was under his own name. Whitson told Epstein that he had registered under his own name at this hotel.

REC-100

Action: We are checking our records for information regarding the expense voucher and GTR issued by Whitson in connection with this trip and results will be reported.

WRW:lml (6)

62-116395-114
