2. Number of Microphone and Telephone Surveillances with Evaluation of Product

At present, the Bureau has only one microphone surveillance in the foreign intelligence field, and this is in connection with a special National Security Agency project directed against Turkish coded communications. Concerning technical surveillances, we are now operating about 70 foreign intelligence installations on various diplomatic establishments in this country. The majority of these are in Washington Field and New York, with scattered installations in Chicago, Miami, Pittsburgh, San Francisco, and San Juan. Under current Bureau policy, we are limited to 80 foreign intelligence technical surveillances and no microphone surveillances, with the exception of one on the Turkish United Nations Mission.

In addition, during recent years, we have maintained approximately 50 so-called “telex” surveillances on the teletype facilities of various foreign establishments. This has been done at the specific request of the National Security Agency, in connection with its efforts to break foreign codes and to read foreign government communications.

We have had excellent results from these technical installations. Any compilation of items of value to the U.S. Intelligence Community and policy-making officials developed through this coverage would run many hundreds of pages. The results have ranged from information regarding plans and activities of key foreign countries in the diplomatic field to information regarding intelligence, political, economic, and military developments in the countries concerned. In many instances, we have been able to forewarn the White House, the State Department, and other interested agencies of impending developments and to furnish data giving an insight into the thinking and strategy of key foreign officials and governments. This coverage has proved especially valuable during crisis periods such as the Cuban missile crisis of 1962 and during the tense negotiations involving the Panama Canal in 1964. On many occasions, top-ranking United States officials have commented on the effectiveness of this data. The particular importance of this information has been its timeliness to current events, as well as the fact that it represents a penetration of foreign diplomatic circles which is only infrequently available through live sources.

In some instances, of course, this type of coverage on a particular foreign establishment or official has not paid off. We have had cases where this technique has been unproductive for sustained periods of time on a particular country. This is to be expected, and we have sought to overcome this by rotating our installations, correlating our technical operations with shifting international developments, and putting coverage on those countries which appear to offer the most promise for worthwhile intelligence.
