United States Government Memorandum

To: Mr. Adams  
Date: 2-20-75  
From: Legal Counsel  
Subject: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities

On 2-19-75 Inspector Bowers talked with William Miller, Staff Director of the captioned Committee. Miller was asked if the Committee had established a possible timetable concerning hearings. He stated they are “months” away from formal hearings but that they expect to begin taking testimony in closed sessions to “build a record” in about two weeks.

Miller said these sessions will be conducted by a Member of the Committee but will basically involve questioning of various agency officials, not at the Director level, to provide basic information about the administrative structure, legal basis, objectives and mission, and budget of the various agencies in which the Committee will have an interest. Miller was requested to give us specific notification as far in advance as possible concerning such testimony sessions so that we would have sufficient time to prepare the necessary material. Miller said this would be done.

Miller stated he would doubt that the Director would be needed for any testimony for some time unless the Director wishes to be involved in the early stages of providing basic information.

It seems apparent that the Committee still is uncertain of its course of action. Miller commented that the Committee will probably follow much the same procedure as used in the impeachment hearings where extensive testimony was taken in closed sessions and used by the Members and staff to prepare for the later public hearings. It seems apparent that John Doar and his staff who worked on the impeachment hearings will play a major role in the Select Committee operations. Doar and a number of his former impeachment staff members already are working with the Select Committee group.

To date, we have received 13 requests from the Select Committee for investigations of potential staff people in connection with the clearance of these people by CIA following certification by the Committee. These investigations are being handled by the Special Investigative Division on a two-week deadline basis.

Recommendation: For information.

Distribution: Mr. Adams; Mr. Cleveland; Mr. Walsh; Mr. Mintz; Mr. Farrington; Mr. Bowers.
