In addition to its avowed aim to eventually overthrow our form of Government, the SWP's most immediate aim and objective is to hold together the coalition of antiwar groups prevalent in the country today. It also seeks public acceptability by running candidates for political office on local, state and national levels. SWP candidates for President and Vice President of the United States were successful in having their names placed on some 19 state ballots during the 1968 elections. They also traveled to South Vietnam where they engaged in discussions with United States servicemen.

The Trotskyite Fourth International (FI), self-styled as the World Party of the Socialist Revolution, is headquartered in Paris, France, and claims to be fighting for the realization of Leon Trotsky's ideas. The SWP was forced by the limitations of the Voorhis Act of 1940 (Voronis-Act of 1940) to withdraw its official affiliation with the FI. Nevertheless, the SWP maintains “fraternal ties” with the FI and continually has “observers” in attendance at its international meetings.

The Young Socialist Alliance (YSA), SWP youth affiliate, also headquartered in New York City, was originally formed in 1957 by former members of socialist and communist youth organizations. One of its primary purposes is to recruit youth into the socialist camp who ultimately will become members of the SWP. The entire National Executive Committee of the YSA is composed of individuals who are also members of the SWP. Most of the YSA chapters are located on or near college campuses.

In addition to acting as a recruiting mechanism for ultimate SWP membership, the YSA's current main objective is to organize, dominate, control and perpetuate the antiwar movement in the country. The YSA, together with the SWP, credit themselves with organizing a number of massive antiwar demonstrations.

The YSA National Convention, held in Chicago, Illinois, from November 28 to December 1, 1968, was attended by 791 registered individuals, including 405 current active members representing 29 states and 128 cities. Guests came from Canada, Mexico, France and Germany. During the four days of the Convention, the YSA recruited approximately 60 new members.
