THE TARIFF DISPARITIES ISSUE

The tariff disparities issue which has plagued preparations for the Kennedy Round for many months originates in the fact that there are substantial differences between the EEC and US tariffs on individual items, even though over-all tariff levels are roughly the same. Because the EEC common external tariff was arrived at by averaging the tariffs of the member states, the EEC tariff schedule is characterized by the absence of "peaks and lows"; in the US schedule, on the other hand, the rates vary much more, and some individual tariffs remain very high in comparison with those of the EEC. Accordingly, the EEC and the French in particular have long insisted that a 50-percent cut in tariffs by both the US and the EEC would leave the US with substantial protection on certain items and deprive the EEC of bargaining power to effect their future reduction.

The disparities issue was believed to have been settled at the GATT ministerial meeting last May with a formula which provided that tariffs on industrial items would in general be reduced equally and across the board, except that "special rules" would apply "where significant adverse effects on trade would result from disparities in tariff levels." In fact, however, this formula merely shifted the argument to the problem of determining what disparities are "significant" or "meaningful in trade terms." Because the "special rules" would mean in most cases a smaller tariff reduction by the EEC than by the US, the EEC has attempted to maximize the area to which these rules would apply while the US has sought to minimize their application.

After lengthy negotiation, a GATT subcommittee reached a considerable measure of agreement last month on a formula which would identify a "significant" tariff disparity in the first instance as one in which the high rate is at least 30 percent of value and at least 10 percent above the lower rate. Because this formula would identify some 850 US items as eligible for "special treatment," the subcommittee proposed seven additional qualitative criteria which would reduce considerably the number of eligible items. The three to which the US attaches special importance would (1) require that there be substantial imports of the item concerned from the high tariff country into the low; (2) exclude items where there are substantial imports into the high tariff country; and (3) exclude items on which the low tariff country maintains quotas.

The formula approved by the EEC on 23 December would substitute for the 30/10 criterion a 2/1 formula. A disparity would be identified as one in which the high tariff is twice as high as the low one, apparently with the additional qualification that, in most cases, there would have to be a ten-point percentage spread between the two rates. This formula would provide for special treatment for far more than 850 items, including items of special US export interest. The arrangements for qualitative criteria also seem to have been modified to the US' disadvantage.

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CODE WORD MATERIAL ON REVERSE OF PAGE