19. Congressional Testimony: Have you ever testified before a Committee of the Congress? If so, please provide details, including date(s).

No.

Selection:

(a) Do you know why you were chosen for this nomination by the President?

I was one of six lawyers recommended for nomination to President Bush in December, 1992 by the President of the American Bar Association, J. Michael McWilliams, as required by the statute. The recommendation was unsolicited. I was selected from the recommendations.

(b) What do you believe in your background or employment experience affirmatively qualifies you for this particular appointment?

I have extensive public law experience, including over seven years as the senior managing lawyers in a highly-regarded attorneys general's office with over 425 staff members. I have handled many of the most sensitive legal disputes involving the State of Minnesota over that time, personally arguing three United States Supreme Court cases and winning two. I have served throughout as the chief legal counsel to the Governor of Minnesota. I have considerable experience dealing with Minnesota's open records law and have a reputation of approaching issues in a fair, thoughtful and impartial manner. I have not been involved in any dispute over the assassination records and believe that, although I am a strong believer in openness in government, I will approach the task in a fair manner. I have considerable experience setting up governmental organizations and administrative processes and believe that experience will be helpful in organizing the process by which the Panel will conduct its work. I have played a leadership role within the National Association of Attorneys General, particularly on management-related issues.

B. FUTURE EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIPS

1. Will you sever all connections with your present employers, business firms, business associations or business organizations if you are confirmed by the Senate?

No. My understanding is that the position is part-time and I have no conflict of interest in my current position. I will take leave time from the State for any days I am working on panel business.

2. Do you have any plans, commitments or agreements to pursue outside employment, with or without compensation, during your service with the government? If so, explain.

Yes. I will continue my employment with the State of Minnesota and a planned position as Adjunct Professor of Constitutional Law at the University of Minnesota Law School.