Memorandum J. J. Casper to Mr. Mohr Re: Attorney General's Staff Conference

Wednesday, April 8, 1970, 5:00 p.m.

Mr. Kleindienst was also interested in the scope of our work and in this regard the Director took this opportunity to point out that he did not believe the FBI should be investigating every bomb threat and that he hoped that if the new bomb legislation as proposed by the President is passed the Department's Criminal Division will set appropriate guidelines. The Director pointed out that many of these major cities have very excellent bomb squads and they are fully equipped to handle these complaints. He said why should the FBI be paralleling work done by competent local authorities. He said, of course, in the local areas where they have no people qualified, then this is a different matter. The Director said in all of these cases we are always willing to make our FBI Laboratory facilities and Identification facilities available as well as assist the local authorities by covering out-of-state leads.

Assistant Attorney General Johnnie M. Walters asked the Director if he could see any lessening of the problems that he talked about in the foreseeable future. The Director said in the organized crime field, if the steps he has recommended are taken, he feels there will be a decrease. With regard to the disorders in colleges and in the high schools and caused by the militants he said this is another story. The Director cited the incident of one of the subjects in the Chicago Seven trial appearance last night at American University and thereafter going to Catholic University and then leaving town. He said that apparently these university administrators will not call in the local police, and he said it was disgraceful how they threw rocks, destroyed property and set fires at American University. He then also cited the incident wherein attorney Kuntsler after he went out to Santa Barbara, California, gave a speech, and then left town, that Santa Barbara was the victim of three days of looting and burning. The Director cited the violence promised in New Haven when Bobby Seale is brought to trial whereupon the Solicitor General commented that the judge who is going to try that case was his law school roommate. The Director said that this is a very serious situation and it is entirely possible that violence will occur when Seale is tried. The Director pointed out that we have appropriately advised all local authorities of this possibility.

The Director then cited the tremendous problems that Judge Hoffman in Chicago had in handling the trial and said that one could hardly blame him for some of his actions in view of the provocative acts on the part of the subjects and the attorneys. The Director said he recalled that Judge Medina in New York, when he tried the Communist Party leaders, the experience was so trying that it actually broke his health. Peterson at this point injected a comment that his people are

(CONTINUED - OVER)