SECURITY INFORMATION

27 May 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: D/FE/PC

SUBJECT Covert Psychological Warfare Conferences Attended by Mr. Joseph Smith

1. Between 18 January and 26 May 1952 your consultant held a group of sixteen Secret conferences on specialized techniques in covert psychological warfare with particular reference to the Far Eastern area. These conferences amounted to a series of reorientation and developmental meetings in which persons actually on the job at CIA in OHC capacities could review their own doctrine, talents, and opportunities for serving the Government and the Agency in this field.

2. The topics covered included: a survey of the goals sought through covert activities of the U.S. Government; the basic bibliography on covert operations; the action response of target groups; media vehicles and the cultural terrain; specific covert psychological warfare techniques; the intelligence need for CPW; the operational vocabulary of Marxism; psychiatry and CPW; propaganda analysis; content analysis; press techniques of the Chinese Communists; covert economic warfare and CPW; personality problems in covert operations; basic doctrine on passive resistance; and a review meeting.

3. In difficulty and in seriousness of approach, this series of conferences corresponded to an advanced graduate course in an American university. It was a mixture of the seminar and lecture techniques.

4. Mr. Joseph Smith immediately made himself one of the outstanding participants of the group. He brought the capacity of a reflective and richly educated mind to this new field and demonstrated a real talent for seeing the opportunities presented by novel and unconventional methods of attack upon Communism. Not only did Mr. Smith learn a great deal himself; he contributed substantially to the intellectual participation of the other members of the conferences in the common tasks.

Paul M.A. Linebarger Consultant to FE/PC

FE/PC:PMAL:rww

Distribution:

D/FE/PC, Original FE Personnel CIA Personnel Mr. Smith FE/Linebarger