1975

No 203-75- 03

1975

Film: Holmes Nostalgia Jul. 22-6-23:1 Round on Bill With First-Rate Keaton

By RICHARD EDER

The first bit in a program of Sherlock Holmes nostalgia at the D. W. Griffith Theater is an old filmed interview with Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Scout, mustached and affable, the 68-year-old author made it clear what some people had always suspected: it was Watson who invented Holmes. In any case, Sir Arthur was mainly interested in talking about psychic research.

People wanted to know what happened to the generation of young Englishmen who died in World War II, he said. "Are they dissipated into nothing," he inquired, putting his dog "or are they still the grand fellows we used to know?"

It wasn't Sir Arthur's ghosts that made a success of haunting: it was his stories. "Sherlock Holmes" is on Broadway, tourists still go on fororn searches up Baker Street, Gene Wilder is filming Holmes's younger brother in London and Lord Olivier will tackle Moriarty this fall.

The centerpiece of the Holmes's film program is the 1939 Darryl Y. Zanuck pro- duction of "The Hound of the Baskervilles." It isn't a great picture. It isn't even a great mediocre picture, but it is a good mediocre picture, and perhaps they made better mediocre pictures in those days than they do now.

Dartmoor, the funeral setting for “The Hound,” may be partly painted backdrop but they roll in enough studio fool to do “Wuthering Heights” twice. Basil Rath- bome and Nigel Bruce play Holmes and Watson with comic exaggeration. It is a various kind of comic ex- pulsion. It lets you watch it. It doesn’t spoof itself; it doesn’t work at you and tell you that it’s really just as sophisticated as you are and knows it is making a fool of itself down there on the screen.

The board is just a large ugly dog, but it manages to be quite as frightening as the mechanical floor water in a white shark suit that plays the lead in “Jaws,” and a lot more.

And then there are the phrases. "Mr. Holmes, you're the only man in all England who can help me." "In mortal fear Sir Henry's life will be snuffed out." "They were the footprints of a gigantic Hound." "Watson, keep your eye on that hound." "That's what I hate about his moor, there's always something strange." And, of course: "Oh Watson, the needle."

It 's like the tunes—sing- able with a life of their own—that pop out of Gilbert and Sullivan.

Some of the audiences leaves after "The Hound," and the amber urges them back to their seats. He's right: the last picture in the program is a 45-minuteuster Keaton classic.

"Sherlock Junior" is not really a "Sherlock Holmes" picture. It is about a movie projectionist (Keaton) who wants to be a detective, courts a girl, is thrown out after a rival steals her father's watch and lays the blame

on him, falls asleep while projecting a picture and dreams himself into the picture. There he becomes Sherlock Holmes, frustrates the seconds and wins the girl.

If it's not quite the master- piece that "The General" or "The Navigator" is, it is still first-rate Keaton. That is, it is both disciplined and wild. The major part of the picture, where in his dream he iter- ally walks down the side chambers into the screen and jumps the pilot as Holmes, is full of marvelous changes, es- capes and battles with ex- ploiting billiard balls.

But the quieter bets are better. For example, he sweeps out the theater and finds in the debris two or three dollar bills that will al- low him to buy candy for his girl. The customers return one by one to claim them. One is an old woman who comes up weeping. With agony he yields up the dollar bill to her. She takes it and yields her handhierarchy to him.

8 HUNTS INDICTED WITH-5 IN DALLAS

Jul. 22-W.21:1 Foreman Among 7 Charged in Wiretap Inquiry

From the New York Times

DALLAS, July 21 — Nelson Bunker Hunt