CAREER ACCOUNT

SECRET RYBAT

27 May 1969

Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report for Cecil J. KLOBUKAR for the Period 26 July 1968 to 31 March 1969

Cecil J. KLOBUKAR was the Chief of this Base until July 1968 at which time he was assigned new duties as a career agent, targeted primarily against the San Francisco consular community. Until that time there was no specific program aimed at the official foreign community. It was KLOBUKAR's responsibility, therefore, to break ground in this new target area. He went about this chore in an orderly and organized manner by refining the community to those which were of priority interest because of their rep- resentation in denied and semi-denied areas. He then started looking for a means to get information and gain access to members of this target group. To assist him in this endeavor he recruited two members of the consular community, repre- senting Latin American countries. Since their performance did not live up to expectations, KLOBUKAR took the initiative by joining three local organizations relating to foreign affairs in order to enhance his cover and possibility of direct access as a retired LNGOLD officer. By participating in the gatherings of these organizations, KLOBUKAR is aiming at direct contact with at least a few of the officers from target consulates.

KLOBUKAR has demonstrated excellent initiative in pur- suing as many avenues of approach as possible to this rather difficult target. It is not a cohesive community and does not experience the usual mixing and contact that one finds in normal diplomatic circles. It is fragmented and cliquish and for this reason KLOBUKAR has had to show both imagination and perseverance in probing for access to those specific consulates in which the Base has priority interest. He is now demonstrating his determination to get at this target by exploring another possible means of approach of his own device.

In addition to his primary responsibility against the consular target, KLOBUKAR also handles one support asset currently being used against a high priority student target and three general purpose assets who are used from time to

SECRET RYBAT