The Attorney General JUNE

January 26, 1962

Director, FBI

1 - Mr. Belmont

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Evans

1 - Mr. Donahoe

TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE COVERAGE OF DIPLOMATIC ESTABLISHMENTS

1 - Mr. J. D. Donohue 1 - Mr. Mossburg 1 - Mr. G. C. Moore

Assistant Director C. A. Evans has advised me of your interest in increased technical surveillance coverage of diplomatic establishments of foreign countries in the United States, particular of those countries outside the "Iron Curtain," and of your request on January 20, 1962, for my views as to what additional coverage should be instituted.

For several years we have been utilizing technical surveillance coverage of diplomatic establishments or representatives of countries outside the Soviet bloc. The technique has been utilized largely with respect to countries which were existing or potential trouble spots and has been aimed at producing intelligence data of interest not only to the FBI but also to other agencies in the intelligence community. At the present time we have such coverage in Washington, D. C., and/or New York City on the countries of Cuba, Dominican Republic, France, Ghana, Israel, United Arab Republic and West Germany. Our past coverage has been probing and in recent years has involved coverage of eleven other countries.

While virtually every country is a logical intelligence target it is felt there are definite areas in which we might extend our technical surveillance coverage at this time to explore whether valuable intelligence data could be produced. It is believed that coverage of the diplomatic establishments of the particular countries in Washington, D. C., and at the United Nations will enable us to explore more accurately the potential of the coverage.

With regard to African countries we suggest coverage at this time of four additional countries: (1) Republic of the Congo (Leopoldville); (2) Guinea; (3) Mali and (4) Morocco. The Congo is a key trouble spot in Africa. Guinea and Mali lean toward the Soviet bloc and are targets of

Tolson Belmont Mohr Callahan Conrad DelLoach Evans Malone Rosen Sullivan Tavel Trotter Tele. Room Ingram

NOTE: Cover memorandum prepared from Donahoe to Sullivan re same subject dated 1/23/62. SBD:dmd (Note continued page 2)

NWI:8613 DocId:32199554 TELETYPE UNIT SECRET

JAN 26 1967

COMM-FBI

SBD:dmd:mvr

(10)