UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams

FROM : Legal Counsel

SUBJECT: LEGAL ADVICE FOR PRESENT OR FORMER BUREAU EMPLOYEES

DATE: 9/18/75

BY

SEN STUDY-75

On September 17, 1975, Mary Wagner, an attorney in the office of the Deputy Attorney General, accompanied by Bruce Baird, an attorney recently appointed to the Deputy's office, met with me in my office and advised that they have been assigned the responsibility of drafting guidelines for the Attorney General's approval concerning legal representation of Department employees. She explained that they view the problem of legal advice to employees as larger than the request made by the FBI concerning Bureau employees, and that the guidelines would address the larger problem. She asked for my suggestions concerning the proposed guidelines.

I told Miss Wagner that in the beginning of the inquiries received from the Senate and House Select Committees, we had been advised by the Department that a conflict of interest would prohibit Department attorneys, including lawyers in the FBI, from providing legal representation individually to the employees of the FBI in matters relating to the Senate and House inquiries. As a consequence we have been advising our employees of the procedures involved in Congressional committee interviews and appearances for testimony; the limitations imposed on the employees in regard to sensitive areas of testimony which might require special approval; their right to counsel and of the limitation imposed on us that personal counsel would have to be privately employed. I told Miss Wagner that my reading of the Attorney General's memorandum for the Director dated September 12, 1975, was that the Attorney General intended to make personal legal advice available to employees requesting it and that we would like for the guidelines to be written broadly enough for employees to receive effective assistance of legal counsel.

1 - Mr. Wannall 1 - Mr. Walsh 1 - Mr. Hotis 1 - Mr. Mintz JAM:mfd (6)

SEP 24 1975

NOV 6 1975

NW 88326 (DocId:32989653 Page 22 Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan)