SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

police to an arms cache which was to be used to sup- port guerrilla operations in Peru. Bolivian authori- ties have uncovered and dispersed at least three pro- Castro guerrilla groups in this area in the past year.

Some 300 Bolivians have arrived or were recently brought to Bolivia. A want to train or opaquely indirect运 from as early as mid-1964. About 70 Bolivians traveled to Cuba in 1963, 20 traveled to Cuba through April, 1964.

Brazil

Before the overthrow of President Goulart, Cuba was engaged in an active subversive effort in Brazil providing funds, guerrilla training, and propaganda support to Communist and pro-Communist groups. Operat- ing primarily through its embassy in Rio de Janeiro, Havana collaborated closely with Francisco Juliao's Peasant Leagues in northeast Brazil and with Leonel Brizola, Goulart's violently anti-American brother- in-law. The former Cuban ambassador privately described Brizola as having the best prospects for starting a Castro-stule revolution in Brazil. The ambassador appeared to be favoring him over Juliao from late 1963 until the April overthrow.

By late February a usually reliable source re- ported that Brizola agreed to accept others of Cuban financial assistance to finance his expanding press and radio activities and to "buy some arms" from his Popular Mobilization Front. The same source reported that Brizola received his first subsidy from Havana on 12 April 1963. From then on, in Venezuela and Venezuelan countries to buy arms. In addition, a usually reliable American source when contracts between the Cubans embassy in Mexico City reports that about 10 days before the beginning of Goulart's overthrow, Ha- vana sent money to Brazil in an effort to bolster the Brizola forces. Four Cuban couriers reportedly took the money to Brazil (see Mexico City).

Cuba also maintained a substantial propaganda operation in Brazil, primarily through the local office of Prensa Latina. A Communist party member in the state of Bahia revealed, for example, that the local Communist newspaper was financed by Cuba. The number of Brazilian-Cuban Cultural Institues

NO FOREIGN DISSEM - SECRET - SECRET-