homes in violation of our HUMAN RIGHTS, will henceforth be treated as outlaws, as gangsters, as evildoers. We have no way of determining that a man in a uniform involved in a forced outlaw entry into our home is in fact a Guardian of the Law. He is acting like a law-breaker and we must make an appropriate response.

We draw the line at the threshold of our doors. It is therefore mandated as a general order to all members of the Black Panther Party for Safety Defense that all members must acquire the technical equipment to defend their homes and their dependents and shall do so. Any member of the Party having such technical equipment who fails to defend his threshold shall be expelled from the Party for Life.

....SO LET THIS BE DONE.

- Huey P. Newton Minister of Defense

MARCH-1, 1968

HUEY ON ANARCHISTS AND INDIVIDUALISTS AS RELATED TO REVOLUTIONARY STRUGGLE AND THE BLACK LIBERATION MOVEMENT

We should understand there is a difference between the rebellion of the anarchists and the black revolution or liberation of the black colony. This is a class society, it always has been. This reactionary class society places its limitations on individuals, not just in terms of their occupation, but also regarding self expression, being mobile, and being free to really be creative and do anything they want to do. The class society prevents this. This is true not only for the mass of the lower or subjugated class, but it is also true within the ruling class, the master class. That class also limits the freedom of the individual souls of the people which comprise it.

In the upper class, the individuals always try to free themselves from these limitations - the artificial limitations placed upon him through external sources, namely, some hierarchy that goes by the name of State or Governmental Administration.

In America, we have not only a class society, we also have a caste system, and black people are fitted into the lowest caste. They have no mobility for going up the class ladder. They have no privilege to enter into the ruling structure at all.

Within the ruling class they're objecting (resisting?), because the people have found that they're completely subjected to the will of the administration and to the manipulators. This brings about a very strange phenomenon in America. That is, many of the rebelling white students and the anarchist are the offspring of this master class. Surely most of them have a middle class background and some even upper-class. They see the limitations imposed upon them and now they're striving, as all men strive, to get free dom of the soul. Freedom of expression, and freedom of movement, with out the artificial limitations from antique values.