Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach RE: MURKIN

He has been a chronic letter writer to the Central Intelligence Agency criticizing them and the Government. By letter of 12/29/67 Kramer requested the Central Intelligence Agency to pay him $100,000 monthly for six months for a paper on geopolitical economy he had previously submitted. He concluded his letter with the statement, "In the event that you fail to acknowledge my request, I can accept no responsibility for any future efforts necessary to gain the combined ends of ideal government and financial recompense."

The only record of Kramer found in Bureau files is a memorandum from the Central Intelligence Agency, 1/18/68, advising us of his letters to the Central Intelligence Agency. No record can be located in the Identification Division but Kramer's fingerprints are being obtained from the Berkeley police.

A. C. Hayden, Intra-Division Information Unit of the Department, advised on the evening of 4/8/68 that Beatrice Rosenberg, a secretary in the Attorney General's office, had received a telephone call from a man identifying himself as Frederick Dunstan who said he resided at Route 350, Whitefield, North Carolina. Dunstan said he was calling the Attorney General to report that a white man was in his house, was drunk, had a gun and said he had killed Martin Luther King, Jr.

There is no Whitefield, North Carolina. There is a Whiteville, North Carolina. Investigation by the Charlotte Division has failed to locate a Route 350, Box 350, or Highway 350 in the Whiteville area and no record of a Frederick Dunstan has been located. No record of Dunstan could be found in Bureau files.

A pair of duckbill pliers was found among the personal effects believed to have been abandoned by the subject. These pliers bear a trademark of the Rompage Hardware Company, Los Angeles. Employees at the hardware company believe this is one of twelve pliers purchased in October, 1966. Employees have no recollection of the sale of these pliers but an exhaustive search is being made of charge sale records.

It is noted that the rifle believed to be the murder weapon was purchased in Birmingham, Alabama, 3/30/68. Binoculars found with the rifle were purchased in Memphis, 4/4/68. A latent fingerprint found on the rifle is identical with a latent fingerprint found on the binoculars. This presents a strong probability that these fingerprints are those of the subject.

CONTINUED PAGE THREE