Wright said that her arrest at the hands of Los Angeles City School Security Officers, during the recent Manual Arts High School disturbance, had at least one bright result. She said that at the time of her arrest it had been necessary for the arresting officers to drag her down the hall as she was too heavy for them to carry. Then she added that the next time she is arrested the officers will not have that excuse as she has lost thirty pounds in the meantime.

The speeches in the patio ended at 1:30 PM and many of the women left immediately. Seventy-eight women remained and attempted to enter a special committee meeting being attended by some of the School Board members. They were informed by a member of the administrative staff that the public meeting of the School Board would not be held until 4:00 PM, the regularly scheduled meeting time. The women milled around in the hallway outside the meeting room, until finally a staff member came out and told them that two members of the School Board, Reverend James E. Jones and Dr. Julian Nava, had agreed to grant them an audience. The women were then ushered into the public board room of the School Board where they waited until 2:00 PM at which time the above-named Board members granted the demonstrators a short audience and answered some questions put to them by the women. One question, as to how much longer the members of the School Board were going to permit recruiters from the armed forces to interview students at local high schools and junior colleges remained unanswered, but Dr. Nava pointed out to the women that he had seen nothing wrong in entering the armed forces to fight for this country himself when he was 17 years of age; and he could see nothing wrong in other young men who wanted to do the same today. The demonstration was concluded by 3:00 PM. There were no incidents and no arrests.

Placards carried during this demonstration in Los Angeles bore the following captions:

"Eat Texas Beef, Not L.B.J. Baloney"

"Woman Power is Vote Power is Peace Power"

"Draft Beer Not Students"

"Where Have All the Men Gone-To Graveyards"

"Jeannette Rankin Brigade-Women's Votes Count, End the War"

"Women's Power is Peace Power."

A Special Agent of the FBI observed a separate group of 32 Caucasian females assemble at 10:05 AM, in the vicinity

HW 88321 DocId:32989544 Page 3/84