If the informant receives from outside employment less than $4800, all of which is subject to Social Security tax, the amount on which he will have to report for Social Security tax purposes, if he completes a schedule C, is the difference between the amount received from regular employment and $4800.

If informant completes a schedule C, the nature of business of the self-employed must be stated and informants should be instructed to use as the nature of self-employment any applicable occupation without revealing connection with the Bureau.

[h. When an informant or former informant is initially considered as a potential witness in a Bureau case, determine whether he paid Federal and state taxes on the income he received from the Bureau for his services. If such taxes have not been paid, obtain all pertinent details and promptly submit recommendations for handling the situation.]

7. Stipulation re payments made to witnesses

In trials in which informants, former informants, or other persons who were paid sums of money are prospective witnesses, the Bureau must furnish the Department a set of Photostats of the original receipts signed by the prospective witnesses. The original receipts and a set of Photostats will be transmitted to the field office in whose territory the trial will take place. The office handling prosecution must determine from the Government attorney which individuals are to be used as witnesses. Thereafter the office should furnish and/or cause other appropriate offices to furnish to the Bureau the following information:

(1) The correct, full name

(2) All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers

(3) The first date of contact by your office

(4) If first contact was prior to September, 1944, the names of all SAs, SACs, and ASACs who contacted and may have made payments

(5) A tabulation of all payments, broken down as the amount applicable to services and the amount applicable to expenses. Although tabulations are not furnished to the Department, those prepared by your office will be reconciled with Bureau records.

(6) A listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of advances

(7) The date of last contact by your office

(8) Whether the individual has been contacted by any other office

Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. If no contact was made with a particular individual, the Bureau must be so advised.

Where an informant has previously been used and a tabulation of payments was prepared, information for items (5) through (8) need be given only from the date of the last trial from which the individual was used.

The above information should be submitted separate and apart from correspondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be addressed to the attention of the Administrative Division. Voucher Unit. Interdivisional correspondence should be addressed to the Bureau with copies designated for the interested offices.

Receipt of unemployment compensation

At times security informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs with private industry due to strikes, economic conditions, or similar circumstances. As a result they become eligible for unemployment compensation. Where unemployed regulations require listing of sources of income as a prerequisite for obtaining unemployment compensation and security informants and/or source who at the time are being paid by the Bureau .. services rendered fail to comply, the situation is potentially embarrassing. The Bureau cannot be placed in the position of condoning a violation of the law on the part of any informant or source. Each field office shall determine from state unemployment compensation officials effect of unemployment compensation laws on paid informants and/or sources. Depending on local requirements, informants and sources must be alerted accordingly.