TAB C

FUNDING AND PAYROLLING MECHANISMS

1. The various types of Funding and Payrolling Mechanisms used by the Agency are described below:

Devised Facilities--Those Agency-owned and managed mechanisms which are incorporated in U.S. jurisdictions (various States) with nominee stockholders and are used to provide nonofficial cover payroll support to Agency assets who do not have to show highly visible cover employment. They are also used for other nonofficial cover support tasks such as funding of proprietary organizations. No books of account are maintained but annual tax returns are prepared by Headquarters specialists in a manner to make it appear that the mechanism is conducting normal commercial business. Since the tax return cannot be substantiated from commercial records, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) must be notified of Agency interest in the entity in the event of a proposed IRS audit. Management, including direct control of the corporate bank accounts, is effected by specialists at Headquarters. Funds are transferred from Headquarters to the bank account of each entity in amounts and at times necessary to meet funding obligations; otherwise, minimum balances are maintained in the accounts to keep them open.

Devised Facilities-Notionals--Those Agency-owned and managed mechanisms similar to Devised Facilities except that the mechanisms are not incorporated; they are sole proprietorships. The same administrative procedures are used as for Devised Facilities.

Notionals--Those Agency-owned and managed mechanisms which are merely business names (not formally constituted or registered) which ostensibly do business at the address of an answering service or witting attorney. Operating officials are usually fictitious and management is effected by specialists at Headquarters. These entities are generally used as funding attribution for monies paid to bona fide corporations in reimbursement of cover costs for Agency assets, and they are also used to fund proprietary organizations. The same administrative procedures are used as for Devised Facilities.

2. As of 31 October 1975, the number of mechanisms in each category is as follows:

Devised Facilities 31 b. Devised Facilities-Notionals 67 c. Notionals 228 Total 326

NEW 1975 JIA

NW 20975 Pnc Id:52429532 Page 77