PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

Krulak, Victor Gen., Mendenhall, Jos. A. 10 Sept. 1963

Counterinsurgency Specialists UN Advisor DIEM

Joint Chiefs of Staff Bureau Far Eastern

Rusk, Dean Sec. of State Affairs

McCone, John DCT Kennedy, JohnF.

OCCURRENCE: Richardson, John

At a Presidential meeting on Vietnam with Carter and Colby in attendance, the following record by Colby is provided of the meeting of September 10, 1963.

Krulak reported his findings in Vietnam. His conclusions were that the war was going ahead at an impressive pace and that the Vietcong war could be won if current U.S. military and social programs are continued. Mendenhall, the State representative who accompanied Krulak, expressed the view that there was complete breakdown of the Siagon civilian government in the security situations in the provinces had deteriorated. The President asked where the two gentlemen had been in same country. Rusk suggested that the focus be on what happened in July and August that reversed the optimistic judgments in May and June. Mr. McCone talked from a personal telegram which he had received Richardson recommending against any cut in aid.

SOURCE:

IG Report 1967 (CIA), p. 19

FILE:

STAFF: Dawson

DATE: 6/27/75

PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: CATEGORIES:

Diem Richardson, Chief of Station CIA Siagon 10 Sept 1963 DIEM

OCCURRENCE:

On 10 September 1963 in a cable from the CIA station in Siagon (SAIG0760) to Washington, the following quotation appears: "Am inclined to feel general officers will seek evolutionary accommodation with Diem, (if he permits them to do so) unless overall situation clearly deteriorates, there is breakdown of civil order or of governmental machinery, or unless war effort begins to go backward seriously (despite damages suffered since 8 May and 21 August am inclined to believe we should be able to resume successful prosecution of war in military and civil sections) do not align myself with the view that USG should suspend aid".

SOURCE:

IG Report 1967 (CIA), p. 19

STAFF: Dawson