UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. Gale

FROM : W. V. Cleveland

SUBJECT: FRED LOUIS MC INTYRE DEPARTMENTAL APPLICANT JUDGE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURT OF GENERAL SESSIONS

DATE: 1/5/67

The investigation of Fred Louis McIntyre, candidate for the position of Judge, District of Columbia Court of General Sessions, has been completed with the exception of one agency record check.

We have brought up to date prior applicant type investigations of McIntyre conducted in 1950 and 1953. These investigations were favorable. McIntyre, aged 47, received his A.B. degree in 1948 and his LL.B. degree in 1950 from George Washington University. McIntyre was employed by the National Security Resources Board from 1950 to 1951; by the Defense Production Administration from 1951 to 1953; as an Assistant U. S. Attorney in the District of Columbia from 1953 to 1961 when he resigned to accept appointment as counsel for the District of Columbia Committee of the United States Senate, which position he presently holds. He has been a member of the District of Columbia Bar in good standing since November 3, 1950. He served in the United States Air Force from 1941 to 1946.

Senators and Representatives on the Senate and House District of Columbia Committees respectively, U. S. Court of Appeals and Federal District Court Judges, D. C. Court of General Sessions Judges, District Commissioners, bar association officials, local attorneys who have opposed applicant in court, civil rights and religious leaders, neighbors and social acquaintances highly recommended applicant for a judicial position. They stated he has a judicial temperament and would be impartial and unbiased in his decisions. His legal associates stated they have been impressed with applicant's emotional stability and his competence as a lawyer. They noted that he has had extensive experience before the various courts in the District of Columbia. His legal ethics were not questioned and his character, reputation, associates, and loyalty were stated to be above reproach.

(6)