Utilization

If confidential source is to be used for assistance in security investigations, secure Bureau approval, and background data must be furnished to the Bureau of the same type which is required for potential security informants.

Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in which the frequency of contact is dependent upon circumstances of the individual case, confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained should also be contacted at least once every two weeks in the same manner as security informants.

Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files may be posted,

Contacts with confidential sources should only be made by the Agent or Agents specifically designated for that purpose.

The letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use a subject as a confidential source is to set out clearly the following information:

(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizenship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest record, and service record, if any

(2) Details of the expected cooperation of cnarioned individual as a confidential source, together with the results of any interviews conducted with him

(3) A statement to the effect subject is being considered a confidential source and that he will be advised he is not a Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relationship with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should be made that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and if he is connected with a labor union he will be advised of Bureau policy on labor matters,

One of the required copies of the letter requesting aut'ority to use a subject as a confidential source should consist only of the first page of the letter. If the request is approved at the Bureau, a stamped notation will be placed on the single-page copy and it will be returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subject is sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background information obtained.

6. Security confidential sources - certification of stability and payments

Every six months a letter of justification should be submitted to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security confidential sources. See 107N, item 3b, for form of letter.

If the security source is not being paid on Bureau authorization or if he is not an employee of a foreign diplomatic establishment or an international organization and is being used regularly, the Agent handling the source must dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters.

If the security confidential source is employed by a foreign diplomatic establishment (embassy, consulate, United Nations Mission, etc.) or by an international organization (United Nations Secretariat, Organization of American States, International Monetary Fund, etc.), a letter of justification should be submitted to the Bureau every six months. See 107N, item 3b, for form of letter.

Gifts

Gifts should not be given to sources since such actions might be misconstrued.

Discontinuance

Advise Bureau of the date when confidential source is discontinued, and the reasons therefor.