This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States and should be treated with care. DO NOT DISSEMINATE, REPRODUCE, OR STORE THE DOCUMENT.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY USSR/Czechoslovakia/West Germany/Indir./France REPORT NO. 00-35248

SUBJECT WHO/LMEA Scientific Meeting on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Radio-Active Poisoning--Assessment of Participants and Their Presentations/Biographical Information DATE DIST. 19 Jan

NO. PAGES-2

REFERENCES Ref: 303

DATE OF INFO. 15-18 Oct 62

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Vienna 15-18 Oct 62

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US citizen, doctor of medicine.

Source conducts research in the treatment of radioactive metal poisoning, and is also a clinician when such cases arise at the medical center. Source speaks German and keeps abreast of all latest news on the subject of radioactive poisoning. This report was prepared by an ARMY representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. I participated in the World Health Organization's International Atomic Energy Agency's scientific meeting on the diagnosis and treatment of radioactive poisoning, held at Vienna, Austria, 15-18 Oct 62. There were only 20 participants at this meeting; therefore each individual is considered highly qualified in this particular field otherwise he would not have been invited as a participant.

2. The two USSR doctors who were invited were Dr D J Moscavov and Dr I T Ivanenko, a female doctor. They are both from St. Petersburg Center. When the secretary told them not heard from then, he contacted the permanent USSR representative of the International Atomic Energy Agency, who called Moscow to find out whether or not these two representatives would attend. He was informed that they could not come due to unforeseen circumstances. They sent instead Prof. Mosecalev. He speaks only Russian. He is bright but not current on the effects of radiation, that is, the effects of radioactive metals. He was therefore not the individual that should have been representing the USSR at this meeting. This was his first time out of the USSR. He is about 5'8" tall, weighs about 175 pounds, is around 45 years of age and has graying hair. He is generally an outgoing individual. He became very warm and friendly during the meeting and toasted my son saying that he hoped that his son and my son could climb mountains together. He was rather gay at parties but only a social drinker. He smoked an average amount. He has a family, the size of which I do not know, and is a professor in the Institute of Medicine.

3. Professor V Wolf, Department Ionizing Radiation, Institute of Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Diseases, Pristavnik 24, Prague 7, Czechoslovakia, is a well-known scientist. He is tall, slender, and athletic, in his 30's, about 6 feet tall, speaks perfect English. He has one boy aged 5 and a girl aged 9. He lives in Prague. To publish an annual report on the proceedings at his institute, which I receive. He is a top-notch scientist. He is an MD and sees patients in addition to conducting research. He stated:

5 4 3 2 1

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FCI AEC

CODE-1

Stated from authentic

Transcripted and verified

CONTROLLED NO DISSEMINATION NO TRANSMISSION

DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT: All Rights Reserved. No Part of this publication may be reproduced without prior