movement" and developing an "operational schedule for sabotage actions inside Cuba." (Lansdale Ex. 3, p. 5, 7.)

In focusing on intelligence collection, propaganda and various sabotage actions, Lansdale's tasks were consistent with the underlying strategy of Mongoose to build gradually towards an internal revolt of the Cuban people. (See p. above.)

Lansdale transmitted a copy of the tasks to Robert Kennedy on January 18, 1962, with a handwritten note stating "my review does not include the sensitive work I have reported to you; I felt you preferred informing the President privately."

Lansdale testified that this did not refer to assassinations and that he "never took up assassination with either the Attorney General or the President.” Lansdale testified that he could not precisely recall the nature of this "sensitive work" but that it might have involved a special trip he made under cover to meet Cuban leaders in Florida and to assess their political strengths. (Lansdale, p. 30.)

There was testimony regarding one Lansdale plan that a witness thought was an example of Lansdale's "perspicacity" in planning operations. Parrott, the Secretary to the Special Group Augmented, testified:

"I'll give you one example of Lansdale's perspicacity. He had a wonderful plan for getting rid of Castro. This plan consisted of spreading the word that the Second Coming of Christ was imminent and that Christ was against Castro (who) was anti-Christ. And you would spread this word around Cuba, and then on whatever date it was, that there would be a manifestation of this thing. And at that time--this is absolutely true--and at that time there would be an American submarine which would surface just over the horizon off of Cuba and send up some starshells. And this would be the manifestation of the Second Coming and Castro would be overthrown..."

"Well, some wag called this operation--by this time Lansdale was something of a joke in many quarters--and somebody dubbed this Elimination by Illumination. (Parrott, p. .)

Harvey testified that he never received any instructions from Lansdale to undertake assassinations, although as noted below (p. ), in August 1962, Lansdale asked Harvey to consider the feasibility of a plan for the "liquidation" of Cuban leaders. (Harvey, 7/75, p. .)