Persons active in the Communist Party or other organization underground apparatus

vi. Any other security index subject whose activities, past or present, regardless of membership in a revolutionary organization, clearly and unmistakably depict the individual as a potential saboteur, espionage agent, or disruptionist in the event of an emergency

(C) Individuals employed in or having access to key facilities

II. Security index subjects considered for priority II:

(A) All individuals who are considered to be of second level leadership of basic revolutionary organizations and other subversive organizations and individuals who present a significant threat but are in less influential positions than those in priority I

III. All other individuals on the security index will be tabbed priority III.

(c) Recommendations for and removal of priority designation

I. Approval of SAC

Designation of each subject as to priority or removal of any subject therefrom must be personally approved by SAC, or in offices having more than 1,000 security index subjects by SAC, ASAC, or Bureau-approved security supervisor.

II. When form FD-171 is submitted recommending either tabbing for priority or deletion of such tabbing,

attach an additional page setting out a brief summary of facts upon which the recommendation is based.

(d) Administrative procedures for handling priority program

Take following action to assure that security index cards for subjects tabbed for priority of apprehension will be readily available for emergency action in your office:

I. Geographical section

Divide geographical section of security index into three distinct parts.

(A) Part I of geographical section shall include only security index cards for subjects who are tabbed priority I.

(B) Part II of geographical section shall contain security index cards for all subjects that are tabbed priority II.

(C) Part III of geographical section should contain security index cards for all subjects who are tabbed priority III.

(D) In offices having two separate and distinct geographical sections, i.e., geographical-employment and geographical-residence, as provided under 87D 7b (6) herein, each such geographical section must be broken into parts I, II, and III.

(E) Priority cards will be the following colors: priority I - beige, priority II - green, priority III - white

III. Alphabetical section.

(A) One security index card for each subject is to be filed in alphabetical section in strict alphabetical order with no other breakdown whatsoever.

(B) Priority tabbiangs approved at Bureau will be shown on security index cards forwarded to field by code letters "P I," "P II," or "P III" in first line on the cards.