Now our goals are within our grips and our armies are beginning to activate. A large segment of the left and the right are no longer shooting at each other. Yes, the fear of our enemies is now realistic. The bullets of all pro-American revolution- aries are aimed at the alien enemies in control and not at each other. Summer is near. Federal Agents beware. We mean business and we have the facilities not to be stopped. Your laws don't bother us; your jails don't scare us; and your bullets will be returned with more bullets. Your leaders have bankrupted our people, have starved them, and caused enough materialistic havoc that we now have the will of the people with us. Even the stupidist in America see through the grain shortages, fuel shortages, price gougings, meat shortages, work stoppages, and various other criminal corruption by the enemy aliens in control. America's masses are in the corner. Now just stand back and watch them come out shooting. When the smoke clears, America shall be the victor.

:White Power."

"The following portion of this communication will be the only press release of the New Revolutionary Army. In future months, as our movement gains momentum, I wish for the press to understand what we are about rather than what the FBI tells them. There is a brief but somewhat inclusive listing of our program included.

The New Revolutionary Party herewith immediately declares that the present Government of the United States of America is an illegal confederation of aliens and enemies of the people of America. The New Revolutionary Army, its officers and followers henceforth secede from the United States of America until such time we may be able to restore a Government of the people, by the people and for the people and oust the enemy aliens now in control. Through force and violence and whatever means available to the NRA, we will totally, forcefully and quickly restore sanity to our American republic. We have adopted the American Constitution in its original form, revised

45