Another project was for the Cubans to receive plastic explosives from the CIA and give them to frogmen on their side that in turn would place them on ships in Havana harbor and blow them up. The CIA refused to do this because of the ease with which plastic explosives could be traced back to the government agencies such as the CIA. Maheu did discuss the use of cigars that would make Castro's hair drop off. According to Rosselli, lose his ability to govern the country. Another proposal was that there be a booby trapped desk. Each of these latter two projects were proposed by Cuban refugees who said they had people in positions vis a vis Castro who could achieve the assassination.

Prior to the Bay of Pigs, there was no discussion of guns. Rosselli claimed to have a better idea than Maheu, namely that with far fewer men than were involved in the Bay of Pigs, perhaps a hundred, they could land in Cuba and do the job successfully. Rosselli's Cuban contact at the time was traveling to New York and New Orleans for meetings. Rosselli was not sure about what the meetings were about but said that they were related to the overthrow of Castro. Another proposal put forward was to purchase a speed boat and use some type of exploding seashell to kill Castro.

The night before the Bay of Pigs Rosselli went to his number one Cuban's house and spoke with him. The Cuban contact said, "See you in Havana." Rosselli expressed serious reservation about the possibility of success for the operation. Rosselli left Florida right after the Bay of Pigs. His total time on this particular attempt at assassination in Florida was three or four months.

Rosselli felt sorry for"the poor bastards left on the beach." He felt indirectly responsible for having encouraged them many of them to participate in the operation. He went home and stayed in Las Vegas and Los Angeles for awhile. A few weeks after the Bay of Pigs, Rosselli was contacted by Maheu or O'Connell, he's not sure. He did meet with Jim O'Connell in Florida a few weeks later. They had arranged to have rooms at the Airport Hotel. Rosselli was not sure as to what his name, what name he registered under, but at this meeting in Florida he met a new CIA man, named Harvey. The first time he met Harvey, Rosselli was told

HW 50955 DocId:32423630 Page 132