Memorandum to Mr. Adams

Re: Legal Advice for Present or Former Bureau Employees

Division of the Department, the Civil Rights Division of the Department, or other Federal Government entities including Federal Grand Juries. Further, state and local prosecutors and grand juries may seek to inquire concerning matters within their jurisdiction arising out of the employee's Federal activities and the employee would require the assistance of counsel. Therefore, I asked Miss Wagner to include in the guidelines a provision that legal counsel would be available through the Department for employees in all circumstances where the employee is being questioned concerning matters arising out of his employment in the FBI.

I told Miss Wagner that the concluding paragraph in the Attorney General's memorandum for the Director indicated the possibility that a determination would be made in some cases that the employee's activities were beyond the scope of his duties and in such cases legal counsel would not be provided. I told her that such a determination would be critical and the policy followed in making such decisions would color the entire program of providing legal assistance to employees. Therefore, I requested Miss Wagner to address the question of scope of duties in the guidelines by expressing a presumption that the employee's activities were within the scope of his duties and that such presumption would be overcome only by a showing of facts clearly indicating to the contrary, and that such determination would be made at least by the Deputy Attorney General himself.

I told Miss Wagner that this matter was most urgent and that the Special Agents of the FBI throughout the field are anxiously awaiting the announcement of the Attorney General's policy in regard to availability of legal advice to employees concerning matters arising out of their employment. She advised me that work would begin immediately and that she would be in touch with me concerning its progress, and to discuss the guidelines as they are developed.

RECOMMENDATION:

For information of the Director in response to his request.