3:52 PM

September 10, 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. TOLSON MR. BELMONT MR. DE LOACH MR. SULLIVAN

President Lyndon B. Johnson called. He stated he was worried about the situation in the Dominican Republic and asked me how I felt about it. I told him it was my feeling that it is in an awful mess; that there have been several people who have been selected to be in the Cabinet who are far from being free of communist association or domination and why they were selected, I did not know, but ... bought the situation down there is very critical. I stated I met with McGeorge Bundy and Admiral William Raborn of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) the other day as to whether the FBI could withdraw from the Dominican Republic and my view was that we could as CIA is thoroughly qualified and has a good man d ... there to carry on the responsibilities and there is no need for the FBI to remain. I stated it was the view of Admiral Raborn and myself that it was going to be a mess and that we would have trouble for some time to come because various people are going back to the Dominican Republic now, such as Stan Yeech and his followers, and the former Presidents who were deposed and I think it in the political campaign which is going to be held down there this year, there are going to be violent outbursts which are characteristic of the Latin American.

I stated the palace is very anti-American and now that General Westin has been sent out and made Consul General at Miami, the rebel element, which is always strongly anti-American, will be in the ascendency. I stated President Kennedy is not what one would call a strong man; that I think he means well and will try to do right but he is not the kind of a man who will stand up to his opposition.

The President stated he was not too happy with CIA and the reports he gets from them and he would hate to see the Bureau people pull out until a government is formed. I stated we wouldn't until he, the President, says so; that as I said the other day, we would not leave until the decision has been made

NOT RECORDED 170 SEP 14 1965

6 SEP 14 1965

Miss Holmes Jedediah (C) VAN E. 9. 61

NW88326-DocId:32989627 Page 218