In Reply, Please Refer to File No.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Washington, D. C. 20535

January 15, 1968

DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING UNITED STATES POLICY IN VIETNAM

WASHINGTON, D.C.

JANUARY-15, 1968

A confidential source, who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised in December, 1967, that the Jeannette Rankin Brigade (JRB) had been formed primarily by members of Women Strike for Peace, a pacifist organization. Members of Women Strike for Peace had formed the organization following a statement made by former Congresswoman Jeannette Rankin of Montana, in which she stated that if 10,000 American housewives were willing to be arrested, they could stop the war in Vietnam. According to the source, the JRB was formed as a "one shot organization" to sponsor a demonstration in Washington, D.C., when Congress reconvenes in 1968.

The same source advised that January 15, 1968, had been established as the date of the above demonstration in view of the fact that Congress was reconvening on that date. The source stated that the headquarters of the JRB was located in New York City and that officials there and in other large United States cities including Los Angeles, San Francisco and Washington, D.C., were formulating the plans for a "march on the United States Capitol" where the women would present to the United States Congress a petition demanding that the Congressmen end the war in Vietnam. The source stated that a small minority in the above organization were in favor of committing acts of civil disobedience and being arrested, but the vast majority of the organization wanted a peaceful demonstration to again focus the Congressional attention upon the war in Vietnam.

The same source advised in January, 1968, that representatives of the JRB met with officials of the United States Capitol Police on several occasions and attempted to gain permission to assemble on the steps of the United States Capitol and present a petition to Congressional

GROUP I

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

E-3

NW 88321 DocID:32989545 Page 612

82