Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

Re: INTELLIGENCE COVERAGE OF FRIENDLY FOREIGN COUNTRIES

65-63113

This program has a twofold purpose, first, to acquire information concerning the identities and activities of official personnel of foreign governments in the U. S.; secondly, to produce intelligence information concerning foreign countries which will assist the Bureau in its over-all intelligence responsibilities, the Department of State in formulating policy in the field of international relations, and other agencies in connection with their foreign intelligence functions. To accomplish this purpose, three separate and distinct facets are utilized, discussed in detail hereinafter.

(1) Acquisition of Information from Other Agencies as to Identities of Foreign Intelligence Personnel in U. S.

On 11-18-54 letters were directed to the Department of State; Central Intelligence Agency; Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Department of the Army; Office of Naval Intelligence; Office of Special Investigations, Department of the Air Force; and National Security Agency. A copy was furnished to Assistant Attorney General, Internal Security Division, of the Department to advise him of the Bureau's action. These letters pointed out that information had been received in a number of instances indicating that representatives of so-called "friendly" nations had engaged in intelligence activities against the best interests of the U. S. The case involving Joseph Sidney Petersen, Jr., was cited as an example. It was noted that representatives of friendly countries in some instances were stationed here to represent their governments officially in dealing with U. S. agencies and in other instances intelligence representatives of these foreign countries frequently visited our country to confer with representatives of various U. S. agencies. It was observed that frequently the Bureau was not officially notified of the arrivals of many of these foreign government representatives and the possibility existed that such persons might while in this country engage in intelligence missions not known to the agencies of our Government sponsoring their visits.

In our letters of 11-18-54 we requested the six agencies involved to notify us when information was received that an intelligence representative of a foreign government was proceeding to the U. S. and also to let us know in the event any of these agencies set up a liaison arrangement with such foreign representatives. We pointed out this information was needed to guide us in discharging our responsibility and, at the same time, to enable us to advise the interested agency.