It took the money produced enough stress to indicate deception. The other question which produced stress was, "Are you wearing a ring?" In fact, his yes to that was accompanied by such stress as I had never once or twice in the class slides. I was only once or twice in the class slides. the next morning Kradz called on me. the suspect take the money, he asked. did I didn't think so. Kradz nodded. Did suspect who took the money? Yes, I bought he did. Very good, said Kradz. Did notice anything else about the interroga- tion? Well, yes, there was this business about the ring. Perhaps the suspect had then it. Kradz smiled. No, the kid hadn't then the ring, but he was gay. He had changed rings with another guy. Nobody

that the speaker had told the truth. However, since interrogation with a PSE seemed to require such an elaborate and structured situation. I wondered if it could be used the way I had hoped, as a tool for historical research.

During the lunch break I took Kradz aside and asked him. Could the PSE be used outside interrogations, where the speaker was telling what may or may not have happened? Yes, he said, the PSE could be used for that. Where there was no stress, I could be confident that the speaker was telling the truth. However, when I did find stress, I had to be very careful about reaching conclusions about its cause; it could result from something other than deception. But if I

I hoped that Jim Garrison would prove that he had solved the mystery. He didn't. Time passed, public interest waned, and the details of the controversy dimmed in my mind, leaving only a dull residue of doubt. I had despaired of ever learning the truth. Now I know what to do with the PSE.

It was all there: the statements made before television cameras by eyewitnesses, policemen, medical examiners, members of the Warren Commission. Somewhere in a network-television vault were the sound tracks, with the tiny, inaudible variations in voice frequency that could settle once and for all the question, "Did Oswald, acting alone, shoot and kill John F. Kennedy?"

My immediate problem was getting

Voice prints by the Psychological Stress Evaluator of former chief justice Earl Warren in May, 1972 indicating hard stress on the words "no evidence."

CHART NO 4008

The kid didn't really expect to be asked about it, because Kradz had one over all the questions with him. Still, then the ring was mentioned, he panicked. Only the third day of the course, I had begun to give some thought to what I might do in the PSE. I was particularly interested in the fact that the device works from a tape recording. Sound-recording technology is most a century old (Edison invented the monograph in 1877), and an enormous amount of history is stored on phonograph records, sound tracks, and tape and wire recordings. I thought how many press conferences, interviews and public pronouncements are stored away in the film and tape archives of the world, and how many questions could be settled if we knew for certain

found a stress pattern in the testimony of several witnesses to the same event, I would very probably have uncovered deception.

Encouraged, I reviewed the list of recent mysteries. Watergate was, of course, the first to come to mind. The ITT affair was also of recent interest. The Kent State incident had never been fully cleared up. But one subject seemed to loom above all the rest—the assassination of John F. Kennedy.

Like many others, I have found it difficult to believe the Warren Report. When Mark Lane's book came out, I read it carefully. I read much of the other criticism of the Warren Commission's findings. The more I read, the more I doubted the official account of what happened that day in Dallas. I waited for the real story to emerge. It didn't.

access to the recordings. I was certain the television networks would have them, but I wasn't sure exactly what to ask for. There must be thousands of hours of sound recordings relating to the assassination. Where, among all this talk, was the critical testimony?

I started digging and soon discovered the existence of a group called the National Committee to Investigate Assassinations, located in Washington, D.C. I called the number listed in the telephone directory and was soon speaking to Bob Smith, the Committee's Research Director. I told Smith that I was a writer and wanted to do a piece on the John F. Kennedy assassination. I asked him for an interview, and he agreed. We met in the offices of Bernard Fenster-