Burying Facts and Rewriting History - II

One of the efforts of this magazine is to pursue truth. One of the ways in which truth is pursued is not to let statements of the utmost importance be buried and forgotten in the pages of daily newspapers, nor unreported and lost because they are no longer well covered in national news magazines.

Among those statements are two of permanent interest in connection with the Watergate Caper (this phrase is establishmentese for "the Watergate Crime").

- The statement by Bernard L. Barker, one of the convicted operatives, which explains his motivation and background (see November 1972, Computers and Automation).

- The statement by Alfred Baldwin, 3rd, ex-FBI agent, an employee of the Republican Committee to Re-elect the President, telling what he did and saw while five men burglarized the Watergate offices of the Democratic National Committee on June 17, 1972, about 2:30 a.m. (see December 1972, C&A).

In addition, we have published seven installments of reports on the Watergate Crime by our contributing editor, Richard E. Sprague (a computer professional of 25 years standing) who as an avocation has studied for many years dirty political operations in the United States, including the assassinations by conspiracies (not "lone assassins") of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert Kennedy, and Reverend Martin Luther King.

Three years ago in May 1970, when we began to publish this type of article, we could not have spoken confidently of "the assassination by conspiracies" of two Kennedys and one King. But the articles we have published — which are listed and characterized on the following pages — have together a remarkable impact.

Taken together, the information published May 1970 to October 1973 in Computers and Automation effectively destroys a large segment of the beliefs, the rewritten history, that the establishment in the United States has arranged for people in the United States to believe. I do not assert that the establishment is a conscious organism or organization; perhaps the best description is this: a loose confederation of overt conspiracies, silent conspiracies, and biased wealthy persons, with very intelligent orchestration stemming from the Pentagon, the Central Intelligence Agency and the Presidency, and with assists from organized crime and the Mafia.

We challenge any fairminded person to read this col-

may be ordered from us), and after reading them, to still believe that the assassinations are actually the actions of "lone psychopaths," instead of fitting together into a plan to install a certain kind of autocracy in the United States.

This kind of autocracy claims to be democratic, to stand up for "national security," "executive privilege," "separation of Constitutional powers," etc. It offers appearances of democracy, but it seizes the realities of money and power. It cuts programs of social benefit; but it allocates $80 billion a year to be paid to the military-industrial-Pentagon complex.

In the 1940's there was a name for this kind of autocracy. Its name was "fascism," effectively a dictatorship in the interests of big business. What is now appearing in the U.S. is "fascism" in the form of a dictatorship by the military-industrial complex.

Here in a nutshell is an example of the present uneven contest: it takes the form of two sentences in a report by E. Drake Lundell, Jr., in Computerworld for April 22, 1973:

- The Antitrust Division of the Justice Department is "outmanned and outgunned" when it comes to prosecuting cases like the current action against IBM, Senate investigators were told last week. - In addition, witnesses before the Senate Antitrust and Monopoly Subcommittee stated that often the division cannot do its job properly because of political pressure from the White House. ...

These two statements contain a world of implications. Essentially, the Department of the United States Government which is charged with enforcing certain U.S. laws against monopoly, can no longer properly function because of (1) the enormous power of just one business, IBM, and (2) political pressure from the White House (this phrase is establishmentese for "President Richard M. Nixon").

We must dig up facts, remember them, and write history the way it is.

We must take action to compel the persons who deceive us and lie to us to leave the government of the United States, such as Spiro Agnew, former Vice President.