11. Indicate by () whether your marriage to the deceased was performed by: Clergyman or authorized public official , or Other (Explain)

12. Were you married before your marriage to the deceased? .. . .

If “Yes,” give the following information about each of your previous marriages.

DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE(S) TO WHOM MARRIED HOW MARRIAGE ENDED MARRIAGE ENDED

Month, Day, Year City State Date Place

13. (a) Were you and the deceased living together at the same address when the deceased died?

(b) If either you or the deceased was away from home (whether or not temporarily) when the deceased died, give the following: which of you was away; date last home; reason absence began; reason you were apart at time of death; if hospitalized, name of hospital and nature of confinement.

14. Was the deceased survived by any unmarried children (including stepchildren, adopted, and illegitimate children): (a) who were under 18 years of age when he died; or (b) who were 18 years of age or older, with a disability that began before age 18?

If your answer is "No," leave out the next questions and continue with question 21.

If your answer to question 14 is "Yes," give the following information about each such child.

(If uncertain as to name, date of birth, or whereabouts of any of these children, explain under "Remarks" on last page.) Show relationship to you and the deceased by placing () in the proper column.

FULL NAME OF CHILD DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP TO DECEASED RELATIONSHIP TO YOU

Month Day Year Legitimate Adopted Stepchild Illegitimate Natural or Adopted Stepchild

Jane Lee Oswald 2 15 62 X X

Audrey Marina Rachel 10 20 63 X X

(If you are not filing this application on behalf of any child listed above, give under "Remarks" on last page the name of each such child and the reason(s) for not filing. If a child of the deceased is born after this application is filed, notify your office of the Social Security Administration promptly, as such child may receive benefits.)

15. Has any child listed in item 14 ever been adopted by anyone other than the deceased?

If “Yes,” give the name of child, by whom adopted, and when

16. (a) Were all the children listed in item 14 living with the deceased at time of death?

(b) Which of the children listed in item 14 were living with their STEPFATHER when the deceased died?

17. Are all the children listed in item 14 now living with you?

If “No