SAMUEL ADASON JAFFE

II. Jaffe's Contacts with FBI While Assigned to Moscow

Jaffe furnished the following information to agents of the New York Office of the FBI on January 7, 1963.

Jaffe stated he was acquainted with Yuri Vladimirovich Fedorov while in Moscow. Jaffe said Fedorov was with the Novosti Press Agency in Moscow.

While Jaffe was in Moscow, in 1962, he became acquainted with a number of Soviet citizens both male and female. He said that he was dating one Soviet female by the name of Galina in the Fall of 1962. He became acquainted with her through other Soviet females with whom he was acquainted; however, he was unable to furnish her last name. Galina told Jaffe that she had been dating foreigners in the past and, because of this, had been called into KGB Headquarters and warned against continuing her association with foreigners.

During the Cuban crisis, in the Fall of 1962, Fedorov told Jaffe confidentially that there was a bitter dispute among the Soviet hierarchy in the Kremlin concerning the manner in which the Soviets should deal with the Cuban crisis. Fedorov told Jaffe that Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev was able to muster enough support for his position and eventually won out over those in the Soviet hierarchy who proposed a tough uncompromising attitude.

Jaffe advised that he used the information furnished to him by Yuri V. Fedorov concerning the dispute in the Kremlin over the Cuban crisis in a broadcast over the ABC network.

Jaffe recalled that the aforementioned information came to him from Fedorov on a Friday late in October, 1962. On the following day, a Saturday, Jaffe attended a social function at the home of Stanley Weyman, Life Magazine correspondent in Moscow. He brought his friend, Galina, with him and remained at Weyman's house until some time after midnight. When he departed from Weyman's house, he took Galina and a Soviet male with him. The Soviet male, whose name he could not remember, was also a guest at Weyman's house and Jaffe offered to drive him home. This Soviet male was associated with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, according to Jaffe.

SECRET-4