Government agencies or any left wing organization that would be doing the "bidding" of the supportive Government in power. Additional targets of the right wing, would include the United States Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service, and such organizations as the Jewish Anti-Defamation League, who although is not a Government agency, he feels it receives its authority to act from the Government.

DRAGUN agreed that to succeed in the violent overthrow of the country a supply of weapons and ammunition would be necessary. He stated he knows of no right wing organization who currently has a stockpile of weapons and advised that the source of weapons at the right time would be the United States military establishment, whose leaders and white members he predicts will join his cause when it is time for action. Although he has heard that the Minutemen organization was stockpiling weapons, he has no evidence that that organization currently has any large supply of weapons in its possession.

He stated that he also felt that all the State units of Government will join his cause at the right time and that they will revolt against the suppression placed on them by the Federal Government. He feels that even personnel of the Federal Bureau of Investigation will join his cause because of their basic conservative beliefs and because of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's concern for the good of the country. He feels that the Federal Bureau of Investigation is now only a "pawn" of the Justice Department from which it receives its orders.

DRAGUN continued to state his personal philosophy concerning the power and influence exerted by the Jewish population in this country. He considers the total Jewish control on the American political system to be the greatest internal threat present today in our system. He believes that the Communist movement, all racial organizations, and all liberal left wing organizations operating in this country are tools of the Jewish population in the United States. He predicts a complete economic takeover by the Jewish segment of our society. As examples of the extent of the Jewish control in this country, DRAGUN uses the appointment of HUSSINGRUEL as Secretary of State as well as the fact that the NAM administration is controlled by his high-ranking Jewish advisors, and by political contributions furnished by the Jewish population in this country. He also

NW 88296 DocId:32989574 Page 589