[107F - G SECTION-107. SECURITY INFORMANTS[AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES]

[12. Requests of informant to help defend others]

If a security informant is requested by the Communist Party, communists being prosecuted by the Government, or by other interested parties to assist in the preparation of the defense in subversive-type cases or receives assignment where such information is readily available, informant should tactfully decline such assignments.

Any such request received by informant should be reported immediately to the contacting Agent and made a matter of record.

If the informant cannot avoid becoming involved, he should be instructed not to report to the contacting Agent any information pertaining to defense plans or strategy.

Any such incident must be reported promptly to the Bureau.

G. INFORMANTS' INFORMATION

1. General instructions[re oral and written information]

Instructions regarding preparation, submission, and handling of information received from informants apply not only to security informants but also to potential security informants, panel sources, security confidential sources, and security sources of information.

Specific instructions and guidance must be given to informants concerning preparation of statements containing their information.

They should be submitted as quickly as possible after a meeting or activity.

Written statements should be submitted whenever possible, but if such cannot be done information may be provided orally. [In espionage and foreign nationality matters written statements are usually necessary only in those instances involving possible future prosecution. (In the majority of cases diplomats or officials who are not subject to prosecution are involved.)]

Carefully scrutinize each, bearing in mind that if informant is called upon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely be introduced in court.

All information furnished by informants orally or in writing must be promptly reviewed, recorded, indexed, evaluated, channelized, and all necessary action taken. Form FD-306 may be used in lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired. If so used, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy of the informant's statement being channelized. Channelization should be noted on original FD-306 and on all copies under "Remarks."

Prior to any prosecution or administrative hearing, advise the trial attorney that informant not only furnished information concerning instant case but also provided other statements not pertinent to case at issue. The trial attorney will thus be prepared in the event informant testifies on direct examination or cross-examination that he furnished information in addition to his testimony.

See subsection M for instructions regarding filing informant statements.

Recording[written and oral information]

Written by informant:

(1) May be in handwriting or hand printing of informant or typed.

(2) Original only should be submitted and informants should never retain any copies or notes relating thereto. Continuously check informants to see that they do not keep any notes or copies.

(3) Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identification.

(4) Date when informant prepares statement should be placed at the top of it.

(5) All information obtained by informants regarding each meeting or each separate activity in which they engage should be submitted in one statement whether the information is of evidentiary or intelligence value.