SEP.11.1998 2:41PM

SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. I (print full name), hereby agree to accept as a prior condition of my being employed by, or otherwise retained to perform services for, the Central Intelligence Agency, or for staff elements of the Director of Central Intelligence (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Central Intelligence Agency"), the obligations contained in this agreement.

2. I understand that in the course of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency I may be given access to information or material that is classified or is in the process of a classification determination in accordance with the standards set forth in Executive Order 12958 as amended or superseded, or other applicable Executive order, that if disclosed in an unauthorized manner would jeopardize intelligence activities of the United States Government. I accept that by being granted access to such information or material I will be placed in a position of special confidence and trust and become obligated to protect the information and/or material from unauthorized disclosure.

3. In consideration for being employed or otherwise retained to provide services to the Central Intelligence Agency, I hereby agree that I will never disclose in any form or any manner, to any person not authorized by the Central Intelligence Agency to receive it, any information or material in either of the following categories:

information or material received or obtained in the course of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency that is marked as classified or that I know is classified;

information or material received or obtained in the course of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency that I know is in the process of a classification determination.

4. I understand that it is my responsibility to consult with appropriate management authorities in the component or Directorate that employs me or has retained my services, or with the Central Intelligence Agency's Publications Review Board if I am no longer employed by or associated with the Agency, in order to ensure that I know: 1) whether information or material within my knowledge or control that I have reason to believe might be in either of the categories set forth in paragraph 3 is considered by the Central Intelligence Agency to fit in either of those categories; and, 2) whom the Agency has authorized to receive such information or materials.

5. As a further condition of the special confidence and trust reposed in me by the Central Intelligence Agency, I hereby agree to submit for review by the Central Intelligence Agency any writing or other preparation in any form, including a work of fiction, which contains any mention of intelligence data or activities, or contains any other information or material that might be based upon either of the categories set forth in paragraph 3, that I contemplate disclosing publicly or that I have actually prepared for public disclosure, either during my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency or at any time thereafter, prior to discussing it with or showing it to anyone who is not authorized to have access to the categories set forth in paragraph 3. I further agree that I will not take any steps toward public disclosure until I have received written permission to do so from the Central Intelligence Agency.

6. I understand that the purpose of the review described in paragraph 5 is to give the Central Intelligence Agency an opportunity to determine whether the information or material that I contemplate disclosing publicly contains any information or material that I have agreed not to disclose. I further understand that the Agency will act upon my submission and make a response to me within a reasonable time. I further understand that if I dispute the Agency's initial determination on the basis that the information or material in question derives from public sources, I may be called upon to specifically identify such sources. My failure or refusal to do so may by itself result in denial of permission to publish or otherwise disclose the information or material in dispute.

7. I understand that all information or material that I may acquire in the course of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency that fits either of the categories set forth in paragraph 3 of this agreement are and will remain the property of the United States Government unless and until otherwise determined by an appropriate official or final ruling of a court of law. I agree to surrender anything constituting, containing or reflecting such information or material upon demand by an appropriate official of the Central Intelligence Agency, or upon the conclusion of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency.

8. I agree to notify the Central Intelligence Agency immediately in the event that I am called upon by judicial or congressional authorities, or by specially established investigatory bodies of the executive branch, to testify about, or provide, information or material that I have agreed herein not to disclose. In any communication with any such authority or body, I shall observe all applicable rules or procedures for ensuring that such information and/or material is handled in a secure manner.

9. I understand that nothing contained in this agreement prohibits me from reporting intelligence activities that I consider to be unlawful or improper directly to the Intelligence Oversight Board established by the President, or to any successor body that the President may