PERSONNEL

HR 20-53c

SONNEL

obligating: Contract personnel candidates whose employment with the Agency cannot be acknowledged must be provided adequate cover and an appropriate cover legend. This requires that legal entitlements and other contractual benefits be provided and tax liabilities satisfied in a manner consistent with the character of the cover and cover legend.

Engaged : Although staff employees are expected to sever active connections with the Agency upon retirement, there may be instances in which continuation in service under contract after retirement is necessary or clearly in the best interests of the Agency. The use of retired annuitants under contract is governed by policies specified in HR 20-13.

Speaking : Not used.

Agency and : (m) Contracts providing for basic compensation at a rate which, if projected on an annual basis, would exceed the maximum annual rate for a GS-15, will not be executed without the approval of the Director of Central Intelligence. All such requests will be forwarded through the Director of Personnel for his recommendation.

To his:

for op- : (l) Not used.

gency staff restrictions: (k) Although staff employees are expected to sever active connections with the Agency upon retirement, there may be instances in which continuat- ion in service under contract after retirement is necessary or clearly in the best interests of the Agency. The use of retired annuitants under contract is governed by policies specified in HR 20-13. in - must have directors: (n) Not used. ns - officers: starts for int- agulars have excluded ns Direct-

Activity for:

(vities will) (i) formulate contract personnel management policies and procedures and provide guidance in improving the effectiveness and flexibility of the program within the Agency;

(ed by the) (b) monitor contract personnel management to assure consistency among the directorates while giving due regard to their differing needs;

(etions of the) (c) provide a repository for sensitive suitability information using the guidelines for special files set forth in HR 20-60b(4);

However, (d) approve and authenticate contracts;

ecution of a contract (e) monitor contract employee ceiling authorizations established by the Director of Central Intelligence;

(ons of the) (f) maintain computer-based records on contract personnel and ensure currency and accuracy of input and output data.

ed before: (1) THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL will (a) formulate contract personnel management policies and procedures and provide guidance in improving the effectiveness and flexibility of the program within the Agency; (b) monitor contract personnel management to assure consistency among the directorates while giving due regard to their differing needs; (c) provide a repository for sensitive suitability information using the guidelines for special files set forth in HR 20-60b(4); (d) approve and authenticate contracts; (e) monitor contract employee ceiling authorizations established by the Director of Central Intelligence; (f) maintain computer-based records on contract personnel and ensure currency and accuracy of input and output data.

ned before any (2) THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY will (a) establish standards and procedures for granting security approvals which meet the Agency's contract personnel requirements; (b) grant security approvals for the use of contract personnel including their access to classified information and Agency installations; (c) ensure currency and adequacy of security approvals by making periodic reviews and reevaluations; (d) provide a repository for all security information pertaining to con- tract personnel. (e) appointed the Director of CENTRAL COVER STAFF will be carried prior to the cover to the employment is con- rect in whom can be carried and approved by the Director and the in whom can be carried by the Director and the in whom can be carried by the Director and the in whom can be carried by the Director and the in whom can be carried by the Director and the in whom can be carried by the Director and the in whom can be carried by the Director and the in whom