SECTION-107. SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES. 107H-I-J

H. SYMBOLS

Assigning numbers

All informants should be designated by permanent symbol number of which Bureau must be advised. Once number assigned, it must not be subsequently reassigned to any other informant or source.

[A symbol number designation should be afforded to all individuals from the time any step (generally the opening of an informant or source file) is taken to develop them as sources or informants.]

Individuals to whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be advised of such symbols.

Cover name should be used by informant in signing his statements and in communications between informant and field office. Advise Bureau of cover name.

Prefix of symbol number consists of appropriate field office teletype abbreviation. Suffix of symbol number will consist of letter "S" for security informant; letters "PSI" for potential security informant; letters "CS" for confidential source.

Although source may subsequently furnish information requiring change in designation (e.g., from security to criminal or to extremist, etc.), number previously assigned will remain same; however, suffix is to be changed to appropriate letter or letters indicating this change (NY OOO-S to NY OOO-C or to NY[OOO-E].)

[An asterisk should not be used to designate certain highly sensitive informants or investigative techniques. Do not include asterisk in reporting information from such sources.]

2. Communications - use of symbols

After Bureau is advised of permanent symbol, in subsequent communications true name of informant should not be set forth; use symbol number.

In all communications after initial letter, Bureau and field office file numbers for informant must be set forth.

In communications between offices, follow same procedure.

Informants and sources entering another division

(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on temporary basis should be referred to in initial[secure teletype] to interested office by true name and symbol number if necessary for other division to know identity. [Such a teletype should not be routed to a Resident Agency.] Office receiving such [teletype] should make appropriate index cards for "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" index. Subsequent letters between interested offices may then identify individual by symbol number only.

(2) Individuals who leave division where they have been furnishing information and do not plan to return should be immediately discontinued, their symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, and their true name used in all administrative correspondence.

(3) If informant is transferred to another office and remains active, his identity must still be protected.

In communications concerning potential security informant when a symbol number is not[used,] name of potential security informant and abbreviation "PSI" shall be used; e.g., "John Doe, PSI."

[Captions of communications concerning informants and sources should contain a precise character designation to identify the organization with which they are most closely associated or on which they are most capable of furnishing information (i.e., Security Matter - Students for a Democratic Society or SM - SDS, Security Matter - Young Socialist Alliance or SM - YSA, Security Matter - Communist or SM - C, etc.).] In espionage and foreign nationality matters, caption of communication should also show character and country designation (i.e., IS - R for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.). This facilitates routing at Bureau.

I. INDEXING

True names and aliases of all informants, as well as cover name assigned, shall be indexed in general office indices as any other name. Index cards should show file number of informant, but such terms as "Informant" or "Potential

9-13-71