The Calculated Rise And Abrupt Descent Of Johnny Roselli

By Rudy Maxa

Until last month, Johnny Roselli lived comfortably with his sister and brother-in-law in a Miami suburb. A friend estimated he earned about $25,000 annually from a gift shop he owned in the lobby of Las Vegas' Frontier Hotel.

He shrugged last year when his attorney suggested he hire a bodyguard, after the murder of Chicago mobster Sam Giancana, his partner in CIA plots to kill Fidel Castro. If anybody wants to kill me at my age, the 71-year-old Roselli said, what difference does it make? So he played golf several times a week, sipped white wine with dinner, and—until somebody decided Johnny Roselli should wind up in an oil barrel in Miami's Dumfoundling Bay—considered employment in the new gambling casinos beginning to open in the oil-rich Middle East.

In the late 1920s Al Capone and his friends chose Miami as the chic spot for organized crime figures to buy a winter home. Just across a strip of ocean was Cuba, a gambling and vice mecca. The mobsters from the north were treated like visiting celebrities by Florida press and society, while some members of the local police force began developing a taste for the finer things in life.

In the 1940s the sheriff of Dade County (which includes most of the Miami area) admitted to the Kefauver organized crime committee that, since he had become sheriff on an annual salary of $12,000 five years earlier, his personal fortune had increased from $2,500 to $70,000. One of the sheriff's deputies said he collected $50,000 in bribes in nine months spent as a bagman for Miami Beach gambling concessions. In 1948 a bookmaker's operation in Miami grossed $26 million. It was the kind of place that made a racketeer feel at home.

For the last two years, Johnny Roselli felt at home in Plantation, a bedroom suburb north of Miami that Roselli made his retirement haven because he had family there. His brother-in-law, a government missile expert,

lives in a sprawling white home that at first glance, resembles every other house in the neighborhood.

But it is different: the carefully curtained windows, the extra lock on the front door, and spotlights on all side of the house give it the look of a suburban fortress. Inside, the furniture is pale blue Mediterranean, the carpet is thick white.

Roselli's killers did not ambush the house; Roselli went to them. He left Plantation at 1 p.m. on July 28 wearing a golf shirt, his golf clubs in his car trunk. He told his sister he would bring home for dinner. That afternoon or evening he was killed, probably by someone else. Heavily chained, Roselli was stuffed in a 55-gallon oildrum and dumped into the ocean.

His brother-in-law found Roselli's silver-colored 1975 Chevrolet Impala several days later, parked at the Miami International Airport.

Ten days after Roselli's disappearance something went wrong. The oildrum that was meant to keep his death a secret floated to the surface of Dumfoundling Bay, buoyed by the gases of Roselli's decaying body.

The holes in the side of the drum and the placing of his Chevrolet at the airport convinced investigators that the corpse was meant never to be discovered; history was supposed to record that dapper Johnny Roselli, facing direction proceedings that the government had threatened off and on for years, decided to disappear on an air plane flight to who-knows-where.

"Cutting up and disposing of bodies is not necessarily new to our department," says the man who is directing the search for Roselli's killers. Lt. Ga Minnium, head of the Dade County homicide squad, is a well-muscled man with an aquiline nose that separates pair of hard blue eyes. On the past green wall of his bare office is a small card that reads "DYNAMITE—DON'T SHAKE ME UP."

He and another police officer count the solving of some of Dade County's more brutal murders with

See ROSELLI, LA, Col. 1

HW 50955 DocId:32423630 Page 99