It is not feasible to investigate in details all of the proposals for action submitted by individuals and groups. Experience has indicated that generally the exile claims are without foundation and the preponderance of their proposals are not feasible. As a matter of practice such individuals or groups are not satisfied with a single rebuff, but make their offers to individuals in CIA, the Departments of State, Defense and Justice or with members of Congress, the press, and other non-governmental individuals or agencies. A specific action or proposal may have had merit at one point, but from a security standpoint, the persistence of the proposer may have negated the potential of his proposal and could have compromised an otherwise workable scheme.

In order to minimize affiliation with exile groups, the most apparent solution which is suggested frequently envisages the recruitment of Cubans who have no political affiliations. While this may be possible, experience has indicated that it is not probable. Those Cubans in the U. S. who have associated with U. S. personnel and those who speak English are generally marked. Those whose language capabilities and economic stature combine to limit their social mobility are more likely to turn to, accept and become involved in the social, political or cultural cloisters of Cubans in the U. S.

There are additional political and psychological problems in seeking recruits from among Cubans who have fled and generally desire to remain united with families and friends. Their motivation to participate in activities against Castro generally can be measured in terms of their assimilation and economic success in the U. S. Experience has shown that internal oppositionists may resent external Cuban leadership. As the exile groups compete for political prestige and material support, so do the representatives of the internal resistance groups.

The problems of exiles attempting to determine the extent of U. S. commitment and associated security implications are discussed elsewhere in this paper.