May 17, 1985

Memorandum for Messrs. Tolson, Belmont, DeLoach, Sullivan

government in the alternatives are: Let them fight it out and kill thousands and probably the communists would end up in charge; we can go in there and try to get them to agree and go on the constitution and let them vote on it In 60 or 90 days, supervise the election and have a cabinet we mutually agreed upon which I can check upon; then once we get it, help the President with some intelligence people to point up who are Communists. He said they ought to be Latins or ones who speak the language and he wanted me to take charge of that and to start right now saying if I were President, what I would do down there to get rid of the communists. The President stated it can't be done in one day, but that is what he wants for the Dominican Republic.

I told the President I had quite a number of Agents, a hundred or so, who are expert in the Spanish language so we have the facilities that we can do that. The President asked that I look at the best ones and see who it is; that it has to be a fellow who can get along with the new President whom he can trust, to figure out what I need, how I would set it up, and what I would do to get set up to go to work on the communists. I stated I thought it can be covered as we do in the South American countries as we have in some foreign countries a Legal Attache attached to the Embassy and if we have a man from the Bureau attached to the Embassy as Legal Attache, he can be the medium through which to advise the President and select the individuals who ought to be listed, deported, or put under control. The President asked I get the results of the check to him as soon as possible on

2:56 PM

While talking to the Attorney General on another matter, I advised him the President had just called and wanted a name checked, but also wanted me to pick a squad of FBI Agents to go to the Dominican Republic when the new government is formed to advise the President on the removal of communists and getting them out of government offices. I briefed the Attorney General on my conversation with the President. I told him I was not enthusiastic about it, but since he wants it dons, I was starting to look into it and trying to line up fifteen or twenty men able to do it. I told the Attorney General I had wanted him to know in the event the President speaks to him about it.