CONFIDENTIAL SECURITY INFORMATION INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

Date: 27 May 1955

TO: Chief, Processing & Records Division Personnel Office

FROM: Chief/Security Division Personnel

SUBJECT: FAX, Jerome - #102815

Request No. SR-9299-A - ORR

1. Reference is made to your request for security clearance of the subject person who is being considered for employment in the following positions:

Ident. Spec. OS-7, DDI/ORR-Office of the Chief, Washington, D. C.

2. This is to advise you of the following security actions:

[x] Provisional security clearance is granted to permit subject's employment on a temporary basis in the following area or in the following capacity:

This clearance is granted upon the condition that subjects: 1. not have access to classified material; 2. not have access to secure areas; 3. not be issued a badge or credential; 4. not represent himself as a CIA employee; and 5. not be assigned to any unclassified duties other than indicated above.

[ ] Name-checks have been completed on this person. Arrangements should now be made by your office for an interview in this Division. Upon completion of this interview further consideration will be given to the requested Limited clearance for access to information classified no higher than Secret. If subject has not entered on duty under a previously granted provisional clearance the interview should be arranged after entrance on duty.

[ ] Subject is security approved for temporary appointment to a position requiring access to information classified no higher than Secret.

Officials of the employing office should be advised of this security limitation and should be instructed to supply future supervisors with advice as to the limitation so as to insure continued compliance.

Security action to effect full approval is continuing and your office will receive advice of full clearance upon completion of this action. Upon receipt of full security clearance, the present limitation will be rescinded and supervisors should be advised accordingly.

Ernie P. Geiss