I - Maison I - Mr. Krupinsky I - Mr. Anderson

(NH) 105-140170

BY LIAISON

Date: July 23, 1965

To: Director Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; Seventeen American Negroes Training in Nanking, China INTERNAL SECURITY - CHINA

Classed by Exempt from Co. Data Declassified on

Information has been received from a confidential source abroad that according to a South African who was trained in guerrilla warfare at the Nanking Military School in China in 1963, there were seventeen American negroes also training at this school. The source further stated that this was not the first group of American negroes to receive such training there.

No additional information has been developed corroborating the above allegation. However, a review of our files indicates that a source of your Agency, who utilizes the cryptonym "Sugar," evidently has a wide acquaintance with African nationalist movements and therefore may be in a position to furnish information concerning this matter. It is therefore requested that "Sugar" be contacted for any information he may be able to furnish in this regard.

1 - 105-93072 (Richard Thomas Gibson)

LLA:amf:lcr (7)

NOTE: Original information in this matter was furnished by MI-6. It is possible the negroes referred to are from South or Central America, if, in fact, they are Americans. Logical investigation to date has failed to develop any additional corroborating data. Sugar referred to above is Richard Thomas Gibson, formerly involved with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, and well-known to the Bureau. He is presently on the Security Index. CIA has recently initiated contact with him in Europe and plans to operate him as a source. His initial debriefing by CIA indicates he should be contacted concerning captioned matter. This letter classified "Secret" since it repeats data from MI-6 memorandum so classified.

GROUP I Excluded from automatic lowngrading and leclassification

NOT RECORDED

46 JUL 27 1965

DUPLICATE YELLOW-50 AUG 3 1965

ORIGINAL FILED

50 JUL 1965

NW 88296 DocId:32339276 Page 22