IV. Special section and unavailable section

Security index cards of detcom subjects filed in special and unavailable sections are to be designated by affixing colored tabs.

(e) General

I. Tabbing of cards

No security index card is to contain tabs for any purpose other than to designate detcom classification under foregoing provisions with the following exception. The alphabetical security index cards on those individuals designated as "Pro-Cuban" should be tabbed with a metal tab of a color different from those used to tab detcom subjects.

II. Removal from detcom category

Careful analysis must be made of each case in which deletion from detcom category is proposed. For instance, when a key figure is being removed from such status, file review may well disclose that subject qualifies for detcom tabbing for reasons covered in 87D 7b (11) (b), above, independent of key figure status.

Individuals employed in or having access to key facilities [and defense facilities]

(1) Responsibility

FBI is responsible by Presidential directive for keeping other Federal agencies advised of developments within their jurisdiction affecting plants having armed forces contracts, as well as other facilities, utilities, and critical points of transportation and communications systems which have been designated as vital to the national defense and welfare by the Department of Defense.

FBI is responsible under Delimitations Agreement for investigating employees of private contractors who have contracts with agencies of Department of Defense where credible subversive information concerning employee is obtained. Thorough investigation must be conducted and consideration for inclusion in security index given concerning any individual employed in or having access to a key facility who is alleged to have been, at any time in the past, a member of any basic revolutionary organization or against whom sufficient other subversive information is in our possession which warrants such action.

(a) Requests for investigation from another agency

When another agency requests investigation of individual employed in key facility [and/or defense facility], institute investigation immediately if basis of request so warrants. Advise Bureau of request, basis thereof, and that investigation is being conducted.

(b) Verification of key facility [or defense facility] status of place of employment

Department of Defense Key Facilities List [and Defense Facilities List] (maintained in each office) must be checked for verification of information that a security investigation subject's place of employment may be included in such list.

(c) Individuals denied access to restricted information

Intelligence agencies of armed forces frequently advise that an individual has been denied clearance to work in a defense plant or to handle classified or restricted information. In some instances clearance is denied based on information furnished by Bureau. At other times, information in Bureau files is very meager or possibly negative and basis for such denial of clearance is not known. The intelligence agency is responsible for furnishing Bureau with any information involving disloyalty or subversiveness.

Office receiving notification that an individual has been denied clearance must ascertain promptly basis for such denial and obtain all pertinent data contained in file of