ARMED FORCES SECURITY QUESTIONNAIRE

I.—EXPLANATION

1. The interests of National Security require that all persons being considered for membership or retention in the Armed Forces be reliable, trustworthy, of good character, and of complete and unswerving loyalty to the United States. Accordingly, it is necessary for you to furnish information concerning your security qualifications. The answers which you give will be used in determining whether you are eligible for membership in the Armed Forces, in selection of your duty assignment, and for such other action as may be appropriate.

2. You are advised that in accordance with the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States you cannot be

compelled to furnish any statements which you may reasonably believe may lead to your prosecution for a crime. This is the only reason for which you may avail yourself of the privilege afforded by the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer questions under Part IV below. Claiming the Fifth Amendment will not by itself constitute sufficient grounds to exempt you from military service for reasons of security. You are not required to answer any questions in this questionnaire, the answer to which might be incriminating. If you do claim the privilege granted by the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer any question, you should make a statement to that effect after the question involved.

II.—ORGANIZATIONS OF SECURITY SIGNIFICANCE

1. There is set forth below a list of names of organizations, groups, and movements, reported by the Attorney General of the United States as having significance in connection with the National Security. Please examine the list carefully, and note those organizations, and organizations of similar names, with which you are familiar. Then answer the questions set forth in Part IV below.

2. Your statement concerning membership or other association with one or more of the organizations named may not, of itself, cause you to be ineligible for acceptance or retention in the

Armed Forces. Your age at the time of such association, circumstances prompting it, and the extent and frequency of involvement, are all highly pertinent, and will be fully weighed. Set forth all such factors under "Remarks" below, and continue on separate attached sheets of paper if necessary.

3. If there is any doubt in your mind as to whether your name has been linked with one of the organizations named, or as to whether a particular association is "worth mentioning," make a full explanation under "Remarks."

Organizations designated by the Attorney General, pursuant to Executive Order 10450, are listed below:

Communist Party, U. S. A., its subdivisions, sub-sidiaries and affiliates. American Slav Congress. Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy.

Communist Political Association, its subdivisions, subsidiaries and affiliates, including— American Women for Peace. Committee for Constitutional and Political Freedom.

Alabama People's Educational Association. American Youth Congress. Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh Six.

Florida Press and Educational League. American Youth for Democracy. Committee for Nationalist Action.

Oklahoma League for Political Education. Armenian Progressive League of America. Committee for the Negro in the Arts.

People's Educational and Press Association of Texas. Associated Klans of America. Committee for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in Philadelphia.

Virginia League for People's Education. Association of Georgia Klans. Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights.

Young Communist League. Association of German Nationals (Reichsdeutsche Vereinigung). Committee for World Youth Friendship and Cultural Exchange.

Abraham Lincoln Brigade. Ausland-Organization der NSDAP, Overseas Branch of Nazi Party. Committee to Defend Marie Richardson.

Abraham Lincoln School, Chicago, Illinois. Baltimore Forum. Committee to Uphold the Bill of Rights.

<