PART II SECTION-6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS

13. Additional persons to be contacted shortly after the arrival of the SAC include:

Federal judges

U. S. Attorneys

Only outstanding state judges

Governors

Leading state and county prosecutors

State attorneys general

Officers of the National Association of County and Prosecuting Attorneys

Executive secretary of state chamber of commerce

In the principal cities:

(1) Mayors (11) Top representatives (2) Chiefs of police . of airlines (3) Officials of newspapers, includ- (12) Managers of leading ing publishers, managing editors, airports city editors of leading newspapers, (13) Top representatives heads of newspaper wire services of railroads (4) Managers or owners of leading and (14) Managers of leading most important radio stations railroad stations (5) Heads of outstanding or more (15) Top representatives important civic clubs, such as of telephone companies Kiwanis, Rotary, Lions (16) Top representatives of Western Union (6) Executive secretary or director (17) Managers of the most of chambers of commerce outstanding and im- (7) Heads of Federal intelligence agencies . important hotels agencies (8) Outstanding leaders of Govern- (18) Heads of better ment and business business bureaus (9) Heads of larger universities (19) Heads of leading banks (10) Outstanding religious leaders [(20) Influential minority of any faith, such as the Bishop leaders] of a diocese of any faith or the leading Rabbi

14. Any derogatory information obtained after the Bureau has approved the SAC contact should be reported to the Bureau promptly.

15. Gifts to office contacts shall not be reclaimed as blue slip items.

M. DELETED

N. NEWS MEDIA CONTACTS

As indicated in subsection L, paragraph 13i, (3), above, officials of leading newspapers [including minority-oriented newspapers], must be contacted by SACs. Smaller newspapers and other news media are not to be neglected, however, and, throughout his tenure in a field office, the SAC must insure that his press contacts are continuously effective. The number of contacts made by him and representatives of his office and the material furnished news media will be considered in appraising the maximum effectiveness of this program. [