SECTION-6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS

9. In cases involving bombings having an apparent racial or religious basis with the resultant public interest, the SAC should issue a statement to the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en route to actively assist local investigative authorities, making available to them every possible cooperative service of the FBI, including the Bureau's full laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by handling out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all investigative efforts that may indicate any Federal violation. At no time should this statement indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative jurisdiction of the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility for the incident be either assumed or declared. The issuance of this statement requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, and the Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known facts of the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized.

10. Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press release file if exists.

[11. In connection with service awards to Bureau personnel, SACs may provide news media with a photograph and a brief biographical sketch of employee. No employee may submit to a personal interview by a newsman in connection with such an award or under any other circumstances, for that matter, without prior Bureau authority. This does not preclude an SAC or other Bureau official from issuing news releases in accordance with existing Bureau policy.]

B. FBI LAW ENFORCEMENT BULLETIN This publication is issued the first of each month by the Bureau for the benefit of law enforcement agencies.

Contents

Foreword by the Director

Interesting case write-ups

Articles which might assist law enforcement officers

Insert containing notices regarding the ten most wanted fugitives; fugitives wanted by the Bureau and the police, including fingerprint classifications and physical descriptions; a limited number of missing persons with their photographs

2. Distribution Limited to law enforcement officers and others engaged in or having a legitimate interest in law enforcement work

Filing and indexing

In a 66 classification file, bound on the side, and fully indexed. Informative matter to be indexed under subject matter. For uniformity, the Bureau is to forward by routing slip to all divisions each month an indexing list of the basic and pertinent items to be indexed. Index cards are to be prepared by each office. Any additional items not listed but considered to be worthy of indexing by a particular office should also be indexed. The indexing lists are to be destroyed after the field office inspection by SOG.

This file may be destroyed when it is over five years old. Retain index cards.

Current copy should be placed in bookcase, available to all Agents.

lb

2-27-70