His CIA Money

The subject never came up before and I was totally unaware that this assistance to Jordan had come into question last year. What is proper in some minds is apparently improper in others. As far as I am concerned, anything I can get for Jordan and my people is proper. And five of your Presidents [Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford] thought so, too.

Q. Since you say the assistance was proper and just another form of U.S. aid; why; then, the secrecy and method of payment?

A. If you mean the report that payments were made directly to the King and for his [personal] benefit and with political conditions and obligations, this

Choice of targets: Jordan's King Hussein taking aim on the shooting range

is a complete fabrication. The assistance was designed only to enhance our intelligence and security capabilities period.

To us, the CIA is a part of the U.S. Government. We have sought to acquire know-how, equipment and new capabilities to defend ourselves in the face of a worldwide battle, be it hot or cold, which is still with us. And wherever there is an identity of interests between our two countries, I will continue to advocate fruitful and mutual cooperation.

Q. What do you feel was the principal motivation of those [sources] who contributed to the Washington Post story?

A. To undermine the credibility and integrity of those who are able and willing to contribute to the forces of peace. My people know me and I know them and these attacks are futile in terms of the Jordanian scene. We are stronger than anything that can be lev-

eled against us. It was hardly coincidental that these attacks were made as the peace offensive was picking up steam and on the very day that Secretary Vance arrived in Amman. It is obvious to me that those who wish to sabotage the peace process—and help Israel stay put in the occupied territories—are even willing to engage in character assassination of persons whose dearest wish is for a just and durable peace.

Q. Who benefits?

A. Two quarters: One, in your own country, that has been trying to undermine one of your key institutions: engaged in a worldwide struggle to try to neutralize the actions of the KGB in its efforts to promote Communism. The other is a powerful group that is not interested in a settlement and which also feels it has a score to settle with Jordan. Don't

forget it was the Israeli lobby that launched the campaign to block the Hawk anti-aircraft missile defense system to Jordan. Fortunately, the lobby failed.

Q. How much of a setback do you feel the story has been to the peace-with-Israel campaign?

A. I fervently hope, of course, that it will not be a setback. Admittedly, it may have a deleterious effect on our peace efforts, but I plan to persevere regardless of attempts to sabotage a just and durable peace.

Q. What, for example, do you feel the story will do to your differences with the PLO and attempts to form a joint delegation for the Geneva talks? Is a joint delegation still a realistic possibility?

A. A PLO delegation is in Amman this week and the whole question of a joint delegation is still very much in question.

The dialogue [interacted by the Jordanian civil war in 1970, when the PLO was driven out of Amman] has barely begun. To what degree political action can be coordinated among us is something we will be exploiting over the next few months. And the hole Arab position on this problem is yet to crystallize.

Q. Is it your impression that the PLO is now ready to amend its basic charter and agree to coexist peacefully with Israel in a West Bank-Gaza state?

A. This is the decision they must face. But it is equally important to know what the Israeli position will be. Why should the PLO take such a step unilaterally? There must be a degree of simultaneity—Israel recognizes a West Bank-Gaza Palestinian state and the Palestinians recognize Israel.

Q. Is it your intention to negotiate with the PLO prior to Geneva a new organic link between a possible Palestinian state on the West Bank and Jordan proper?

A. This has been suggested by many leaders in the area as a possible constructive development and we certainly plan to explore the possibilities. But I must caution you against overoptimism. The resumption of the Geneva conference by itself means nothing and if it doesn't produce quick results . . . then there will be the danger of a letdown, of the pendulum swinging back and the extremists coming to the fore again.

Q. How do you think the latest CIA story will affect relations between Jordan and the United States?

A. Throughout all these years I have been very proud of the growing strength of the relationship with our American friends. We identified with principles your forefathers held dear. We built