disloyalty or subversiveness. Office receiving such notification must ascertain promptly basis for denial and obtain all pertinent data contained in file of agency responsible for such action. Forward data to Bureau and include in next report submitted. Where no investigation has been conducted by Bureau, open security investigation if information warrants.

Inclusion in security index

In recommending key facility employee for security index, FD-122 is to contain:

(1) Key facility geographical reference number

(2) Abbreviation for Department of Army (A), which has been designated agency having security responsibility for all key facilities

(3) Abbreviations for other agencies known to have classified contracts with key facility. Interested agencies are identified on FD-122 to assure proper dissemination of reports but will not appear on security index cards.

(4) Recommendation for priority I designation

Dissemination

Upon receipt of allegation concerning key facility employee from source other than interested intelligence agency, immediately furnish by letter to interested agency (1) summary of allegation and informa- tion concerning individual; (2) a statement that information is un- substantiated and has not been verified through investigation; (3) advice as to whether security investigation is being conducted and, if so, that copies of reports will be furnished upon completion. With exception noted below, disseminate information of derogatory security nature concerning persons employed at facilities holding classified contracts both to interested intelligence agencies and to Chief, Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO), Defense Supply Agency, Columbus, Ohio 43215, attention Chief, Adjudication Division (advise interested intelligence agency of dissemination to DISCO). This includes persons who may not currently be key facility employ- ees but are known to hold industrial security clearances. Exception involves facilities holding classified contracts with Atomic Energy Commission (AEC). Dissemination to AEC is made only at Bureau.

These instructions do not apply to allegations of espionage or those of confidential character not ordinarily disseminated. Such infor- mation of direct interest to other intelligence agencies should be submitted to Bureau expeditiously with request that Bureau consider dissemination.

Disseminate copies of reports for Marine Corps locally to Naval Investigative Service Office (NISCO). Dissemination to Defense Atomic Support Agency (DASA), Research and Development Board (RDB), and Maritime Administration (MA) is made only at Bureau.

Status of cases

After all investigation is conducted, place in pending-inactive status. Make case pending-active 45 days before report due and check with armed services representative at key facility or with other reliable sources to determine whether subject has access to classified or restricted material.

Reports

See Manual of Rules and Regulations, part II, section 4D, item 2a, (6), and section 4M, item 4, for instructions concerning synopsis and classification of reports in key facility cases. Synopsis must set forth employment and statement that subject has or has not access to classified or restricted material.

Top functionary program

General

Purpose is to select for special attention individuals of key im- portance to subversive movement.