SD 157-2815

the membership lists on microfilm was for easy destruction. Two lists were to be maintained to guard against the possibility of one being lost or destroyed.

(SD T-2, September 16, 1971)

On October 8, 1971, it was reported that DAVIS had chosen the name "Secret Army Organization" for his new group. In addition, it was learned DAVIS had had 1,000 copies each of letterhead stationery and membership application forms for the SAO printed up the previous weekend. DAVIS also advised that he, GODFREY, and other associates would attend the Annual Yuma Gun Show at Yuma, Arizona, on October 16 and October 17, 1971, at which time he expected contact would be made with people attending the gun show from Phoenix, Arizona, and Seattle, Washington, regarding the SAO.

(SD T-1, October 8, 1971)

On October 16, and October 17, 1971, DAVIS, GODFREY, and STANLEY DON MC DADE, a prospective member of the SAO residing at 4114 Massachusetts, La Mesa, California, were in attendance at the Yuma Gun Show. Following the gun show, a meeting was held in a motel room at Yuma, Arizona, with persons in attendance, including the above three individuals and EVERETT MOORE and his wife from Phoenix, Arizona, and CY ANDERSON from Seattle, Washington. The topic of discussion was the SAO and those attending the meeting were in general agreement that a new cohesive force was necessary among Right Wing groups as a result of the power vacuum left by the disintegration of the MM organization. MOORE and ANDERSON tentatively agreed to having their respective groups join the SAO subject to the approval of the members of these groups. Copies of printed material of the SAO, including a leaflet entitled, "History of the Secret Army Organization," a copy of the first bulletin of the SAO entitled, "To Prospective Members of the Secret Army Organization," and membership application forms were passed around among the group.

It was decided that subsequent contacts regarding expansion of the SAO would be made and that the San Diego area