How U.S. Made Unholy Alliance With the Mafia

By PAUL MESKIL Fourth of a series

When Fidel Castro threw the American gangsters out of Cuba, they vowed to return—over his dead body.

Their determination to get rid of Castro was shared by many high-placed American officials and this common cause led eventually to an unholy alliance between the CIA and the mob. The strange story of CIA agents and Mafia mobsters plotting together against Castro was pieced together from interviews with police, federal agents, ex-agents and underworld sources.

Meyer Lansky, the crime syndicate's financial genius, and Santo Trafficante, Mafia boss of West Florida and Havana, got out of Cuba immediately after the hasty exit of their benefactor, dictator Fulgencio Batista. The overseers of their gambling casinos remained on the island, nervously waiting for the axe to fall.

"I was in touch with all the casino owners and operators in Havana," said Frank Sturgis, who was Castro's casino inspector during this period. "Fidel ordered me to close all the casinos for 10 days. The owners got the hint. They

knew he was preparing to shut them down permanently, which he did."

"They were very, very bad. Those casinos were worth $100 million a year to the American crime syndicate." Every important mob boss in the United States had points percentages in the Cuban casinos. Each point was worth $39,000 to $100,000.

"Lansky and Trafficante were the top men in Cuban gambling. Lansky had direct business dealings with Raya. Trafficante had several casinos, including the Sans Souci."

Sans Souci partners

His Sans Souci partners included Norman Rothman of Miami Beach; the notorious Mannarino brothers, Gabriel and Sam, Mafia chiefs in Pittsburgh. Rothman and the Mannarinos tried to stop the Castro steamroller in 1958 by smuggling a planehead of arms — stolen from a National Guard warehouse in Ohio — to anti-Castro forces in Cuba.

According to police and federal sources, Rothman was high on the Cuban crime syndicate and share his rackets profits with Batista's children. Gen. Robert Fernandez Caranada.

Rothman returned, to Floridian soon after the Castro coup and, with his Cuban partners, bought the I Center Hotel in Miami Beach, the second

SECRETS OF THE GIA

The hotel's most elegant suite, on the 2nd floor overlooking the ocean, was ready made for Batista, but he chose the cooler climes of the Dominican Republic, Portugal and Madeira.

Sturgis was on friendly terms with several gaambling racketeers, including Hyman Levine, a Lansky mobster who ran Havana's Comodoro casino. One evening, during a casual conversation, Levine observed that it "would be worth a million" to the syndicate to get rid of Castro. Sturgis didn't rise to this limit. Levine changed the subject.

It popped up again a few weeks later while Castro was in New York during a whirlwind tour of North and South America.

Fidel and his entourage stayed at the Statler-Hilton, where Sturgis registered under his real name and Cuban military rank, Capt. Frank Form.

Frank was in his room one evening when he received a phone call from a detective captain on duty in the lobby as part of a heavy security detail. No

(Continued on page 41)

HW 50955 DocId:32423630 Page 16