the United States for Canada, he would not be able to return. When he informed TANNENBAUM of this, she told him that she had more authority than the Immigration officials, and advised him to go to Canada regardless, as she outranked the officials in Denver. CERVENY then made the trip to Canada without incident, and learned later that he was actually just fortunate that he was not required to produce citizenship papers at any time.

In addition, CERVENY stated that in May, 1969, he met a Czechoslovakian girl in Colorado Springs by the name of MICHEL BDLIKOVA, who was working at the Broadmoor Hotel, and whom he eventually introduced to TANNENBAUM. He stated that TANNENBAUM immediately told the girl of her Military Intelligence and Immigration connections, and advised her that she could arrange to get her a passport to visit relatives in Czechoslovakia. He stated that in October, 1969, BDLIKOVA told him that TANNENBAUM had recently approached her with a letter written in English purportedly from THOMAS RIHA to CERVENY. He stated BDLIKOVA was asked by TANNENBAUM to rewrite the letter in Czechoslovakian, and that he eventually received this letter postmarked from somewhere in Canada. He felt at the time he received the letter that it had not been written by his uncle, and when he was advised by BDLIKOVA that the letter was a hoax, he began to feel that TANNENBAUM was a fraud and that his uncle's disappearance could have been for reasons other than marital discord. He stated that immediately after being told of the letter by BDLIKOVA in October, 1969, he filed a missing persons notice with the Boulder, Colorado Police Department the following day. He stated the last time he saw TANNENBAUM was just before or after he made this report to the Boulder Police Department.

With regard to CERVENY'S association with GALYA TANNENBAUM, he recalled that on several occasions she told him that she would like to recruit him into Military Intelligence, as his engineering background and language ability would be "extremely useful to us." She also told him that if he were in the United States "working for the other side," she would shoot him. TANNEN- BAUM also told CERVENY that she had originally met THOMAS RIHA in Chicago, and that after she came to Colorado, he followed her for the purpose of marrying her; however, the marriage did not take place as RIHA was unable to get along with her children. He stated that upon reflection, he feels that his uncle actually believed that TANNENBAUM was connected in some official capacity with the United States Government, and that there was something in their relation- ship which he feels gave TANNENBAUM some type of influence over the actions of his uncle; however, in conversation with both his uncle and TANNENBAUM, he can recall nothing of a concrete nature, and that this feeling is probably a result of intuition more than

NWI 88326. DocID:32989603 Page 164