SI 187-4275

he had previously issued 300 membership cards. He again declined comment concerning the names of any of the organization's leadership or its membership. He did state that the majority of him members were disillusioned members of other right wing organizations. He advised the uniform of WJF consists of military fatigues with a pistol belt with a half swastika徽徽 on the collar. This is the uniform he usually wears during his speaking engagements.

DRAGER stated that recently he had been vacationing in Florida, living mainly on previous savings. He did work for approximately 17 days as a chef at the Ocean Reef Club, Key Largo, Florida. He was paid $280 per week there and had accumulated about $500 at the time of his departure from the Florida Keys area. He also advised he was currently existing on survival tablets, taking us to 10 tablets daily as a method to supplement his normal meals. He stated he could easily maintain his health and weight by use of these tablets.

DRAGER claimed that he is traveling by camper truck and that since leaving Florida he was on route to New Jersey when arrested in Springfield, Illinois. He declined to comment on when he left Florida or to where he had traveled since that time. He further declined comment concerning any meetings he may have attended or any communication he has had with any individuals connected with extraneous organizations during his travels. He advised that he usually camps nightly in either State or Federal park campgrounds or if none are available would utilize a commercial camp grounds.

DRAGER stated that the individual who was arrested with him in Springfield and who has been traveling with him since leaving Florida is CHARLES MIDDLEBURG, who has been a friend of the family for several years in New Jersey. He stated MIDDLEBURG has been in trouble since the age of 13 and was most recently released in January, 1978, from a juvenile detention facility in New Jersey. He stated MIDDLEBURG worked with him in Florida and that he is currently MIDDLEBURG's legal guardian and will be until his 10th birthday in December, 1974. He advised MIDDLEBURG shares some of his same basic beliefs but is not politically motivated in any way.

He admitted that DICK BRODKENHOG was the individual who was arrested with him by local authorities in New Jersey in September, 1973, and that he traveled with him for a period but that BRODKENHOG had stayed in Florida. He advised