should be completely filled out just as if a first recommendation is being made, and submitted with a current report. If not, the Bureau should be advised of the reasons for not reactivating his security index card. In either case, cancel the inactive card.

(7) Periodic verification of addresses

(a) The data recorded on security index cards shall be in an up-to-date status at all times.

(b) The whereabouts of all security index subjects should be known at all times. The residence and business addresses of all security index subjects except those who are imprisoned must be checked at least once each six months. The case of any security index subject who is out of the country must be followed at least each six months to determine if he has returned to this country.

Perfect arrangements to be advised of any change in the subject's residence and/or business addresses. Periodic checks to verify residence or business addresses may be made under appropriate pretext by telephone, or other expeditious means.

(c) The physical characteristics and description of each security index subject shall be determined or verified by personal observation and the individual case file of each security index subject shall[show]that this has been done. If a security index subject has not been personally observed previously, this should be done during the next verification of the subject's residence and/or business addresses.

(d) Use form FD-154 in verifying addresses of security index subjects when its use will facilitate the checking of the addresses. When FD-154 is not used in verifying addresses, a notation must be made on the last FD-154, FD-122, or FD-128 in the subject's case file[showing]the subject's current residence and business addresses and the date such addresses were verified. This must be done to assure that the file will contain all information concerning the status of the case and that the file will come to the attention of the Agent or field supervisor to determine if additional action is warranted at the time of the verification of addresses. Each time that a security index subject's residence and employment are verified, the case must be re-evaluated to assure that the subject is qualified for inclusion in the security index under the criteria for such inclusion. A notation to the effect that the case has been reviewed for this purpose shall be made in the file.

(e) If it is determined that the residence or business address or both have been changed from those appearing on the security index card, FD-122 should be submitted to the Bureau with the current residence or business address[shown] thereon. In such instances, FD-122 should[show]only the changes to be made on the security index card.

(f) The project of verifying addresses of security index subjects (other than top functionaries [and]key figures) shall be handled by reopening and assigning the cases for verification and closing the cases administratively upon accomplishment of verifications. Top functionary [and]key figure cases are to be handled as provided in section 87D, 7f, (8). Verifications should also be made at the time of submission of all annual investigative reports and should be reported therein.

(g) [Deleted]

5-12-61

NW 88321 DocId:32989529 Page 812