TOP SECRET DINAR

CASTRO'S SPEECH - cont'd

Returning to the post-hurricane economic dislocation, Castro promised that by 15 December of this year full food rations would be restored and in many cases allotments increased. He called for greatly increased mechanization of agriculture and the use of the latest methods of cultivation, appealed for more food production and the recovery of arable land lost through neglect and erosion. He demanded an end to public "vice," such as official bribe-taking, theft, pilferage, etc. In the field of social welfare, Castro praised medical students for "volunteering" to serve in out-of-the-way country posts for minimum terms of two years and prophesied that "as the number of graduate doctors increases, the need for the establishment of socialized medicine once felt as a social need will not be quite as great."

Castro concluded by appealing to Cuban youth to participate "in the great task of opening new frontiers in every field...you are in a revolution that will never end." (CIA FBIS-07 and adds, 28 November, OFFICIAL USE ONLY)

MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:

Military headquarters on the Isle of Pines informed Armed Forces headquarters in Havana that two persons who had escaped, probably from the military prison, had not yet been recaptured. The 27 November intercepted message reported that an unsuccessful combing operation had been effected in an area indicated by two peasants who reportedly saw the escapees. (See Daily Summary of 26 November for information on other personnel being sought on the Isle of Pines.) (USN-856, 2X/SL/CUM/T405-63, 27 November, SECRET SABRE)

CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION:

The Cuban Government may have instituted new controls on fishermen, by eliminating night fishing along the north coast and by restricting fishermen to three and one half miles from the coast. A Florida law enforcement officer was informed by the former administrator of a fishing cooperative at Isabela de Sagua that on 12 November it was rumored that no night fishing would be allowed on the north coast of Cuba after 17 November. Reportedly, those who were fishing at sunset were to anchor their boats or risk being fired upon. Another source received information thirdhand from an unidentified fisherman that in late November, Cuban fishermen were ordered by the Cuban general staff to do their fishing between three and three and one half miles from the coast. No confirmation has yet been received of these reported changes in fishing regulations. (CIA TDCSDB-3/658,077, 27 November, SECRET/CONTROLLED DISSEM)