shortly after the indictments in the stock fraud case in question (and ten months before Kleindienst's testimony on the bribe). Those reports quoted "sources at the U.S. Attorney's office in New York" and indicated that after the meeting between Kleindienst and Fong's aide, "Kleindienst immediately contacted Justice's Criminal Division [then headed by Will Wilson] and ... an FBI agent was assigned to infiltrate the group of alleged conspirators".

Do we now believe Kleindienst's story that he "didn't realize" he had been offered a bribe, or do we believe the U.S. Attorney's office in New York? Did Will Wilson and the Justice Department hold off a week while Kleindienst "made up his mind" that he had been offered a bribe, or was the decision whether or not to take it? And did Hoover and the FBI somehow interfere?

Perhaps the answer comes in the final outcome of the actual prosecution involved. The defendants in the stock-fraud case included Meyer Lansky's son-in-law, a former director of the Bank of Miami Beach and Johnny Dio, a notorious racketeer long associated with Jimmy Hoffa. They were acquitted, while the messengers who offered the bribe were convicted. One wonders if that $100,000 did not find its way into the Republican secret treasury after all.

The Tip of the Iceberg

"The organized criminal relies on physical terror and psychological intimidation, on economic retaliation and political bribery, on citizen's indifference and government acquiescence. He corrupts our governing institutions and subverts our democratic processes."

— Richard Nixon, April 24, 1969

Someone should tell President Nixon that resisting the power of organized crime demands, above all, a President with a clean slate.

Nixon's life is like a complex jigsaw puzzle, the pieces of which have been shuffled so as to defy complete reconstruction. Some of the crucial pieces have been removed, so a full picture cannot be achieved. It is no accident that no other politician has been so much written about, yet so little understood.

Indeed, much has been made of the "enigma" of Richard Nixon, his tight-lipped bearing in relation to his personal life, his unwillingness to divulge what's really on his mind.

But maybe the answer to the enigma lies in his old poker-playing instincts, in the unfailing ability to keep quiet when he's sitting on cards best hidden from the table.

For there is one indisputable fact about Richard Nixon's career — his ascendancy to the pinnacle of American power has required twenty-five years of care and feeding by some very wealthy and very reactionary men, and an extraordinary number of them have maintained connections with the world of organized crime.

During Nixon's years in office the underworld empire in the United States has prospered almost unrestricted by the Federal government. From its base in the gigantic resources of heroin traffic, gambling, prostitution, "protection," and a host of other enterprises of violence against society, organized crime has moved like a bulldozer into the world of legal, "respectable" business.

Every link between Richard Nixon and organized crime, however marginal, is of significance, if for no other reason because he is President. And there are people all over America, from government intelligence agents to hotel waiters, who have Nixon stories to tell. He covers his tracks well, but not well enough.

The full extent of Nixon's involvement with organized crime is just beginning to surface. The evidence in this article is merely the top of a dirty iceberg that will slowly become visible over the coming years.

The milieu in which he has traveled for three decades, and in which so many of his friends, associates, and appointees have been related to the mob, throw a long and permanent shadow over everything Richard Nixon the "public servant" has ever said, and over everything his political life has ever meant.

For in light of his career, both past and present, Richard M. Nixon seems to be the factual embodiment of Ralph Salerno's prediction that organized crime would someday put its own man in the White House. ***

The information in this article was gathered during a six-month investigation carried out in many cities, primarily Miami, New York, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, San Diego, Las Vegas, Dallas, Austin, Galveston, Tallahassee, and San Francisco. Sources included interviews with over a hundred people; court documents (including deeds, mortgages, etc.); research in the National Archives, Washington, D.C.; organized crime intelligence files (both private and government); and newspaper clippings.

Unsettling, Disturbing, Critical . . .

Computers and Automation , established 1951 and therefore the oldest magazine in the field of computers and data processing, believes that the profession of information