of DOD in doing this. He said he would like the support of the President's Board and their thoughts on the terms of reference and the membership, including whether they thought some members of the Board might sit on the committee or whether this would present a conflict of interest, as the Board had apparently felt in a previous matter.

Dr. Killian asked if this panel was supposed to look at the future poten- tiality of satellite photography, and Mr. McCone then read to the Board the terms of reference in his memorandum. He noted that he thought this panel should be constituted at this time because there were serious doubts in the U. S. Government about flying an aircraft over the USSR. Mr. Clifford asked if the panel would deal with politics, and Mr. McCone replied, "No." Dr. Land asked what the relations of the panel would be with NRO and Mr. McCone replied that NRO would support the panel. Gen. Doolittle noted that the Air Force had a committee on satellite survivability, and Mr. McCone said that he knew this, but felt that that committee was not full out and not devoting the effort that the seriousness of the problem warranted. Gen. Doolittle replied that he was a member of that committee and he thought they were giving the problem very serious consideration. Mr. McCone said he thought the problem involved a vast amount of work and he was concerned because all of the views were not being pulled together. He noted that what was necessary was to get an authoritative expression as to what resolution was required down to the nearest inch in order to determine the engineering of missiles.

Mr. Land asked what Dr. Purcell had said, and commented that he thought such a panel would be all right if it was composed of four or five who knew what they were talking about. Mr. McCone replied that he was not sure he had been able to get Purcell, and that he might have to ask Dr. Land to persuade Purcell; Dr. Land replied that he might be able to do it.

7. [Mr. Pace asked whether there had been one or two U-2 flights over China. Mr. McCone replied that there had been two, and that they had produced some interesting results. These included progress on a possible gaseous diffusion plant. He noted that the preparations are just half those of the Soviet plant, of which it may be a duplicate. He said that this was not understood, and noted that, as presently constituted, the plant could not produce cascades to develop the quality of the top product. He noted that it could possibly be another process, metallurgical or textile, but on another area there were a large number of cooling towers. Mr. McCone advised that he had set up a special group under Dr. Roddis to study the Chinese nuclear energy program. This group has made a report in which they pointed out the paucity of the information available. However, they had put together ].

[ 1mc ]