APR 15 '97 05:01PM

Subject: CIA Employees

substitution for the true name be used. If the Review Board is concerned about tracking particular employees throughout the records, a particular identifying substitution can be used for a particular employee.

20. (S) CIA believes that this approach will not undermine the Review Board's obligations under the JFK Act. A review of the JFK Collection reveals that approximately 84 of the 600 names appear only once in the entire Collection. In such cases, it is difficult to see how the individuals' identity can add anything of significance to the historical record; yet there may be some security concerns still associated with these individuals. For example, Arthur H. Stimson retired under cover and is currently living in Europe. When the CIA notified him that his name appeared in the JFK Collection and was subject to public release, he told CIA that he was opposed to having his name released and believed such a release could pose personal and security problems. Furthermore, he could not understand why his name even appeared in the Collection, since he had no recollection of being involved in anything related to the assassination.

21. (S) With regard to the approximately 500 names that appear more than once in the Collection, the vast majority of these individuals played almost no role in the JFK story. One example of this is former DO officer Alexander Brasko. His name appears approximately 20-30 times in the Collection simply because he signed off on name trace requests. Mr. Brasko was a covert CIA employee and retired under cover. The public release of his name would provide the public with no additional significant information about JFK. Tom Flores is another example of a covert CIA employee whose name appears in the Collection but has little or no connection to the JFK story. Flores retired under cover, is living in South America, and objects to the release of his name. Mr. Flores' recent letter to CIA is also attached for your convenience.

22. (S) The Agency, of course, recognizes that some names may be particularly important to the JFK story regardless of how frequently or infrequently they appear in the Collection. One such example is former COS Mexico Winston Scott who CIA has acknowledged as a CIA employee. In such cases, the CIA will continue to work with the Review Board for an appropriate resolution. The CIA proposes that the Review Board and its staff identify those individuals whom it believes are important to the JFK story and whose names should be released to the public. These names would carry a presumption of release unless specific evidence is provided to the Review Board that harm would likely result

7