promises of over a year. Before he could meet the Ambassador, Dimitroff was betrayed at his [safe] house in Sofia by the landlady for one million leva, and was arrested by the Bulgarian secret police. He was tortured by electricity, physical means, water, devices, and starvation. During this time he was regularly questioned by a Soviet Commissar but told nothing because he knew he was to die and had to create an example. Finally sentenced to death by hanging, he waited daily for nine months for it to be carried out. Later he learned he had not been executed because the authorities wanted him to testify at the trial of Nikola Petkov that Petkov had supported Dimitroff's movement.

8. In 1947 he was working in a labor gang and was rescued by the underground, which sent him to the house of the US Ambassador. Arrangements were made through US personnel, over a period of two weeks, to send Dimitroff to Greece. He was warned not to use his name "Diko" but did use his regular name. The Communists offered a million leva reward for his death or capture in brochures with his picture.

9. In Greece, UK military personnel recognized him from the photographs and took him from a Greek hospital. UK General Scott met and offered him complete support and a radio station at Salonika to renew underground activities. Scott was very anti-US and for that reason Dimitroff refused the offer. The following day all uniforms and gifts given him by UK personnel were removed and he was turned back to the Greeks, who employed him in a radio station in Athens broadcasting against Bulgarian Communists.

10. During 1948, Communist agents were sent to Athens to kill him. For this reason he went to Italy at the suggestion of the Greek Government. In 1949 while atari, a Mr. Clark from the US Embassy in Greece, who knew him as "Tiko", asked Dimitroff to return to Greece and to renew the fight with his underground if it could be revived. At its peak it had consisted of 250 secret posts and ten thousand active members. They returned together to Athens and set up an open Liberation Committee with Dimitroff as president. The organization traded Bulgarians in Frankfurt and near Athens. Many of these were later parachuted into Bulgaria starting in 1949. His operations were purely military and did not involve espionage. Another US service in Greece, primarily interested in espionage, was headed by a Mr. Ewing (sic) or Uving (sic) for which all types of Bulgarians were working for money. When Dimitroff's men attempted to cross the Bulgarian frontier they were sometimes ambushed by Ewing's people or were betrayed to the Bulgarian Communists. To check personally he went on an inspection of the frontier with a US Army representative, a Mr. George. They talked to his people who had been forced back and George realized that Ewing was collaborating with the Communists. George reported this to Clark who returned to Washington with the story and never came back to Greece.

11. Clark was replaced by a Mr. Allen, of German origin, Russian speaking, Moscow educated, and a Communist. At their first meeting, Allen told Dimitroff to take it easy, that there was plenty of time to fight the Communists. Thereafter it was apparent that Ewing was learning all of Dimitroff's plans, schedules, and secrets through Allen, and Ewing's people began openly to deride Dimitroff. This killed the

POEORTE

SANDHE