INVESTIGATIVE GUIDELINES TITLE XI, ORGANIZED CRIME CONTROL ACT OF 1970

REGULATION OF EXPLOSIVES

1. General

Title XI of the captioned law amends Title 18, United States Code, by adding a new chapter 40 with section numbers 841 through 848 governing the importation, manufacture, distribution and storage of explosive materials and creating certain Federal offenses pertaining to the unlawful use of explosives. Administration of explosives regulation is vested in the Secretary of the Treasury as is investigative jurisdiction over the unlawful acts proscribed in section 842. Under authority contained in section 846 the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) have concurrent investigative jurisdiction as to the remainder of chapter 40, i.e., the unlawful acts proscribed in subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and (i) of section 844. Although not specified in chapter 40, the Postal Inspection Service shall have jurisdiction to investigate all incidents involving explosive or incendiary devices sent through the mails or directed against U.S. Postal Service property.

Title XI greatly broadens Federal authority pertaining to explosives-connected offenses. At the same time, Congress has expressly disclaimed any intent to occupy the field to the exclusion of state law on the same subject matter. To effect both Congressional purposes and to prevent unnecessary duplication of effort it is essential that the limited Federal investigative resources be carefully allocated, particularly in cases in which both the ATF and the FBI have jurisdiction.

2. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Jurisdiction in General

(a) Effect on prior jurisdiction - This agreement applies only to those incidents as to which the FBI had no investigative jurisdiction prior to the enactment of the captioned law and to incidents previously subject to FBI investigation by reason of chapter 65, Title 18, United States Code (malicious mischief). Investigative procedures in other types of incidents (e.g., train wrecking, damaging aircraft and motor vehicles, racketeering) shall remain unchanged.