SAMUEL ADASON JAFFE

Jaffe later indicated that "Slava" warned him of the defector shortly after Jaffe read the story in the press that a Soviet national disappeared in Switzerland. Jaffe continued: "He (Slava') was actually concerned because the man had a lot of valuable information. He said he worked with 'Slava' for a while and then he was in another department - higher position. He knew him ('Slava') personally. And he said he couldn't understand why the man would do anything like defecting. He said, 'Don't say anything about knowing me to anyone.' He was very, very worried." Jaffe said he learned at about the time he was leaving Russia that "Slava" was "being demoted and was going into another area. He wasn't happy. I think he felt he had more to offer."

When again requested to relate the circumstances of his introduction to "Slava", Jaffe stated he was dating a Soviet girl. He said he did not believe the Soviets have any compromising photographs of their activities; however, the girl told him she had been called up before the review board of the factory where she worked and embarrassed because of her association with an American. She told Jaffe, that the whole story would appear in "Izvestia" or some other Soviet newspaper. Jaffe continued: "At this point Fedorov befriended me. He said, 'I hear by the grapevine you are in a little hot water.' I acknowledged this but said I didn't think there was anything wrong with seeing a Soviet girl. He said it could be very serious, your name could be written in 'Izvestia'". Jaffe indicated Fedorov got "very melodramatic." He continued: "I was scared of the automobile accident (in which he hit a pedestrian). But I wasn't scared about this." Jaffe then related again that Fedorov introduced "Slava" to him as an individual who could keep his name out of the newspapers.

It was pointed out to Jaffe that he first mentioned "Slava" to the FBI in January, 1963, and he was asked if he could recall the information he furnished at that time regarding attendance at a party and flat tires. He then related that he had attended a party with a girl friend and had a few drinks. At about 1:00 a.m., he was driving in an area not familiar to him and noticed he was being "tailed." Then he observed a "detour left" sign. He turned left as directed, subsequently he noticed the surveilling car continue on the road he had left. He then abruptly fell into a big hole and all four tires were flattened by the severe fall.

SECRET-61

NW 88326 DocId:32989704 Page 332