Office Memorandum

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation DATET: May 20, 1964

FROM: The Attorney General

SUBJECT: MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED. DATE: 5/20/64 BY SPAMMER

155-26

The recent decision of the Supreme Court entitled Irvine v. California 347 U.S. 128, denouncing the use of microphone surveillance by city police in a gambling case makes appropriate a reappraisal of the use which may be made in the future by the Federal Bureau of Investigation of microphone surveillance in connection with matters relating to the internal security of the country.

It is clear that in some instances the use of microphone surveillance is the only possible way of uncovering the activities of espionage agents, possible subordinates, and subversive persons. In such instances I am of the opinion that the national interest requires that microphone surveillance be utilized by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. This use need not be limited to the development of evidence for prosecution. The FBI has an intelligence function in connection with internal security matters equally as important as the duty of developing evidence for presentation to the courts and the national security requires that the FBI be able to use microphone surveillance for the proper discharge of both of such functions. The Department of Justice approves the use of microphone surveillance by the FBI under these circumstances and for these purposes.

I do not consider that the decision of the Supreme Court in Irvine v. California, supra, requires a different course. That case is readily distinguishable on its facts. The language of the Court, however, indicates certain uses of microphones which it would be well to avoid, if possible, even in internal security investigations. It is quite clear that in the Irvine case the Justices of the Supreme Court were outraged by what they regarded as the indecency of installing a microphone in a bedroom. They announced the utilization of such methods of investigation in a gambling case as shocking. The Court's action is a clear indication of the need for discretion and intelligent restraint in the use of microphones by the FBI in all cases, including internal security matters. Obviously, the installation of a microphone in a bedroom or in some comparably intimate location should be avoided wherever possible. It may appear, however, that important intelligence or evidence relating to me, re-connected with the national security can only be obtained by the installation of a microphone in such a location. It is my opinion, that under such circumstances the installation is proper and is not prohibited by the Supreme Court's decision in the Irvine case.

COPY:

cc 37 E. B. Littlefield,有效期, remain private ECN: 20170514T14:03:57+08'00

SJE: JUL 2.1954

INT'L

1954-07-02 AM11103952