By charter the Department of Defense does not play the principal role in the fields of clandestine or covert operations. The Department of Defense is not specifically predicated from assuming a principle role and, in fact, there is specific authority for the Department of Defense to assume such a role when the scope of a particular operation exceeds the capabilities of the Central Intelligence Agency. From U. S. lessons learned in Laos and Cuba (during the Bay of Pigs Operation) the size of these operations were considered beyond the capabilities of the CIA. (At least the reserves of men, money and materiel available to CIA were strained severely.) In such circumstances when DoD asks for excess forces of CIA, it may be preferable to give DoD the primary role and responsibility and have CIA render required support. Again security becomes a major factor when an operation reaches such a magnitude that DoD is forced to assume the responsibility. Many argue, with some justification, that when the operation is of a magnitude that the DoD must assume the responsibility, it is at the point of leading its cover as clandestine wrappings and DoD may suffer the consequences.

Except for participation during World War II, few individuals in the Department of Defense were concerned with clandestine operations prior to 1960. Experiences of the military in Germany, Laos, Cuba and Vietnam served to underline many of the capabilities and limitations of the military in these fields. There are many emotional organizational conflict of interest aspects involved in a consideration of the role the military should assume. One view is that the military can and should assume a greater role immediately. Supporters of this view base their arguments on some demonstrated inefficiencies common under CIA management in the past, the planning experience of DoD, and the breadth and depth of resources in men, money and material available to the Department of Defense. Some of the more emotional support of this view stems from the military's frustration of CIA's apparent inability to take bold actions (probably combined with some inertia hedging).