He knows of no case in which the CIA has made a sweep of any other residences.

It does make sweeps of private firms who have CIA contracts, but always with the knowledge and consent of the firm.

He states that his Office has never used equipment for counter-audio sweeps for "positive intelligence."

The sweeps conducted included physical inspection, checking all telephones for taps, checking desks, walls, ceilings and floors for listening devices or radio receivers, and may involve such sophisticated measures as counter-laser measures and the use of a Dodge mobile home equipped with sophisticated equipment capable of picking up a radio transmission from nearby premises.

Taping Systems in Certain CIA Offices

The recorded conversations from all of these offices, except those in the Office of Security, were recorded in a central bank of recorders located in the basement of the building. Those emanating from the Office of the Director of Security or Deputy Director of Security were recorded on twin recorders located down the hall from those offices.

All recorded telephone and office conversations were transcribed. In some instances the tapes were retained, and in some instances they were erased. It is not known whether the Agency retains any copies of the typed transcripts. From time to time, particularly as an official has departed from the CIA, he has ordered tapes erased and transcripts destroyed.

Mr. Osborn reports that Mr. Colby directed the removal of the recording and telephone taping equipment from his office when he became Executive Director-Controller of the Agency and again when he became Director of Central Intelligence. Mr. Bannerman also had the equipment taken out of his office when he became Deputy Director for Support (Administration). Apparently all other officials in whose offices such equipment was installed used it from time to time.

Positive Uses of Counter-Audio Equipment

Mr. Osborn stated that he wishes to clarify his previous testimony that counter-audio had not been used in a positive sense. What he meant was that it had not.

HW 50955 DocId:32203846 Page 9