Date of transcription 2/21/74

FRANK AUGUST DRAGER, JR. was interviewed while incarcerated in the Saugamon County Jail. He was furnished the identity of the interviewing agents and the purpose of the interview and he furnished the following information.

DRAGER stated that he is presently not a member of any right wing organization. He did admit to being the organizer and leader of the White Action Movement (WAM) which operated at one time out of Trenton, New Jersey, and Reading, Pennsylvania. No advised that the headquarters operations of that organization were distributed due to a lack of finances. He declined to comment on the names of any members or of the total number of individuals involved in the WAM. DRAGER stated the aim of his movement was victory for all right wing organizations and this was to be accomplished through political elections or other necessary methods. His methods included preaching to the public concerning goals of his organization and by supporting the right type of individuals for public office. He considered Bob Hill, who is presently incarcerated in the Federal Penitentiary, Leavenworth, Kansas, to be the type of individual qualified to hold public office.

DRAGER stated that his WAM has adopted a philosophy of being the coordinator between all right wing organizations currently operating in this country. He stated that the strategies and ideals of all right wing groups actually are very similar and that when the conditions are right there will be a unification for all these groups into one large organization that will effectively be able to take control of the country. He stated he originally founded the WAM in 1970 and for a time published and distributed literature in an attempt to educate the public concerning his beliefs. No advised that WAM was unable to reestablish its goals as an above ground organization and as a result several years ago he decided to take the organization "under ground". Although there is no longer any formal organization or financial backing, WAM still has its officers and membership but the extent of its activities consists of himself and others traveling the country pronouncing the right wing philosophy to any group that will listen. DRAGER decided to comment on the number of individuals presently in WAM but did state

Interviewed on 2/10/74 al. Springfield, Illinois File # SI-157-4376 SA HUGHES G. GOLDBEN SA WILLIAM F. DUFFY by W.A.-PAR-CHU-NG Date dictated 2/20/74

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency. If and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

31