attain victory.

I am not boasting when I say that we (Fateh) have affirmed the nation's will for victory. After June 5th, we alone moved and declared with our bullets that the war was not ended, that the Palestinian people still exist and that the Arab nation is stronger than defeat. Our revolution is the clear declaration of our will. We regard all "peaceful settlements" as surrender and nothing else. You must have heard what "Al-Asifah" Radio said about the Soviet proposal. "Al-Asifah" criticized it in strong terms, and affirmed that the Palestinian people alone determine their destiny."

I listened, engrossed, as he continued: "It is strange that we are accused of regionalism when we, in practice, have excluded all divisions. We do not recognize borders. Our men move from one Arab state to another with Fateh identity cards only. We work on every Arab soil and wherever Palestinians are. We have bases in Syria, we train our forces in Iraq, Egypt and Algeria, and wherever the opportunity is offered us (China and Viet-Nam). We have active groups in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the Gulf area. It is not reasonable for us, in order to defend ourselves against the accusation of regionals, to attempt to overthrow King Faisal, or the government in Qatar or Bahrain or any other Arab state. We are not willing to discuss the problems and orientations of any Arab government and we are not willing to take a stand vis-a-vis any government on the basis of its outlooks - for example, about socialism."

I then said: "Now we are beginning to discuss the problem of the left..."

Abu Amar answered in a strong voice: "EveryONE asks if we are right or left ... foreign color? Ask about this! Our brothers, Qawmiyar Al-Arab should be

us of being rightists. I read an article in Al-Huriyah a few days ago, which claimed that we betray the armed struggle due to our class composition."

He turned to the men around him, laughed and asked: "Men, I have forgotten where my father's property is... Do you remember?" He continued, as the men quieted down: "There are no capitalists, exploiters or bourgeois among Fateh men. You have visited our bases. Did you see any rich fighters? We are all of the wretched of the earth. Actually, we are the poorest of the world, for as Palestinians, we lack not only the means for existence, but our own country, and that is the worst kind of poverty."

I said: "You are now confirming what the leftists are saying..."

Abu Amar answered with emotion: "I am a refugee. We are a nation of refugees. Do you know the meaning of being a refugee? I am a human being who has lost everything. I own nothing. Even my country has been taken from me and I have been kicked out. What is the meaning of Left or Right in this liberation struggle? I want my country even if the devils liberate it for me. As a Palestinian, I do not, anyhow, have the time to spend on arguing left or right. Am I in a position to refuse the participation and help of any human being? Do you ask me to refuse money from Saudi Arabia because they are rightists? But with their money, we buy weapons from China. How do you call this action, leftist or rightist? The problem in my mind and in the mind of other Palestinians is simple, and there is no need for complications. We have been expelled from our country which is being occupied by another people through the force of arms and by the aid of Imperialism. It is our duty and our right to work for the liberation of our land and to regain it even by force of arms. The confusion is due to extraneous

40

>NW 88296, DocId:32989574 Page 478