Utilization

If confidential source is to be used for assistance in security or racial investigations, secure Bureau approval, and background data must be furnished to the Bureau of the same type which is required for potential security and potential racial informants.

Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in which the frequency of contact is dependent upon circumstances of the individual case, confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained should also be contacted at least once every two weeks in the same manner as security informants.

Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files may be posted.

Contacts with confidential sources should only be made by the Agent or Agents specifically designated for that purpose.

The letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use a subject as a confidential source is to set out clearly the following information:

(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizenship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest record, and service record, if any

(2) Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual as a confidential source, together with the results of any interviews conducted with him

(3) A statement to the effect subject is being considered a confidential source and that he will be advised he is not a Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relationship with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should be made that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and if he is connected with a labor union he will be advised of Bureau policy on labor matters,

[One of the required copies of the letter requesting authority to use a subject as a confidential source should consist of the first page of the letter.] If the request is approved at the Bureau, a stamped notation will be placed on the single-page copy and [it will be]returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subject is sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background information obtained.

6. Security and racial confidential sources — certification of stability and payments

Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to secure confidential sources. See 107N, 3b, for form of letter.

If the security or racial source is not being paid on Bureau authorization and is being used regularly, the Agent handling the same must dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters.

Gifts

Gifts to sources shall not be reclaimed as blue slip items.

Discontinuance

Advise Bureau when confidential source is discontinued, and the reasons therefor.