6. with any additional information contained in the Bureau's files. The names of subscribers to Communist Party nominating petitions and the names appearing on subscription lists of [the Communist Party, USA, publications] and publications and organs of the organizations set forth in I a, b, c, and d must be indexed in the field office covering the address shown for the subscriber and should not be forwarded to the Bureau for indexing. Mailing lists as such which cannot be identified as membership lists of subversive organizations also should be indexed in the field and not forwarded to the Bureau. Field offices obtaining such lists must promptly furnish them to the office covering the address shown for the subscriber.

7. Important subversive derogatory information concerning any individual and any new subversive derogatory information concerning any individual of importance must be brought to the attention of the Bureau by expedient means.

8. Subversive and nonsubversive derogatory information coming to the attention of the field office through a name check or otherwise on an employee of the executive branch of the Government, which information is within the purview of Executive Order 10450, should be forwarded promptly to the Bureau for dissemination to the Civil Service Commission. In addition, subversive derogatory and other information relating to other employees of the Government and to employees of the United Nations and of other public international organizations received by the field office should be brought immediately to the attention of the Bureau.

9. These instructions do not affect and are in addition to existing instructions for the submission of information in report form.

C. INVESTIGATION OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY, USA, SOCIALIST WORKERS' PARTY, AND OTHER MARXIST REVOLUTIONARY-TYPE ORGANIZATIONS

1. Policy

a. Communist Party, USA By Presidential directive on 9-6-39, and subsequent restatements (see section 102, volume IV, of this manual), this Bureau is charged with the responsibility of coordinating all information with regard to the internal security of the U. S. Since 1939, a large portion of the Bureau's security investigations has been directed toward a coverage of the activities of communists and other groups whose aims seek the overthrow of the U. S. Government. The Communist Party, USA, is the best organized and most dangerous from a security standpoint. The party is not an isolated or purely domestic organization but is part of an international communist movement led and dominated by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, the ultimate aim of which is to establish a world-wide communist state. The Communist Party, USA, bases its theory on the principles of Marxism-Leninism. Considerable evidence shows that these principles look toward the violent overthrow of the U. S. Government or its downfall in the event of a war with the Soviet Union.) It would be a grave error to suppose that, because the party is actually and potentially small, it is not dangerous. The contemplated role of the party is such that it can be played best by an organization which is cohesive, easily mobilized, highly maneuverable, fanatically zealous, well disciplined, and immediately responsive in an emergency to the demands of its leaders. The highest authority in the Communist Party, USA, is the national convention which meets approximately once every two years. Between these conventions, the national committee is the highest authority of the party.