Memorandum to Mr. Belmont Re: INTELLIGENCE COVERAGE OF FRIENDLY FOREIGN COUNTRIES

65-63113

investigative efforts on our part. To avoid recurrences of instances of this nature, we adopted the policy of clearing our intentions with the Department of State before authorizing the field to expend any investigative effort. In this manner we put State Department on notice as to our objectives at the outset in order that when we return to State to secure clearance for the investigation and interview of a particular individual, we will not be denied clearance on the grounds of delicate international relations. (65-63113-89)

By letter dated 5-20-58, 12 offices in whose territories foreign official establishments are located were advised that our efforts in the development of sources and informants in establishments of friendly foreign nations should be based primarily on need and should be directed toward development of sources in the establishments of ostensibly friendly foreign countries (1) where there is definite indication the specific country is drifting toward alignment with the Soviet bloc; (2) where the situation in a particular country involves serious political or military crisis with international ramifications or possible revolutionary activity and good potential exists for the Bureau to produce valuable intelligence data through coverage of diplomatic establishments in the U. S; or (3) where there is a clear and present investigative need. The 12 offices were informed that Bureau authority must be secured prior to initiating any program to develop sources and informants within diplomatic establishments of a specific country outside the Soviet bloc, at which time completed data must be furnished as to need and potential benefit of such a program. The field was informed that, if such a program is justified, the Bureau will then discuss the matter with the State Department. Following State Department clearance, the Bureau will notify the interested field offices to initiate the program. However, further Bureau authority will still be required for the investigation and interview of each prospect, since State Department clearance will be sought in connection with each of these steps.

(65-63113-90)

Since our redirection of this phase of captioned program in May, 1958, with prior State Department clearance we have instituted action or continued action previously instituted to develop live sources in official establishments of the countries listed below. The first column beside the name of each country shows the number of presently active sources developed to date (including those developed prior to May, 1958) and the second column shows the number still under consideration.