FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dule.

6/9/69

At 5:05 A.M. on June 4, 1969, a telephone call was placed by SA E. B. YADON to Black Panther Party (BPP) Headquarters, 2350 West Madison Street, Chicago. The call was answered by an unidentified female who verified the number of the BPP organization. A request of this individual was made to speak with the person in command and an unidentified male answered the telephone stating he was the "O.D." (officer of the day).

SA YADON advised this individual that he was representing the FBI and that the FBI held arrest warrants for four EPP members, namely GEORGE SAMS, Jr.; RONY B. HITLER; LANDON R. WILLIAMS and LONNIE MC LUCAS. He advised that these warrants charge the above-listed individuals with Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution for Murder; Conspiracy to Commit Murder and Kidnapping. He further advised the "O.D." that the FBI had information indicating one or more of these individuals was at that location, that the headquarters were surrounded by FBI personnel and that he should open the front door. This individual stated that none of these persons were there and he was again instructed to open the door. The individual left the phone unattended, with the line open, and sounds of movement and arguing could be heard. The phone was then answered by a woman with male voices in the background, one stating "I'll kill them", followed by obscene language. A man then came on the phone to indicate they would let one man come in and he was advised that this was not acceptable; he was again instructed to open the door and leave the premises. The male individual indicated that they were negotiating and then stated, "We are coming out"; however, persons in the room continued arguing and one individual was heard to say "Give me that shotgun".

During the course of the telephone being left open, SA YADON heard what appeared to him to be a noise made by a shotgun action being racked.

On 6/4/69 at Chicago, Illinois

FBI# CG

by

S.J.R. N. YADON/mem

Date dictated.

6/6/69

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is intended for your agency. Include its contents here unless it is to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 DocId:32199554 Page 1824