WILLIAM L. JOYCE

EXPERIENCE:

Princeton University Associate University Librarian for Rare Books and Special Collections, 1986- This position entails managing the Rare Books and Special Collections Department of the Princeton University Library, including supervising a permanent staff of about 45, overseeing the budget, planning the Department's programs (including acquisitions, cataloging, collection development, conservation, reference and access, exhibitions, and publications) and space needs, and reviewing and revising as necessary policies and procedures for the Department. Additional responsibilities include sitting on the Library Council which assists the University Librarian in directing the Princeton University Libraries, and serving as liaison for the Library to the Friends of the Princeton University Library (of which I am also Secretary).

Columbia University School of Library Service Adjunct Faculty, 1984 - 1992

This appointment involved teaching three courses, a lecture course "Curatorship of Rare Books and Special Collections", a seminar, "Problems in Archival Administration," and a seminar on rare books (co-taught with Terry Belanger) until the University closed the school in July, 1992.

The New York Public Library Assistant Director for Rare Books and Manuscripts, 1981-1986

This position Included planning for and managing the Rare Books and Manuscripts and Archives Sections as well as the Arents Collections of Tobacco and Books In Parts. The position emphasized developing the Rare Books and Manuscripts Division's programs and space needs, overseeing the budget, supervising a permanent staff of 15, and reviewing and revising as necessary procedures for the continuing development and management of the Library's rare books, manuscripts and archives holdings.I also participated as a curator in the inaugural exhibition in Gottesmann Gallery, "Censorship: 500 Years."

American Antiquarian Society Education Officer, 1977-1981

With the assistance of a grant for the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, this position was created to plan and implement seminars, colloquia, lectures, an academic conference, readings, an adult education course, and musical performances that improved scholarly use of AAS holdings and made the Society a more visible cultural resource in the region.

Curator of Manuscripts, 1972-1981

In addition to managing acquisitions and providing reference assistance to readers, this position entailed supervising a six year project, funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities, that provided for the systematic arrangement and description of the Society's manuscript collections. (see Publications) William L. Clements Library, The University of Michigan Manuscripts Librarian, 1968-1972