Him, Says Fidel

That I Could Have Saved

HIT CUBA HARD: President John F. Kennedy is shown in November 1962 as he told newsmen that Russia had agreed to remove weapons from Cuba.

"I thought the visits might be something to do with the American CIA — whether anything eventually happened or not."

Cries from the crowd began to divert Castro's attention from me. I desperately asked if by "anything happened" he meant an assassination of President Kennedy.

"Well, it crossed my mind. But I didn't give much thought to it," he said.

"Then, too, after such a plot had been found out, we would be blamed - for something we had nothing to do with."

"It could have been used as an excuse for another invasion try. In any case, people would have tried to put it at my door."

Castro started to make his way to the edge of the sidewalk.

As he did so, he added: "I was not responsible for Kennedy's death. I will tell you that.

"I think he was killed by U.S. Fascists — right wing elements who disagreed with him."

Then he started speaking again in Spanish with those immediately around him, turned and said goodbye to the crowd, climbed into his car and was driven away.

It had been an unexpected and shocking inter-

DIDN'T HELP: Castro admitted he had heard of the assassination threat but gave vague reasons for not reporting it to the United Nations.

view under odd and difficult circumstances. If he could be taken at his word, Castro had shed new light on the Kennedy assassination mystery. I hoped to learn even more at the formal interview, which was still pending.

On July 17 I was telephoned at my hotel by Senor Cordoso, who had tried to arrange the formal interview.

Cordoso said: "I am glad you had the chance of meeting the Prime Minister. You were very fortunate."

I agreed and asked when my longer interview would be granted.

But Cordoso explained he'd been told by the Prime Minister's office that Castro would be heavily engaged with the anniversary celebrations and meetings with OLAS visitors.

"He has a lot of pressing engagements — those and other things," Cordoso said. "I can't see any chance of another personal interview at all in the near future."

This was the final decision, and I decided to make arrangements to leave Cuba. I flew to Mexico City, where I called at the high-walled Cuban embassy to see if I could learn more about Oswald's two visits there.

The grilled double gates were opened by a gatekeeper to allow in some official-looking diplomatic car.

I quickly showed him my Press credentials, and asked if I could see anyone of authority inside the embassy.

But the gatekeeper replied in halting English: "No, no Press. It is impossible."

The wall of silence had been lowered on the Oswald situation, except for that one revealing moment with Castro himself on the sidewalk in Havana.

LEE OSWALD NOW LINKED TO CUBA

INTRIGUE: Cuban Embassy in Mexico City was visited twice by Oswald before assassination.