Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

Belford L. Lawson III December 1, 1977

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

579-58-9975 Appointment Salary Adjustment Title Change Termination (At close of business on effective date) Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business)

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Specify Date

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Staff Counsel $25,700

If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff— Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number __________ If applicable, Level __ Step ____

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 1 , 19 77

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Louis Stokes)

Chairman

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Type or print name and title of authorizing official)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code ID

Monthly Annuity .00 as of Benefits Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326 DocId:32239472 Page 5