(3) Arrangement

This index is to be maintained in two sections, section A and section B. Each section will be maintained alphabetically on 5- by 8-inch cards.

(a) Section A

Section A of the reserve index is designed to represent a special group of individuals who should receive priority consideration with respect to investigation and/or other action following the apprehension of security index subjects.

I. Section A should include those individuals whose subversive activities do not bring them within the security index criteria but who, in a time of national emergency, are in a position to influence others against the national interest or are likely to furnish material financial aid to subversive elements due to their subversive associations and ideology. Include in this section those individuals meeting the standards for inclusion in the reserve index and who fall within the following categories:

(A) Professors, teachers, and educators

(B) Labor union organizers or leaders

(C) Writers, lecturers, newsmen, entertainers, and others in the mass media field

(D) Lawyers, doctors, and scientists

(E) Other potentially influential persons on a local or national level

(F) Individuals who could potentially furnish material financial aid

II. Recommendations for inclusion of names in the reserve index (section A)

(A) Recommendations for inclusion of names in section A of the reserve index are to be submitted to the Bureau by form FD-122a. A succinct summary setting forth the basis for the recommendation should be attached to the form FD-122a. In addition, if no report is accompanying the recommendation, a statement to that effect should appear on the page containing the succinct summary.

(B) Upon Bureau approval of recommendation for the inclusion of an individual's name in section A of the reserve index, two reserve index cards will be forwarded to the field. [Add]on the reverse side available descriptive data. One card is to be filed in your office, and one card is to be filed away from headquarters city at the same location as the extra set of security index cards are now stored.

III. Periodic review of section A of the reserve index

Investigations of individuals listed in section A of the reserve index are to be brought to date annually and considered for security index status or retention in the reserve index. Form FD-154 may be used for the annual review by amending it for use in reserve index cases. This investigation should include, as a minimum:

(A) Verification of residence and employment

(B) Indices search and file review to determine whether additional investigation is warranted or whether an interview with the individual is desirable

(C) If additional investigation is conducted or if there is unreported information of a subversive nature contained in the files, submit a report.