The latest raid, in July of this year, indicated a gross revenue of $250,000 per week.

From those figures— The CHAIRMAN. Where was that raid? Mr. BRANCH. That was in Sanford, Fla., just 17 miles north of Orlando. These figures are established by the Internal Revenue agents and auditors. From these figures, it is easy to see why the Mafia has moved so heavily into lottery gambling in central Florida and why gambling revenues are universally acknowledged to be the "lifeblood" of organized crime.

Any additional legislation that this subcommittee can promote to further restrict and inhibit gambling will, in our opinion, be a substantial blow to organized crime.

Senator MUSKIE. Did they actually pay off on those lotteries or was it dishonest in that respect, too?

Mr. BRANCH. Usually they pay off.

They don't pay off when we pull a raid on them or arrest them. They stop at that. But they are in operation the next week.

The CHAIRMAN. You mean they do not pay off for that day?

Mr. BRANCH. No, sir; they don't.

The CHAIRMAN. It is unfortunate for the fellow that won, who cannot get his winnings.

Mr. BRANCH. Yes, sir.

Thank you, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. If the law enforcement is pretty vigilant, I would be afraid to place a bet under those circumstances.

All right, Chief, if you will, you may proceed.

Stand by, Sergeant, as we may want to ask you some questions.

Mr. BRANCH. Yes, sir.

TESTIMONY OF NEIL G. BROWN—Resumed

Mr. BROWN. To understand the crime network Trafficante operates it is necessary to examine the modern era of crime in Tampa, which dates from the early 1920's. Its most violent episodes were between 1937 and 1945, when the Sicilian underworld was attempting to move in on all illegal gambling in Tampa. This period in the history of our city was referred to as “the era of blood.”

Senator MUSKIE. Who coined that phrase, the gang or the newspapers?

Mr. BROWN. I think it was the newspapers, Senator.

During the 1920's, before the Sicilian underworld moved into the rackets to any great extent, one of our most notorious residents, Charles M. Wall, started his rise to become the acknowledged boss of most of the illegal gambling in the Tampa and central area of the State of Florida. He styled himself "dean of the underworld," and in 1953 he admitted to a Hillsborough County solicitor that he had made his living from illegal gambling. During 1945, Wall forfeited his leadership by entering into a partnership with Santo Trafficante, Sr.

The elder Trafficante was born in Sicily in 1886. He came to Tampa in 1904 and became a naturalized citizen in 1925. In 1950, he was one of the missing witnesses in the Kefauver crime hearings held in Tampa. He died on August 11, 1954. Police records do not show any arrest for Santo Trafficante, Sr.

In 1952, Wall declared that he was retiring, although he did not

at other operating ex- telephone bills.

HW 50955 DocId:32423630 Page 671