Office Memorandum

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : MR. L. V. BOARDMAN DATE: December 13, 1955

FROM : MR. A. H. BELMONT SUBJECT: AFGHANISTAN

Tolson Boardman Nichols Belmont Harbo Mohr Parsons Rosen Tamn Sizoo Wintertrowd Tele. Room Holbrook Gandy

Reference is made to my memorandum to you dated 12-5-55 in the above-captioned matter. In connection with our coverage of certain "friendly" countries in U.S. for intelligence purposes, Liaison was instructed to contact Mr. Robert Murphy, Deputy Under Secretary of State, and point out to him the Intelligence Advisory Committee (IAC) thoughts concerning Afghanistan. Liaison was further instructed to ask State if they would care to consider the coverage of this country at this time.

Mr. Murphy is on annual leave for two weeks and before leaving advised Mr. Bartlett of the Liaison Section that any matters concerning this coverage of "friendly" countries should be taken up with William M. Rountree, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Near Eastern, South Asian and African Affairs, Department of State. On 12-12-55 Mr. Bartlett discussed instant matter with Mr. Rountree. Mr. Rountree indicated that this coverage would be most interesting; however, he does not consider that it will be very productive in view of the fact that the Afghanistan Ambassador, Mr. Mohammad Kabir Ludin, is definitely pro-Western in his thinking and actions. Mr. Rountree stated he would like to have the Bureau cover this Embassy on a trial basis for 60 days and if that appears productive, we should then continue. He indicated that practically all the conversation would be in English; therefore, would present no translation problem.

RECOMMENDATION:

It is recommended that the Bureau set up coverage on the Afghanistan establishment in Washington for a trial period of 60 days.

OHB:fjb (B)

1 - Mr. Boardman 1 - Mr. Belmont 1 - Mr. Branigan 1 - Mr. Sanders 1 - Mr. deBettenoourt 1 - Liaison Section 1 - Mr. Bartlett

17 JAN 19 1956

NOT RECORDED 145 JAN 23 1956

See Addendum on page 2

NW 88613 DocId:32199554

Page 828