persons in numerous points of entry in Latin America and with contacts in several European capitals who assist the group on their clandestine return. Although many left Peru openly on valid papers, they are coming back illegally. Some have false documentation from other countries; primarily from Colombia; some have Peruvian passports issued in the names of persons now deceased; some are crossing the borders from neighboring countries clandestinely without showing any papers; and some go by small boats to isolated areas.

6. The agent is a member of the Movimiento Izquierda Revolucionario (HIR) of Peru which now plans to join with other leftist revolutionary groups to bring about a coup before the elections scheduled for June 1963. The agent knows of some 200 Peruvians who have received Cuban training, only a small percentage of whom are actually Communist Party members.

7. Approximately 300 persons have been named by the agent as being connected with the ring helping the Peruvians to infiltrate secretly. Attempts are being made to learn whether some of these, particularly those used as "Co-ordinators" or "Correspondence points" in Europe and the United States, are also connected with the illegal return of Cuban-trained guerrillas to other countries.

8. Paris has emerged as the center of the network. Groups of ten arrive weekly from Cuba to be sent on to various Latin American countries for eventual re-entry into Peru. The man in charge of the Peruvians is headquartered in Paris. From there, he has been directing the travel, sending instructions to his scattered subordinates, and receiving reports and information from contacts throughout the world, and handling funds.

9. Correspondence between members of the group is by cable and by letter. The security of communications is protected by several alternate systems of code and secret writing. Each of the trainees has been assigned a number, and letter and number designations are given to hotels and pensions. In cable correspondence, the ring uses these numbers to indicate which persons are traveling and where they may be reached. The content of the messages appears to relate to business matters, covering shipment dates and invoice numbers for example. Letter correspondence contains secret writing with relatively sophisticated systems, interspaced between lines of impenetrable friendly or business letters. A dictionary is used for coded messages in either cables or letters, with page and word number referring to clandestine key words.