(Mount Clipping In Space Below)

Jeanette Rankin Brigade sets January 15 for capitol action

SAN FRANCISCO — When American women petition the joint session of Congress on its opening day (Jan. 15) to end the war in Vietnam, it will be “the most important coalition of women ever formed,” Mrs. Vigin Hallinan, executive secretary of the Jeanette Rankin Brigade, told a press conference here last week.

"There will be women representing the clergy, scientists, professionals, and leaders of "the civil rights movement," she said. "The black clad women who led by Jeanette Rankin, the country's first congresswoman, who is now 86 years old."

The people's leaders hope enough women from the Bay Area will join the brigade to make a plane charter feasible. Requires about the chartered plane can be addressed to the local office of the Brigade at 100 Golden Gate avenue, S.F. Telephone 474-4455.

The Brigade is now contacting congressional leaders, ask-

ing them to meet the women at the capitol steps to receive their petition to put ending of the war in Vietnam as the first order of business for the new session of the Congress.

Program for the event, as finalized, calls for presentation to Congress of the Brigade's demands (see PW Dec. 16) and then holding of a women's congress that afternoon to plan political action on a local scale.

Unless Congress acts on their petition, the women will use Jan. 16 to see their representatives and pressure them to support their demands.

"We are not going to do anything unconstitutional," Mrs. Hallinan said. "We are going to petition Congress for redress of grievances. There was agreement at a meeting of the national steering committee to give Congress three more months to act. After that we will take to the streets - there was agreement on this by all those concerned."

Among the national sponsors

of the event are prominent members of virtually every major national church and women's organization, for example Elsie Thomas Culver (World Council of Churches); Mrs. Martin Luther King, Jr. (Southeastern Christian Leadership Conf.); Jane Buchenholz (Americans for Democratic Action); Ellen Aurbakken (United Church Women).

Also Mrs. Emlen Stokes (American Friends Service Committee); Mrs. John C. Bennett (Methodist, wife of John Bennett, dean of Union Theological Seminary); author Susan Sontag; actress Ruby Dee; Judith Morse Eaton and Grace Luchs Elliot (Natl. Council of the Young Women's Christian Assn.).

Support for the event was also expected from authors Mary McCarthy and Betty Friedan.

Local supportive events for those who cannot go to Washington are being planned throughout the nation.

5 "People's World" — San Francisco, California — Northwest Final

Date: 12/23/67 Edition: Vol.30 No.51 Author: Editor: AL RICHMOND Title:

Character: or Classification: Submitting Office:

Being Investigated