13,000,000

is not to cause sacrifice or hardship among the American people. Unless I can demonstrate that in balance the temporary sacrifices in a certain area are far overcome by immediate and ultimate benefits then nobody's going to buy it.

And I believe that we've now got such a horrible conglomeration of confusion in the energy field that nobody knows what's going to happen next. So I think that the sacrifices will be far overcome by the benefits that the American people will be easily able to discern for themselves.

U.S. Role on Canada

Q. You said that in spite of the fact that the Canadian people would have to determine their future for themselves, particularly in regard to the separatism issue in Quebec that you had confidence that the issue would be straightened out relatively peacefully. Do you really think that there is little concern in this country about the future of a unified Canada and is there anything really that we can do about it?

A. There's a great deal of concern in this country about the future of Canada and I have complete confidence, as I said in an interview with the Canadian news media in the sound judgment of the Canadian people.

I'm familiar—and even more familiar today than I was two days ago after Prime Minister Trudeau's visit—with the problems in Quebec and the inclination of some of the French Canadians to have an independent status from the rest of Canadian Provinces.

I don't know what's going to be the ultimate outcome. But I believe that we are so closely tied together with Canada on a mutually beneficial basis, sharing problems, sharing opportunities, sharing trade, sharing manufacturing companies that have joint ownership, our exchange of energy sources, our sharing of the St. Lawrence Seaway, the Great Lakes as far as water pollution is concerned, the bringing of Alaskan oil and natural gas down to us that we have got to have a continuing relationship with Canada.

My own personal preference would be that the commonwealth stay as it is and that there not be a separate Quebec province. But that's a decision for the Canadians to make and I would certainly make no private or public move to try to determine the outcome of that great debate.

Keeping Campaign Promises

Q. Mr. President, you've had a month now to enjoy the view from the Oval Office. Do you think you'll be able to keep fully all the campaign promises you made?

A. As you know, we have issued what I believe is the complete book of my campaign promises, which is, I presume, being made available to all of you. My determination is to keep all those promises.

Obviously if circumstances should change I would have to reserve the right to go back to the American people and say "now that circumstances have changed this a better approach to that particular problem." But I will do my utmost to keep all the campaign promises that I made to the American people.

Production of B-1

Q. Mr. President, you said at various times during the campaign that the B-1

have all accepted and I will be meeting with the heads of the nations in dispute in the Middle East, all of them, before the end of May. The first visit of one of those leaders will be Mr. Rabin. I believe, March 12. And he will be followed by the leaders from Egypt, from Jordan and from Syria, from Saudia Arabia and I look forward to meeting with them.

At that point I hope I will have a very clear picture of what role the American Government ought to play.

The same thing applies to the situation that exists between ourselves and Turkey, ourselves and Greece, ourselves and Cyprus.

We can't impose our will on other people. But if they honestly want to seek a solution, we are perfectly willing to offer our good offices as a country with influence and interest to help them resolve their own differences. But it's got to be done primarily by those countries involved.

We have begun again, and within the last week, our discussions on the Panama Canal Treaty. We have two extremely good negotiators and I hope that we will have success there. There's no way that I can say at this point what degree of progress we have made. It's just beginning.

So throughout the areas of high dispute, including South Africa and others that I don't have time to mention we're probing as best we can to discern some possibility of resolution of those tension areas.

We are meeting today, in fact, all this week with the British, to try to get a renewed proposal to make concerning the question surrounding Rhodesia. And then, of course, we'll still have left Nambia and ultimately majority rule question in South Africa.

But I've only been in office a month. I don't claim to know all the easy answers. And these questions that have are not going to be easy to solve. But we're going to do the best we can openly and forcefully offering our good services, not trying to impose our will on other people.