W.E.B. DU BOIS CLUB OF SAN FRANCISCO, aka DuBois Youth Group, San Francisco DuBois Club, San Francisco DuBois Youth Group, Student-Labor Alliance

A source advised that on January 31, 1963, the W.E.B. DuBois Club of San Francisco held its first general meeting at California Hall, Polk and Turk Streets, San Francisco, California, at which time the aims of the club were put forth as follows by TERENCE "KAYO" HALLINAN:

(1) Alleviate the Negro problem in the United States.

(2) Promote peaceful co-existence between the United States and Russia.

(3) Promote and encourage Marxist doctrines and to bring about a socialistic government in the United States.

A second source advised in March 1963 that the DuBois Club was both conceived and originated by TERENCE HALLINAN.

A third source has advised that TERENCE HALLINAN attended a Communist Party Youth Commission meeting in San Francisco in October 1963.

Commencing in March 1963, the DuBois Club published a newsletter entitled "San Francisco News and World Report." In its first issue a "Proposed Statement of Principles" was set forth in which the club's aforementioned aims were elaborated upon. In the same issue the lead editorial in part described the San Francisco DuBois Club as "...a group of young people who are convinced that Socialism is the only answer to the many problems of our time and so find philosophical rapport with the life and thought of Dr. DU BOIS, nevertheless, we are weighed with humility in comparing our goals and ambitions with the genius of his life and work. As a source of inspiration, the figure of W.E.B. DU BOIS is unequaled in American history, but as a standard and example, we seem miserably lost in his shadow. We can only resolve that we do his name no dishonor, and whatever we may accomplish should be recognized as a supplement to his life work."

The November 25, 1961, issue of the "People's World," a West Coast communist newspaper published in San Francisco, contains an article on page 12 reflecting

APPENDIX 346

10

NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 74