UNIT' STATES CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

CERTIFICATE OF MEDICAL EXAMINATION

Applicant must fill in dotted lines below to heavy line

Dorset, N. Y.

(Dated)

(Sixth)

Date of birth

Title of appointment taken

(Department and Bureau in which you are to be employed)

(If yes, give details)

PHYSICIAN SHOULDER FILL IN THE FOLLOWING ---------------------------:

1234. inches. 185 pounds. 180. pounds. (Weight, without clothing) (Weight, in clothing) (Weight, without clothing)

Males, with and without clothing; females, clothed, but without wrap or hat.

To be taken for males only upon special written request of the official ordering examination.

Item checked () were examined and found normal. Deviations from normal are noted. (See instructions on reverse side, numbered to correspond with items below.)

1. Eyes: Distant vision: Without glasses: Right: 20 Left: 20 With glasses if worn: Right: — Left: — Near vision:

What is the longest and the shortest distance at which the following specimens of Jaeger No. 1 and Jaeger No. 2 can be read by the applicant? If No. 1 is read with one, No. 2 need not be given. Test each eye separately.

With the visus of promoting health and efficiency and of stimulating energy among Federal employees, the duties of the several executive offices are classified, and the candidates having a method of selection are directed to make such physical examination of applicants as the Jaeger No. 1 and employees in the Federal classified service as may be required by the Civil Service Commission or its authorized representative. This order will supplement the Executive order of May 29 and June 18, 1923 (Executive order, September 4, 1923). (Jaeger No. 2)

Without glasses With glasses, if used

R. In. to 18 In. R. In. to 17 In.

L. In. to 18 In. L. In. to 17 In.

Without glasses With glasses, if used

R. In. to 18 In. R. In. to 17 In.

L. In. to 18 In. L. In. to 17 In.

Evidence of disease or injury: Right 60 Left 60. Color vision: Is color vision normal when Ishihara or other color plate test is used? 197. If not, can applicant pass lantern, yarn or other comparable test?

2. Bars: (Consider denominators indicated here as normal. Record as numerators the greatest distance heard.) Ordinary conversation: Right ear - 20 Left ear - 20 Evidence of disease or injury: Right ear - 20 Left ear - 20

Nose, sinus disease, etc. 20 ft.
Mouth and throat
Gastro-intestinal
Thyroid (especially in women) 5
Heart and blood vessels Blood pressure: Mm. Hg. systolic 128 Mm. Hg. diastolic
Is organic heart disease present? No. If organic heart disease is present, is it fully compensated?

8. Lungs: Right Left History of tuberculosis? No. If so, has the disease been arrested for at least 1 year? - If there is a history of tuberculosis, is any type of collapse therapy being received at present? (If so, give full details under remarks).

9. Hernia Line - (If present, name variety: inguinal, ventral, femoral, etc.; read definition on reverse before answering) If present, is it supported by a well-fitting truss?

Varicose veins Line - (If present, state location and degree) Varicocoele (see note 10 on reverse side) Line
Foot: Is flat foot present? No. Degree of impairment of function - (None, slight, moderate, severe)
Deformities, atrophies, and other abnormalities, diseases, or defects not included above. Enlargement (
42)...
Scars of serious injury or disease ... applying脱hing (McBainy)
Nervous system (see note 11 on reverse side) ... Enlargement, no history of a "nervous breakdown"? No. If hospitalized, give name of