New Memo

CL BY: [031682-1998-DO] CL REASON: Section 1.5 C DECL ON: X1 DRV FRM: COL-1-82

25 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Bob Skwirot

FROM: Charles A. Briggs-Y-

OFFICE: DCI/CSI/HRG

SUBJECT: Mexico City Station History

REFERENCE:

The Mexico City Station History contains at least 99 separate cryptonyms, for the most part concerning projects, but in some cases, individuals, covering the period 1947 to June 1969. In every case, there is identifying information included with the crypt, ranging from a brief parenthetical phrase to several pages of detail. Since the information far exceeds that thought relevant to the JFK story, both in time and substance, an approach designed to provide a maximum amount of information and guidance for historians concerned with the JFK assassination, with a minimum of gratuitously useable leads for curious or hostile FOIA requestors concerning CIA activities generally, was chosen and is reflected in the version the Board has for consideration.

The norm in handling cryptonyms when the entire crypt is not released is to protect the digraph - the location indicator. What I've done here, to avoid unraveling, in effect, the whole history of Station activity for subsequent curiosity seekers, is to reverse the process, releasing the digraph and protecting the root - specifically because the text identifies each crypt. The Board is familiar with the decision to release almost all LI-crypts in full - while protecting identifying information. The major relevant LI projects (LIENVOY, LITEMPO, LICALLA, etc.) have had both the full cryptonym and most of the details released. N4

Station and Operation Directorate division histories are among the most sensitive documents in the Agency. They are very tightly controlled within the area divisions - they are not available to cleared employees in other directorates or, traditionally, outside of the division within the Operations Directorate. Thus concern about the release of the Mexico City History pages that, viewed through the widest of lenses, do not appear to be relevant to the JFK story, is very great.

CC:

New Memo