6. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary expenses incurred in connection with such operational travel as may be directed or authorized by this organization. This may include per diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of such travel and while on temporary duty away from your post of assignment. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be properly authorized, and expenses incurred herunder are subject to payment and accounting in compliance with applicable Government regulations, or according to the established policies of your cover facility, whichever is directed by the Government.

7. Operational Expenses . You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information, as specifically approved by the Government or your cover facility. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting in substantial compliance with applicable Government regulations or according to the established policies of your cover facility, whichever is directed by the Government.

8. Repayment. It is recognized that your failure to account for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appropriate.

9. Benefits. By virtue of your employment relationship with the Government hereunder, you are herein authorized:

(a) Coverage under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended. Claims by you, your heirs or legal representatives under this Act will be processed by this organisation in accordance with its procedures in such manner as not to impair security.

(b) Continued participation in the Civil Service Retirement System in conformance with rules and regulations applicable to appointed employees of this organization. From the basic compensation paid you hereunder there shall be deducted the appropriate rate percentage (presently 6-1/2%) for deposit and eventual crediting to the Civil Service Retirement Fund. Social Security deductions required by virtue of your cover activities will not be reimbursed you by this organization.

(c) Continuation of your present coverage under the Federal Employees' Health Benefits Act. This organization is presently authorized to bear a portion of the premium cost, you will bear the remainder. Your financial contribution will be effected either by payroll deduction or by direct remittance at periodic intervals to be established by this organization.