62-116395-56

NW 88296 DocId:32989628 Page 339

May 26, 1975

I received your telegraphic unit report on the loss of the "Air Force One" while en route to Tokyo. The aircraft was in good condition and all its systems were operating normally when it left the United States at 7:00 a.m. EST on March 24. It had a full load of fuel and other supplies necessary for the flight.

The aircraft was operating under the control of the Air Force Flight Control Center in Washington, D.C., and its destination was Tokyo. At 7:30 a.m. EST the pilot received the transmission from the Air Force Flight Control Center indicating that the aircraft had left Washington and was en route to Tokyo. The pilot then informed the Air Force Flight Control Center of the loss of power to the radio set used by the pilot to receive radio messages from the ground. The pilot's radio was not working but he was able to identify the aircraft by using its transponder code number. He also identified the aircraft as being a C-54E military transport aircraft. This identification allowed the pilot to contact Tokyo Area Control, and the aircraft landed safely in Tokyo.

The pilot of this C-54E military transport aircraft was traveling from Seattle, Washington, to Tokyo, Japan, on March 24, 1975. It is believed that the pilot was sleeping when the aircraft lost power to the radio set used by the pilot to receive radio messages from the ground. The pilot was not aware that the aircraft was a military transport aircraft until it arrived in Tokyo.

The loss of power to the radio set caused the pilot to wake up and realize that the aircraft was not receiving radio messages. He then realized that the aircraft was a C-54E military transport aircraft and that it was missing. The pilot continued to fly the aircraft to Tokyo, Japan, where it landed safely. The pilot was later released from the military transport aircraft and returned to his home in Seattle, Washington, where he was later found dead. The cause of death is unknown.