an employee of the U.S. Government, of a foreign official establishment, of the United Nations or other international organizations, has foreign diplomatic or official status or is a member of the U.S. armed forces, the matter should be immediately reported to the Bureau and no further investigation should be conducted except upon specific Bureau authority.

6. Investigative procedures concerning individuals

a. General

These investigations must be thorough and exhaustive. Obviously, the dangerousness of an individual cannot be determined through cursory investigation. All pertinent information concerning the subject's background and subversive activity must be fully developed and reported to assure an accurate evaluation of his degree of dangerousness.

Due to the intelligence nature of these investigations, discretion must be used at all times to prevent subjects from becoming unduly apprised that they are under investigation by this Bureau.

Members of law enforcement agencies are not to accompany Agents during the course of security-type investigations without prior Bureau authority.

b. Scope of investigations

Set forth below are items which should be obtained during these investigations.

(1) Background

(a) True name and aliases

(b) Residence address

(c) Occupation or business

(d) Business or employment address

(e) Citizenship status

Ascertain the citizenship status of the subject as early as possible in the investigation.

I. Alien

(A) If the subject is an alien, determine the date and place of birth.

(B) Determine his nationality (that is, the country of which he is a citizen or sovereign of which he is a subject), together with the date, port and vessel or other means of entry into the U.S.

(C) Determine whether the subject entered as an immigrant or nonimmigrant.

(D) Ascertain any steps taken toward naturalization and reason for denial of citizenship where such denial exists.

(E) Ascertain any available facts indicating whether entry into the U.S. was legal or illegal.

II. Naturalized citizen

(A) Ascertain date and place of birth, nationality prior to naturalization, date, port and vessel or other means of entry into the U.S.

(B) Ascertain the date when, place and court where, subject was naturalized and any facts tending to indicate fraud or illegality in connection with his naturalization.

(C) Ascertain the last place of foreign residence, place from which the subject emigrated to the U.S. and the date of such emigration.

(D) Ascertain any absences from the U.S.

III. Native-born citizen

(A) Determine date and place of birth.

(f) Nationality background

I. During the course of investigation, efforts should be made to ascertain from sources contacted the date and place of birth of the subject's parents and spouse and the parents of the spouse.