BY JACK ANDERSON

with Les Whitten

WASHINGTON—Press account have identified Cuba's Fidel Castro as the target of an unsuccessful CIA assassination plot.

The headlines couldn't have come at a worse time for Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. He is in the thick of "most delicate negotiations," according to our White House sources, to restore some kind of diplomatic relationship with Cuba.

Actually, we reported as far back as Jan. 18, 1971, that the CIA had arranged six assassination attempts against Castro in the early 1960s. Now that the story has been revived, it might be useful to recount the details.

The plot began as part Anderson of the discredited Bay of Pigs operation. The strategy was to eliminate the Cuban leader before the CIA invasion force landed on the island.

To carry out the assassination, the CIA selected an underworld figure who could be disowned. He was hawk-faced John Roselli, identified in confidential FBI files as "a top Mafia figure" who watched over "the con- cealed interests in Las Vegas casinos of the Chicago underworld."

Roselli represented himself as an oil man seeking revenge against Castro for his seizure of oil holdings.

For the first try, the CIA furnished Roselli with special poison capsules to slip into Castro's food. The poison was supposed to take three days to act. By the time Castro died, his system would throw off all traces of the poison, so he would appear to be the victim of a natural if mysterious ailment.

Roselli arranged with a Cuban, related to one of Castro's chefs, to plant the deadly

pellets in the dictator's food. On March 13, 1961, Roselli delivered the capsules to his contact at Miami Beach's glamorous Fontainnebleau Hotel.

A couple weeks later, just about the right time for the plot to have been carried out, a report out of Havana said Castro was ill. But he recovered in time to rout the Bay of Pigs invasion on April 17, 1961:

Although both the murder plot and the in- vasion failed, the CIA continued trying to get rid of Castro. The Cuban who had sneaked the poison into Havana was never seen again.

Roselli arranged for triple-strength cap- sules to be slipped into Castro's food several weeks after the Bay of Pigs. But once again, the plot failed and the conspirators disap- peared.

Four more attempts were made on Cas- tro's life thereafter, using assassination teams equipped with high-powered rifles, explosives and two-way radios. Roselli per- sonally made midnight powerboat dashes to deliver the teams at secret landing spots on the Cuban coast.

The assassination teams never got a shot at Castro, although the CIA learned that the last group reached a rooftop within range. This occurred around the last of February or first of March, 1963.

Nine months later, President Kennedy was gunned down in Dallas by Lee Harvey Oswald, a fanatic who had been active in the pro-Castro movement and had paid a myste- rious call upon the Cuban embassy in Mex- ico City a few weeks before the dreadful day in Dallas.

Sources familiar with the CIA conspiracy can't shake a nagging suspicion—unsup- ported by the Warren Commission's findings —that Castro may have become aware of the U.S. plot upon his life and, therefore, may have recruited Oswald to retaliate against President Kennedy.