SECRET ARMY ORGANIZATION

PRELIMINARY TRAINING PROGRAM

It would be a mistake to think that our enemies have one set plan for the con- quest of the United States. They are maintaining many continuous attacks on many fronts at the same time - political, education, business, labor, and even religion. They are continuously probing for weak spots in the defenses of our nation. During the past four years so many openings have been left to them by the stupidity and collusion of our national leaders that they have been able to advance almost at will.

There is little we can do to change this situation at this time. Rather than deplete our limited resources on futile attempts to do so, we must concentrate on building a workable anti-communist underground army based on realities rather than wishful thinking and organized on the tried and proven principles of underground warfare.

The communists have fifty years experience in suppressing anti-communist underground activity. If we are to fight them successfully - if we are to hold out until the final victory of freedom over tyranny - then our underground army is going to have to be the most skillful and dedicated that the world has ever known. There is only one kind of member that can qualify for such an army - the very best!

This will require intensive training and practice. There is no short cut to perfection. By drawing on the talents of several of our more experienced members we think we now have a training program that can develop that kind of underground army.

In this program four different types of training will be involved:

Correspondence and printed material.

2. Tape recordings, picture slides, charts, etc., sold or loaned to S. A. O. units or members.

3. Actual experience - "On the job" training by carrying out assignments under supervision of more experienced members.

4. Training maneuvers - Due to the difficulty of keeping large training sessions secret the General Staff has decided that such training sessions will be held only for small select groups that have already completed sufficient preliminary training at the local level.

INTELLIGENCE - SECURITY - PROPAGANDA

This preliminary training lesson is designed to give our members basic know- ledge and practice in intelligence, security and propaganda. This first lesson is basic