13 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Record

SUBJECT: Project WUBRINY--Antilles Materials Company, Ltd., Discussion by Mr. Edward Stanulis with SKEWER/1.

1. I made initial telephonic contact with SKEWER/1 at approximately 1100 hours on 10 January 1965 and made arrangements for a meeting in my hotel room for the following day between the hours of 1600 and 1700 to be followed by another on Tuesday at a time and place that would be convenient for SKEWER/1. Later in the day SKEWER/1 informed me that he would be unable to meet with us on Tuesday as he was leaving by air on the evening of 11 January for a series of appointments in the States.

2. The meeting with SKEWER/1 was held in my hotel room at 1645 hours on 11 January. I told SKEWER/1 that as he knew, one of KUBARK's prime information targets in Latin America concerned the activities of Castro's Cuba and that in this connection some of our people had been thinking for some time that it would be most useful in pursuing this requirement to have entree into shipping interests that were active in Caribbean waters. SKEWER/1 said he thought this idea excellent. I further stated that these people had heard that SKEWER/1's firm was discussing the possibility of entering into an exclusive Caribbean distributorship contract with Alvin T. Philpotts, Jr., who is associated with the Antilles Materials Company, Ltd. S.A. of Panama and Puerto Rico, and asked him if he had any knowledge of the individual or the negotiations. SKEWER/1 replied that he did not know of either, but that his son would be familiar with both.

3. I asked SKEWER/1 if he would be willing to investigate the situation discreetly without mentioning any interest on KUBARK's part and at the same time consider the commercial feasibility of the venture for AMCO. He agreed.

4. In elaborating on the basic concept, I told SKEWER/1 that if the proper maritime firm were located (that is, one that may be floundering now but has commercial viability potential), we would be interested in placing with the company an individual who possesses the necessary commercial background qualifications and also has the capability of accomplishing certain KUBARK requirements. SKEWER/1 reiterated his conviction that the concept is an excellent one and said he would do all in his power to