February 1972

43 Who Shot President Kennedy? - Or Fact and Fable in History by Gareth Jenkins, Weston, Mass. How the physical evidence actually published by the Warren Commission relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy shows conclusively that more than one man was responsible for the shooting — contrary to the Commission's own report.

March, April, May, June 1972

28 Dallas: Who, How, Why? (in four parts) by Mikhail Sagatelyan, Moscow, USSR A long report published in Leningrad, USSR, by an ace Soviet reporter about the circumstances of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, and their significance from a Soviet point of view.

July 1972

32 The Shooting of Presidential Candidate George C. Wallace: A Systems-Analysis Discussion by Thomas Stamm, Bronx, N.Y., and Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor An analysis of the shooting of Governor Wallace of Alabama; and a discussion of systematic methods for protecting American leaders from violent attacks.

10 The Shooting of Governor George C. Wallace, Candidate for President by Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor Editorial

September 1972

24 The Assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy: Proofs of Conspiracy and of Two Persons Firing by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N.Y. A review and summary of the evidence showing conclusively the fact of conspiracy and the presence of two guns firing, at the time of the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy.

November 1972

32 The Central Intelligence Agency: A Short History to Mid-1963 — Part 1 by James Hepburn, author of Farewell America The unverified, but probably largely true, secret history of the Central Intelligence Agency of the U.S. — as a preliminary to its involvement in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

December 1972

34 The Central Intelligence Agency: A Short History to Mid-1963 — Part 2 38 Le Francais Qui Devait Tuer Kennedy (The Frenchman Who Was To Kill Kennedy)

January 1973

37 The Frenchman Who Was To Kill Kennedy by Philippe Bernert and Camille Gilles, L'Aurore, Paris, France; translated by Ann K. Bradley English translation of the French newspaper report on José Luis Romero, which was reprinted in French in the December issue.

40 Why I Distrust the Romero Story by Robert P. Smith, Director of Research, Committee to Investigate Assassinations, Washington, D.C. The Romero report reprinted from L'Aurore has many earmarks indicating that it is very difficult to believe.

February 1973

26 Analysis of the Autopsy on President John F. Kennedy, and the Impossibility of the Warren Commission's "Lone Assassin" Conclusion by Cyril H. Wecht, M.D., Institute of Forensic Sciences, Pittsburgh, Pa. The coroner of Allegheny County, Pa., reports on his examination of the evidence that still remains (some of it is missing) locked up in the National Archives of the United States, not accessible to ordinary investigators.

30 U.S. Electronic Espionage: A Memoir — Part 1 by Ramparts, Berkeley, Calif. How the U.S. National Security Agency intercepts, decodes, and understands almost all secret and top secret electronic communications and signals of all nations all over the world.

March 1973

31 U. S. Electronic Espionage: A Memoir — Part 2 by Ramparts, Berkeley, Calif. How the National Security Agency intercepted and decoded enemy messages in order to direct bombing strikes in Viet Nam, and often failed; and how the hideousness of what the American military forces were doing in Southeast Asia finally led this interviewee to resigning and terminating.

April, May 1973

34 The New Orleans Portion of the Conspiracy to Assassinate President John F. Kennedy — Four Articles: (1) by Edmund C. Berkeley, in the April issue; (2) by Jim Garrison, in the April issue; (3) by F. Irving Dymond, in the May issue; (4) by Jim Garrison, in the May issue On November 20, 1972, the Supreme Court of the United States refused to permit Jim Garrison, District Attorney, New Orleans, to prosecute Clay Shaw for perjury. On November 21, Jim Garrison issued a statement commenting on this refusal, which is Article 4 of this set; Article 1 is an introduction; Articles 2 and 3 are opening statements