FILE: SECRET

had not been eliminated in 1967 the intelligence community could have dealt with the New Left later. The CIA would have had assets to assess the issues. Such questions involved New Left travels overseas and relationships with foreign agents.

The FBI and CIA did discuss developing a cover in the U. S. to get into China. Travelers gained (S) (FBI) IB very little. The immediate problem was the pro- posal for a joint approach. When Papich was there, it got no further than discussion. If the CIA did set up cover in the U. S., the FBI provided no support. However, if the CIA desired to use a company it would ask for a check of FBI files. Papich is not aware of any political organization created by the CIA, although it may have been done in the 50's or 60's. There was discussion of the FBI about creating its own group aimed at (FBI) IB and discussion of whether or not to let the CIA know about it. There had to be coordination with CIA. Papich does not know if plans to create organizations were implemented. The decision would have been at Hoover's level.

FBI informant travel overseas was limited mainly to CPUSA members. The FBI would not tell CIA about informant trips to Moscow or Paris before- hand. The reason was that the CIA would have notified its field agencies that the informant's life should be protected. Instead, the FBI informed the CIA of the results upon the informant's return.

The FBI liaison section was made up of six or seven agents. Papich and Bill Creager handled the CIA. Creager dealt specifically with USIB, the Security Committee, the Interagency Defector Committee, and the Office of Security. Papich and Creager backed each other up in their respective areas. There were several liaison agents at the Pentagon. The liaison at State was Oren Bartlett. The other liaison agents were not so deeply involved in intelligence operations as was Papich. FBI liaison at NSA was Bill McDonnell, although Papich was also involved with (S)

SECRET,

HW 50955 DocId:32281992 Page 8