TOP SECRET DINAR

MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:

Three independent clandestine sources have reported the unloading of military equipment from a Soviet cargo vessel, probably the METALLURG BAIKOV, on 19 or 20 November. This vessel was suspected of carrying a military cargo long before its arrival in Cuba. (See Daily Summary of 12 November.) It carried what was probably the eighth full military cargo to arrive in Cuba since the 1962 missile crisis. One source, a retired civil engineer whose reporting has been factual and in most instances based on personal observation, reported that the METALLURG BAIKOV unloaded "large quantities of arms and military equipment" in Havana on 20 November and left the next day. Another source reported that Havana longshoremen had stated that a Soviet ship, which they did not identify, had unloaded arms at Regla Wharf, Havana, on 20 November. A third source, an educated Cuban of Western European extraction who is a resident of Havana, reported that tanks were among the equipment unloaded from a Soviet vessel that arrived in Havana on 19 November. The three sources are probably referring to the same shipment. If the report on the delivery of tanks is true, this would be the second consecutive reported shipment of armored vehicles to Cuba. The ORENBURG reportedly delivered some 45 tanks on 23 or 24 October. (See Daily Summaries of 28 and 29 October.) It has previously been reported that another probable military shipment, the ninth, is now en route aboard the SLUTSK. (See Daily Summary of 3 December.) (CIA TDCS-DB-3/658,289, 6 December, SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DIS-SEM)

The Soviet "coastal defense rockets" now belong to the Cuban Army artillery forces, according to a recent speech by Raul Castro. Cubans probably have been training in cruise missile operations since last spring, and the rotation and withdrawal of some Soviet naval personnel in September suggested that the cruise missile system was turned over to the Cubans at that time.24 (A Soviet communications net) which probably serves the cruise missile system remains active, however, indicating that some degree of Soviet involvement continues. (CIA FBIS, 14 November, UNCLASSIFIED and NSA-2/-/CURUN/R16-63, 28 August, 1963, SECRET KIMBO)

TOP SECRET DINAR