SANDAG FORM NO. 64

Office Men... unlimited • UNITED OVERNMENT

TO : Director, FBI

FROM : SAC, WFO

SUBJECT:

DATE: July 15, 1954

Re telephone call from Mr. C. E. HENNRICH of the Bureau today regarding this matter.

Attached is a memorandum submitted by Special Agents ARTHUR J. ACHENBACH, KEVIN F. FLANAGAN, DONALD A. GRUENTZEL, JOHN H. KENOYER, ROBERT G. MCGEARY and JOSEPH E. SCULLY describing the surveillance maintained by them on FEDOSEVIA, her husband, SAM JAFFEE and his wife on the evening of July 9, 1954.

I have talked to the Agents who handled this surveillance which was being conducted in accordance with instructions issued under the Soviet Intensification Program. The purpose of these surveillances is to determine whether the subjects under surveillance are engaged in intelligence or espionage activities and to identify any contacts which may be observed in the course of the surveillance.

As explained by the Agents, and as will be noted from the attachment, the surveillance was initiated at 8:37 P.M., at which time this party were observed walking from the Chastleton Hotel to the Colony Restaurant. During this period, which constituted approximately twenty minutes, no activities whatever on the part of the subjects under surveillance indicated any awareness or any consciousness of being surveilled. As the party left the restaurant at 11:18 P.M., they were noted to be on the lookout for a surveillance, even going to the extent of scrutinizing passing persons and traffic. The Agents noticed this awareness immediately and proceeded with appropriate discretion. It would appear that something may have been said during the time the party were in the restaurant about being followed by the FBI, which may account for the sudden awareness of a surveillance on the part of this group. It has been the experience of this office from persons we have interviewed that

Classified by (6/36) Exempt from GDS, Category 243 Date of Declassification Indefinite

RECORDED / )

LLL:MCP Attachment

NW 88326 DocID:32989704 Page 155