Wiley was sent his first check covering the index project on 9 April 1956. By 22 May 1956, he had met Morse Allen.

McCord further reported on 1 May 1956 that during discussion with Wiley he told Wiley that there are three areas in which he could work during the coming year (1956-57) which would be of interest and would enhance his value to CIA. One would be the continuation of the index project, another would be the continuation of regular contact with his sources of information in New York City, keeping CIA advised of anything that may be pertinent to our areas of interest. The third would be the building for him a cover story which would enable him to contact and interview various ex-Communists and ex-Soviet agents in the New York area.

Wiley told McCord that he, Wiley, was in contact with Herbert Philbrick during the spring of 1956, and asked McCord to work on getting him, Wiley, some (American) Legion credentials. Wiley also enclosed reports on one Alexander Koral. He stated he had begun taking Russian. Language lessons from a Russian girl working for NTS.

On 20 March 1957, McCord informed his supervisor that Wiley's work on the index project would expire in May 1957. McCord indicated he would like to use Wiley for another year on the indexing project.

On 13 April 1957, Wiley tendered additional materials from the indexing project; a copy of an article by Alfred Kohlberg, "A Red Dream"; an open letter to the President of the United States requesting either a new trial or pardon for Morton Sobell, attaching a list of 200 signers; and a list of publications and organizations fighting Communism in the U.S. prepared by Herb Philbrick, given to Wiley. Wiley was advised that he may be called upon soon to work on some material on Soviet Espionage (David Dallin material, a noted author of books on Soviet Intelligence), requiring about one month's work; that he may be called upon to follow the Albam (Jacob Albam) trial developments in the press; and that an attempt would be made to renew his grant for another year.

SEP 4 1975

UVA

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 13