charged by information with the interstate transportation of Taylor's automobile. Spears waived indictment and entered a plea of guilty. His bond was continued at $35,000, and February 15, 1960, was set as the date for sentencing.

Physical evidence from the crash is extremely sparse. Since the examination of the limited physical material found did not indicate an explosion or the reason for the crash, it was hoped that the plane could be located in the Gulf. If the plane could be found and examined, it might reveal some definite physical evidence of the cause of the crash, particularly if a bomb was involved. On January 28, 1960, salvage operations were begun by the Navy in the Gulf of Mexico after sonar contact had located an object which was thought to be the plane. On February 5, 1960, however, the Navy discontinued salvage operations without locating the downed aircraft.

Following an interview with an abortionist in Dallas, Texas, who formerly associated with Dr. Spears, the Miami Office advanced the theory that Spears might have been in Tampa on November 13 to 15, 1959, for the purpose of preparing an abortion formula through a process which involves the cooking of dynamite to obtain nitroglycerin, and that Spears might have prevailed on Taylor to transport the formula to Dallas by plane in Spears' place. The explosion, if there was one, might have resulted from an accidental explosion of the abortion formula. The Laboratory has considered this theory and has advised that it knows of no instance of the use of nitroglycerin in preparations utilized to produce abortions. In addition, during a reinterview with the Dallas abortionist, he advised that all of the ingredients used by Spears in his abortion formula were stable and not volatile or explosive.

All persons contacted in this investigation have denied any knowledge of the wilful destruction of the plane. Nevertheless our investigation is being pressed to determine full facts and to uncover any violations of Federal laws which might have occurred. The United States Attorney at Phoenix has been kept fully advised and has under consideration the question of whether a prosecuting Federal case for mail fraud exists against Dr. Spears, his wife and/or Dr. Turska.

As of February 8, 1960, twenty-five investigative reports in this case have been made available to the Department and to the Civil Aeronautics Board.