4. How do you view the job of ARRB Executive Director? What role do you anticipate playing in the selection of ARRB Executive Director and staff?

I consider the Executive Director to be the ARRB's chief administrator and coordinator of all functions of the panel. The Executive Director should be the day-to-day administrator of the staff and the administrator of all activities of the ARRB. I envision the Executive Director playing an important coordination role with other federal agencies.

I anticipate playing a role in the selection of the Executive Director. The position is critical to the effectiveness of the ARRB and I would like to use my considerable recruiting and hiring experience to help choose the best available staff.

III. POLICY ISSUES

1. Have you made any public statements - oral or written - regarding the assassination of President Kennedy or the public availability of government records regarding this assassination? Please explain, and provide copies of any relevant material.

I have made no written or oral public statements regarding the Kennedy assassination or the assassination records.

2. Members of the ARRB will be examining security classified records with a view to their declassification and public disclosure, in whole or in part, at some time in the future.

Can you describe what prior experience you have had, if any, with using or examining security classified records of the Federal Government?

I have no prior experience with using or examining security classified records of the federal government. I have, however, considerable experience handling documents protected by state confidentiality laws.

What do you think of our current security classification system? For example, would you say it operates well, has integrity, and serves the public interest?

The security classification system has generally well served the public interest throughout the period in which the Cold War placed significant constraints on sharing information. We have entered a new era and my understanding is that a comprehensive review is now underway that will likely result in significant revisions and the development of a less restrictive system of security classification. Such a comprehensive review is a positive development.