Pennington Matter (continued)

Lee Pennington and a man named Charles Wylie were the only two confidential informants who Osborn can think of who were employed as such by the Office of Security during his tenure with that office. (This is in addition to CIA employees and the employees of propriety investigating companies who have been used as informants.) Mr. Wylie was a journalist and writer who was paid $10,000 per year, plus certain travel expenses, by the CIA to act as an informant, but Mr. Osborn has no idea what kind of information he provided to the Agency in recent years. He does recall that many years ago Wylie provided information regarding the Vienna, Austria, Youth Festival and also some information gathered on the trip he made to Japan. Mr. Osborn states that he has never met Lee Pennington or Charles Wylie, nor has he ever talked with either of them in person or by telephone.

(Mr. Pennington was apparently terminated as a CIA informant on December 31, 1973.) Mr. Osborn states that he "started action" to terminate Wylie in about January or February 1974. He thought that Wylie had never provided anything to the Office of Security and that it was "no time to have a domestic informant."

Both Pennington and Wylie had been informants for the Office of Security for many years. They had been retained in that capacity even before Mr. Osborn became Deputy Director of Security in 1963.

In February 1974 in connection with a search of files in the Office of Security some indication was turned up that Mr. Osborn had been informed in January 1973 about the fact that Lee Pennington had entered the home and the office of James McCord at the request of Mrs. McCord on January 22, 1972, to locate and destroy records which would have revealed a "link" between Mr. McCord and the CIA. Mr. Osborn denies that he received any such information. The information was allegedly given to him by Paul Gaynor, Chief of Security Research, in the Office of Security.

Mr. Gaynor retired in 1973 at the request of Mr. Osborn, who had been directed to cut a GS-16 from his staff in a personnel reduction move. He states that Mr. Gaynor accepted this request gracefully and retired.

Osborn and Gaynor have never discussed with each other the subject of Lee Pennington or the deception practiced on the FBI in August 1972. Osborn does not think that Gaynor opened up the subject, but he does believe that Gaynor has testified before either one of the Congressional committees investigating Watergate or the Special Prosecutor's Office.

After Mr. Gaynor retired, Lou Vasaly of the Office of Security has handled contacts with Wylie and Pennington.

In January or February 1974 Mr. Osborn sent Sidney Steinbridge of the Office of Security to New York to terminate Mr. Wylie.

Lee Pennington died in the fall of 1974 of natural causes. He was in his middle 70's.