DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty. Answer all questions. Any false statement in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal after appointment. Impersonation is a criminal offense and will be prosecuted accordingly.

INSTRUCTIONS TO APPOINTING OFFICER

The preceding officer before whom the foregoing certificate is made out shall determine to his own satisfaction that this appointment would be in conformity with the Civil Service Act, applicable Civil Service Rules and Regulations and Acts of Congress pertaining to appointments.

This form should be kept for holding of office, pension, suitability in connection with any record of recent discharge or arrest, and particularly for the following:

(1) Identity of appointee.—It is the duty of the appointing officer to guard against imperiousness or to determine beyond reasonable doubt that the applicant is the person named. No appointment was authorized. The applicant's signature and handwriting are to be compared with the application submitted. The signature so on this form should be identical with the signature on the document about which was signed to the resignation note. The former signature may be used against the medical certificate. The applicant may be questioned as to his personal history for agreement with his previous statements.

(2) Age.—If definite age limits have been established for the position, it should be determined that applicant is not outside the age range for appointment. Unless a determination is made, the appointment can not be consummated.

(3) Citizenship.—The appointing officer is responsible for observing the existing laws of (1) the United States and (2) the country in which he is resident for both purposes and is responsible also for compliance with the laws of the States in the absence of conflicting foreign law. In doubtful cases the provisions hereinabove set forth should not be construed until there has been secured from each citizen a letter of the Civil Service Commission.

(4) Members of Family.—Section 9 of the Civil Service Act provides that children under two or more members of a family serving under probationary or permanent appointment in the civil service, no other member of such family is eligible for probationary or permanent appointment in the over SECRETARY'S OFFICE. The appointment of persons entitled to transfer performance are subject to this requirement. The members of family previously engaged on active service who are already to receive any further compensation, should be referred to the appropriate Officer of the Civil Service Commission for details.