TOP SECRET DINAR

Europe

THE COMMON MARKET CRISIS

The Common Market appears to have averted disaster for the second time in less than a year. The eleventh-hour agreements reached on agricultural policy on 23 December are apparently sufficient to discourage De Gaulle from carrying out his threat to break up the community. Moreover, the Germans and Dutch succeeded in extracting limited commitments from Paris on EEC participation in the Kennedy Round of tariff negotiations. These agreements do not cover all the outstanding issues, however, and the manner in which they were reached will leave a residue of bitterness. Nor is it certain that major US interests have fared well.

The main agricultural elements in the "package" deal are the regulations concerning intracommunity trade in beef, rice, and dairy products and the rules governing the community farm fund. Their effect is to open the large West German market to farm exports of France, Italy, and the Netherlands--generally at a substantial advantage over the exports of nonmembers. Although approval of these and the financial regulations is an important step forward, the key question of grain price unification is still unsettled. Further consideration of the formula proposed by Commissioner Mansholt has been delayed until next year.

The agreement on a Kennedy Round position is likewise an advance for the community, but from the US view not necessarily favorable. On the long-standing problem of tariff "disparities," the EEC adopted a formula which would exempt from the proposed 50-percent linear reduction in tariffs a far larger number of items than the US hoped for. The EEC position

on farm products in the trade negotiations--although an improvement over the initial Mansholt proposals--also leaves much to be desired from the US view. In general, the EEC proposes that, if its levy system operates in such a way as to cause difficulties for the exports of nonmembers, then the EEC Commission will be called on to propose "appropriate," but unspecified, measures. These would not apply if it is technically impossible to determine how much protection is actually involved in the levy system.

The general relief within the community which greeted these agreements reflects both the depth of the crisis and some optimism that the Common Market's unity may have been restored. The prominent role played by the EEC's commission in achieving the compromise has in particular encouraged those who hope to strengthen the community's institutional structure.

In France the conviction was evidently widespread, however, that both Bonn and The Hague were quite prepared to see the French "leave" the Common Market, and in the event of its breakup, to seek alternative ties with the Outer Seven. Moreover, while it may prove healthy that Bonn "stood up" to De Gaulle in this instance, its motive was strongly colored by a desire to protect its inefficient farmers. Nor does it augur well for US-EEC relations that the French blame the US for much of the opposition they encountered. (SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

27 Dec 63

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW

Page 11

TOP SECRET DINAR