DE 157-3075

F. Philosophy of the BPP

In explaining the new Panther image, GERALD CRAWFORD stated, "For too long the Panther Party has found itself in the role of defender, rather than educator of the community. We feel the Party should be a vehicle to take the community to liberation and not the force which consistently finds itself in conflict with the Police. We are now moving toward the role of humanitarians, and our goal is humanization of all mankind. We would like to remove all racial and class barriers. Our struggle is more a class struggle -- rather than a racial one, and our role is to educate the community to that fact. We are not trying to teach individuals what to think, but instead, we are trying to teach them to think for themselves and objectively analyze the situation we find ourselves in.

"Ironically, those people who can best perform this service turn their backs on the community and help those forces which are oppressing all of us. College students today do not bring their talents back to the community, but help to build the system which they have suffered under. In order for us to successfully perform our duty, we need the support of the community. The Panthers are a part of the community and need its entire support. Without this support, we will be unable to continue our fight against oppression.

"For the past ten years, the Black Panther Party has found itself on the covers of national magazines and in newspapers. Reporters have described Panther members as Communists and revolutionaries: But for several reasons this description is not applicable to today's Black Panther Party. In the past two years, the Panther Party has undergone drastic changes. Black Panther members have tried to drop the role of guerilla fighters and are putting every effort into being known as educators and humanitarians.

"The Party's Detroit Chapter is trying extremely hard to change its image from community bodyguard to community servant."

DE T-8 August 17, 1972

NW 88296 DocID:32989574, Page 179