SF 100-46832 WEH/dp

September 7, 1966

The "Stockton Record" newspaper, Stockton, California, issue of September 8, 1966, carried a news article headlined, "Editor Attacks U. S. Policy in Vietnam; Sees National Peril." In this article it was stated that ROBERT SCHEER had delivered a speech at the Raymond College High Table, University of the Pacific, Stockton, California, on September 7, 1966. SCHEER maintained that the concept of an international communist conspiracy was false and the U. S. is mistaken in considering it a unified, ever-growing force that can only be contained by force. He stated that the communist conspiracy is a movement that does not hold together because of nationalistic interests. He cited the Sino-Soviet dispute and the international squabbling between satellite countries and the major communist powers. He said the Vietnam conflict began as an internal dispute and if the U. S. withdrew from the conflict this withdrawal would reaffirm the communists' confidence in the possibility of peaceful co-existence.

He concluded that if anyone is genuinely concerned about American security, he is going to have to work to reverse American foreign policy.

October 18, 1966

"The Guardsman," weekly student newspaper at City College of San Francisco, in its issue of October 19, 1966, carried a news article headlined, "Scheer Lectures on Involvement in Southeast Asia." The article stated ROBERT SCHEER spoke at the College Theater to a capacity audience. He was reported to have reviewed the historical changes in Vietnam, the French role in Vietnam affairs, and the limited policy set by President KENNEDY of only sending 30,000 advisors as "technical aid only for a limited period of time to prevent a colonial posture." The article stated further, "In a summary conclusion SCHEER said that if there is an international communist movement, it should cease to exist, that there are hardly two communist countries that coexist, that communism is in truth a form of nationalism and that practically speaking, 'it does not exist.'"

1330

Copy of Copies Page of Pages