PLANS, PROGRAMS, AND PROJECTS

HR 230-8d

(8) DEACTIVATION. Deactivation is the discontinuance of the functioning of an instrumentality, with the charter or franchise retained but in an inactive status, pending determination as to liquidation or reactivation of the instrumentality.

(9) LIQUIDATION PLAN. A liquidation plan prescribes the procedures for implementing a properly authorized operational decision to terminate the Agency's active use of a specific instrumentality and to dispose of the Agency's portion of the assets. An approved plan is required for liquidation of all proprietaries, operational investments, and controlled subsidies with proprietary aspects. No liquidating action will begin until the liquidation plan has been approved.

(10) FISCAL ANNEX. A fiscal annex is a supplement to the project outline that sets forth funding arrangements, specific accounting control, financial reporting requirements, and writeoff provisions. A fiscal annex is required for all noncontrolled subsidies.

AUTHORITIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

(1) AUTHENTICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE PLANS, LIQUIDATION PLANS, AND FISCAL ANNEXES. (HEREAFTER CALLED SUPPORT SUPPLEMENTS)

(a) The joint approval of the Deputy Director having jurisdiction over the project and the Deputy Director for Administration is required for

(i) establishment, deactivation, or reactivation of an instrumentality;

(2) all support supplements and amendments thereto, including specific deviations because of unforeseen or emergency conditions;

(3) transfer between projects of any instrumentality and remaining assets.

(b) Advances of funds to an instrumentality before approval of the related administrative plan or fiscal annex require the approval of the Deputy Director concerned, the Deputy Director for Administration, and the Comptroller.

(c) All liquidation plans require the approval of the Deputy Director concerned and the Deputy Director for Administration.

(2) PREPARATION

(a) The Operating Official having jurisdiction over the project is responsible for the preparation and coordination of the administrative plan or fiscal annex, and, when required in connection with termination of the instrumentality, the liquidation plan.

(b) Administrative plans require the concurrences of designated representatives of the General Counsel; the Director of Finance; the Comptroller; the Director of Security; and the Chief, Cover and Commercial Staff. Liquidation plans require the concurrences of the designated representatives of the General Counsel; the Director of Finance; the Chief, Cover and Commercial Staff; and in addition, the Comptroller for those liquidation plans involving the disposition of assets with an estimated market value in excess of $50,000. The assistance and counsel of other offices will be obtained when their functional responsibility is involved.

(c) Fiscal annexes require concurrence of the Director of Finance and the Chief, Cover and Commercial Staff.

+Revised: 29 October 1974. (340)

RECEIVED

OCT 90 1975

16.1

HW 50955 DocId:32423532 Page 195