She urged the women not to disperse, but to join her and others in invading the City Council Chambers with a demand that the JRB be allowed to speak to the Council even though they had not made previous arrangements for a place on the agenda that day. Some of the women were already out of range of the public address system and did not hear this announcement by Wright, having already been dismissed by Sissons and told to reconvene at the Board of Education following luncheon.

Approximately 200 of the demonstrators did enter the Council Chambers. They got word to the councilmen, through one of the staff members, that they wished to be heard. A motion to allow a JRB representative to address them was put before the Council, and defeated by a vote of six to five. Immediately following this vote, there was a unanimous vote that the Council adjourn. As the councilmen filed out of the room, Tima Tomash rushed to the front shouting demands that they return, while other of the women hissed and booed the city legislators.

During the noon hour some of the women distributed leaflets in the City Hall and on the surrounding streets in the downtown Civic Center.

At 1:00 PM, the women, whose numbers had by that time been reduced to 125, massed in the patio of the Los Angeles City Board of Education, 450 North Grand Avenue, Los Angeles. Sisrons, Wright and Tomash addressed the assembled demonstrators, pointing out that money spent in Vietnam could be better spent in education. Wright claimed that many of the so-called student "drop-outs" are in reality "push-outs", claiming that she herself was one of the latter. She said, "We need books, not bombs. We know this is a racist war and we blacks are not going to fight a racist war". She indicated that rather than fight overseas, the black people would remain at home and fight the racists. She also said, "Just because I'm pro-black doesn't necessarily mean I'm anti-white."

Wright said, "I'm not political, but I am honest. I can't honestly get up and say the pledge of allegiance to the American flag, because I really don't have liberty and justice; so I just get up and stand and won't repeat the pledge." Later, when she observed a photograph of President Johnson hanging from a wall in the Administration Building at the Los Angeles City Board of Education, she told the JRB women with her, "We shouldn't have to look at such pornographic pictures."