HW 50955 DocId:32423630 Page 660

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. Very well. And then Sergeant de la Llana, will you identify yourself, please, sir?

Mr. DE LA LLANA. Jack de la Llana, Tampa Police Department. I have been with the police department for 9 years, and attached to the homicide division for 4 years before starting the criminal intelligence unit of the Tampa Police Department.

The CHAIRMAN. Have you had previous police service?

Mr. DE LA LLANA. My first experience was 9 years ago, when I started first with the force.

The CHAIRMAN. Chief Brown, do you have a statement, a prepared statement?

Mr. BROWN. Yes, I do, Senator.

The CHAIRMAN. I have a copy of it before me, and I see it has several pages. Do you wish to read all of it?

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir; I would like to read it to the committee.

The CHAIRMAN. Very well, then, you may proceed.

Mr. BROWN. Mr. Chairman and members of the subcommittee, I am Neil G. Brown, chief of the Police Department of the city of Tampa, Fla.

I have been a member of the Tampa Police Department for the past 16 years, and I have been chief of the department for the past 4 years. Prior to my appointment as chief, I served as inspector of detectives. I am a graduate of the National Police Academy of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and a member of the Tampa Bay Area Chiefs of Police Association and of the International Association of Chiefs of Police.

With me here today is Sgt. Jack de la Llana who, at my direction, formed our department's first criminal intelligence unit in February of 1962, and has been its director since that time. Sergeant de la Llana also holds the important post of chairman of the Florida Intelligence Unit, a statewide agency which coordinates information amongst intelligence units in cities throughout the State of Florida.

In addition to Sergeant de la Llana, whose diligent work and knowledge of criminal operations has provided much of the foundation for my statement to you, I feel fortunate in being accompanied also by Sgt. William Branch of the intelligence division of the Orlando Police Department. Sergeant Branch is presently attending the National Academy of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He has been a member of the Orlando Police Department since 1951, and a detective sergeant since 1956. He is particularly familiar with organized gambling operations in the central Florida area, and I believe his presentation of that situation will be of material value to this inquiry.

I feel privileged to be able to testify before you today. I believe that the facts I can present here about organized crime operations in Tampa will help you and the American public realize the seriousness of this problem, and our Nation's emergent need for further Federal legislation to combat an evil that has clearly expanded beyond the powers of municipal law enforcement to contain, suppress and eliminate it.

Tampa has a large and respected Italian population, who are considered in all respects to be an asset to our community. Unfortunately, a small percentage of this group of citizens have achieved

a notoriety continuous people of our "the Mafia."

Our grow 1956 when : Tampa to in the Mafia wa grand jury's

there exists and operates element whose r Mafia as we under

The CHAIRMAN before the grand jury en Mr. BROWN. The CHAIRMAN existed in your city.

been there.

The CHAIRMAN were unable to be with Mr. BROWN. The CHAIRMAN was able to get it out of Mr. BROWN. The CHAIRMAN gave us some idea about Mr. BROWN. I think like Chicago.

The CHAIRMAN. S Mr. BROWN. Yes,

The CHAIRMAN. developments of inf just couldn't believe in the first-degree f urban Chicago ov be solved. It should be the danger of organi- You say: "Well, t That may be true, but

the"