(c) Physical surveillances

I. Intelligence information and admissible evidence obtained through the use of physical surveillances in these investigations are of extreme value. Physical surveillances should be used whenever, in the opinion of the SAC, information of sufficient value might be obtained to justify their use in light of the existing circumstances and available manpower.

II. When information is received through other sources indicating that unit or mass meetings of subversive organizations are to take place, or clandestine meetings of certain individuals in a subversive movement are to be held with other unidentified individuals, physical surveillances should be used when practical to corroborate such information and further develop details concerning such meetings; that is, details of action taken at the meetings, identification of individuals in attendance, and extent of participation of the various individuals present.

III. Proper and well-coordinated physical surveillances of various individuals in leadership or underground capacities of a subversive movement will develop a chain of activity within the movement, which not only establishes the importance and position of those individuals directly involved but will also serve to identify others who may not yet be identified with the movement.

IV. The success of physical surveillances depends upon the resourcefulness and ingenuity of the Agents assigned to them. The Agents must at all times exercise sound judgment and discretion in the performance of such duties to avoid embarrassment to the Bureau. They must be alert at all times not only to observe the specific activity of the subject but to observe countersurveillances which may be used to identify the Agents and thereafter embarrass the Bureau.

(d) Photographic surveillances

I. Photographic evidence which establishes meetings between individuals involved in these investigations and which establishes that subjects enter or leave certain buildings, etc., at the time it is known that meetings of subversive organizations are taking place therein is invaluable in establishing a complete chain of evidence. Photographs of such activities add convincing, admissible, physical evidence in establishing the subversive activities of individuals.

II. Photographic surveillances must be properly correlated with other investigative techniques to assure that maximum of evidence is being obtained. They must be well planned and conducted in a discreet manner. Care should be taken to conceal properly the equipment used to avoid detection of the surveillances not only by the subject but also by any other individuals in the proximity of the surveillance.