23. IDENTITY - List three persons living in the United States or Territory of the United States who are NOT related to you and whom you consider family members or close friends.

FULL NAME BUSINESS OR HOMEP ADRESSE (Give complete address, including city and state) BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION

Gen. Rufus H. Lane Falls Church, Virginia retired Marine officer

Kixxey Jack D. Neal State Department, Washington (FAC) State officer

Eric C. Wendelin State Department, Washington State officer

24. May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc? [X] Yes [ ] No

Indicate "Yes" or "No" answer by placing X in proper column.

25. Are you a citizen of the United States? [X]

26. Do you advocate or have you ever advocated, in any way, any form of discrimination against any group of people, on the basis of race, religion, sex, age, disability, or any other ground, whether based on actual or alleged grounds, whether expressed or implied, if any, or other disposition of the case. If so indicated, your fingerprint(s) will be taken.

27. Within the past 12 months, have you intentionally used indirect-harassment techniques to cause distress?

28. Since your 16th birthday, have you ever been convicted, or fined, or imprisoned, or placed on probation, or have you ever been ordered to deposit bail, for the violation of any law, police regulation or ordinance (excluding mine traffic violations) for which a fine of $25 or less was imposed? [X]

29. Have you ever been discharged or fired in response to conduct or unsatisfactory service from any employer? [X]

If your answer is "Yes," give in item 30 the reason(s) for termination or termination of employment, along with reason in each case. [X]

30. Do you receive an annuity from the U. S. or D. C. Government under any retirement act or any pension or other retirement benefit for military or naval service? [X]

31. Are you an official or employee of any State, County, or municipality? [X]

32. Does the U. S. Government employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blood or marriage) with whom you live or have lived within the past 6 months? [X]

33. Have you ever had a nervous breakdown? [X]

34. Have you ever had tuberculosis? [X]

35. Space for detailed answers to other questions (indicate them numbers to which answers are given).

ITEM NO. I do not know if service with OSS...in a civilian capacity abroad is considered "military service." However, since an "honoringably served" certificate was issued to me, and since tae.org...was under the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

ITEM NO. </td