Newest and Biggest Value at Bad Aibling Baden-Baden Berlin Bitburg Darmstadt Herzo Incirlik Iraklion Kitzingen O'gau Rothwesten Stuttgart Wiesbaden

Your Audio Club has the

NEW-110-WATT SCOTT 342C The World's Most Advanced Receiver

More value - thanks to Scott's newly developed assembly techniques. Printed circuit modules snap into the main chassis for instant servicing!

New F'C/O circuitry - for virtually distortion free listening, even of low volume levels. Extra power, especially when you connect extra speakers. Scott also features a silver-plated FET front end, Integrated Circuit IF strip, IC preamplifier, FET tone control and all-silicon output circuitry.

GET FULL DETAILS AT YOUR AUDIO CLUB AND CHECK THE AMAZING LOW MILITARY PRICE!

The Nagell Affair . . .

'You must get out of Berlin'

(Continued From Page 13)

connected Injuries - and New promised him help in getting a disability retirement.

"But," the source added, New also told Nagell: "Of course, this (offer of help in getting a disability retirement) is pred- icated on your staying away from the news media."

On the afternoon flight to Stuttgart Nagell fell asleep, convincing him that he had been given a drug or a bar- biturate.

Because of fog he didn't get to Zurich until 4 a.m. and "he was feeling extremely sick," the source said. "He rested for a few hours and went to the U.S. Consulate General. New had told him to stay away from the consulate. In Zurich because they will question you and send it to Washington.' Nagell couldn't understand New's rea- soning, but he went to the consulate to get a doctor, not to tell them about Berlin. He was drastically sick and wanted a doctor. He thought he was dy- ing."

Referred to a civilian doctor, Nagell was told "he had been given an overdose of Seconal, a most potent sleeping drug."

Nagell was sick for about six days.

Meanwhile, he was also wait- ing to hear from New, who had promised to phone him in two

or three days. Nagell had told him he wanted the search for his family to be agreed upon before he returned, to the States.

Twice Nagell called New's room at the Berlin Hilton. First New was "unavailable," then he had checked out for the U.S. (Later, back in Washington, New allegedly explained it had been "unadvisable" to go to Zurich because the East Germans might have tapped his phone and he didn't want them to know Nagell was there. Nagell didn't buy that.)

With New hot showing up to discuss the search for his fami- ly, Nagell violated his instruc- tions and went to the consulate for help.

On his first visit Nagell found "They had a classified file on him and knew he had been in East Berlin," the source con- tinued. "But he refused to an- swer questions about his im- prisonment and told them about New's promise.

"The next time, he told the consulate he was angry that he had not heard from New and that if he didn't get help he was going to the news media. This is when he was offered State Department help in locating his family — predicated on his early return to the United States. Nagell agreed and flew back to New York."

In New York, Nagell waited about two or three weeks to hear from the State Dept. When he didn't he contacted a State Dept. agency in New York and was allegedly told that a letter would be sent to Washington.

"That was the last time Na- gell heard from them," the source said. "He never received a copy of the letter to Washing- ton, as promised, and they were always unavailable when he called."

Meanwhile, Nagell was see- ing New in Washington and called in person at the State Dept.

"They told him that the State Department didn't have the facilities to search for the children," the source said, "but on account of the circumstances surrounding the case and 'because one of our employes apparently made a promise in Zurich,' they would conduct a search for his children and determine whether he was married or divorced.

"He never heard from them again. When he called they were quote unavailable un- quote."

Through a lawyer