(1) Correct, full name

(2) All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers

(3) First date of contact by your office

(4) If first contact was prior to September, 1944, names of all SAs, SACs, and ASACs who contacted and may have made payments

(5) Tabulation of all payments, broken down as to services and expenses. Although tabulations are not furnished to Department, those prepared by your office will be reconciled with Bureau records.

(6) Listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of advances

(7) Date of last contact by your office

(8) Whether individual has been contacted by any other office

Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. If no contact was made with particular individual, Bureau must be so advised.

Where informant has previously been used and tabulation of payments was prepared, information for items (5) through (8) need be given only from date of last trial in which individual was used.

Above information should be submitted separate and apart from correspondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be addressed to attention of Administrative Division, Voucher Unit. Interdivisional correspondence should be addressed to Bureau with copies designated for interested offices.

Receipt of unemployment compensation

At times informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs and become eligible for unemployment compensation. Where unemployment regulations require listing of all sources of income as prerequisite for unemployment compensation and informants and/or sources who are being paid by Bureau fail to comply, situation is potentially embarrassing. Bureau cannot be placed in position of condoning violation of state law on part of any informant or source. Field office must determine from state unemployment compensation officials effect of unemployment compensation laws on paid informants and/or sources. Depending on local requirements, informants and sources must be alerted accordingly.

When paid informant and/or source becomes unemployed or has knowledge of impending unemployment, discuss all facts with him and submit recommendations to Bureau on UACB basis. At same time, weigh seriously possible need for informant to apply and accept unemployment compensation to protect his security. Fellow members of subversive organization may be aware of his unemployment status and would expect him to apply. Where state requires notification of Bureau payments to informants that would necessitate disclosure of identity, discontinue Bureau payments during period of unemployment compensation benefits.

M. ANNUAL LETTER

1. Submit annual letter to Bureau including following:

Symbol numbers of all informants and confidential sources being paid under Bureau authority (not SAC authority) for services or expenses. If confidential source has no symbol number, list name.

Symbol numbers of all informants not paid under Bureau authority

Comment concerning present informant coverage of office, together with information concerning actions being taken to improve coverage

List under "Headquarters City" and each resident agency all subversive organizations broken down into each division, such as clubs, committees, and chapters.