Federal Register / Vol. 60, No. 124 / Wednesday, June 28, 1995 / Rules and Regulations 33347

led to the assassination of President Kennedy

Response: A number of commentators put forward criticisms along these lines. Some of these commentators suggested that some form of a "reasonably related" standard be substituted for the "may have led to" language, while others suggested alternative formulations (e.g. "that may shed light on the assassination"). In adopting and eventually applying a "reasonably related" standard, the Review Board does not seek to endorse or reject any particular theory of the assassination of President Kennedy, although such theories may inform the Review Board's search for records reasonably related to the assassination and investigations into it. The Review Board believes that § 1400.1(a), as now worded, advances that effort and will promote a consistent broad interpretation and implementation of the JFK Act.

Comment: The proposed language of § 1400.1(a) is too broad and open-ended. A more specific nexus to the assassination of President Kennedy should be required.

Response. As its text and legislative history make clear, the JFK Act contemplates that the Review Board extend its search for relevant records beyond what has been compiled or reviewed by previous investigations. It is inevitable, therefore, that the Review Board must exercise judgment in determining whether such records constitute "assassination records." The Review Board regards its "reasonably related" standard as sufficient to ensure that agencies are not overburdened with identifying and reviewing records that, if added to the JFK Assassination Records Collection, would not advance the purposes of the JFK Act

Comment: Section 1400.1 should specifically include as assassination records any records pertaining to particularly identified individuals, organizations, events, etc.

Response: The Review Board determined that, in almost every case, the types of records commentators sought to add were already adequately covered by § 1400.1 as proposed. Accordingly, the Review Board declined to include records or record groups at the level of specificity urged by these commentators because doing so might limit the scope of the interpretive regulations as applied initially by other agencies, or otherwise might prove duplicative or confusing. However, the Review Board welcomes and encourages suggestions from the public as to specific records or record groups that may constitute assassination records, and intends to pursue such leads,

including those provided in the written comments to the proposed interpretive regulations

Comment: Section 1400.2(a) is vague and overly broad in describing the scope of additional records and information

Response: The Review Board has added language to clarify that the purpose of requesting additional records and information under § 1400.2(a) is to identify, evaluate, or interpret assassination records, including assassination records that may not initially have been identified as such by an agency. The Review Board also has added language to indicate that it intends to implement this section through written requests signed by its Executive Director. The Review Board contemplates that, with regard to such requests, its staff will work closely with entities to which such requests are addressed to implement the JFK Act effectively and efficiently.

Comment: The scope of additional records and information should specifically include records and information that:

- describe agencies' methods of searching for records;

- describe reclassification, transfer, destruction, or other disposition of records; or

- do not constitute assassination records, but have the potential to enhance, enrich, and broaden the historical record of the assassination.

Response. To the extent that the inclusion of records and information of the types described would assist the Review Board in meeting its responsibilities under the JFK Act, the Review Board has adopted the suggested language

Comment: The scope of "assassination records" under § 1400.1 and "additional records and information" under § 1400.2 should not extend to state and local government or to private records that are not in the possession of the Federal government.

Response: The Review Board considered such comments carefully, but concluded that the terms of the JFK Act preclude the narrower reading of the Review Board's responsibilities urged by such comments. Section 1400.6 allows the Review Board, in its discretion, to accept copies in lieu of originals. The Review Board believes that this flexibility addresses the concerns of some commentators about the removal of original records already housed, for example, in state or local archives

Comment: Section 1400.3 should include as sources of assassination records and additional records and

information individuals and corporations that possess such material even if not obtained from sources identified in paragraphs (a) through (e) thereof, and should specifically include individuals and corporations that contracted to provide goods or services to the government.

Response: The Review Board has added paragraph (f) to this section in response to these comments. The Review Board has concluded that, in view of