The photograph was being reviewed for clearer guide lines as to construction time. He said he saw no reason to change the mid-'63 estimate of 125 to 150 launching sites, but there might be reason to change the future estimate. Dr. Langer asked how many sites there were with 18 pads and Mr. McCone replied, "Only one."

4. Dr. Land stated that CORONA was getting better and better, and he hoped that all of those in the pursuit of a better vehicle would not forget that CORONA is doing the job. Mr. McCone replied that this was true, and said that he had the schedule for satellite launchings which he would leave with the Board. This called for CORONA-M once a month to July, with an extra one in May, and CORONA-J once a month from May 1963 to July 1964, with two in September. If trouble develops with the "J" configuration, "M" can be continued once a month until March. The next [LANYARD] shot is scheduled for early next month and will be followed by three more. The first [GAMBIT] shot is scheduled in June, and will then be launched once a month through all of 1964. Mr. McCone noted that if there were future failures, there should be no hiatus and a maximum of only seven days' delay between shots.

5. Mr. McCone reported that the OXCART vehicle would have one more flight at Mach[2.5], and then would be pushed up to its full speed and altitude. General Doolittle noted that the next[6] increase presented very serious engineering problems. Mr. McCone said that this was thoroughly understood but he wanted the Board to be apprised of the status.

6. Mr. McCone reported that he was establishing a panel to make a judgment as to what additional steps should be taken to bring satisfactory photography in the area of resolution. He noted that he felt we were dealing too much in optimistic hope at the present time, and that he wanted the best possible judgment as to the resolution that could be achieved from satellite photography in order to be weighed with the political decision of overflying the Soviet Union. He stated that he had gone to Cambridge to see Dr. Edward Purcell in an effort to persuade him to chair a panel which would be composed of the best brains from both inside and outside the Government. He reported that he felt he must be able to tell the President when satellite photography would reach the desired resolution. Mr. McCone advised that he had a memorandum establishing the terms of reference of this committee which he would submit to the President's Board. He noted that there were many studies oriented toward the most exotic types of reconnaissance, including the best read-out, but that he wanted this committee to be completely impartial and objective and therefore was establishing it under his personal direction. He noted that he had the enthusiastic support