7. Mobilizing the channeling forces in the Arab world toward the Palestinian Revolution.

8. Rejecting the principle of conventional warfare due to the international imperialist circumstances which protect the Zionist forces in our occupied Palestine and due to the contradictions in the Arab countries which resulted in a passive atmosphere and led to continuous failure regarding the Palestinian question, thus enabling the enemy to grow and prepare for its next expansionist battle.

9. Adopting "armed struggle" as the only means for the liberation of Palestine and "people's war" as the only method for action.

10. Adopting the concept of "national security of the Arab nation" instead of "divided regional security" which parcels responsibilities and leads its proponents into a morass of cost-benefit accounting.

11. Rejecting any international patronage which is inevitably allied to the interest of colonialism and Zionist influence.

This persistent insistance of the Palestinian people to revolt, their conscious rebellion against any and all attempts to impose upon them external limitations or solutions, and their rejection of resettlement or compensation plans would have been impossible were there not material, national, moral, and human imperatives far stronger than those external forces.

The material imperative is clearly demonstrated in the loss of their homeland and the attack on all their rights for livelihood. This also includes the Arab people to live under the constant threat of racial discrimination. The Arab economies are being destroyed by economic sanctions.

the Zionist presence which caused and still causes tremendous dislocation in the social and political fibers of the Arab world. The result of this has been the continuing backwardness of the Arab people and will be their ultimate destruction.

From this point, the national imperative for the Palestinian Revolution becomes apparent, for in the process of liberating Palestine, the Revolution will also destroy that ever-present expansionist Zionist threat to the Arab people. By so doing, it also destroys the most important stronghold for world colonialism in the Arab land. Such development would open the way for the Arab nation to assert its cultural presence, material progress, and would allow it to cooperate with the other nations of the world to realize peace.

The moral imperative of the Palestinian Revolution finds concrete expression in the people's rejection of the injustices heaped upon them, the aggressions committed against their national and human rights and in their rejection of all forms of oppression and injustice. This is what gives the Palestinian Revolution its humanitarian foundation and goals since it is a struggle against world Zionism whose foremost base is occupied Palestine.

Why?

--because Zionism is a movement of an aggressive and racist nature, employing neo-Nazi fascist means to achieve its expansionist settlement aims.

--because a Zionist victory in Palestine deprives all previous liberation movements their human content.

Hence it follows:

1. The Palestinian Revolution does not aim at annihilating the Jews, for such an act is based on racism, against which the revolution is struggling. Furthermore, the Arab

25