PLANS, PROGRAMS, AND PROJECTS

HHB-230-1 4c.

(5) Requests for advances of funds to instrumentalities must indicate (a) the specific purpose of the advance; (b) the identity of any intermediate instrumentalities used to introduce the funds; and (c) the accounting treatment to be given the funds in each receiving instrumentality, as well as any other information that will assist in the clear identification of Agency funding on overt records and statements.

(6) The concurrence of the Director of Finance and the Comptroller and the approval of the Deputy Director concerned are required for a transfer of funds to be made between instrumentalities of different projects. Excepted from this requirement are transfers involving payment for actual services rendered, reimbursement of expenditures made in behalf of the transmitting instrumentality, or accommodation funding.

REFUNDS

(1) All refunds from instrumentalities to the Agency, whether permanent or temporary, must be explained by a memorandum stating the purpose of the refund and the effect of the refund on the overt records and statements of the instrumentality.

(2) In the event funds are to be returned to the Agency under paragraph 4b(1) above, the Operating Official having jurisdiction over the project will devise the method of repayment in coordination with the Director of Finance and the Cover and Commercial Staff.

AGENCY CERTIFICATION AND APPROVAL

The project case officer will review financial statements submitted by the instrumentality (see paragraph 4n(3) below) and attach his certification that "to the best of my knowledge and belief the statements are true and correct and the reported expenditures are within the scope of the project authorization." In addition, the financial statements will be approved by an appropriate Agency approving officer and forwarded to the Proprietary Systems Branch, Office of Finance, at the earliest possible date and not later than sixty days after the close of the accounting period; extensions of time will be granted by the Director of Finance upon appropriate and reasonable request. Approval procedures for the writeoff of assets are outlined in HHB-30-1 chapter VIII for cash and receivables and HR 45-6 for inventory or property items. A copy of the financial statements will be forwarded to the Office of the Comptroller. When the instrumentality is funded by more than one Agency component, the case officer certification and approving officer approval of such components also will be obtained.

OCT 30 1975

CIA

HW 50955 DocId:32423632 Page 20 October 1974

E2 IMPDET

5