If no pertinent derogatory information is developed, initial contact may be made with prospective panel source to ascertain cooperativeness; however, in regard to individuals associated with educational institutions, be guided by current instructions concerning investigations on campuses.

Submit[secure teletype (Nitel)] to Bureau requesting authority to use individual as a panel source and set out:

(1) Results of background investigation and data as to date and place of birth, citizenship status if foreign born, residence and employment addresses

(2) Details of expected area of activity of individual as panel source and results of any interviews conducted with him

(3) Statement to effect subject is being considered panel source and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confidential nature of his relationship with Bureau. Also, statement should be made that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant and, if connected with labor union or educational institution, he will be advised of Bureau policy on such matters.

(4) One copy of letter should consist only of first page. If approved at Bureau, stamped notation indicating Bureau approval will be placed on single-page copy and it will be returned to field.

Administrative handling

Follow same procedure in handling, processing, and reporting data and material furnished by panel sources as afforded security informants.

Handle payments for legitimate expenses incurred and services rendered in same manner as security informants. Gifts should not be given to panel sources.

Open 134 file when active investigation of prospective panel source initiated. Close file administratively if panelist is not contacted regularly. Note contacts with panelists in their respective files.

Only Agents designated in particular case should contact panelists.

Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation of payments to panel source. If source not paid on Bureau authorization, Agent handling prepare memorandum to SAC for file containing certification as to stability and reliability.

A symbol number should be assigned from the time any step is taken to develop an individual as a panel source. Use abbreviation "PS" before symbol number, e.g., PS NY 000-S.

Designate, where practicable, coordinating Agent to maintain current roster of panel sources and scheduled organization activities, who will notify Agents handling individual panelists of organizational functions to be covered. Coordinating Agent should receive notice of coming events from Agents handling organizations, informants, and publications.

Advise Bureau of date panel source is discontinued and reasons.

T. DOUBLE AGENT OPERATIONS

Passage of information

In double agent operations information requested by principals is frequently passed either to build up double agent's stature or as evidence of espionage activity.

Each case must be carefully evaluated to make certain that net gain accrues to U. S.

Information passed should be carefully handled and logical explanations created for its acquisition by double agent.

Locating information to pass

Where possible field office handling double agent should locate appropriate information; however, Bureau can assist in fulfilling requests for information in possession of other Government agencies.

Obtaining Bureau authority

Bureau authority must be obtained to pass any information in double agent operation except:

Newspaper or magazine article