The type of shortcoming or long acting poisons best suited for assassination under various conditions, might be anticipated by a careful study of toxicology: from "Chemical Abstracts" and Biological Abstracts"; from current magazines on pharmacology, as well as from such magazines as "Scientific Monthly" and "Science Newsletter", all available from larger city libraries.

Information on explosives is available from ordinance journals, literature from manufacturers, technical books, mining and drilling magazines, etc.

Naturally, such special fields of interest are best pursued by some person who already has an aptitude in each particular line.

This is one of the things that makes us feel that the American people are uniquely equipped to form a deadly effective underground. Nowhere else in the world does any population have as many useful hobbies and avocations that could be adapted to underground warfare. Many by products of these hobbies can be used as sabotage instruments. Just one typical example - the dust from grinding wheels in metal shops should be saved to mix with grease for the bearings of enemy machinery.

3. Working details of their immediate and future plans and activities.

Advance information about "peace marches" and racial demonstrations can be had by subscribing to appropriate communist front publications. Details as to the size of the demonstration and degree of violence anticipated must be obtained by infiltrating such organizations. Communist plans for future propaganda campaigns, subversion, espionage, blackmail of government officials, etc., may be learned directly by infiltration or may be deduced from a close study of their past activities.

4. Identity and personal information about enemy agents.

This requires the full scope of counter espionage activity; research and analysis of enemy publications, monitoring of communist sponsored meetings, surveillance of party offices, infiltration of enemy apparatus, recruitment of double agents, interception of enemy communications, etc., etc.

TECHNIQUES OF EFFECTIVE RESEARCH

1. Every researcher should be constantly on the alert for useful information in the general news media - radio, TV, magazines, etc.

2. Each researcher should have one field of interest to which he gives special attention.