09/16/97

TUE-12:35 FAX-202 724 0457

ARRB

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLARATION AND/OR RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATICS IN THIS DOCUMENT

MEMORANDUM

September 16, 1997

To: Review Board

From: T. Jeremy Gunn

Subject: Proposed ARRB Timetable for Review of CIA Records

I. Background

The CIA Team has developed a preliminary timetable that we hope will provide a reasonable framework for completing our review of CIA's assassination records by August 1, 1998.1 We are creating this timetable for three purposes:

First, to establish our own working target dates to measure Review Board progress against the mandatory deadline established by the JFK Act.

Second, to provide CIA with our best assessment of the order and scope of our review so that it can make its own internal judgments on the proper allocation of its resources. We provided CIA prior drafts of this memo and solicited its specific advice and suggestions for better ways to accomplish our goals. [We have not asked CIA to "agree" to these deadlines, but we have encouraged it to provide alternative suggestions on how best to meet the August 1 deadline.]

Third, to solicit the Review Board's advice regarding "enforcement" of these (or other) targets. Although we surely hope that both the ARRB staff and CIA will be able to meet the targets, and although we certainly plan to make all reasonable accommodations for problems that no doubt will arise, we nevertheless anticipate that it is possible that CIA might not be able to keep to these timetables. Thus, we anticipate that there may well be times when blocks of records scheduled for Board review will not have been fully processed by CIA. It is our judgment that, in keeping with our commitment to Congress and to the goals of the JFK Act, we may need to have the Board act on groups of records for which CIA has not completed its initial review. At the risk of over-repetition, the ARRB staff seeks to be as reasonable and accommodating as it can on timetables, provided that any proposed changes are consistent with our obligation to complete the task. We realize that this review may have resource-allocation

1By establishing this target date, we will provide ourselves with a two-month cushion to handle possible appeals and miscellaneous issues that doubtless will arise.