SECTION-107. SECURITY INFORMANTS[AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES]

Be alert to the possibilities of former informant being contacted by representatives of publicity media and as a witness by congressional committees, INS, and state authorities. It will be the SAC's responsibility to know when a former informant is scheduled or is likely to appear at a hearing or make a public appearance of any kind. Prior thereto in each instance, former informant must be contacted and instructions above set forth reiterated by Agent who handled the informant. Emphasize to former informant that he must stick to the truth and make certain he can back up what he says, and if there is any deviation he will be subjected to harassment, criticism, possible libel, slander, or other criminal actions. If he inquires as to whether he should appear or testify or otherwise cooperate with any public or private individual or agency, advise him he must make that decision himself, but if he has appeared as a Government witness in a case which has not been finally adjudicated and decides in the affirmative, he should contact the USA for instructions. Advise Bureau of any such situations and the results of any interviews conducted.

R. FURNISHING OF INFORMANTS TO IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (INS)

1. INS conducts investigations of alien communists as required under the Immigration Act of 10-16-18, as amended. INS, in order to enforce this statute, must obtain evidence to prove that certain aliens, due to their membership in certain groups, are undesirable and deportable or subject to denaturalization.

2. Cooperate fully with INS in these cases and make efforts consistent with your own cases and interests to make available information and witnesses where possible.

3. In this regard, if contacted by INS inquiring for informants and you have a discontinued informant or one who would be of assistance to INS and whose loss would not affect your work, furnish his identity to the Bureau, together with your recommendation.

4. The Bureau will then review all of the facts concerning such informant and advise as to whether or not his identity may be disclosed to INS.

5. Exercise care in recommending informants for disclosure to INS so that you will not find yourself without proper coverage.

6. Before any informant is turned over to INS, obtain informant's permission.

[S. CORRECTIVE ACTION[ON FALSE INFORMATION]

1. When it is determined that an informant or ex-informant furnished false information while an informant, advise Bureau by airmail of complete facts.

2. Set forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing the informant in future, such as: "informant of known unreliability" or "informant who has furnished both reliable and unreliable information in the past."

3. Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with a review of all data furnished by the individual and label information from him accordingly.

4. All communications containing information from the informant which have been disseminated to Bureau, other Bureau offices, and to outside agencies must be corrected.

5. Identify the cases individually by title and character, together with dates of communications containing the information.

6. If information was used in reports, corrective letters should be crystal clear and refer to the specific report, page number, and change to be made.

7. Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by the Bureau in accordance with part II, section 4, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations; corrective action should be called to the attention of other Bureau offices, outside agencies, and Bureau by letter.