Memorandum Branigan to Sullivan

Re: BUREAU INFORMANT 200 POLICY-105-93089

The matter of receipt of illegible material was also discussed and it was pointed out to Mr. Hunt no matter how important the contents may be if the name and address of the U.S. addressee or addressor is illegible the material is of no value. It was specifically requested more legible material be furnished and, if it was obvious reproduction would be poor, we would appreciate it if U.S. person's name and address could be printed or written out. (Mr. Hunt) advised they were aware of reproduction problem and stated Xerox equipment was to be installed in the near future. This, he believed, would help the problem.

In regard to the CIA Watch List, approximately 535 names now appear on this list which is supplemented each Monday morning. (Mr. Hunt) requested we specifically place on this list the individuals on whom we want coverage even though we are presently receiving items re these persons. If their names appear on the Watch List, we will possibly get closer coverage. Attached with the blind memorandum for CIA is a list of individuals presently on the Watch List which (Mr. Hunt) requested. Interested supervisors will be advised and additional names of Communist Party members now in (Soviet-bloc) countries will be furnished CIA via our Liaison Agent.

In regard to CIA's sampling of certain types of traffic and furnishing same to us, (Mr. Hunt) was requested to advise our Liaison Agent what it was doing and after a period of six months we would furnish the results of our observations which would dictate whether we would continue to receive this new type material.

(Mr. Hunt) desired that in regard to any correspondence with CIA wherein a reference is made to a Hunter Report for the Project Hunter in any way that the letter be sent via Liaison as only a few CIA people have any knowledge of "Project Hunter" and CIA does not want such letters in regular mail channels.

As pointed out in the referenced memorandum, the need for this conference was to insure the Bureau Informant 200 Program will continue to operate under maximum economy and efficiency to the mutual interests of CIA and the Bureau. It is believed as a result of the above conference that the Hunter material now received will be reduced approximately 50%.