TOP SECRET DINAR

Asia-Africa

CYPRUS DISPUTE FLARES AGAIN

Fighting between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities, which began on 21 December and was continuing on 26 December despite efforts to obtain a ceasefire, is the culmination of a steady growth of tension on the island during the past few weeks. The new tension followed President Makarios' presentation to Turkish Cypriot leaders of proposals for changing the Cyprus constitution. The proposals, which essentially involved removing the guarantees to the Turkish minority that had been written into the Cyprus settlement of 1959, were rejected by the Turkish Government even before the Turkish Cypriots had made their views known.

Most of the initial fighting appears to have been between Greek Cypriot police and the Turkish underground, and to have taken place in the Turkish areas of Nicosia.. The situation there deteriorated progressively during the week, as the police lost control to extremist groups of irregulars from both communities. A cease-fire, to be supervised by the British, had not been effective as of the morning of 26 December. Fighting had also continued at the port city of Larnaca; the rest of the island was quiet but tense.

In the face of these developments, the Turkish Government threatened to exercise its right under the 1959 agreement to intervene on Cyprus. Three Turkish jet fighters flew over Nicosia on 25 December, and Turkish naval units appeared off the island. Part of the 650-man Turkish garrison on Cyprus left its barracks to move into one of the Turkish quarters of the capital. Part of the 950-man Greek contingent then moved to protect Greek areas. The situation evidently prodded Athens and London into a more active role, and Greek, Turkish and British forces on Cyprus have been placed under a unified British-led command. Britain has announced it is sending 150 additional troops.

The violence may make leaders of both sides more cautious in pressing political demands. Soon after the outbreak, Makarios told the US ambassador he would go more slowly in pushing his constitutional revisions. Both ethnic groups, however, will be further embittered--particularly the Turkish community, which is believed to have suffered much the heavier casualties. (CONFIDENTIAL)

27 Dec 63

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW

Page 9

TOP SECRET DINAR