ILLINOIS STATUTES DON'T PREEMPT GUN FIELD CONTROL FROM CITIES

Chicago ordinance-enabling ordinance sustained against constitutional, statutory arguments by Illinois Supreme Court.

Chicago's all-embracing gun control ordinance requiring detailed information on every firearms transfer and registration of already possessed guns, and prohibiting anyone from taking a gun out of his house or place of business is unsuccessfully attacked by individuals and a sporting goods store. The Illinois Supreme Court sustains the ordinance against allegations that the state has pre-empted the gun control field, and that the ordinance violates the Second Amendment. The court is also unimpressed by arguments that the ordinance is vague and confusing, that it unlawfully delegates legislative power to a city official and that it is an unreasonable exercise of the police power. (Brown v. Chicago, 5/28/69)

Digest of Opinion. The pre-exemption argument is without merit. The state statute deals with registration of owners only, whereas the ordinance is for registration of weapons themselves. There is no inconsistency or repugnancy between the two.

Although the Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution provides that the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed, gun control that does not impair the efficiency of the state's active, organized militia (National Guard) does not violate the Amendment.

"Plaintiffs argue that the definition of 'firearms' in the ordinance is broader than the one in the statute, and that even though a person obeys all the requirements of the latter he will not necessarily be protected thereby from prosecution for violating the ordinances. This does not constitute a valid objection. As we have indicated, the statute and the ordinances have differing objectives."

Because the ordinance requires registration of a license, and the state's statute makes it a crime to possess one within five days after passing the firearm registration test but before the license provision takes effect, there can be no question here about the constitutionality of the license law. But that does not affect the constitutionality of the ordinance, since the silence provision is severable.

A seller is required to register voluminous detailed information about the purchaser, and the weapon and "other relevant information deemed necessary by the City Collector." The plaintiffs claim that the "deemning" provision unitively confers legislative power on the City Collector.

"The position cannot be sustained. The discretion is not to be construed as being uncontrolled. It can be exercised within limits which are relevant to the purpose of identical legislation and is, we think, subject to adequate standards."

"The city collector in administering the ordinance r e 2 position to determine more advantageously when and where further descriptive information is needed."***

"Plaintiffs argue at length that strict gun laws do not to reduce crime, and statistics and excerpts from reports are quoted to show that legal restrictions are 20 circumvented by experienced criminals. The shameful fact pointed out that it is unsafe to walk alone at night in most neighborhoods, and parks, and it is suggested that firearms might often be necessary for self protection. These are ments, whatever validity they might have, are not appropriately addressed to this court. They relate to matters of legislative instead of judicial concern, and bear on the ad- sability of the present provisions rather than on their varia-

(Brown v. Chicago, Ill Sup Ct, 5/28/69)

18-69

9

NW 88613 DocId:32199554 Page 2159