1. Cuban (insurance) executive, who had a large and diversified net, provided intelligence in late June 1962 which specifically anticipated the massive Soviet military build-up which ultimately took place in Cuba. Throughout the build-up itself this agent provided an almost continuous stream of OB intelligence on missile, maritime and air phases of the build-up. He provided the initial reporting on delivery of IL-28's to the island.

2. A relative of a former Cuban president whose government connections provided him on several occasions with information on attitudes of various military factions toward Castro and the Soviets. Agent also provided some detailed missile OB.

3. (U.S. citizen) who established contact with a resistance chief (in Pinar del Rio) during July 1962, provided, in the course of several reports,10 an inventory of Soviet installations throughout the province. The maintenance of communication with this agent was extremely arduous in virtue of his most exposed position.

4. A Havana surgeon who took special horseback trips to cover the Soviet installation at Torrens Reformatory.

5. A former lawyer, resident of Santiago provided information on Cubanarmy laying along roads in Santiago area, as well as on Soviet troops and materiel movements.

6. A western diplomat who provided photographs of Soviet-occupied hotels in Havana, Soviet troop and materiel movements in the Havana area.

7. A Cubana official who provided comprehensive data on state readiness of Cubana air materiel.

8. A merchant in Camaguey who had provided general observational reporting on military activities in his area.

9. A former wife of a Cuba Airlines pilot who has contacts among Cuban Airline pilots from whom she obtained some air OB.

10. A shipping clerk at Cardenas harbor reported sporadically on activities at the port.

11. A construction company employee at Guantanamo Naval Base reported on Cuban OB in the environs of the base.

12. A public accountant in Havana who is the leader of a counter-revolutionary group, reported military information acquired through his group contacts.

13. A Havana bartender who reported considerable quantities of OB data obtained from his large circle of varied acquaintances in Havana area.

14. A retired railroad official reported data on rail shipments.