Central Intelligence Agency

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS RELEASE IN FULL

Washington, D.C. 20505

2000

DECLARATION OF DAVID W. CAREY

I, DAVID W. CAREY, hereby declare and say:

1. I presently serve as the Executive Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA or Agency). I have held the position of Executive Director since July of 1997 and have served with the CIA for over 29 years in a variety of operational, staff, and management positions.

2. As the Executive Director I am responsible, on behalf of the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) and the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence (DDCI), for the overall daily management of the Central Intelligence Agency, for strategic planning and coordination, and for the development and execution of the Agency's annual program. In order to carry out these responsibilities, I have been delegated all authorities vested in the DCI and DDCI except as prohibited by law or Agency regulation or policy.

3. The purpose of this declaration is to provide an assurance that the Central Intelligence Agency: (1) has made a diligent records search to locate and disclose to the JFK Assassination Records Review Board (the Board) all records in its possession relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the assassination of President Kennedy; and (2) is aware of no other assassination-related records in its possession being withheld from the Board. I make these and the following statements (including those in the attachments by reference) based upon my personal knowledge, information made available to me in my official capacity, the advice of CIA's Office of General Counsel, and the conclusions I reached in accordance therewith.

4. With respect to the overall issues of search and review, and as explained in the attachments or otherwise included by reference, the CIA's Directorate of Intelligence (DI), Operations ("DO"), Science and Technology ("DS&T"), and Administration ("DA") and the DCI Area Information Review Officer have certified to me that their respective offices or directorates have properly and fully responded to requests from the Board. Accordingly, I believe that the Central Intelligence Agency has worked diligently with the Board to declassify, consistent with the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107) and other statutes,