(2) Investigations should be handled most discreetly by experienced Agents.

(3) Advise Bureau promptly under caption "Cominfil (name of organization)" when one of the following exists and include your recommendation for instituting an investigation:

(a) The Communist Party has specifically instructed its members to infiltrate the organization.

(b) Communist Party members have infiltrated the organization in sufficient strength to influence or control the organization.

(4) When advising Bureau, include data concerning following items:

(a) Name and address of organization

(b) Extent of communist infiltration

(c) Identities of Communist Party members and positions held in organization

(d) Informant coverage afforded organization. Set forth positions held by informants and whether informants are members or merely reporting on organization.

(e) Recommendation whether additional investigation is deemed warranted

Above instructions apply to local chapters or affiliates, as well as the national organization. Break down information required under items (c) and (d) above by local chapters where such exist.

(5) No informant or source should be instructed by the FBI to join or attend meetings. If Communist Party asks the informant to do so, he should, of course, comply.

(6) No member of the organization not already an established source should be contacted regarding the organization. This does not preclude pretext interviews where advisable.

(7) Data concerning following topics should be fully developed and reported on:

(a) Basis for investigation and fact that our investigation is directed solely toward establishing extent of Communist Party infiltration, or that organization is specific target for infiltration, and that Bureau is not investigating legitimate activities of organization.

(b) Address of organization

(c) Brief characterization of organization, including total membership

(d) Principal officers of organization.

(e) Communist Party program to infiltrate this organization and influence its policy

(f) Results of this program, including Communist Party affiliations of officers and members

(8) Caption of all correspondence should contain the phrase "Communist Infiltration of" preceding the name of the organization.

(9) In the event infiltration of the organization reaches such a proportion that its activities are dominated and controlled by the Communist Party, submit your recommendation to the Bureau regarding changing the investigation from communist infiltration to that of a communist front.