Pamphlets, brochures, etc., prepared by private company for distribution or sale to public. (This does not include highly technical pamphlets, even if unclassified, which are prepared for limited use and not intended for release to public.)

4. Retention of copies of passed material

True copies should be retained by office of origin of any documents or material related to national defense which is passed.

Such material should be apropriately identified by double agent. Bureau Agents should not place identifying data on such material but should preserve any notes made by them in connection with its passage.

Similar action should be taken regarding material which is passed which is considered evidentiary although not clearly related to national defense.

It is not necessary to retain copies of buildup material obviously not evidentiary in nature where copies can be obtained at later date from Government agency or private concern having custody.

5. Handling money and property received by double agents

Double agents must turn over to Bureau any money or property received from their principals in connection with double agent intelligence operation. This should be made clear to double agent at inception of operation (consider obtaining signed statement to this effect). Exceptions must be specifically approved by Bureau. Entirely separate arrangements must be made for payments to double agents for services rendered to Bureau.

Any money or property received by double agent from his principal represents possible evidence and double agent should execute statement describing money received by type of currency, denomination, series of issue, and serial number and appropriately describing any other property received. Statement should be signed by double agent's code name.

Money or property received from double agents should be retained as evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and Regulations.

Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from double agents should make independent records for retention for purposes of refreshing recollection in event testimony is later necessary.

U. UTILIZATION OF INFORMANTS AND SOURCES AT INSTITUTIONS OF LEARNING

Use of students

Students under age of 18 years are not to be developed as security informants, potential security informants, or other types of security sources in other than highly unusual circumstances. Under such circumstances, furnish complete justification to Bureau.

Upon initial contact with prospective student informant or source, individual should be tactfully requested to execute a brief signed written statement for field file setting forth that this individual has voluntarily come forward to furnish information to FBI because of his concern over individuals or groups that may be inimical to interests of U. S. Government and that he understands FBI has no interest in legitimate institution or campus activities.

[ 2. [Deleted]

3-13-72