Byram Warns Today County Tax Deadline

County Tax Collector Howard Byram warned property owners that they must pay current tax bills by 5 p.m. today or be subject to penalties.

After the deadline, delinquent taxpayers will be charged a set fee of $2.50 plus six per cent of the total due.

Byram said about 76 per cent of the total tax charge of $63,000,000 has been collected so far.

Property owners may pay bills in person at the tax collector's office, 810 S. Hill St.

Remittances by mail will also be acceptable provided they are postmarked by 5 p.m.

However, Byram advised citizens to mail their payments at least by noon to make sure they clear postoffices.

Dinner-Dance Slated

The Men's Club of the Sun-air Foundation will hold a dinner-dance April 17 at the Sportsmen's Lodge in North Hollywood.

DIKO, REFUGEE BULGARIAN ANTI-COMMUNIST

... claims Reds still peril him

GUARDS AGAINST REDS

Refugee Lives in Fear of Tormentors

By DAN SWINTON

A square-jawed Bulgarian refugee said today he is living a life of fear and flight even in Los Angeles because of communist tyranny.

Diko, a panedonym that once ignited resistance to Red force, said that even here he had to guard against the vengeful hand of his Old World tormentors.

"They do not give up. Even in America the peril is great. I am always in danger," he said.

Diko is Dimiter Adamoff Dimitroff, five-foot five, 140 pounds. He spells his name with the double "I" because the Russians like to spell it with a "v."

He said he made one TV appearance in Hollywood. Which was followed by a threat of physical violence, presumably Red-inspired.

SPARKED UNDERGROUND

The pocket-sized, hazel-eyed poet and writer once sparked the Bulgarian underground. His name flamed from resistance pamphlets to teach Red puppets that the pen can be mightier than the sword.

His mission today is to "show the free world how things were before and how they are now and what can happen here if the Reds take over. If they like the picture, let them go ahead and accept it."

at--he first appeared

again, as a spy when he was 17. He left the village of his father to meet a challenge: the Nazi land.

Why the Reds took over in Bulgaria Diko stayed underground.

Resistance is a Bulgarian's legacy. For centuries the nation has wrestled to escape the bonds of succeeding masters. Those who choose to fight can fly many trails blazed. So speaks Diko.

COMMUNISM'S MEANING

"I'm an anti-communist. I feel obliged to tell this story. the story I lived. I feel it would be a crime not to tell what Communism means to the

average person's life," he says.

This story is wrapped up in a book Diko has written. It is based on the facts of his running fight in Bulgaria with the Reds; his imprisonment and death sentence in 1946 after a betrayal; his torture by electricity at the hands of the Reds; his forced starvation for 18 days; his forced thirst for 12 days; the slaughter of his parents because they bore a resistance leader.

He said Bulgarian resistance was grass roots resistance. "This was different from the revolts in Hungary and Poland," said Diko.

"In Hungary and Poland the uprising originated among the Communists themselves. Those among the populace who hated the Reds joined later. But at first it was an attempt to set up a Tito form of Nationalist Communism," Diko explained.

ESCAPED TO GREECE

His first anti-Red unit in Bulgaria was the Danube Valley Organization for Resistance. This folded for lack of outside help. It was promptly replaced

OBITUARIES

JOSEPH M. GASKIN

Rosary was retired today for Joseph N. Murphy. She was a member of the Franciscan order and has been a nun for 30 years. The order is named after her. She was with the police force since 1924 and retired on a disability pension in 1954. She leaves his widow Brigitte two daughters, Mary Anne and Mrs. Betty Wells.

MRS. IDA M. MURRAY

Requiem Mass for Mrs. Ida M. Murray, D.I.A., widow of Mexico and western mining engineer Capt. M. D. Murray, was celebrated today in Holy Name Catholic Church. She died at her home. 2638 S. Hobart Blvd. She leaves a daughter, Eva A. Mark and a grandchild. Interment will be in Calvary Cemetery.

FUNER