CERVENY also recalled that in December, 1968, his father visited him, and during the visit, showed him a diamond bracelet which he had smuggled into the United States for the purpose of selling for a relative in Czechoslovakia. He stated his father had previously corresponded with another individual by the name of RIHA in San Antonio, Texas, who was no relation to his uncle, but whom his father had known in Czechoslovakia. According to CERVENY, his father made a trip to San Antonio to leave this bracelet with the RIHA in San Antonio for him to attempt to sell; however, the bracelet was eventually returned to CERVENY from the RIHA in San Antonio, who advised him he could locate no buyer. Thereafter, he showed the bracelet to TANNENBAUM, who indicated a desire to buy it. Both went to a jeweler in the Denver Hilton Hotel, who appraised the bracelet at $350. TANNENBAUM, however, offered him $500 for the bracelet, and actually paid him $400 in cash with a promise to pay him an additional $100 later, which he never received.

CERVENY recalled another incident which furthered his suspicions of TANNENBAUM in regard to a will which he witnessed at her insistence. By way of background, he explained that in the spring of 1969, TANNENBAUM introduced him to an elderly man by the name of GUSTAV FREDERICH INGWERSEN, a plastics engineer and a native of Germany, who owned some type of plastics plant in Denver, Colorado. He stated he had formerly done some work in plastics, and TANNENBAUM suggested that INGWERSEN might help him get established in this field. As a result of this meeting, CERVENY became friendly with INGWERSEN, and in the company of TANNENBAUM and her two children, made two vacation trips to New Mexico with him. He stated these trips were in either April or May, 1969, and in June, 1969, TANNENBAUM advised him that INGWERSEN had died. Then on July 5, 1969, TANNENBAUM had him visit her residence where she told him that INGWERSEN had drawn up a will and signed it prior to his death, but had neglected to have two witnesses sign it in accordance with Colorado law. She said that INGWERSEN liked CERVENY and had intended to ask him to witness the will, but had died before this could be accomplished. She then coaxed him for over an hour to witness this document, and still believing she was a bona fide official in some Governmental capacity, he affixed his signature to the will.

CERVENY concluded by stating that TANNENBAUM had never obtained anything of value from him as a result of her representations as an officer in Salary Intelligence, and the longer

NWW 88326 DocID:32989603 Page 165