U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

RE: INTERVIEW OF HELEN W. GANDY

Mr. Mohr said that Miss Gandy, when she was describing to the interviewers exactly how Mr. Hoover's personal correspondence files were destroyed, said she reviewed each item that she handled to make sure that it was not related to Bureau official business. Mr. Mohr said Miss Gandy had previously indicated that Mrs. Erma Metcalf had assisted her in destroying these files, but Miss Gandy did not mention that Mrs. Metcalf made the same type of review and Miss Gandy was not questioned regarding whether Mrs. Metcalf made such a review as she went through the files and helped destroy them.

Mr. Mohr said that during the interview a rather heated conversation occurred over some of the questions which seemed to be repetitious and irrelevant. Mr. Mohr said he told Mr. Giteinstein he felt it was high time the questioners quit "beating around the bush" and come to the point by asking Miss Gandy if she ever destroyed any official and confidential files. Mr. Giteinstein replied that they had a discrepancy concerning the OC files in that a reliable source had reported that Mr. Mark Felt had five two-drawer cabinets marked "O and C Files" in his office. Miss Gandy on the other hand told Mr. Giteinstein in response to a question that she had turned over to Mr. Felt after Mr. Hoover's death, as she recollected, one and one half drawers and possibly two drawers of OC files. Mr. Mohr said he explained to Mr. Giteinstein that Miss Gandy would have no way of knowing what files Mr. Felt had in his office and if there was a discrepancy, the person to resolve it was Mr. Felt, who Mr. Giteinstein had said had been interviewed by him and had been cooperative.

Mr. Mohr said he had previously explained to Mr. Giteinstein, in response to questions at the time Mr. Mohr was interviewed by Staff Members, that at the time Mr. William C. Sullivan had furnished the data of 17 White House telephone tapes to Mr. Mar diss in the Internal Security Division of the Department of Justice, Mr. Hoover had instructed that any Assistant Director or Bureau

NWW 88326 Docid:32989611 Page 110 - 8 -