3. Fairfax County Police Department: Apparently undercover CIA agents in the county (under DOD cover) were being continuously harassed and challenged in the county while on operations. They feared their cover might be blown and felt it would be good to have police cover to prevent this from occurring. Mr. Brewer himself may have suggested getting badges and identification from the county police. In any event, he thought it was a good idea and Headquarters approved it (per John Hutchinson, Assistant Special Agent in Charge of the Washington Field Office). Thereafter, (latter part of 1971) Brewer went to John Briggman, Assistant to Colonel William Durren, Fairfax County Police Chief, and asked about obtaining some badges and ID's. Briggman reported that Col. Durren was originally reluctant to give CIA the badges and ID, but in early spring of 1972 he changed his mind and relented. Brewer does not know if Osborn called Col. Durren or if there was any arm-twisting by the CIA. Brewer himself did no arm-twisting. Nine patrolman's badges and one sergeant's badge were obtained, plus ten blank ID cards. The true names of CIA agents were placed on the cards by Brewer. It was understood that if the badges and ID's were ever used that Col. Durren would immediately be notified. In fact, they were kept in a safe at Washington Field Office Headquarters and never used. They have recently been returned to Fairfax County.

No police cover was ever obtained by Washington Field Office, or used by them for the purpose of performing police activity. Brewer stated that local police were always kept informed of CIA activities in their jurisdiction.

Other Assistance Rendered CIA by Local Police

Project SIESTA:

This project involved the break-in into a photographic shop in Fairfax City. Three Fairfax City police assisted in the operation. One entered the apartment with several CIA agents; one stood watch on the front steps; and one waited in a squad car outside the building. Much material in the photographic studio was photographed. Surveillance was constantly maintained on the operators of the studio while the break-in was being carried out.

Use of Fairfax County Facilities:

On at least one occasion the Fairfax County police station was used for CIA training purposes. CIA desired to assure themselves that new recruits for covert overseas duty could not be "broken" if siezed by foreign authorities. Consequently, CIA officials would "arrest" these unwitting recruits on some bogus charge and take them to Fairfax County jail where they would be subject to strong interrogation to see if they would "break".