Shaw Trial Attorneys Ordered to Keep Quiet

NEW ORLEANS (AP)— Criminal District Court Judge Edward Haggerty Jr. today ordered the prosecution and defense in the Clay L. Shaw's Kennedy assassination conspiracy trial to refrain from pre-trial publicity. He told them to quit discussing evidence.

The judge said at a news conference he would invoke the canons of professional ethics "to prevent the flow of prejudicial pre-trial publicity" from either Shaw's attorneys or from Dist. Atty. Jim Garrison's staff.

He said the arraignment of Shaw, indicted by the grand jury March 17 on charges of conspiring to assassinate President John F. Kennedy, probably will be held next week.

Haggerty said the same security measures in effect at Shaw's preliminary hearing earlier this month would be used at the arraignment. Reporters needed special credentials to cover the hearing and cameras were barred.

(Meanwhile, Gordon Novel issued a telephone challenge to Garrison today to prove by lie detector that the probe is not a fraud, United Press International reported.)

(Novel, who left New Orleans shortly before the grand jury was to subpoena him last week, would not say where he was calling from. Novel reportedly took a lie detector test in McLean, Va., over the weekend, to back up his charges that the investigation is a fraud.)

Haggerty has said he does not believe the Warren Commission report on the assassination can be admitted as evidence mainly because the commission's witnesses could not be cross-examined,

FIGURE IN CASE FOUND STRICKEN

BISMARCK, N. D. (UPI)— David R. Kroman, an attorney who had promised to make disclosures about the assassination of President John F. Kennedy at a news conference tonight, was found today partially paralyzed by an apparent epileptic seizure.

Kroman, 43, a onetime lawyer for the Minnesota Insurance Department and an unsuccessful independent Democratic candidate for attorney general in the last Minnesota election, is on trial in U.S. District Court here charged with fraud and conspiracy in the collapse of the American Allied Insurance Co., of St. Paul, Minn.

Kroman had called a news conference for 7 p.m. today when he said he would tell of his private investigation into the assassination of Kennedy.

It was not known what Kroman intended to say. A state highway patrolman found Kroman in his locked car at 4 a.m. 24 miles east of Bismarck. Kroman was paralyzed and coherent, the policeman said. A loaded shotgun was across the attorney's knees.

Kroman was taken to a Bismarck hospital, where a doctor said Kroman apparently had suffered an epileptic seizure.

RELEASE IN FULL 1998