56 Md. L. Rev. 1, 3

Carr, Baring the Heart of Nixon, Boston Globe, Dec. 20, 1995, Arts & Film at 33, available in 1995 WL 5966891; Stephen Hunter, Resurrecting Nixon, Balt. Sun, Dec. 20, 1995, at 1E, available in LEXIS, News Library, Majpap File; Barbara Shulgasser, "Nixon': It Has All the Charm of a Lab Rat, San. Fran. Examiner, Dec. 20, 1995, at C1, available in LEXIS, Nexis Library, Newspaper File; Kenneth Turan, "Nixon,' the Enigma, L.A. Times, Dec. 20, 1995, at F1, available in LEXIS, News Library, Lat File; Crossfire (CNN television broadcast, Dec. 27, 1995), available in LEXIS, Nexis Library, Transcript File.

-End Footnotes-

[4]

This Article addresses the Kennedy murder, generally; the work of the Assassination Records Review Board, primarily; n13 and issues of secrecy and openness in government, specifically. In short, the Article considers the competing values of openness and secrecy in government. n14 Gaining access to secret documents is vital, but one must consider the cost of broken confidences to our security. A sense of conflict between these views inspired this Article.

-Footnotes-

n13. The author sits as a member of the Assassination Records Review Board. The views expressed herein are solely those of the author. They do not represent the views of the other members of the Board.

The other members of the Board are the Honorable John R. Tunheim, United States District Judge, District of Minnesota; Henry Graff, Professor Emeritus, Columbia University; William Joyce, Rare Books Librarian, Firestone Library, Princeton University; and Anna K. Nelson, Adjunct Professor of History, American University.

The Assassination Records Review Board will hereinafter be referred to as the "JFK Board" or the "Board."

Throughout this Article, references are made to the views of the various intelligence agencies. These references are based upon the author's knowledge of these representations made to the Assassination Records Review Board, the context of which remains classified.

n14. See generally Benjamin S. DuVal, Jr., The Occasions of Secrecy, 47 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 579, 583 (1986) (arguing that secrecy issues "present a fundamentally different problem in terms of first amendment theory than those that have been central to the development of first amendment jurisprudence" and that "society is distinctly ambivalent about the benefits of increased knowledge").

-End Footnotes-

I. The Warren Commission

The Warren Commission and its report stand at the center of almost all Kennedy conspiracy theories. n15 A year after the assassination, the Report was issued by seven sober-minded Americans, headed by Chief Justice Earl Warren. n16 Initially, the Report, which concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin, n17 received strong support. Polling data indicates that prior to the Report's