BOBBY RUSH

ESCAPES BEING MURDERED

The dirty racist dogs that murdered Fred Ham- d Mark Clark tried to murder our Deputy of Defense, Bobby Rush. Murdering Fred rk was not enough blood spilt, so less than ours after they killed Fred in his sleep and d rk in cold blood; those treacherous ave down on Bobby Rush's crib in an at- o kill him and his wife and kids, but he here, he had moved his family and escaped lighter.

the pigs have no respect for our people. Hav- d in murdering our Deputy Minister of De- ey threw drugs into his apartment and then him with possession of narcotics. at kind of society is this where the victim d like a criminal; where a man is murdered c op and then charged with attempted mur- aggravated battery: this fascist capitalist has to be brought to its knees. We, Black will never be free in this society that is W. and racial genocide.

e pigs who murdered Michael and John Soto ain to commit back-to-back murders with n and Bobby Rush. When will we learn capitalists ( Nixon, Agnew, LBJ, Mitchell, en, and Daley) are men on destroying black When will you admit that you are more a how than you were in 1619 (in 1619 they have shotguns, 357 magnums, helicopters, guns and canine dogs)? When will you and realize that an unarmed people are subject to slavery (or to be murdered) at a moment?

Decisive (the racist dog cop, the avaricious tycoon, the democratic lying politic-

He helped found our Free Breakfast Program and along with "Doc"-worked to establish a Free People's Medical Clinic. Fred took his valuable time to try to teach each and every member of the Black Panther Party and the masses what is to be done, and the proper road towards liberation, freedom, and strategic means of resisting the power structure.

Fred taught us so much and gave us everything, including his life, so that someday we will have the power to determine our own destiny and everything in our Ten Point Program, our major political objective, and love and respect for all people will become a reality.

ALL POWER TO THE PEOPLE

OUR REVOLUTIONARY

DEP. MINISTER OF HEALTH RONALD 'DOC' SATCHELL

point-blank muro

NW 88613 Docld:32199554