A Mission to Cuba: Tale of the Doomed Raiders

By PAUL MESKIL

Fifth of a series

On March 17, 1960, President Eisenhower authorized the CIA to form a guerrilla army of Cuban refugees and invade Cuba. Shortly thereafter, the CIA dispatched agent Frank Sturgis to Guatemala to confer with President Miguel Ydígoras about setting up training bases in that country.

This "secret" mission was quickly discovered and reported by the Guatemalan news media.

"I had planned to break into the Cuban Embassy while I was in Guatemala City," Sturgis told this reporter recently, "but the president suggested I leave the country because of all the publicity. The newspapers and TV reported I was a CIA agent and was trying to obtain bases for the Cuban invasion."

Over the next year, the CIA trained Cuban recruits in Guatemala, Panama, Puerto Rico and the United States. Sturgis, a marine combat veteran of World War II, trained about 50 Cubans in the Florida Everglades.

Sturgis was part of the agency's super-secret Operation 40, an infiltration and intelligence-gathering group

that was to go into Cuba before the Bay of Pigs assault.

Some former CIA agents describe Operation 40 as an "assassination squad." Sturgis won't go that far.

"It was a top CIA project," he says. "Most of the men in it were Cubans who had been trained by the U.S. Army. I am not saying that Operation 40 had an assassination squad. There are reports that there was one, but I'm not saying so."

To infiltrate

"The prime purpose was infiltration, not assassination. They (group members) were to infiltrate Cuba and contact anti-Castro military leaders, political leaders and underground people. And they could kill--if they had to, if it was really necessary."

Chief of Operation 40 was Jose Joaquin Sanjenis, a former Castro aide who defected and became a CIA agent. Two of his cousins also worked for the agency.

Early in 1961, the CIA learned that a group of Cuban military officers was plotting to overthrow Castro. The leader of this plot was Major Humber Sori Marin, a former Havana lawyer who drafted the Castro penal code which made firing squad execution legal. Sori Marin had been adjacent general of Castro's army, presiding judge at the 1959 "war crimes" trial.

SECRETS OF THE CIA

that sent hundreds of Batista loyalists to the firing squads, and Castro's first minister of agriculture. But by 1961 he had turned against the Castro regime.

His partners in the anti-Castro conspiracy included other Cuban army, navy and air force commanders, the chief of Castro's secret police, the deputy finance minister and the head of the Cuban Sugar Institute. They planned a military uprising during which Castro and his Communist advisers would be killed.

As soon as the CIA learned what they were up to, Operation 40 went into action. Agents slipped into Cuba, contacted the conspirators and asked them to time the military revolt to coincide with the Bay of Pigs invasion.

A month before the October 1961 revolution-invasion was to start, a radar patrol was sent to the Miramonte section of Havana to arrest a warrant officer who had been overheard complaining about food shortages. As the night a bomb pulled up to her house, she ran out the front door.

(Continued on page 68)

HON 50955 DocId:32423630 Page 14

Nelson: a veteran conspirator.