Moreover, this is a stage of "liberation struggle," where actions are more important than words, and where efforts of all Palestinians are needed. Fateh has its orientation, however, and in terms of armed struggle against Imperialism, it is more leftist than the Soviet Union and the Arab Communist parties. Disagreement between Communist parties and Fateh exist over proposals for "peaceful settlement" of the conflict, for Fateh rejects any "peaceful settlements" and believes in armed struggle as the only solution.

At this stage of Arab history, Fateh ideas are popular and represent a turning point in Arab thought. They represent the beginning of a new Arab re-awakening, an attempt at the re-definition of the Arab being in terms of armed struggle. Fateh spearheads this re-awakening, it is the vanguard of the revolution, and it leads by action and armed struggle.

Fateh is thus the antithesis of Arab "revolutionary" thought, which was limited to slogans and devoid of any action in the form of armed struggle. Fateh is action and armed struggle, and the new synthesis between action and thought will be free and liberated Arab human being.

This article is the product of an open discussion with "Abu Amar". I hope it represents a true and comprehensive picture of his ideas, which are the ideas of the "Palestine National Liberation Movement - Fateh".

As I entered the cave, Abu Amar's voice greeted me: "Welcome." He then added, "We are in a state of alert as you know, and this make it necessary for us to cancel many of our meetings. I am sorry for having made you wait this morning."

I shock his hand and greeted the men as I walked inside. I sat on a chair facing his small table. Abu Amar smiled as I looked at his small face: his shiny eyes, his flat nose, and the natural moustache. His clothes were simple, the same as what other fighters wore.

I began with, "I have a number of questions in mind, as do many people, about "Fateh" and its ideas and operations. Much has been written and said about "Fateh" and its ideas and operations. Much has been written and said about "Fateh" in newspapers and magazines all over the world, and it is necessary to explain and answer."

He said quickly: "I do not understand this concern with Fateh. Everybody asks of Fateh; others criticize Fateh, and every time the accusation is different. Once we were accused of being "Moslem Brethren", another time of being "Chinese Communists", a third time "Ba'tISTS", and after June 5th it was said we were "Kasserites". Others, of course, insist we are a satellite of Saudi Arabia. Why? How can we be all these things at the same time? We do not find it necessary to deny these accusations because they are not true and the contradictions in them are the

37

NW 88296 DocId:32989574 Page 475