(9) Sheffield Edwards, witness produced by CIA as its Director of Security, was a spurious substitution to deceive the Committee and the American electorate. Recruited from organized crime, CIA coached him to appear as the Edwards or Colonel Edwards who directed the early alleged attempts to assassinate Fidel Castro.

The real Edwards who collaborated with organized crime's hit man John Rosselli, his boss Sam Giancana and Robert Mahue, agent of Howard Hughes, oil tool billionaire, was E. Howard Hunt, Watergate burglar. Edwards was Hunt's CIA name. The CIA poisoned Sheffield Edwards after his appearance to prevent his recall and possible exposure as a fraud.

(10) John Rosselli accepted assassination orders from mob leader Giancana who accepted orders in turn from Meyer Lansky.

(11) Committee witness Rosselli was the hit man who shot Giancana with a special assassination weapon developed by CIA. He led the kidnapping and execution of James Hoffa, one time Teamsters' president -- even as your hearings progressed.

(12) Witness Robert Mahue executed the orders of Howard Hughes in contacting Rosselli to implement a domestic assassination capability through organized crime. Hughes issued orders to assassinate Premier Ngo Diem through Richard G. Danner, alias Gil Danner.

Danner precipitated the Hughes order to bug Laurence O'Brien's telephone in the Watergate complex by being caught forwarding a $100,000 payment on President Nixon's San Clemente and Key Biscayne homes for Hughes to the President's friend, Bebe Rebozo. Hughes suspected a plot by defector Mahue and O'Brien to blow the election for Nixon. "Gil" Danner was manager of the International Club in Saigon, owned by the U. S. Embassy. He represented Hughes' interest in the $51.8 billion racket managed by Michael Genovese.

(13) CIA in 1949 established a Domestic Intelligence Division for covert action within the White House, the Executive Departments, Congress, political parties and the media.

(14) The Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 was used as authorization for CIA to implement domestic covert actions through funding and personnel of domestic agencies of government. The Intelligence Directorate of CIA is cover for domestic covert actions in the agency itself.

I am sure you will agree that had your staff investigated and confirmed my counterintelligence during the year it has been available to you, the legislative remedies recommended by your preliminary report would have been found unacceptably weak by Committee, Congress and the American electorate. Please permit me to meet and serve you with counterintelligence input.

Encl: Letters to Sen. Ribicoff & Rep. Pike

Amos E. Heacock, llwio Copleyhorpe, Hyattsville, 20781, telephone 864-5353.