13 November group, which had recently engaged in guerrilla activity in Guatemala. The Cuban gave him $4,000 which he said was the first installment of a total of $10,000 to be used to establish a new guerrilla front in Guatemala. On 8 March, Castro's emissary gave the Guatemalans the balance of the $10,000 and told one of the 13 November leaders that the decision to provide them with the money was taken by Fidel Castro personally. Castro, he said, had sent instructions that the group did not have to account for how the money was spent, that no strings were attached, and that he hopes they are successful so he can provide them with additional assistance. Later the Cuban emissary met with leaders in Mexico of the orthodox Guatemalan Communist party. These Guatemalan Communists had apparently complained that the Cuban money was not going to them. They were told that Castro wanted the money to go to the 13 November group because this group had demonstrated its capacity to fight the Guatemalan government, a capacity which the Guatemalan Communists had not shown. The Cuban said: "It is not a matter of standing around with Arab fatalism waiting for events to take place--- We should act efficiently so as to precipitate the death of imperialism. Because of this we are ready to help anyone who may decide to struggle against imperialism anywhere."

Cuban propaganda media have sought through publicizing the activities of the 13 November group to increase its prestige and chances for success. A Prensa Latins reporter published an alleged interview with 13 November leader Yon Sosa.

Haiti: A cadre of Haitian Communists led by René Depeestre is resident in Cuba, and many thousands of Haitian citizens living in eastern Cuba are now being subjected to Communist regimentation and indoctrination.

Honduras: Prior to the break in Cuban-Honduran diplomatic relations in April 1961, Cuban personnel under the cover of consular and diplomatic offices engaged in proselyting in the north coast region of Honduras. Honduras now is the target of a particularly vicious regular radio program deemed especially to Honduras by Radio Havana. Many Hondurans are in Cuba under the "scholarship" program.

Mexico: The Cuban embassy in Mexico City, the consulate in Merida, and the "Cuban-Mexican Cultural Center" in Merida have all engaged in propaganda activities designed to encourage the pro-communist cause in Mexico, particularly the Communist-influenced National Liberation Movement (MLN). Former Cuban ambassador in Mexico Portuondo is reported by people in close contact with MLN leaders to have concluded an agreement whereby some of the money sent by Havana to cover the expense of the embassy is earmarked as a contribution to the MLN. Mexican officials were disturbed at the participation of Cuban embassy officials in inciting the anti-US demonstrations by Mexican students in July and August 1960. Mexican authorities have periodically impounded quantities of Cuban propaganda being sent through Mexico to other Latin American countries. The most important aspect of Mexico in Cuban propaganda and subversive operations in Latin America is its use by the Cubans as a way station or jumping off place between Cuba itself and the rest of Latin America.