Memorandum to Mr. Belmont Re: Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of Friendly Foreign Nations

65-63113

The foregoing information gives us an indication that Libya, Ethiopia, Sudan, Iran, and Saudi Arabia may possibly fall into Nasser's camp and become alienated from the West. Since we are on notice of these possibilities, it would be well for the Bureau to consider the desirability of instituting programs aimed at increasing our coverage of the diplomatic establishments of these countries. Such coverage would include the development of sources and informants where such coverage does not already exist and possibly the installation of technical coverage. Such action taken by us now would place us in a much better position since we would be gathering and disseminating data of vital interest to the U. S. before a possible coup or similar event took place. This, of course, would be much more desirable than to have us implement such programs after a coup or similar event took place.

Deputy Under Secretary Murphy has recently returned from a trip to the Middle East where he discussed the Middle East crisis with a number of individuals, including the leaders of various Arabian countries. Murphy is in a position to give us a first-hand account of what future moves can be anticipated from Nasser in Nasser's efforts to achieve Arabian unity through subversion and political maneuvering. Murphy can also furnish us with the identities of any other countries that might be brought into Nasser's sphere of influence.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

1. That our Department of State Liaison Representative contact Deputy Under Secretary of State Robert Murphy and obtain his observations, gathered as a result of his trip to the Middle East, as to what further moves can be anticipated from Nasser with regard to Libya, Sudan, Ethiopia, Iran, and Saudi Arabia, or any other African or Arabian country. Murphy should be advised that we desire to direct our intelligence coverage so as to obtain maximum benefit. His desires should be elicited as to whether technical coverage of any of the countries indicated should be instituted.