62-116395

November 28, 1975

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to SSC letter dated November 7, 1975, and specifically to Item 1 of an accompanying Document Request of same date which requested all materials contained in the files of William C. Sullivan pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr., and/or the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) which have not previously been made available to the Committee. Excluded from consideration in connection with this request were any portions containing transcripts or summaries or tapes of electronic surveillances of King.

The purpose of this memorandum is to effect delivery to the SSC of materials in response to Item 1 of the Document Request.

With respect to the excisions in materials being delivered herewith, where no notation appears as to reason for excision, the excision was made for the reason that the information actually summarizes or quotes from conversations monitored during electronic surveillances of King. In some cases it can be ascertained precisely what information in these materials came from electronic surveillances of King; however, there exist areas where documentation of the information is not precise and no accurate determination can be made. Therefore, no assurances can be given that portions of the materials being furnished do not contain information developed as a result of electronic surveillances of King.

In addition to materials not being furnished the SSC as stipulated by the SSC is a folder classified "Top Secret" bearing a label captioned "Communications Concerning Martin Luther King, Jr., Volume 1" which was located in the files of Mr. Sullivan. A review of that document indicates it contains information which could result in the identification of confi- dential sources of this Bureau; data obtained in connection with

PEN: adn adn (8)

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG

GPO : 1975 O - 569-920

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi- nation outside our Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by the Committee, and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person- nel without the express approval of the FBI.

MAIL ROOM [ ] TELETYPE UNIT [ ]

ENCLASURS

NW 88296 DocId:32989550 Page 143