SECRET ARMY ORGANIZATION

GENERAL HEADQUARTERS

Dear Fellow American,

Enclosed with this letter is your Preliminary Training Program. This first program is only a brief outline of some of the material that will be covered in later programs. There are four basic programs used by the Secret Army Organization: Intelligence, Security, Propaganda, and Recruiting, in that order. Each program will cost the new member $3.00 and will take between one to three weeks to complete.

The correspondence training program serves a number of purposes, but the two major purposes are:

1. It lets us know which members of the organization have the patience and determination to finish assignments given them.

2. It lets us be certain that the members have the necessary basic training in intelligence, security, etc., which is essential to almost any important task which we could assign a member in underground warfare.

Proper training in these four basic skills is absolutely essential for every member of an underground army. A member may be an expert in survival techniques, use of weapons, urban warfare tactics and all the rest but experience has shown that without these other basic skills they seldom do much fighting - they just commit suicide.

For those of you who wish to become active and trusted members of the Secret Army Organization, let us emphasize again that the quickest way of doing so is to begin and diligently complete the basic training programs.

After you have completed the five work projects listed in the Preliminary Training Program send $3.00 in to your regular mail drop and we will send you the first training program on Intelligence. In view of the urgent situation we now face some of our new members may receive special assignments after having completed the first two training programs. If this happens please try to redouble your efforts so that your special assignments can be taken care of while continuing to complete your regular training program.

SECRET ARMY ORGANIZATION

33

NW 88296 DocId:32989574 Page 532