5. On the other hand, CIA could use this situation as a way to highlight the problems HRG has had with the JFK review process - that documents are being reviewed and released to the National Archives in such quantity and speed that it is difficult for CIA to focus on any one document and, more importantly, how seemingly innocuous information in one document can actually be quite significant in relation to prior or subsequent releases. Since September, when this cable was originally released, the issue of protecting Mexican liaison has become increasingly important because of other releases on this subject and because of your appearance before the Board in February.

6. Furthermore, this prior release should not impair our ability to continue to protect the fact of Mexican involvement in this tel-tap operation. Although we have argued to the Board that this phrase "with Mexicans" gives that relationship away, the cable does not, in fact, directly do so. In fact, the reason for the Board's insistence that this phrase should be released was the very fact that the cable did NOT directly state that the Mexican's were involved in the tel-tap. We should be able to use their arguments to continue to protect the liaison relationship.

7. Our only recourse is to acknowledge to the Board that CIA has no basis to bring an appeal to the President since this cable has already been released in full. We should, however, maintain our position that we believe this information is damaging especially in light of releases to National Archives since September, and that we never would have acquiesced to the release in September if we knew then what would be released on this subject in the ensuing months. Although this message does not necessarily need to be conveyed by you to Tunheim and could be handled by John Pereira and David Marwell, given your past dealings with the Board on this issue, you may prefer to do this.

8. In order to avoid problems like this in the future, HRG is immediately dedicating several personnel to the task of reviewing boxes of documents and determining what our releases have been on sensitive subjects. HRG will also be double checking documents going to the Board to make sure that no duplicates of prior releases are being sent. You should be aware, however, that there is only a rudimentary CIA computer index listing our releases and that it is impossible to do accurate computer searches about our releases on specific subjects. Although HRG personnel are extremely knowledgeable on what has been released, with over 220,000 CIA documents currently in the collection, it is suprising that mistakes like this have not happened more often, and no absolute assurances can be given again.

CC: