SAMUEL ADASON JAFFE

Jaffe's Difficulties with ABC and CIA

Jaffe indicated he believed his recall by ABC from Hong Kong was caused by or influenced by an agency or agencies of the United States Government. He indicated he was told by a British Intelligence contact in Hong Kong that he was recalled because he refused to cooperate with CIA in Hong Kong. Jaffe said he recently mentioned this to a CIA contact in Washington, D.C., and was told the British Intelligence representative " had no right to tell you this."

Jaffe stated he also was told by other contacts that British Intelligence was investigating him and desired to know as much as possible about him; however, British Intelligence had not initiated the inquiry, but was obtaining the information for another organization.

Jaffe also indicated he was concerned that a recent publication had falsely reported that he was a member of a left wing organization. Jaffe then stated: "I would like to get this thing cleaned up. I feel that I have been pulled back here."

Jaffe was advised that the FBI had absolutely nothing to do with his return to the United States from Hong Kong and did not have any contact with ABC with regard to him. He was also told that it is difficult to understand why he had not previously advised the FBI of some of the information concerning his activities in Russia which he has now related. Jaffe said he felt that he had told the FBI enough but admitted he had not furnished complete information concerning his activities in Russia, including the warning by "Slava" concerning the KGB defector. He admitted the FBI had a right to expect him to do so. He continued: "I was afraid of this guy. I was damn interested and curious - he was an intense man - someone who gave me more information than I gave him. I was afraid I might meet with an automobile accident." Jaffe said he did not tell the FBI "everything because with that guy - I was scared. I am not on their side in any way. There are a lot of things wrong with it, but I love it (the United States) - I try to be middle of the road - I have been in Vietnam - I am not a Soviet spy and not a Communist. I was frightened. This man was a very threatening man. This man could have killed. He felt that strong about the old country - Stalin - I think he was as vicious as Semichastnyy and Shelepin (former Chairmen of the KGB) - I went up (and talked) to them. Semichastnyy said, 'Yes, I know you. What do you want?' " Jaffe explained this occurred at a reception.