UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams

FROM : Legal Counsel

SUBJECT: PROPOSED PROCEDURES FOR ACCESS TO FBI MATERIALS BY THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

DATE: 7/24/75

1 - Mr. Wannall 1 - Mr. Cregar 1 - Mr. Hotis Attn: Mr. Daly 1 - Mr. Mintz

On the afternoon of July 24, 1975, K. William O'Connor, Special Counsel in the Department, met with Deputy Associate Director Adams and me to present us with a copy of the proposed procedures and to discuss any amendments the Bureau might request. I asked Mr. O'Connor who had approved this latest draft of the proposed procedures and he said that they had been tentatively approved by the Attorney General and the White House. I specifically asked him who in the White House had approved them and he said that they had been approved by Mr. Buchen (Counsel to the President).

Mr. Adams and I discussed the procedures with Mr. O'Connor and suggested to him as indicated by my inked notation on the bottom of page 2A that the word "use" used in subparagraph (d) should be further defined by a footnote that would specify the limitations on information to be provided the Committee and its staff concerning the identities of persons to whom the FBI has undertaken an obligation of confidentiality. Mr. O'Connor agreed to the proposed change and in our presence telephonically communicated with John Elliff and obtained his concurrence in the amendment to sub-paragraph (d).

REC-102

Mr. Adams told Mr. O'Connor that the FBI was not agreeing to the procedures in substance but that we recognized the authority of the Attorney General in these matters and would abide by his decision that the proposed procedures would be implemented on agreement by the Committee. Mr. O'Connor said he understood that and he advised John Elliff that the Bureau had acquiesced in the proposed procedures with the one amendment described above. Mr. O'Connor departed indicating that he was going to proceed to meet with the Committee and obtain final agreement as to the text of the proposed procedures. The draft of the procedures is attached for the Director's information.

JUL 30 1975

ENCLOSURE

Enc.

8 AUG(5)9 1975

LEVEL

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 88326-DocId:32989627 Page 111