RE: DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES POLICY IN VIETNAM; WASHINGTON, D.C., JANUARY-15, 1968

The Washington Cultural Cooperative, which operates the Co-op Bookstore, is characterized in the appendix.

The source went on to say CP member CORR, a Negro, had a display of Negro dolls which she was selling to raise funds to send to the South "to help fight the battle there."

Opening remarks at the meeting were along socialistic lines, according to the source. The principal speaker said capitalism is a rich-man's democracy, while socialism has democracy for the working man.

The group then separated into workshops on such topics as welfare, schools, law, young people, working women, and draft resistance... When these smaller groups reassembled, after lunch, some of the delegates to the Jeannette Rankin Brigade affair at Washington, D. C. gave short talks. The speakers included HALONEN, HEALY, CORR, ROBEL, and CASSIDY from Tacoma, all of whom have been characterized before as CP members. Most of the five spoke as mothers who did not want their sons to go away to fight a rich man's war. They stated wars had not proved anything in the past and had been run by men. Now the women should come to the front and tell the men they are not raising their sons for cannon fodder. The group attending the welfare workshop presented a resolution in support of a black women's lochy to Olympia (the capital of Washington State). A heated debate arose between some of the white women present and three Negroes. The latter contended that the white women did not know what the black women had been through. One white woman then stated this was wrong and that the Negro women were trying to associate themselves from other women who had fought equally as hard as the Negroes. CP members HULL, HEALY, and MANGAANG cautioned all present to be united, remembering these differences had been built up over hundreds of years and that one meeting would not solve all the difficulties but could be a start in solving them. They indicated it was a healthy sign when they could argue openly and not behind each others backs.

Reproductions of two leaflets distributed at the meeting are set out following the Brigade literature.