STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memi andum • UNITED ST. ES GOVERNMENT

TO : A. H. Belmont DATE: May 29, 1959

FROM : S. B. Donahoe McGuire Mohr Parsons Rosen Tamm Trotter W.C. Sullivan Tele. Room Holloman Gandy

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE COVERAGE OF FRIENDLY FOREIGN COUNTRIES

We have controlled program designed to develop live sources in diplomatic establishments of countries outside Soviet bloc aimed at producing investigative and intelligence data on countries drifting toward Soviet bloc and on "trouble spot" countries where revolutionary or other activity has widespread international implications (such as Middle East crisis, Cuban revolution, Panamanian invasion, etc.). Program has paid off in sound benefits.

Recognizing delicacy of contacting and developing such sources and close interrelationship with problems of international relations and developments we consult State Department regularly on our objectives and intentions. For example, when we feel a particular country is logical target for development of sources in their establishments in U.S. we clear with State to be certain they agree and to insure that we are not running into risky foreign policy situation. If they agree to country as target we then clear with State on each investigation of potential source relating to that country. Providing investigation favorable we then go back again to obtain clearance from State for interview with potential source. These initial interviews are conducted under pretext with idea of assessing their attitude, stability, cooperativeness, etc. We then decide whether to go back and actually solicit cooperation in furnishing data.

We are running into problem here in that after State has cleared country as target and has cleared individual investigations they are too often declining clearance for interviews on basis potential results not commensurate with risk involved. This failure to clear final step after passing on risk aspect twice before results in wasteful expenditure of investigative time and these turndowns at this point are bound to have initiative-destroying effect on field offices.

We have been dealing with Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs in State which lacks real authority in this regard and must go back to geographical desks which are super-cautious, have no real concept of intelligence objectives, and tend to turn down interview s unnecessarily.

REC. 84

IN JUL 1 1959

60 JUL 6 1959

NW 88613 DocId:32199554 Page 879

65-63113