(B) During the first contact, the interviewing Agent will introduce himself as a Special Agent of the FBI by use of credentials or badge and will open the conversation by using an appropriate pretext or by reciting the Bureau's responsibilities in the security field and asking the subject whether he can be of assistance to the Government. If the individual has been a member of a basic revolutionary organization and indicates he might cooperate, he may be questioned during the initial contact about his own activities in order to further ascertain the extent to which he will cooperate. This original interview is for the sole purpose of allowing the Agent to determine whether the individual being interviewed might be cooperative.

(e) Prior Bureau authority

I. Subjects of active current investigations where no interview with prior Bureau authority has previously been conducted

II. Closed cases where the subject is on the security index and no prior interview has been conducted

III. Subjects of investigations requested by the Bureau, both open and closed, such as applicant-type cases, loyalty cases, etc.

IV. Any persons where circumstances indicate a delicate situation exists and a greater than usual risk is involved, such as individuals employed in the newspaper field, educational field, radio and television industry, religious field, publishing houses, labor leaders, and the like. Bureau authority must be requested with respect to situations of this kind even though prior interviews have been had with these interviewees.

V. Security subjects who have publicly disclosed previous contacts

[VI. Subjects of section A reserve index cards]

In any of the above cases, no report need be submitted when requesting Bureau authority to interview a subject of a security investigation except those persons under IV above. This does not relieve you of the responsibility of submitting reports in security cases when due; for example, annual reports in routine security index cases and six-month reports in key figure cases.

VII. Letters requesting Bureau authority for the interview must contain the following information, if available:

(A) Residence address, occupation, employment and race of subject, date and place of birth, citizenship, and status of health

(B) Marital status. If married, the occupation, employment, and race of the spouse.

(C) Length of time subject a member of or affiliated with subversive organizations and positions he held in such organizations. In cases in which investigation is based on some allegation or circumstances of a security nature other than membership in or affiliation with subversive organizations, facts upon which investigation is predicated should be briefly set forth.

(D) If married, information indicating the spouse is or has been a member of or affiliated with subversive groups, the position held in such groups, and the length of time of such membership or affiliation

7-15-60

NW 88321 DocID:32989529 Page 896