it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such a government, and to provide new guards for their future security.

POLITICS AND THE BLACK COMMUNITY

The Black Panther Party program and platform is a result of the an- alysis that the Party, and especially its leader, Huey Newton, has made of the nature of politics in America.

The way to political change is through power. This is the nature of the black power movement exemplified by Stokeley Carmichael in that term. What does this mean? Huey Newton has said that politics is war without bloodshed and that war is an extension of politics with bloodshed. The reason that the Reconstruction attempt to put blacks into office from the South failed was because the black legislators, intelligent, well-educated men, had no powerful constituency behind them. If you represent a powerless group in the legislature, then you wield no power. What is a powerful group? According to Minister of Defense, Newton, a powerful group is one which, if it doesn't get what it wants, can deliver a consequence. There are several ways in which this kind of power is obtained. One way is to own the land. This is feudal power. It is exercised by farmers who, when they do not get what they want, can let the crops rot in the field. This is the kind of consequence that rates attention and action. The second way of gaining power is economic: ownership of the businesses. In America the slaves were freed with the promise, by the Freedmen's Bureau, of forty acres and two mules. Had this promise been fulfilled, the black man would have had land power and the ability to inflict a a consequence. The promise, of course, was never fulfilled.

What about businesses? The businesses in the black community are owned by the white man. Thus, even the economic boycott is difficult because there are not sufficient black-owned businesses to serve as and alternative center for purchasing basic needed goods.

To ask the blacks to redress their grievances by running for office does not pose a realistic solution. It is true that members of the Black Panther Party - Huey Newton for Congress in the 7th Congressional District - Bobby Scale for Assembly in the 17th As- sembly District in Alameda County - and Kathleen LCleaver for As- sembly in the 18th Assembly District in San Francisco - are running for office on the Peace and Freedom Party ticket, but this is only to have a forum to articulate the grievances of the black community. Why? Because as stated above the black politician without a power- ful constituency just warms a chair in the legislature.

If the black community cannot gain economic or land-power, how can they hone to have changes of their conditions? Minister of Defense Huey Newton says that the only other source of power left is that of the ability to inflict destruction as a consequence. Thus, the black people must arm in a political fashion. The black people must be able to deal with the occupation police forces in their communities when they are attacked. The alternative is to have the police chosen by the black community, live in the black community, and serve the needs of the black community as that community sees them. This would mean that the police would no longer act merely to defend the interests of the white businessman and swumlord.

However, the blacks do not limit themselves to discussion of power

NW 88613 Decd:32199554