20 EXPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back. Account for periods of under-employment in separate blocks in order.)

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? .................................... Yes No (A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

4 Dates of employment (months, year) 9/75 From 8/74 To PRESENT TIME Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military grade

Legal Secretary

Avg. hrs. per week Place of employment City: Washington Number and kind of employees supervised Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.) Law Firm

10,500 per Yr. 37-1⁄2 State: D.C.

Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

JoAnna McAtee Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin &amp; Kahn

Area Code and phone No. if known 1815 "H" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Reason for wanting to leave laid off

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Legal Secretary to several attorneys in the firm, in areas of litigation, real estate, tax, labor, Federal Communications-took dictation, wrote letters of general correspondence, kept records, typed briefs, proposals, etc. Telephone communications with clients and other firms, etc.

(THE NEXT THREE JOBS LISTED BELOW WERE COURSE RELATED WHILE ATTENDING STRAYER COLLEGE)

5 Dates of employment (months, year) From 11/73 To 8/74 Exact title of position If Federal service, civilian or military grade

Secretary

Avg. hrs. per week Place of employment City: Washington Number and kind of employees supervised Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.) Secretarial Service

4.50 per hr. 20 State: D.C. 0

Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Clara, Bob Temporaries, Inc., 1015 -18th Street, N.W.

Area Code and phone No. if known Washington, D.C.

Reason for leaving temporary job

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Gained experienced in working with many law firms in the area as Legal, Executive, Statistical and Technical Secretary on short-term assignments