what, if anything, TANNENBAUM actually did in connection with his being admitted to the United States, as the matter, to his knowledge, was handled by a Czechoslovakian Refugee Committee in New York City.

CERVENY went on to state that after he moved to Denver he did not see TANNENBAUM again until March 13, 1969, when she called him on the telephone and suggested he come to her residence at 248 Logan Street, where his uncle was also visiting her. He stated when he arrived at her house, his uncle seemed depressed and upset over the fact that he was having marital difficulties with HANA, and that the marriage would probably terminate in divorce. He stated the purpose of his being invited to TANNENBAUM's residence appeared to emanate from a desire of his uncle to see him, but that nothing of importance occurred during the visit.

Following the disappearance of his uncle on March 15, 1969, he stated TANNENBAUM commenced asking him over to her house on the pretense of checking up on his immigrant status; however, it became immediately apparent that the principal purpose of these invitations was an attempt on the part of TANNENBAUM to have sexual relations with him. He pointed out there were times when he entered her residence when she would be partially unclothed, would attempt to sit on his lap, sit close to him while watching television, or would openly suggest that they go to her bedroom for the purpose of having sexual intercourse. CERVENY stated TANNENBAUM was physically repulsive to him, and that he would find an immediate excuse to leave when she commenced making sexual advances to him.

During the period when he was visiting the TANNENBAUM residence, CERVENY advised she suggested that she adopt him, and actually started adoption proceedings through an attorney in Denver, STEPHEN L. R. MC NICHOLS, JR.; however, he stated he had no desire whatsoever to go through with this, and told TANNENBAUM so. He stated it was about this time that he began to suspect that TANNENBAUM had no connection with Military Intelligence or had any influence over his immigration status.

He stated that in May, 1969, he desired to go to Toronto, Canada, to attend a wedding of some Czechoslovakian friends, and he inquired of TANNENBAUM if such would be legal for him to do. He stated she told him there was nothing for him to worry about; however, she suggested he consult with Immigration authorities in Denver regarding this trip. According to CERVENY, TANNENBAUM accompanied him to the Federal Building in Denver, but refused to end the immigration process unless he could give an excuse that she did not want them to leave. The following day, CERVENY called to tell his care, to which he responded:

NWH 88326. Docid:32989603 Page 163