Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

Re: INTELLIGENCE COVERAGE OF FRIENDLY FOREIGN COUNTRIES

65-63113

only investigative data but also intelligence information of value to us and other agencies in guiding policy and making decisions. The Bureau is expected to produce intelligence data and we can anticipate criticism as well as operational moves by other agencies to fill the vacuum if our operations do not produce necessary intelligence. Sound source programs are based on long-range planning and require forward thinking to get results. Scrambling for sources in reactions to problems would constitute a most undesirable substitute and give rise to justified criticism in a field where the Bureau takes pride in excelling.

Intermittent Phases and Tie In with Other Programs.

While captioned program currently follows three principal facets, as described hereinbefore, as the need arises we institute special types of coverage for some particular purposes.

EXCISED AS IT REFERS TO A PECULIARLY SENSITIVE FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE OPERATION

Another example of instituting special coverage on a need basis relates to a series of burglaries of foreign official establishments and residences which cropped up last summer in Washington and New York City. On 7-31-58 we alerted New York and Washington Field Offices to the possibility that the illegal entries may have been for something other than criminal purposes and instructed that these incidents be followed closely with local police authorities. We checked with the Central Intelligence Agency and were advised that Agency was not involved directly or indirectly. Through our coverage of various precincts of the local police departments, we have found that all but one of these Burglaries have appeared to have been for criminal purposes; the one exception relates to the burglary of the residence of an Indian official in Washington. We are continuing follow the latter incident with the police in an effort to determine an intelligence operation was involved.

(65-63113-112, 118, 119, 123, 125, 127)