10. Transfer of informants to other areas

Keep alert to possibility of transferring informants to areas needing coverage through change in residence or employment.

Keep in mind overall coverage of organizations. If informant becomes prominent and may be able to expand his field of activity beyond your field division, encourage him to do so in order to provide wider coverage for Bureau's work.

11. Action by informant when uncovered

If informant is uncovered by subversive elements, instruct him to defend himself vigorously and demand proof of his informant activity.

Suspicion in many cases is directed to an informant without facts to back it up and by bluffing informant may confuse issue to point where his services may not be lost.

In some cases it may be necessary for informant to acquiesce to charges of deviation from strict discipline of organization involved, and thus cast off suspicion.

12. Requests of informant to help defend others

If requested by Communist Party, or other interested parties to assist in preparation of defense in subversive-type cases or handle assignment where such information is readily available, informant should tactfully decline.

Such requests should be reported immediately to contacting Agent and made matter of record.

If informant cannot avoid becoming involved, instruct him not to report any information pertaining to defense plans or strategy.

Promptly report any such incident to Bureau.

Preparation for testifying

Contacting Agent must condition informant to fact that someday knowledge he possesses may be needed as evidence in court. Psychologically prepare informant for fact that he may at future date be called upon to testify to information he has furnished on security matters: Proper indoctrination of informant is essential as Bureau must provide witnesses whenever Department initiates prosecutions in security cases.

G. INFORMANTS' INFORMATION

1. General instructions re oral and written information

These instructions apply to security informants, potential security informants, panel sources, security confidential sources, and security sources of information.

Specific instructions must be given to informants concerning preparation of statements containing their information.

They should be submitted as quickly as possible after meeting or activity.

Written statements should be submitted when possible. In espionage and foreign nationality matters written statements are usually necessary only in those instances involving possible future prosecution. (In the majority of cases diplomats or officials who are not subject to prosecution are involved.)

Carefully scrutinize each, bearing in mind that if informant is called upon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely be introduced in court.

All information furnished by informants must be promptly reviewed, recorded, indexed, evaluated, channelized, and all necessary action taken. Form FD-306 may be used in lieu of channelizing memorandum if desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed for channelizing and staple one copy to each copy of informant's statement being channelized. Channelization should be noted on original FD-306 and on all copies. When informant's statement contains references to large number of individuals and/or organizations, and exceeds two pages, consider channelizing to substantive case file only those portions of statement which apply to particular individual or organization. Of course, entire statement should be filed in informant's subfile. This procedure should be employed unless logical reason dictates otherwise.