EVENTS LEADING TO RECRUITMENT

Charles W. Wiley first came to the official attention of the Office of Security (OS) on 9 September 1955, when Carl F. Heney (Executive Officer, OS) forwarded a letter written by Wiley to Ermal Geiss (Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS), who in turn directed the letter to James W. McCord [Security Research Staff of the Office of Security (SRS)]. How Heney obtained the Wiley letter is unknown, inasmuch as the name of the addressee was deleted in the letter. However, the letter was recorded in the Executive Registry under number 6-9881. The Wiley letter is dated 27 April 1955, gives Wiley's address and telephone number, and Wiley advised that he was working on an index of the Daily Worker for the years 1933-1945 "and thought that perhaps you might be interested in specific information that I am likely to find."

On 10 September 1955, James W. McCord contacted Wiley in Flushing, New York. At that time, Wiley explained the nature of the index of the Daily Worker for the years 1933-1945, by stating that he was preparing the index under a grant from the American Legion Americanism Committee, headed by Lee Pennington (a former employee of the FBI). Wiley started the index in November 1954. Wiley stated he contacted the major government agencies in Washington to ascertain what information in the Daily Worker would be of most interest to them, and in addition, contacted a couple of Congressional Committees which McCord surmised were the House Committee on Un-American Activities and the Senate Internal Security Committee. Wiley estimated it would take two and a half years to complete the index. At that time, Wiley was receiving part-time clerical assistance from the Women's Auxiliary of the American Legion Post in Flushing, New York. Wiley also indicated an interest in Agency employment after finishing the index.

The results of McCord's interview with Wiley were brought to the attention of Robert Bannerman, Deputy Director of Security, by 21 November 1955, when Bannerman opined that "this may be valuable."

RECEIVED FROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

HW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 5