SECOND WOMENS NATIONAL ABORTION ACTION CONFERENCE

5:00 to 7:00-p.m. was 7:00 to 10:00 p.m.

Dinner! Assembly plenum. General Assembly, Discussly and Vote on Strategy Pro- posals

Sunday, February 13, 1972

erts presented the credentials report

8:00-9:00 a.m. additional Organizational Workshops 4:00-6:00 p.m. composing General Assembly Workshop 1:00-4:00 p.m. Roberts advised geographic and Implementational Proposals The source advised that the following women are members of SWP-YSA, and were appointed to the presiding committee for the purpose of chairing various sessions: Carol Lipman, Nancy Rosenstock, Delphine Welch and Matilde Zimmerman. She will be composers represented, if any, in this program. The source advised that a general workshop was being chaired by Matilde Zimmerman from 11:00 to 11:30 a.m., in which proposals were discussed that would be submitted to the conference for adoption by WONAC and it consisted of a group made up of approximately 30 women, each meeting in various classes. The source advised that the afternoon session between 2:30 and 5:00 p.m. consisted of small groups meeting in various classrooms at Boston University, including the following work- shops:

National Legislation for Abortion

State Legislation for abortion - Campus and High School Actions: or abortion, action in favor of - Court actions, etc. (such as might result from this week's world) - Forced Sterilization programs, legislative support, judicial Clinics, Referrals in local or regional demon- strations - Anti-abortion Attacks on the defense, for repeal of all anti-marital Gay Women - and reproductive health, and an end to working Women - Black, Chicano and Asian-American Women - The Abortion Movement and Racism, especially Women, who are contraception - Population Control Versus A Woman's Right to Choose

NWW 88321 DoctID:32989545 Page 101

3:13am

NO TENTATIVE TO BE RECIPIED BY ANY MEANS OR by any OTHER MEANS, whether by oral or written form, by telephone or in writing, including electronic means such as e-mail, instant message text, orFacsimile transmission, or any other means of communication or delivery of this document. This document is intended only for the personal use of the addressee and may not be used or distributed without the written consent of the addressee. Any person found to have received this document in error or made any use of it without authority shall be responsible for all possible consequences.