Re: NWPC Policy Council Meeting

As the youth organization of the SWP, the YSA serves as the main source of recruitment into that organization. The YSA is described in the masthead of its official publication, "The Young Socialist Organizer," as "a multinational revolutionary socialist youth organization."

During the council meeting on June 24, 1972, Mary Clarke, who is associated with the Southern California WPC, an affiliate of the NWPC, advised a group of policy-council members that WONAAC had been using the Southern California WPC name as an endorser of WONAAC. Clarke also stated that WONAAC had passed out propaganda at a caucus rally in California and were very effective at taking control of small gatherings.

The Chairwoman from Nassau County in New York, whose name was not recalled, defended WONAAC stating that "they were a good group". This woman's position was not supported and, in general, WONAAC literature was not accepted by those persons present. Jill Ruckelshaus, a new member of the Policy Council, is reportedly concerned about the SWP's attempts to align itself with the abortion movement and will be using her newly gained position to fight SWP attempts at control of local WPC groups.

The NWPC organizing brochure published by the NWPC has been written to assist individual WPC groups in organizing. The brochure lists political parties and para-political organizations to be contacted by caucus organizers when forming the nucleus of a WPC. Among those listed was the SWP. After discussions at the caucus it was determined that the SWP should be removed from the list. The new edition of the WPC organizing brochure will not list the SWP; it has been replaced by National Peace Action Coalition (NPAC).

The NPAC was founded in 1970 by members of the SWP. Its basic objective is to unite masses of people including labor unions, GIs, and the black community in the struggle to end United States intervention in Southeast Asia through orderly and peaceful tactics.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.