Personal interviews are scheduled with employers, supervisors, and work associates to verify and obtain pertinent details for all employments in the investigative period. Particular care is taken also to verify the fact of unemployment or self-employment claimed by the subject of investigation.

The last period of education at a college level is always verified by a check of the school records. Secondary education is investigated when the subject is young and has had no subsequent schooling. Personal interviews are conducted with witnesses such as professors and former students who were associated with the subject during recent schooling.

Neighborhood investigation is regularly conducted to cover residence during the most recent three years. Testimony of neighbors before that period may be sought to verify periods of unemployment or self-employment, or to resolve questionable matters which have been raised from other sources.

The number of witnesses interviewed cannot be reduced to a formula but in each case depends upon the diversity of the subject's experience and places of residence, as well as upon the depth of knowledge shown by witnesses concerning the subject's character, habits, and background. The objective of the investigation is to obtain a comprehensive and well-rounded picture of the individual's background and activities.

Matters Covered in Full Field Investigations

Basically, full-field investigations are designed to develop sufficient information to enable agency security officials to determine the fitness of persons entering critical-sensitive positions. Fitness includes both security and suitability elements.

Character, habits, morals, and reputation are investigated generally. Loyalty is particularly stressed and if a question is raised concerning the subject's loyalty the case is referred to the Federal Bureau of Investigation in accordance with Section 8 (d) of Executive Order 10450. Particular attention is directed to such matters as immorality, habitual use of intoxicants to excess, lack of integrity, dismissals from employment, arrests, financial responsibility, and health.