Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall Re: Senstudy 75

recognized that certain aspects of intelligence activities must receive special consideration and treatment (a copy of Colby's letter is attached). By letter dated 3/12/75, Senator Church confirmed the receipt of Colby's letter and again stated that in the event the SSC inquiry touches on such sensitive areas, Senator Church and Colby should discuss jointly what procedures should be followed (copy of Senator Church's letter is attached).

Following the meeting Mr. Wilderotter advised me that the White House will prepare a letter to Senator Church recognizing that Congress can, at its discretion, declassify material it receives but strongly urging that such declassification action not be taken unilaterally by the Senate Select Committee without the approval of the agency originating the information. Wilderotter stated that the White House expected to speak for the Executive Branch with a strong voice and that individual agencies should take no action regarding the Church statement until the White House has had the opportunity to clear the air with Senator Church.

SECRECY AGREEMENT AND EMPLOYEE NOTICE

Attached is a copy of a CIA employee bulletin dated 3/12/75. This bulletin relieves CIA employees from the secrecy agreement should they be interviewed or should they have to testify before the SSC. At the EXCOM meeting Mr. Wilderotter suggested all agencies of the intelligence community employing a secrecy agreement prepare such an employee notice as well as a letter to Senator Church advising him that the individual agency was relieving their employees from the secrecy agreement. Mr. Colby charged the Security Committee of the United States Intelligence Board (USIB) with preparing a draft of such a bulletin and letter for the guidance of member agencies and departments.

It is the opinion of Assistant Director Mintz concurred by the Intelligence Division that a general letter to all employees from the Director releasing them from their obligation under the FBI employment agreement concerning secrecy for purposes of possible interviews by representatives of the Senate