MM 105-2234

In view of the relative inactivity of subject at this time insofar as Cuban revolutionary matters are concerned, no further investigation is being conducted, and this case is being closed. Should subject subsequently emerge as an active leader in anti-CASTRO activities, his case will be re-opened, and investigation conducted concerning his activities, and the Bureau will be advised.

On August 1, 1961, WILLIAM HERRINGTON, CIA covert representative, Miami, Florida, informed that CIA had an operational interest in subject during the Cuban invasion in April, 1961. HERRINGTON said that while there is no interest in subject at the present time, CIA still has an operational interest in subject's son, whom he identified as SANTIAGO ALVAREZ.

HERRINGTON indicated that CIA did have considerable operational interest in subject's yacht, the "Alisan", but that there is no interest at the present time. HERRINGTON indicated he would advise the FBI at Miami if CIA develops any further interest in subject.

Miami indices contained a communication from JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF, CIA representative, under date of February 7, 1961, which, among other things, identified subject as a former Cuban senator who had collaborated on matters relating to the publication from time to time called "Esbirros". This information, according to CIA, came from a usually reliable source. Communication was classified "secret".

An investigation by the Miami Office of "Esbirros" disclosed it was a two or three-page mimeographed "scandal sheet" directed against the Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD), as well as all other groups and individuals both pro and anti-FIDEL CASTRO, according to MM 492-S. It was noted that many individuals, anti-CASTRO and anti-communist, had accused many other individuals of printing "Esbirros", which had resulted in the paper not being printed or published in January, 1961. This paper received very limited distribution, and it was not believed it had been printed in December, 1960.

-COVER PAGE

HW 50953 DocId:32313744 Page 2

CIA INFO(S) 2.3 AND-82. wmp) Casino AND OSMAN MORRIS P.D.C.A.S.: FRED ARE LM. OND: "huts" (CAYE-MO-144726) SRA-85 A/CL - /Sto-21-326

M(M)