C-0-N-F-I-D-E-H-T-I-A-L NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Ecuador REPORT NO. 00-D-321/37919-67

SUBJECT Factors Bearing on the Economic and Political Front/Assessment of Insurgent Capability DATE DIST. 10 Jan 68

NO PAGES-1

REFERENCES CTRL C-007-53900 (356)

DATE OF INFO. Dec 67 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ Ecuador/4 Dec 67 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US national, official of a US firm engaged in providing commercial services to private industry and government. He travels frequently and has contacts among business executives and government officials.

[This report was developed by an AFM Air Force representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1. During a recent business trip to Ecuador I had occasion to visit and converse with several business executives and government officials. Through conversation with business colleagues I gained the information presented below.

2. The business community is in complete harmony with the administration of President Otto Aroscemena Gomez. The efforts of the present government to encourage foreign business investment is considered to be the biggest plus on the side of the current administration. Evidence of the efforts made by the government and the success achieved is demonstrated by the joint venture of two major oil companies, Texaco and Gulf, in drilling for new oil deposits. Agreements were reached between the government and the oil companies for prospective drilling in an area northeast of Quito, approximately 30 minutes by helicopter. The first four holes resulted in four oil producing wells. This strike is considered the richest since the Venezuelan strike. The government is presently being flooded with requests for permits to continue oil explorations in the area. The requests are coming from US, Japanese and West German films.

3. President Aroscemena is in firm control of the party, and all elements of his political machine. He would like very much to continue as President. The desire of Aroscemena to continue as President takes on more meaning when consideration is given to the possibility that Jose Maria Velasco Tejarra may again be elected President. The business community does not look favorably on this possibility but most businesses are quick to concede that Velasco has the inside track at this time.

4. There is no evidence of insurgent capability by any group at the present time, Guerrilla activity is practically nonexistent and is not considered a problem area for the Army or the government.

=end=

INFO FOR VELASCO NOT RELEVANT TO THE CURRENT INFO AVAILABLE IN THE DOCUMENTS

U C-0-N-F-I-D-E-H-T-I-A-L S