(5) In evaluating this type of case, carefully consider the nature and activities of the front organization in behalf of the Communist Party or other revolutionary organizations throughout the country or in a certain area.

Special training in a subversive movement

(1) Training in the Lenin School or in a subversive movement abroad

(2) Leadership training in one of the basic revolutionary organizations mentioned above

Military service

(1) Service in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade. Membership in one of the basic revolutionary organizations is not a prerequisite to initiating investigations in this category.

(2) Service in the military forces of any country, including the U. S. armed forces or the Office of Strategic Services whenever there is an allegation that an individual has been a member of one of the basic revolutionary organizations at any time

Employment in key facilities

Investigate the activities of any individual employed in or having access to a key facility who is alleged to have been at any time in the past a member of any basic revolutionary organization or against whom sufficient other subversive information is known.

Other individuals with revolutionary beliefs

Individuals who, because of anarchist or revolutionary beliefs, are likely to seize upon the opportunity presented by a national emergency to endanger the public safety and welfare. Membership or affiliation in basic revolutionary or front groups is not a prerequisite to initiating investigations of this type. Use sound judgment and discretion in this evaluation.

Falling within the above category are members of the Nation of Islam. When it is known or becomes known that this organization is active in the field office territory, a security-type investigation of all individuals who are reported to be (1) functionaries or leaders of the Nation of Islam, or (2) active participants carrying out fanatical and disloyal aims of the organization should be initiated. Investigations should not be initiated based on mere membership alone.

During the course of security investigations of individuals affiliated with the Nation of Islam, be alert for any information indicating a possible violation of the Selective Service Act of 1948.

The above standards for institutions of investigations of individuals are not to be interpreted as all-inclusive. Where there is doubt an individual may be a current threat to the internal security of the nation, the question should be resolved in the interest of security and investigation conducted.

The categories specified as a through f above are to be distinguished from