B. FBI LAW ENFORCEMENT BULLETIN

This publication is issued the first of each month by the Bureau for the benefit of law enforcement agencies.

Contents

Foreword by the Director

Interesting case write-ups

Articles which might assist law enforcement officers

Deleted

Distribution

Limited to law enforcement officers and others engaged in or having a legitimate interest in law enforcement work

Filing and indexing

In a 66 classification file, bound on the side, and fully indexed. Informative matter to be indexed under subject matter. For uniformity, the Bureau is to forward by routing slip to all divisions each month an indexing list of the basic and pertinent items to be indexed. Index cards are to be prepared by each office. Any additional items not listed but considered to be worthy of indexing by a particular office should also be indexed. The indexing lists are to be destroyed after the field office inspection by FBIHQ.

This file may be destroyed when it is over five years old. Retain index cards.

Current copy should be placed in bookcase, available to all Agents.

Deleted

4. Each office must submit to the Bureau annually at least three suggestions for articles, identifying the suggested author, and briefly describing the nature of the suggested article. The article should not be prepared, submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any general or specific subject of law enforcement interest, including the following:

Better investigative or administrative methods and techniques of any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI National Academy graduates

Improved or unusual equipment being used

Complicated, unusual, and well-handled cases which are illustrative of law enforcement problems and excellent police work

Deleted

Police and firearms training subjects

Crime prevention articles from departments which have taken aggressive action to combat juvenile delinquency

Transmit all material to the Bureau under the caption: FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin Research[(External Affairs)Division)

2-27-74