THE RIFLE: The bolt-action rifle in .30-06 or .308 (7.62 MM Nato) with a four (4) power scope (or better) mounted, is a snipping weapon. A specialist piece. This virulent (deadly) combination is for one purpose, and one purpose only-to fire ONE well placed shot. So each self-defense unit needs only one such weapon at this time. There is nothing else to say about that.

The assault rifle is either semi-automatic or preferable one that can be fired either semi-automatic or fully automatic. The limit here is that posed by the limit of the enemy's arsenal. Here we will discuss the most common seen in our communities carried by the gestapo pig forces. The AR-15 caliber .223 is the semi-automatic civilian model called "sporting" model of the M-16 used in Vietnam. The M-16 fires either semi-auto or fully auto. After the lives of many brothers were lost in Vietnam because the weapon was new and untested, it has now been de-bugged and is fairly reliable. It can be found on all military bases and some Gestapo police arsenals. The AR-15 was taken off the public market and has been replaced by the AR-180 caliber .223. The AR-180 does not appear to be as good as the AR-15. However, many pig departments are stocking up on them.

Another very good assault rifle is the M-14 caliber 7.62MM Nato (.308 in English). This is a very good weapon although it has been replaced by the lighter M-16 in the fascist military. Most national guard units, at least here in California, are equipped with the M-14. Check your local National Guard availability.

The Thompson Sub-Machine gun if in good working order is very reliable in .45 ACP caliber. It fires either semi or fully auto. One rewarding feature is it uses the same ammunition as the .45 automatic pistol cutting down on the variety of ammunition necessary for you.

Finally the age-old M1-Garand caliber 30-06. Very good, plenty of the around, heavy and accurate way out, else to get and plenty of ammo. around. Or your pawn shops and gun shops also see national guard units and college ROTC units have them readily available.

The M1-30 caliber carbine? Use it for target practice and training.

Assault rifles are to be used in fire fights, more commonly known as shots. People waging wars of liberation around the world also use assault rif to annihilate (wipe out) their enemy in ambushes and in counter attacks against fascist military outpost.

HANDGUNS: There are two types, semi-automatic pistols and revolvers. There are so many different brands and calibers, I will only deal with what consider to be the best choices.

.357 Magnum revolver made by either Colt or Smith & Wesson. It holds six shots and with armour piercing ammo is supposed to crack an engine block. Many pig departments have switched or are switching from .38 special to .357. There was an incident where a brother was defending himself against a pig and fired at the pig with a special. The bullet hit the pig's badge and was deflected. Had the brother been using .357 magnum that would have been one barque pig.

9MM automatic pistol. Although pistol are called 'automatic' they really are semi-automatic. The trigger has to be pressed every shot. I recommend the Peabody GMB

29

.357 MAGNUM