[107M-N SECTION-107. [IN NAL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND C CO DENTIAL SOURCES; [AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS]

2. Submit quarterly letter (FD-451b) to Bureau by secure teletype system (NITEL). Quarterly letter should include the following:

Name, location and number of subversive groups including identities of groups on college campuses, exclusive of those in black extremist, white hate or espionage matters.

Symbol numbers of member informants providing coverage who are members of organizations. If no member informant, attach addendum and explain why you do not have member informants. Indicate specific action being taken to develop member informants and date such coverage is anticipated for each group.

Identities of individuals or groups who have participated in or are active in planning subversive acts of violence, exclusive of those in black extremist, white hate or espionage matters.

Symbol numbers of informants and sources providing coverage of individuals or groups shown in Column C. If no member informant, attach addendum and explain why you do not have member informants. Indicate specific action being taken to develop member informants and date such coverage is anticipated for each group.

N. SIGNING OF LOYALTY OATHS, AFFIDAVITS, AND STATEMENTS

1. Make every effort to guide informants away from situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oaths or forms.

2. Informants should be cautioned to keep contacting Agent fully advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a form. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided.

3. Bureau will consider as last resort advising another agency of informant's relationship with Bureau, together with pertinent facts concerning informant's activity; however, such situations must be kept to minimum in view of obvious dangers to informant.

4. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau advised as promptly as possible, together with appropriate recommendation for proposed action.

5. In no instance should you permit informant to sign loyalty oath in negative.

18 10-15-74

NW 88321 DocId:32989529 Page 1174