PART II "SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION"

[W. FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE (FCI) ASSETS

This subsection deals with the development and operation of human assets, a field referred to as Human Intelligence or HUMINT. FCI assets are to be handled exclusively under this subsection, except for the administrative instructions pertaining to informant indices, and monthly statistical letters, set out in Part I; such exceptions are noted herein.

Definitions

FCI assets fall into two categories: informative assets and operational assets.

Informative assets (IA)

Individuals in position to furnish continuing information relative to the location, overt activities, and personalities of the targets of FBI investigations, e.g., doorman, garage attendant, neighbor, tradesman, rental agent, building superintendent, fellow employee, social contact, business contact, banker, ethnic community source, etc.; or individuals who have left or openly defected from a foreign country and can furnish information of intelligence value. An IA is not actively involved in an intelligence operation as such; should he become so involved he then could become an OA.

Operational assets (OA)

Individual actively involved in intelligence operations.

This category includes but is not limited to the following individuals:

Defector-in-place: A foreign official who overtly continues to work for his government and covertly provides information to us of intelligence value. A defector-in-place will in most instances be connected with a foreign government's intelligence service;

Double agent: An OA who is cooperating with a foreign intelligence service on our behalf and under our control;

Asset under development: Individuals selected for their apparent attractiveness to foreign intelligence services whom we attempt to put in contact with such services for operational exploitation, sometimes known as a "dangle operation"; or individuals already in contact with a foreign intelligence service who have an immediate potential for development into double agents.

Adoption of the generic term OA does not preclude use of the specific terms, e.g., double agent, where applicable, in official communications.

Objectives of OA

Penetration

Penetration of legal and illegal networks, identification of intelligence personnel and targets; collection of information regarding methods of operations; collection of positive intelligence.

"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION"