530 ORGANIZED CRIME AND ILLICIT TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS

It has also been obvious to us that the Trafficante organization has controlled the Blackburn operation for at least the last 10 years. From our examination of seized records, and from the fact that in all raids on the checkup houses we have arrested persons having close family ties with the Trafficante organization who were acting as auditors for his interests. In addition, there has been heavy tele- phone toll traffic between the Trafficantes in Tampa and the Blackburn group in Orlando.

When Blackburn was arrested in 1953, a memorandum was found containing telephone numbers of Augustine Primo Lazzara, Salva- tore J. Lorenzo, J. M. Cacciatore—uncle of Santo Trafficante, Jr.—and Santo Trafficante, Jr., and of the Nebraska and Flamingo Bars, both owned by the Trafficante family.

In 1957 a search of a gambling house in Orange County by a State officer, with the assistance of the Orlando Police, resulted in the arrest of several persons. One of these was Lorenzo and another per- son by the name of Leto, from Tampa. They both gave sworn state- ments at that time to the county solicitor that they were working for Santo Trafficante, Jr.

In November 1961, another raid was conducted by agents of the Internal Revenue Service in conjunction with the Orlando Police Department on a house in Orange County. There were six persons arrested, and among those were Armando Rios and Sam Cacciatore. These two were cousins of Santo Trafficante, Jr.

In July 1963, a raid on a gambling house in Sanford, Fla., by the IRS agents, with the assistance of the Orlando Police Department, established that it was another operation of Harlan Blackburn's, supervised by Clyde Lee. In the records seized there was the phone number of Trafficante's cousin, John Favata Cacciatore, and the phone number of the printing establishment employing Stefano Scaglione, who is also on the chart.

During the past 12 years that we know of at least three murders that have been due to fights for control of lottery operations in the Orlando area.

The fantastic amount of money taken in by these lottery operations has been repeatedly established by our raids of these gambling houses. For example, the raid in 1957 in Orange County, where Frank Ferreri and Sam Lorenzo were arrested, disclosed that the house was doing a gross business of $100,000 per week.

Senator MUSKIE. What were they paying out?

Mr. BRANCH. The profit on this operation runs about 50 percent.

The November 1961 raid in Orange County where Armando Rios and Sam Cacciatore, cousins of Santo Trafficante, were arrested re- vealed that operation was doing a conservatively estimated gross of $160,000 per week.

The CHAIRMAN. With the same ratio of half applying there?

Mr. BRANCH. Yes, sir.

Senator MUSKIE. When you say "net profit," this means after deductions of the commission which totaled 35 percent?

Mr. BRANCH. Yes, sir.

Senator MUSKIE. And the prizes.

Mr. BRANCH. Yes, sir.

The commission and also the prizes and what other operating ex- penses they may have such as automobiles, rent, telephone bills.

The latest $250,000 per

From those The CHAIR- Mr. BRAN- Orlando. T and auditors From the- heavily into revenues are nized crime. Any addit further restr stantial blow Senator M was it dishon- Mr. BRANC- They don't They stop at The CHAIR- Mr. BRANG- The CHAIR cannot get his Mr. BRANG- Thank you, The CHAIRE be afraid to p All right, C Stand by, S Mr. BRANG-

TI

Mr. BROWN. It is necessary dates from the 1937 and 1945, in on all illegal city was referre Senator Mus papers?

Mr. BROWN. During the 1 rackets to any g M. Wall, started the illegal gam Florida. He st admitted to a H ing from illegal by entering into The elder Tra in 1904 and beca of the missing Tampa. He die arrest for Santo In 1952, Wall

HW 50955 DocId:32423630 Page 670