SAMUEL ADASON JAFFE

11. Konstantin Grigorevich Fedoseev: Employed as counselor at Soviet Delegation to UN, New York City. Jaffe described him as a nice little man who did not speak good English. His wife, who spoke excellent English, is very close to the wife of Vladimir Barkovski. On one occasion, Jaffe took Fedoseev to the Press Club.

12. Vadim Yevgenyevich Golovanov: Jaffe stated he and his wife were very fond of Golovanov, an employee of Radio Moscow who formerly attended Stanford University. His wife previously was at "M.K.U." Jaffe stated Golovanov and his wife were "one of the few Russians who had us to his apartment. Very decent. A young man who I think could be swayed. Wants to understand Americans. Gave me tape of Russian music and I gave him tapes of American music. I do not think he was KGB." (Jaffe indicated he feels he can spot CIA officers, FBI agents, and KGB employees.)

Jaffe stated Golovanov worked in the American Department of Radio Moscow, interviewing American personalities coming to Russia for Radio Moscow radio programs. He tried to obtain an assignment in the U.S. According to Jaffe, he and his wife resided in a "room and a half apartment" with his grandmother.

13. Nikolay Golub; Pavel Iosifovich Golub; Filipp Andreevich Gontar: Their faces are familiar; however, Jaffe cannot recall where he might have seen them.

Gontar has been reported as connected with KGB.

14. Andrey Nikolayevich Itskov: Jaffe thinks this Soviet was connected with the Soviet Mission to the UN (SMUN) in New York City. Jaffe met and talked to him, and possibly saw him at a party; however, Jaffe was not a close contact.

WF T-2 reported he has seen this individual in the 1960's at KGB Headquarters, Moscow.

15. Oleg Danilovich Kalugin: Jaffe described this Soviet as a "very sharp, bright young man" who is "very resentful of me." Jaffe stated: "I don't think he likes me and I don't like him. I am told he is going back (to Russia)." Jaffe also stated: "He is the man who had my case when I had the automobile accident. If KGB was going to employ a young man, this is the type I think they would hire." Jaffe said he thinks Kalugin once attended Columbia University in New York City.

SECRET-37

NW 88326 DocId:32989704 Page 308