Dear Mr. Kent,

In view of your contemplated cover assignment, you have been designated a Staff Agent. The purpose of this Supplement is to call your attention to existing policies which are particularly material to you while you are so designated and to set forth certain rights and obligations incident to your status as an appointed employee.

1. Payroll Administration. As indicated in your Staff Agent Personnel Action, your present salary and grade are $14,600 per annum and US-135, respectively. As an appointed employee of the Government you are entitled to receive and retain only the salary, allowances and other benefits applicable to that status. However, certain procedural variations will be followed to preserve the security of your cover position.

(a) The gross emoluments that you receive from your cover activities will be retained by you as an offset against the gross emoluments due you from this organization. If cover emoluments ever exceed those due you from this organization, the overage is to be remitted to this organization on a monthly basis, unless a different period is specified.

(b) Your Federal income taxes will be withheld and reported in conformance with R 20-661 or any subsequent regulations or procedures promulgated by this organization. For your information, this organization shall withhold from the gross payments due you, Federal income taxes in an amount which, when added to the income taxes withheld by your cover facility, will equal the tax withholdings normally made from your gross taxable compensation with this organization. Taxes will be withheld from the differential due you by this organization. If there is no differential or if it is insufficient, you will be required to make tax remittances to conformance with HB 20-661-1.

(c) This organization will deduct from the gross payments due you an amount equivalent to six and one-half per cent (6 1/2%) of your gross salary for contribution to the Civil Service Retirement Fund. This amount will be deducted from the differential due you by this organization. If there is no differential or if it is insufficient, you will be required to make direct remittances to this organization in satisfaction of the required contributions. The Agency will not reimburse you for mandatory social security deductions required by virtue of your cover employment.

2. Nonofficial Cover Premium Pay. You are hereby authorized Nonofficial Cover Premium Pay in conformance with applicable organizational policies and issuances. For your information, currently this premium pay is ten per cent of your base salary and represents additional taxable compensation to you.

3. Place of Assignment. This Supplement is predicated upon a domestic PCS assignment under non-Governmental cover. Any deviation therefrom will require a new Supplement or an amendment hereto.

A Sample Cover Letter:

writing by the cover letter of such address; and Espionage Laws, dated 25 June 1947, giving cause laws and regulations...

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY SAW H. LUETSCHEN Personal Officer