: eph B. Smith

Box 323 B, Route 2 Gardners, Pa.

Items 21 and 23, form 57

C. Graduate Training (cont.)

University of Pennsylvania 1948-51

At Pennsylvania I have taken courses primarily in American history.

I received a master's degree, Feb. 1950

I have completed course work for my Ph. D. I expect soon to take my doctoral examination.

I have taken several courses in foreign area study. Latin American History The U.S. and Latin America Latin American Parties and Politics British Foreign Policy 1919-1939.

In addition to the above, I have taken course work in U.S. foreign policy 1990 to date.

II. Research and Publication

A. See pp. 2 and 3, Work Project #1

B. Work Project #2

Sponsored by Dickinson College.

2. Scope - to investigate the relation of Dickinson College to the frontier community in which it was established in 1783.

3. I was the sole researcher.

4. Principal sources were: the large letter collection, Dickinson College Library, Church records at Carlisle and Philadelphia (Presbyterian Historical Society), early Carlisle newspapers, (American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Massachusetts), contemporary writings, local histories.

5. This study was made from Oct. 1947 until June 1948.

Methods were historical.

Findings and Conclusions

Dickinson College, founded 1783, had numerous problems incident to the establishment of any such institution, but intensified by the hostility of frontier society; e.g. financial, disciplinary, recruitment.

Frontier society rejects higher education as unnecessary and even hostile to its social goals.

That under-developed areas need so-called practical education first.

8. The material was used in the publication of the first volume of materials on early America published by the college under title of "Bulwark of Liberty", June, 1950. Also published in part as "A Frontier Experiment in Higher Education", Pennsylvania History, Pennsylvania Historical Association, January, 1949.

9. Two persons associated with this project: Whitfield J. Bell, Dickinson College, Carlisle, Pa. Ray Morris, Dickinson College, Carlisle, Pa.

10. I was solely responsible for methods, procedure and writing.

11. The project was promoted by the college as noted in (1).