Office Memorandum. UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE. February 6, 1958

TO : MR. L. V. BOARDMAN

FROM : MR. A. H. BELMONT

SUBJECT: COVERAGES OF MAIL TO THE U.S.S.R.

Reference my memo of 1-27-58 advising of the briefing given our Liaison Agent by CIA representatives on 1-24-58 as to the nature and extent of CIA coverage of mail going to and coming from (Russia). Our Liaison Agent determined that CIA began this coverage approximately a year and a half ago through confidential arrangements made with postal authorities. Initially, this coverage involved photographing of envelopes; these envelopes were not to be opened. The envelopes were microfilmed and the names and addresses appearing thereon were indexed with IBM equipment. Several months ago CIA began opening some of this mail, microfilming the contents and indexing pertinent data therein. Approximately 250,000 names have been indexed by CIA. Examination of certain of this mail for microdots and secret writing has been made to a limited extent because the volume of mail has been too numerous for the establishment of a practical system without delaying movement of the mail. CIA has advised that to date it has not discovered any microdots or secret writing or information revealing evidence of Soviet intelligence operations in the United States. CIA has also advised that this program has not reached its full potential, but that its system of opening mail is rapidly increasing. CIA has expressed a willingness to furnish us any information obtained from this coverage which we feel would be of interest to us.

An analysis has been made of CIA capabilities as revealed to the Liaison Agent and it is believed we should request that CIA furnish us information of the following types, both that which has been received in the past and that which they will obtain in the future:

1) All correspondence of a suspicious nature, such as that containing double talk, etcetera.

2) All correspondence indicating that the Soviets may be utilizing a hostage situation, i.e., correspondence indicating pressure being exerted on Soviet citizens who have close relatives in the U.S. or pressure being exerted on individuals in U.S.

3) Any information appearing in correspondence indicating weaknesses or dissatisfaction on the part of any Soviet presently in the United States so that the Bureau might give consideration to feasibility of approaching such individuals for defection or double agent purposes.

4) Any information appearing in correspondence indicating Soviet control or direction of the Cp, USA.

APLDEM:mn- (9)

cc - Messrs. Boardman Belmont Branigan Litrento Baumgardner JD Donohue Rapich Turner

REC-94 EX-135

TO FEB 20 1969

EX-135

5.5 FF R 27 10 Rapich

EX-135

Telson

Miles

Boardman

Belmont

K Mohr

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

Neace

Tele. Room -

Hollomon

Gandy

CLASSIFIED BY G.S. Analyt. DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

JUNE

55

RE: C. M. S. Boardman

LIT: R. Branigan

JDD Donohue

JTD-Turner