Political organizations

(1) Obtain Bureau approval to institute investigation.

(2) Furnish all pertinent information re communist infiltration, influence, or control of organization to Bureau by letter.

Organizations connected with institutions of learning

(1) Conduct no investigation without prior Bureau approval.

(2) In request for Bureau approval, submit all available data and reason investigation is necessary.

(3) If Bureau authority granted, it is permissible to contact all established reliable sources, including those in administrative capacity with institution of learning.

(4) Complete justification must be submitted and Bureau authority obtained before conducting interview with student, graduate student, or professor connected with institution of learning.

Legitimate noncommunist organizations which are communist infiltrated

(1) Conduct no investigation without prior Bureau approval.

(2) Investigations should be handled most discreetly by experienced Agents.

(3) Advise Bureau promptly under caption "Cominfil (name of organization)" when one of following exists and include recommendation for instituting investigation:

(a) Communist Party, USA (CPUSA) or other communist organization has specifically instructed its members to infiltrate organization.

(b) CPUSA members or members of other communist groups have infiltrated organization in sufficient strength to influence or control organization.

(4) When advising Bureau, include following:

(a) Name and address of organization

(b) Extent of communist infiltration

(c) Identities of CPUSA members or members of other communist groups and positions held in organization

(d) List of informants who hold positions, are members, or report on organization

(e) Recommendation as to additional investigation

Above instructions apply to local chapters or affiliates, as well as national organization. Break down information required under items (c) and (d) above by local chapters where they exist.

(5) No informant or source should be instructed by FBI to join or attend meetings. If CPUSA or other communist organization asks informant to do so, he should comply.

(6) No member of organization not already established source should be contacted regarding organization. This does not preclude pretext interviews where advisable.

(7) Include in first paragraph of details of report basis for investigation and statement it is directed solely toward establishing extent of infiltration or that organization is specific target for infiltration, and that Bureau is not investigating legitimate activities of organization.