Le. J. R. Adams

4-0-76

Legal Control

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENT ACTIVITIES

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS TO BE CLASSIFIED

During various contacts with William Miller, unit Director of the State Select Committee, and Chairman Leola Reid (D-Jones), Chairman of the House Select Committee. The question was come up regarding the item as a class of the private office of individual & confidential Members to ensure the absence of any electronic listening devices. The Committee personal have been told that we consider it absolutely essential and they agree.

in exploring this matter, it was determined that the Capital Police Department recently has established a special unit to handle all types of security problems within the Capitol which complex, involving checks for electronic Listening Devices. Personal of this unit have been selected/ extended training, come from C/A. The operations of the unit are controlled Lassouga the persons in Army of the Loug@ and Senate.

This matter has been discussed with Robert Borg, Deputy Sheriff at Arms of the County and with some other top people at Arms of the House. Loug@ advised that the special unit already has conducted con- photo security surveys of the new office space of the county Select Committee and certainly will perform any other tasks of this type required by the Committee or its individual Members. I.e said, in fact, that since they now have this copier, it may be possible to outside agency coming on to the mill to perform this task. Motsz was not able to get access to contact data after receiving the newspaper Security change letters. Most@ is still lot out but wants to see copy of the latest Select Committee's order on a check list. He said their case require a complete re-evaluation from the many original Committees in writing.

L - Mr. Ziegler L - Mr. Credit L - Mr. Deere L - Mr. Dorers

62-116395 - 214

CONTINUED - CYRUS

J.N.: SEE ADDENDUM PAGE TWO

NW 88296 DocId:32989588 Page 94