61. We found the Registry to be a controversial matter between Headquarters and the chief of station. The newly assigned deputy chief of station, who primarily had supervisory responsibility over the chief of Registry, was making a determined effort to reduce the workload in the Registry and to seek means of relying upon headquarters' files rather than station files. We were told that on several occasions, Headquarters had reached the point of demanding that Mexico City reduce its Registry to a size comparable to other stations. Each time such a decision was reached, there would be a concurrent flag which would prove the value of Mexico City's ability to instantly retrieve information from their files. One of the most noteworthy of such flags took place in November 1963, when Mexico City's files brought forth detailed information on Lee Harvey Oswald's visits to the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City.

62. The nature of Mexico City's operations, particularly its technical operations LIEVORI and LIFEAT produce voluminous files. Until some system is devised for this [information] to be quickly digested and retrieved in Headquarters, we believe that there is no alternative to the present system Mexico City is employing. However, we believe that a determined effort must be in Headquarters for processing and retrieval of such information.

It is recommended that: No. 79

The Chief, VI Division, in collaboration with the Chief, Records Integration Division, devise a system for reducing the volume of files held in Mexico City, while maintaining a capability for rapid retrieval from Headquarters of information essential to present and future operations in Mexico.

63. Mexico City is one of the great metropolitans of the world and the booming economy of Mexico is reflected in its housing. It is difficult to find housing which compares exactly with United States housing because the Spanish tradition of servants' quarters, large space, and grand entertainment are a basic way of life. However, in such a great city, there is naturally a large selection of housing within this limitation. There are good apartments, but such apartments usually are more expensive than allowances will permit for single occupancy. Housing for officers and families is generally quite good, not plentiful, but with prudent selection, adequate housing can be found within reasonable range of the

TM15