SF 100-46832

for the Study of Democratic Institutions, Santa Barbara, was going to donate $10,000 for a peace candidate and it was expected that this money would be given to the campaign run by SCHEER of Berkeley. TAYLOR felt that some of this money should go to a candidate in Southern California, if possible.

SF T-50 February 8, 1966

The PW issue of February 12, 1966, contained an article headlined "A New Campaign Tackles Old Issues," written by CARL BLOICE. This article gives historical background of the City of Oakland, California and the problems faced by the poor people in that city. It then cites how DANIEL SIMON, M. D. had sent hundreds of letters to Berkeley, California during the week of June 22, 1965, pointing out that Congressman JEFFREY COHELAN had failed to take a stand in opposition to United States participation in the war in Vietnam, and enclosed cards addressed to Congressman COHELAN appealing to COHELAN to speak out strongly in Congress for a cease fire and international negotiations through the United Nations. The cards also stated that unless COHELAN took such action, he would be opposed for re-election. By August 1965, there had been 750 cards processed and returned to Dr. SIMON. When Congressman COHELAN failed to speak out in Congress opposing US involvement in Vietnam, certain people began searching for a candidate to oppose him. ROBERT SCHEER agreed to oppose COHELAN. Some of his supporters left the organization because SCHEER refused to shave off his beard and others left the organization because SCHEER refused to exclude Communists from his campaign committee. The article stated ROBERT SCHEER had the endorsement of the VDC as well as a sizeable portion of the community, and was not centered among the college students.

In early 1966, two functionaries of the CP discussed the forthcoming trip by SCHEER to Southeast Asia and his desire to go to North Vietnam. Both functionaries agreed

1289

Copy ............ of ............ Copies Page ............ of ............ Pages

NW 88613 DocId:34517445 Page 48