Assassination Tapes

CHARTED FROM PAGE 1/4

The interview with Captain Humes was more informative. Just before the interview, 1967. Humes had re-examined the autopsy photographs and X-rays, and he dis- sessed them at length on the CBS tapes. The diagrams shown during the autopsy, said, had not been intended to precisely present the location of the wounds. How- er, he explained a sketch which, he said, did represent these locations accu- rately. The interviewer asked, "Your re- examination of the photographs verify that the wounds were as shown here?" "Yes, sir," he replied. No stress.

Were there any wounds other than one in the base of the neck and one up in the back? "No, sir; there were not." Moderate stress, not enough to suggest deception. Was there any doubt that the wound at back of the President's head was an entry wound? "There is absolutely no doubt. " Again stress but again moderate.

Altogether, now many wounds were there? "There were two wounds of entrance and two of exit." At this point the stress became hard.

And where were the entry wounds lo- ved? "Posteriorly, one low in the right anterior scalp, and one in the base of the head on the right." Hard stress again.

Could he be absolutely certain that what said was an entry wound was, in fact, t. "Yes, indeed we can." Hard stress. The interview with Humes was one of the best and most detailed on the CBS tapes, and I charted most of it with the PSE. It was clear to me that he believed much what he was saying, but the frequent flick- ings of moderate stress and the occasion- flashes of hard stress suggested that he isn't nearly as confident of his testimony he claimed to be. As Dr. Perry had pointed out, sometimes it's not easy to tell entry wound from an exit wound.

the interviewer asked him one good "bot- line" question:

Do you have any different conclusion, different ideas, any different thoughts after seeing [the autopsy photographs] in, than you had at that time?"

"No," replied Captain Humes, "we think / bear up very well, and very closely. testimony before the Warren Commis-

sion."

The stress was hard.

arten Specter, one of the Warren Commis- sion's principal investigators, also spoke on CBS tapes. He said that the case against Oswald fitted together very well, and that form could one find among actual crim-

inal convictions a case equally persuasive. He added that there was no foundation for the charge that the Commission had been formed to whitewash the facts.

The PSE said he was telling the truth.

John McCloy, a member of the Warren Commission, said much the same thing, and added that he had seen no credible evidence to contradict the findings of the Commission. The PSE backed him up on this, but it failed to do so when, speaking of the Warren Report, he said, "There was nothing fraudulent about it." Here the PSE showed hard stress.

If Specter and McCloy were as confident as the PSE shows them to be in the truthful- ness of the Warren Report, what could be foundier about it? Perhaps the snipping off of a few loose ends, the suppression of a few pieces of inconvenient evidence which conflicted with a version of events they believed to be essentially true.

The one man who could be expected to have the most informed opinion regarding the work of the Warren Commission is former Chief Justice Earl Warren himself. He had declined to be interviewed on the CBS program in 1967, but he did appear on television in May, 1972, in an interview

...

"...we found no evidence of any kind that there was any conspiracy." There was very hard stress on "no evidence"

which was part of a series called The Bran- deis Television Recollections. Bob Smith of the Committee provided me with the tape.

The interview was an hour long, but the Kennedy assassination and the Warren Commission came up only once. The inter- viewer, Abram Sachar, Chancellor of Bran- deis University, was friendly and deferen- tial. I charted some of Warren's remarks unrelated to the assassination and found that he was generally unstressed. Sachar raised the subject of the Commission obliquely, and Warren volunteered several rather lengthy statements about it

Warren said that immediately after the as- sassination there were two theories, one that Khrushchev and Castro were behind the killing, the other that a group of right-wing Texas oilmen were responsible. He said:

"We explored both of those theories for ten months and found no evidence that either of them was involved in it."

The PSE showed hard stress.

He continued:

"... we found no evidence of any kind