Braden was then commuting between New Orleans and Beverly Hills, with the approval of his Parole Board. Braden was working as a representative of his Mafia friend Roger Bauman, the oil speculator. Braden worked out of Room 1701, which was the office of his associate, Victor Main, Jr., an oil geologist. This was just a short way down the hall from David Ferrie in Room 1707.

Interestingly, in one visit to his Parole Office, Braden "mistakenly" told his Parole Officer that he was working out of Room 1706 - which would have been the room next door to Ferrie - instead of Room 1701.

Thus a possible Braden-Ferrie connection in the weeks just before the assassination does indeed arise in addition to the possible Braden-Ruby connection. Both connections definitely do seem to fall outside of or beyond the area which could reasonably be attributed to coincidence, chance, or circumstance.

Beyond several sets of information which tend to indicate that David Ferrie had some contact with Lee Oswald at various times, the critics of the Warren Commission have particularly focused on Ferrie's ties to Carlos Marcello and the Marcello Mafia empire.

In fact, in his interviews with the FBI and Secret Service after the assassination, Ferrie claimed that he was with Marcello at the very time of the assassination. Ferrie stated that he was in court with Marcello on the afternoon of November 22, which does appear to be true.

Carlos Marcello, along with Meyer Lansky, had become the central targets of the Justice Department's Organized Crime Division in the early 1960's, under the vigorous direction of Attorney General Robert Kennedy.

Marcello, known as "The Little Man," became one of Attorney General Kennedy's most fierce enemies during that period. Marcello once claimed that he had been kidnapped under orders of Robert Kennedy and the Justice Department.

Ed Reid, author of The Greenfelt Jungle and widely recognized as one of the most respected experts on the Mafia in the nation, has written that Carlos Marcello once threatened to have President Kennedy and his brother murdered. Reid has written that he was told of Marcello's threat by an informant who attended a secret meeting with Marcello in New Orleans in September of 1962.