Step 9. Proceeding with all deliberate speed, leave the area at once.

GRENADES AND BOMES, ANTI-PROPERTY AND ANTI-PERSONNEL

No. 1. The very small, home-made grenade is exactly the same as the small explosive device used to set off the firebomb.

It is the CO2 cartridge as described in the preceding directions, only instead of using a cigarette to time the fuse, you can light the fuse and throw it. This little CO2 cartridge just as it is doesn't do a lot of damage, but it can be dressed up to become a very lethal weapon. It can be made into a deadly anti-personnel weapon or a very dangerous bomb.

The small CO2 cartridge can be dressed up by filling with 3/4 black powder and 3/4 shot, or needles. This is obviously anti-personnel and will penetrate when the CO2 explodes, but still is not big enough to kill. It has certain advantages, however. It can be taped to a window, even with your hands behind your back, and left burning with the trusty cigarette. Or it could be wiped, with the cigarette to the fuel tank of a car. If thrown into a car, it is guaranteed to bruise the occupants and empty the car of all personnel in record time. Further, the CO2 is so small it can easily be concealed on your person.

Now, to make an actual grenade, a weapon that kills, the following can be done:

Take a used, empty aerosol can, pull off the little plastic spray device, and with a hammer and nail pound the little plastic nipple down into the can. Use a punch or screwdriver with hammer to widen the hole and make it large enough so that large shot can be inserted through the hole. Then fill with 3/4 black powder and 1/4 bullets or small-headed nails. Insert fuse, and light when ready to throw. The fuse should be an inch and a half in length and should leave your hand when it has burned to an inch.

CAUTION: The explosive force of this weapon is great. It is even more dangerous than a standard army grenade. Needless to say, a too-short fuse will result in a scattered grenade-holder. A too-long fuse will result in the person or persons at whom you have thrown it to have a chance to throw it back and blow you to fragments. A guerrilla with lousy aim in close quarters can kill his brothers. This thing is equivalent to about 12 shotgun