C IN NARCOTICS

a notoriety greatly disproportionate to their numbers, because of their continuous activity in criminal and racketeering enterprises. The people of our city refer to this group as “the Sicilian underworld” or “the Mafia.”

Our growing concern with this criminal group was crystallized in 1956 when a Hillsborough County grand jury was empaneled in Tampa to investigate and determine the truth of allegations that the Mafia was then operating in Tampa. The pertinent part of that grand jury's report stated:

there are some individuals who believe that a Mafia or Black Hand exists and operates in this community, but they are in the minority. The evidence presented, the volume of written material examined, and witnesses' interviews point to the existence in this community of an organized crime element whose methods of operation are similar to the pattern of the Sicilian Mafia as we understand it.

The CHAIRMAN. Chief, let me ask you, prior to this development before the grand jury, before the grand jury made this finding, were you the law enforcement officials or in the police department?

Mr. BROWN. No, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. Were you suspicious that such an organization existed in your city?

Mr. BROWN. Oh, yes; law enforcement has been aware that this has been there.

The CHAIRMAN. There was something, you felt confident, but you were unable to bring it out in concrete proof; is that correct?

Mr. BROWN. That is correct.

The CHAIRMAN. So you had been trying to combat it without being able to get it out in the open?

Mr. BROWN. That is exactly right.

The CHAIRMAN. All right. Proceed.

Mr. BROWN (reading):

our records indicate that the vast majority of our unsolved crimes stem from underworld activity involving persons of Sicilian or Italian ancestry

The CHAIRMAN. We had some startling information here the other day from the Chicago chief of police with respect to some 976 murders, gangland style, that had been committed over a period of years, and only 2 of them had been solved. That is, officially solved by court determination or court action.

Mr. BROWN. That is typical.

The CHAIRMAN. What is the ratio in your community, if you can give us some idea about it?

Mr. BROWN. I will bring that out in my statement, but it is just like Chicago.

The CHAIRMAN. Something along that line?

Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. That struck me as one of the most frightening developments of information that I have heard regarding crime. I just couldn't believe that 976 murders, and apparently just murder in the first-degree fashion, could be committed in an area like Metropolitan Chicago over a period of years, and only 2 of them could be solved. It thoroughly demonstrates to me the great menace and the danger of organized mobs committing crime.

You say: "Well, they probably killed each other pretty much." That may be true, but they kill each other because of the extortionate

population, who are con- our community. Unfor- of citizens have achieved-