DEFINITIONS

Security informant

Individual actively engaged in obtaining and furnishing current information on security matters exclusively for Bureau and whose identity must be protected. Such person should be a member or attend meetings of a subversive organization, such as the Communist Party; or be in such a position relative to a subversive organization, or espionage activities or intelligence activities in the U. S. on behalf of foreign principal, that he is able to obtain and does provide current information of value; or furnish pertinent foreign intelligence data of value on a regular basis.

Potential security informant

Individual in a position to become active in a subversive organization or espionage or intelligence activities in the U. S. on behalf of foreign principal or can become closely associated therewith, [or is in a position to secure pertinent foreign intelligence data], and is making affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he can be in a position actively to obtain and furnish current information to Bureau.

Double agent

A specialized type of security informant; a person who is cooperating with, receiving assignments from, and performing tasks for both a foreign intelligence service and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance.

Confidential source

An individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information available to him through his present position. Examples would be: bankers and telephone company employees. These individuals make no concerted effort on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain and furnish information readily available to them.

B. SOURCES OF POTENTIAL SECURITY INFORMANTS

Informants should be developed on all organizations and individuals that are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown that potential informants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal investigative activity. Live informant coverage depends for the most part upon initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SACs. For assistance in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested:

Evaluation of

Complainant in security matters

Persons interviewed in connection with security cases

Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of disaffection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity, financial hardship, or other repudiation of party loyalties

Bureau applicants as possible informants

Personal friends and contacts of Special Agents and other Bureau employees

Sources of information, confidential sources, and contacts on continuous basis

2. Review of closed security files on individuals

Review of reserve index

4. Ascertain possibilities of reactivating former confidential informants.

Deleted

6. Review factionalism section of file on Communist Party, USA.

7. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disaffection on the part of Communist Party members. They, of course, should not be informed as to the purpose of the inquiry.

8. Review of files on communist front organizations looking for individuals who have been associated with only one or two fronts or who attended only a few meetings of a front. Such individuals frequently are innocent of communist propensities, yet they have a basis for cultivating the acquaintance of party members.

12-13-65

NW 88321 DocId:32989529 Page 1602