SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: INTERVIEW OF FORMER FBI SA BY SSC Statement of John M. Matter

to any source) as to the 1⁄2 inch recording tape itself, the 7 inch plastic reel containing the tape, and the 7 inch box containing the reel. I do not recall whether it was a commercial or a plain box. I estimate the total elapsed playing time of the composite as being somewhere between 45 and 90 minutes, but I could not recall the specific time nor the tape speed.

Epstein made quite a point of asking if the composite had actually been put together as explained above, or whether it was put together in the following manner: one or more excerpts from one FO tape immediately followed by one or more excerpts from another FO tape, and followed again by one or more excerpts from a third or fourth FO tape. It appeared that he was trying to indicate that the composite had deliberately been put together in such a manner as to create a false impression as to where the excerpts had come from. I stated that to the best of my memory the composite had not been the target in that manner and I categorically denied that any effort had been made on my part to have the composite convey an idea other than that which was actually on the tape. When the composite was finished I made two or three copies of it which I identified as "third generation tapes," while I considered the composite a "second generation tape." I delivered the composite, most likely in the government routing envelope, to William C. Sullivan in the JB, fifth floor office of then Assistant to the Director Alan Belmont. I recalled that this was on a Saturday and Belmont was in his office with Sullivan. Delivery was made to Sullivan as a result of instructions I had most likely obtained from Millen or Conrad who also told me to inquire of Sullivan if there was anything else he wanted me to do. I so inquired and Sullivan replied that there was nothing further and that he would take it from there. I could not recall if I delivered two or three copies of the composite to Sullivan at the same time or whether they were sent to him or the DID case supervisor by special messenger the following Monday. Nor could I specifically recall if I