(7) Public Law 87-835, approved 10-16-62, amended the National Defense Education Act of 1958 and the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which provide Federal funds for scholarships and fellowships. Members of organizations which have registered under the Internal Security Act of 1950 or have been ordered to register by the Subversive Activities Control Board are prohibited from applying for, using, or attempting to use a scholarship or fellowship if any part of the funds therefor is appropriated under these acts. Penalty for violation is $10,000 fine or five years' imprisonment or both. Acts also require full disclosure of any criminal conviction since applicant's sixteenth birthday and concerning any pending criminal charges punishable by confinement over 30 days. Title 18, USC, § 1001, applies to the latter provision.

[ (8) Refer to section 87G captioned "Internal Security Act of 1950" for possible additional violations that may arise under the provisions of the Internal Security Act of 1950.]

Individuals to be investigated

It is not possible to formulate any hard-and-fast standards by which the dangerousness of individual members or affiliates of revolutionary organizations may be automatically measured because of manner revolutionary organizations function and great scope and variety of activities. Exercise sound judgment and discretion in evaluating importance and dangerousness of individual members or affiliates.

As a general policy, investigate the activities of any individual falling within one or more of the following categories who does not come within one of the restrictions on investigations listed under 87D, 5, below:

Membership in basic revolutionary organizations subsequent to 1-1-49

Espousing line of revolutionary movements

(1) Any individual who, since the outbreak of hostilities in Korea (6-25-50), continued to espouse the line of one or more of the above-mentioned revolutionary organizations or related groups thereby defining his or her adherence to policies opposed to best interests of the U. S.

(2) Espousal mentioned above encompasses a wide variety and range of activities. Membership in one or more of the basic revolutionary organizations is not a prerequisite to the institution of an investigation of an individual within this category.

(3) Espousal expressed by membership or active participation in subversive front groups (whether or not cited by the Attorney General) must be evaluated in each case. Consider nature and type of front organization, as well as extent of individual's activities on behalf of the front organization or in support of the basic revolutionary organization. Open investigation in every instance in which information available indicates a subject is actively engaged in the affairs of a subversive front organization in a leadership capacity or by active participation in the furtherance of the aims and purposes of the front organization.

(4) Do not open an investigation on mere membership alone in a front organization in the absence of allegations of active participation or leadership in the group unless information is available indicating past membership at any time in a basic revolutionary organization or sufficient other derogatory information is known.