ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk of Linda C. Cipriani

NOTE FOR: J. Barry Harrelson FROM: Linda C. Cipriani DATE: 03/18/96 06:24:14 PM SUBJECT: JFK Meeting today

After speaking with you tonight about the results of the meeting today, Jeremy Gunn called me and relayed his concerns about the Board's understandings (or misunderstandings) of CIA's position. He also discussed what happened at the JFK meeting and the following is our impression of what resulted. Basically, Edge did not commit himself on any specifics on these issues, but expressed his willingness to cooperate with the Board:

1. Jerusalem Station Edge was more willing to negotiate this one, but does not agree to its release. CIA wants to present more information. Edge was not under the impression that this station was to be discussed today so he did not come prepared to present new information on it. CIA should do this for the Board at the next possible opportunity.

2. Open Period for Stations Edge agreed that the staffs of the Board and HRG should work out the exact time period. He had no problem with the Sept(?) 6-9 period and opening it up to 7-9 in the Oswald file. He did not make any firm commitment on the dates to the Board, saying that the staffs should come to an agreement on this.

3. Substitutions for Nordic stations - Although Edge suggested "Scandinavia Station" as a substitution, he clearly preferred something less revealing like "(Northern European station 1, 2, etc.)". Using the former term has far less plausible deniability. The latter option basically gives up what we want to protect.

Once HRG hears from Edge as to what his understandings are, then someone needs to speak with Jeremy Gunn ASAP on Tuesday morning before the Board leaves. Jeremy said that unless we correct the Board on its mistaken impression about the above, they will leave assuming we have come to an agreement and will refuse to revisit this at a latter date.

Let me know if you need me to help out in any way on this. FYI, I will be in meetings at 10AM and 2pm (Win Scott settlement discussions!!!) tomorrow.

CC: John F. Pereira Eleanor Neiman @ DO

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY