COUNTRY International REPORT NO. 00-B-3,286,551

SUBJECT Symposium on Radiological Issues and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining and Willing, Vienna, Austria, 20-24 Aug 63 DATE DISTR. 30 Dec 63

NO. PAGES-3

REFERENCES Case--40178 Guide-316 C-S13-61,081 CSI/ABCD NTA FSTC/CCE

DAT. OF INFO. August 1963

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Vienna, August 1963

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US cihic, professor of industrial medicine at a large western medical school.

Source: a medical doctor, attended the conference under the auspices of the Atomic Energy Commission. This was his first experience at a conference of this kind and first meeting with foreign colleagues in this field.

[This report was prepared for submission to the US Atomic Energy Commission and its discussion in accordance with paragraph 3 of NCI/D 2/3.]

The symposium on "Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining and Willing in Vienna," was held together with the professional multidisciplinary groups concerned with the health and safety of people exposed to nuclear materials in mining and milling and the potential problem of public health from the waste materials in these industries. To make it possible to outstanding the work within each of these disciplines in order to further define the exposures, dosimetry, metabolism and biological relations in people exposed to the nuclear and chemical materials encountered in these industries.

2. Except for the historical review of the pulmonary malignancies found in the workers of the Schneeberg and St Joachimsthal mines and the epidemiological review of the Colorado Plateau with the suggestion of possible increase in pulmonary emphysema, fibrosis and cor pulmonale as well as malignancies and some dyscrasia of hair roots in those people, the meeting was devoid of any specific information with regard to health effects on humans.

3. He did not make detailed notes of the meeting and are not prepared to summarize the papers, however, there remains a few points of interest to us that we will mention in the following paragraphs.

VA Sympathy of the USSR stated that uranium tetrafluoride was less toxic than uranyl nitrate in the same dose in animals. A P Novikova of the UNP reported a decrease in blood cellular elements and an

STATE ARMY NAVY F3 AEC

C-D-P-F-I-D-R-N-T-I-A-D Case 1 Excluded fromomatic Coordinating and Coordinating In.

STATE ARMY NAVY F3 <