TOP SECRET DINAR

Western Hemisphere

DOMESTIC POLITICS IN CUBA

Fidel Castro is continuing his effort to reduce the influence of the veteran Communists who were leaders of the Moscow-oriented, pre-revolutionary Communist party of Cuba. Castro's campaign against them, launched in a bitter attack in March 1962, subsequently seemed to lose steam. Recent reports from knowledgeable clandestine sources, however, indicate that the old liners are again on the defensive and are likely to suffer further in government shake-ups which may be in the offing. Castro nevertheless continues to move slowly in order to avoid undue disruption within his regime.

The only major veteran Communist figure to remain in Castro's good graces is Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, the head of the National Agrarian Reform Institute. Rodriguez' position has actually been strengthened in recent weeks with the raising of his job to cabinet level. He has evidently convinced Castro of his personal loyalty and of his ability as an administrator. It is also possible that Rodriguez performs a useful and trusted liaison role between Castro and Soviet leaders. He returned to Havana on 22 December after a two-week trip to the USSR and several Soviet satellites where, according to press accounts, he was in contact with high-ranking Communist Party officials.

The old-line Cuban Communists remain strong, according to a recent clandestine report, in the intermediate and lower echelons of the military and party hierarchies. Wherever possible, they continue

their "sectarian" efforts to secure positions for their comrades at the expense of Fidelistas. A clandestine source reported hearing "rumors" in high regime circles late last month that veteran Communists have banded together in clandestine cells to work against Castro.

Che Guevara continues to be the Cuban leader most openly critical of the Soviet Union and the most insistent on the "necessity" of accelerating the revolution in Latin America. Fidel Castro is said to agree with Guevara's position, but awareness of Cuba's own self-interest stillCompels him to be more cautious in pursuing policies that could be interpreted as anti-Soviet. It nevertheless remains a key regime policy to encourage Communist revolution in Latin America.

A clandestine source who is a high-level Cuban diplomat asserts that Cuban leaders privately recognize that popular discontent with the regime is widespread. He claims, however, that they are confident their unpopularity has reached its nadir, and that they are beginning to make up lost ground. They expect, for instance, that economic difficulties--a major source of discontent--will be largely overcome within three years. The strategy of the government, this source reports, is to hold on until the economy improves and until Cuban subversive efforts elsewhere in Latin America result in the establishment of one or more Communist allies in the hemisphere. Then, the regime feels, it will be secure. (SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY)

27 Dec 63

CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW

Page 15

TOP SECRET DINAR