U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

RE: INTERVIEW OF HELEN W. GANDY

for his information. Miss Gandy told the questioners that she received a copy of the commitment card and that these cards were not retained permanently. Mr. Mohr said that it was explained to the interviewers that the Bureau had an instruction that items of a temporary nature were to be destroyed after they were 90 days old and Miss Gandy indicated to the interviewers that commitment cards were in this category. Mr. Mohr said Miss Gandy was queried at length as to just how Telephone Room employees got their information to make up the commitment card and she explained that all employees in Mr. Hoover's office made certain the Telephone Room employees were promptly advised of all Mr. Hoover's commitments as they were made.

Further, concerning the Telephone Room, Mr. Mohr said the interviewers were informed that calls for Mr. Hoover were received in the Bureau switchboard and were then referred to the Telephone Room in Mr. Hoover's office. The employees in the Tele-phone Room connected Mr. Hoover with the calls. Mr. Mohr said the interviewers asked whether the Telephone Room "screened" Mr. Hoover's calls and that they were informed that the Telephone Room did not "screen" them except for "nut" calls.

Miss Gandy said she informed interviewers, in response to questions, that she did receive calls from persons wishing to speak with Mr. Hoover and if he was in his office, the calls would be transferred to his Telephone Room. She said Mr. Gitenstein made a remark about a special telephone connection between Mr. Hoover and former Attorney General Robert Kennedy and also remarked that Mr. Hoover and former Attorney General John Mitchell also had a special telephone connection. Miss Gandy said she corrected Mr. Gitenstein immediately by informing him that no special telephone connection existed with any Attorney General except Attorney General Kennedy.

Concerning the OC files maintained in Mr. Hoover's office suite, Miss Gandy said she informed the interviewers that these files were kept in a locked file cabinet and occupied about one and