SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. Store suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If existing rate is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

As the Station narcotics referent, Subject has continued to concentrate his efforts on developing our drug field collection capability. The penchant for detailed analysis that earlier made him an authority on Communist Party affairs has served him well in the past year in building the Station canon of knowledge on narcotics matters. He has successfully recruited the head of a private organization concerned with addict rehabilitation and drug abuse prevention. Because of his proximity to the drug world, this agent serves as a rich source of background data and as a spotter. In the latter role he has produced two individuals whom Subject has recruited as intelligence sources. One, the estranged wife of a narcotics wholesaler who, at one time was engaged in international trafficking. The other is a chemist formerly employed unwittingly, on a part time basis, by a suspected drug syndicate. The latter source is, at this writing, once again on the fringe of involvement with a group that apparently wants to use her as a courier on a one-shot basis and later utilize her professional skills in their laboratory.

Subject is the Station representative on Mission narcotics affairs and the focal point for the Mission Narcotics Intelligence Sub-Committee. He provides the day-to-day liaison with the regional DEA office. Liaison with the Philippine enforcement services, while largely the realm of DEA, provided Subject an opportunity to recruit unilaterally one of the country's leading experts in narcotics enforcement after he was chosen

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

1. BY EMPLOYEE I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT.

DATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

21 August 1973 /S/ Jerome Fox

2. BY SUPERVISOR DEATHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER SUPERVISION IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

21 August 1973 DCOS /S/ Thomas A. Donohue

3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL COMMITTEE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL Subject has completed his second tour of duty at this Station. Looking back over his record of accomplishments, one will find a number of good achievements, but when they are all added up and measured against four years at the Station the sum falls short of what I believe he was capable of producing and should have produced. The promise that he showed during the early part of his tour never really materialized. He can and does work hard at his assignment, but he is unable to apportion his time; he can analyze an operational situation well, but cannot express the analysis lucidly in writing without a great deal of effort and re-writing. In fairness to the Subject It should be noted that during a part of this COS /S/ George T. Kalaris

5 September 1973

COS

/C/S/ George T. Kalaris