much encouragement to Costa Rica's support of Artime as possible without showing his activities.

General Carter mentioned the eagerness of William D. Pawley to implement an operational plan against Cuba, purportedly designed to create a situation which might ultimately require U.S. intervention. The consensus of the Special Group was that an independent operation organized by Pawley, would not be desirable. Efforts should be made to bring him into CIA's current operational thinking.

Mr. FitzGerald also reported that the Attorney General had sent Mr. Harry Ruiz Williams to the Agency to present a plan which turned out to be a series of 4.2 mortar attacks on the Cuban coast mounted from Guatemala. It was agreed that such attacks, in addition to being impractical logistically, would also tend to give substance to the "Somoza plan" and therefore should be discouraged.

Bolivia - Covert Action

The CIA paper of 2 August was approved.

CIA Training Activities

Mr. Matthew Baird, Director of CIA's Training Activities, made an oral report on CIA's counterinsurgency training and courses. Mr. Baird emphasized that ever since the establishment of the Office of Training in January 1951, CIA has concentrated on the covert aspects of training. It has not duplicated in any way courses offered by the Department of Defense, the Foreign Service Institute or universities. During fiscal 1963, CIA sent over 2000 students to 1275 courses at 166 government and educational institutions. In addition, during the same year, CIA trained 4214 students in 432 runnings of 64 different courses, all directly or indirectly relating to counterinsurgency.

Mr. Baird said that strong emphasis has always been placed on resistance operations and guerrilla and paramilitary activities. The method of instruction in CIA is based on case studies of current operations. CIA trained, during fiscal 1963, 150 junior officers (with a drop out of less than four per cent) and gave instruction to 174 foreign personnel in counterinsurgency, or directly related fields.

Mr. Bundy raised the question as to how CIA courses were inspected. General Carter replied by pointing out that these courses are continuously inspected by the Inspector General, the President's Board of Consultants, and the Deputy Director, Plans, who heads up the clandestine services.7