II. Whenever reports relating to security index subjects contain data affecting material included on subject's existing security index card, the cover pages accompanying the report shall include as the last page form FD-305, appropriately checked, which form contains items pertaining to the following:

(A) That subject is included in the security index

(B) That data appearing on security index card is current

(C) That FD-122 has been submitted to Bureau where security index card changes are necessary

(D) That a suitable photograph is or is not available

(E) That subject is employed in a key facility and agency charged with security responsibility is specified and that agencies interested in that facility are specified

(F) Reason for classifying report

(G) Dates subject was previously interviewed and reason for not reinterviewing subject

(H) That subject no longer meets security index criteria and a letter has been directed to the Bureau recommending cancellation of the security index card

(I) That subject's case has been re-evaluated and reasons are set forth as to why subject's activities continue to fall within security index criteria

(J) That subject's security index card is or is not tabbed detcom and[reasons why] subject's activities warrant detcom tabbing

III. Form FD-305a containing items pertinent to reserve index subjects will be similarly utilized in connection with the submission of reports in reserve index cases.

(b) Documentation of reports

I. Deleted

II. If information necessary for complete documentation is not available in subject's case file, necessary review of other office files should be made. If not obtainable, this fact must be indicated in the cover page(s) accompanying report to the Bureau.

III. Extensive investigation should not be conducted to further identify and locate outside individuals who have in the past furnished background information or to obtain documentary evidence of background information. For example, if previous investigation revealed that subject, according to reliable records, such as birth records, school records, or records of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, was born at a certain place on a certain date, such information will be sufficient for inclusion in report. Further verification will not be necessary.

IV. During the preparation of summary reports it is often found that information being incorporated into a report was originally obtained by another office and all of the necessary information for complete documentation will not be in the possession of the office preparing the report. In such an instance, if the office preparing the report is in possession of Photostats of documents obtained by the other offices and the identity