September 10, 1965

Memorandum for Messrs. Tolson, Edmont, DeLoach, Sullivan

The President stated that while he thinks Admiral Kaborn is a wonderful man, this is playing for keeps and we can't have a Communist Government and we have to have somebody alert enough to stand up and say "this is suspicious," et cetera. The President stated they tell him they have an Attorney General who is quite suspicious. I stated he is very dangerous to have in the Attorney General position. I stated in the discussion we had the other day in Mr. Bundy's office, one matter was how the investigative set-up would be under the new government and they were going to have a flying squadron of men working directly for the President of the Dominican Republic and then an intelligence unit which would gather information and a Dominican national police. I stated I expressed my opinion that I thought it was wrong for the President to have a flying squadron which would be nothing more or less than a secret police like Trujillo had who would make just reports the President would want against certain individuals who might not be as bad as the President felt they were. I stated I felt there should be an intelligence unit and that the national police should be increased. I stated we, of course, would assist in any training program they might want to set up either down there or up here. I stated at the present time in the national police is one man who was trained in our National Academy and was very valuable in furnishing us with information that we could not have gotten from other sources.

The President asked if we were having any trouble working together and I told him no trouble at all. The President stated he had asked me to be on the job to keep the communists from taking over this hemisphere and to serve him and he thought we ought to wait and not pull out of the Dominica... Republic until the government has been selected and we get along further in this; for me to tell my man down there to root out everything he can and to be hard and tough as he can and be sure we get rid of every spy; that he did not know what the diplomatic people are doing to see that President Godoy takes our reports and respects them. I stated I understand the Attorney General was recommended by Dunlop and Bennett.

I stated a large number of people are drifting back into the Dominican Republic from New York and Miami who have been drilled in the past and those who have been in political life in the past are going to run again.