SECTION-6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS

To include as many pertinent photographs as possible to make the write-up interesting. The photographs should not necessarily be of subjects alone but should be of paraphernalia used by the criminal, photographs of unusual loot obtained, scenes of various locales, etc. If photographs submitted do not belong to the FBI, it is necessary to inform the Bureau of their source and whether the owner of the photographs has any objection to their being reproduced in publications.

Each portion of the write-up should be documented as to the identity of the report or other communication from which facts were taken. The documentation should be set off by parentheses and follow immediately the portion of the write-up to which it pertains.

* Do not:

Identify law enforcement officers by name but by title and NA affiliation

Show aliases of subjects of Dependents Assistance Act of 1950

Show aliases of victims of WSTA cases

Use complicated sentence structure

Use technical references to statutes

Express personal opinions

Reveal identity of confidential informants

Use Bureau expressions like "the subject" and "the Bureau"

Prepare interesting case write-ups on juveniles, sex offenders, and parole violators but submit these by letter

Use adjectives excessively

Transmittal

Set forth all data necessary for Bureau's consideration at the beginning of write-up and then follow with interesting case data. Transmit by routing slip, attention Crime Records Division.

Dissemination

New ones issued by the Bureau should be carefully reviewed for possible interest to feature writers in field office territory and consideration given to supplying them to appropriate writers. If there is an appreciable passage of time after issuance, obtain Bureau approval before release. Pertinent photographs, if available, will be furnished by the Bureau on request.

E. CIRCULAR LETTERS, TRADE AND BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS

1. Circular letters must be approved in advance by the Bureau and sent in by the office initiating the request.

2. SACs may approve the use of a circular letter directed to banking-type institutions within their own divisions to expedite circularization of known serial numbers of money included in the loot taken in a bank robbery, bank burglary, or bank larceny. [On a highly selective basis, on approval of the SAC, leads may be set out to contiguous offices to circularize banking-type institutions in those divisions, and the Bureau should be notified that this action is being taken unless advised to the contrary. Communications setting out such leads must include sufficient facts to enable the Bureau to properly evaluate and justify the additional circularization. In all other cases prior Bureau approval must be obtained in accordance with existing rules governing circular letters.] In all instances[the circular]letter must include the following:

A brief concise statement concerning the bank robbery, bank burglary, or bank larceny and the fact that included in the loot or money taken was money, the serial numbers of which are known

List of known serial numbers according to denomination, series year if known, alphabetical order, and numerical sequence

A statement that the matter is to be treated confidentially

A cautionary statement that no bank employee should take any action which would tend to jeopardize his or her life or safety

The address and the telephone number of the field office with a statement that any person should contact the field office by calling collect

9-27-63