SECRET Security Information

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

TO : Chief, Foreign Intelligence

FROM : Acting Chief, SE

SUBJECT: Lyle O. KELLY

DATE: 21 July 1953

1. As a result of discussions between WHD, SE, CFI, and DD/A, it was decided to send an SE representative to DTROBALO to interview Lyle O. KELLY for the purpose of determining whether he represented sufficient security hazard to current SE operations out of Greece to warrant his being retained in maximum detention.

2. In accordance with this agreement, Major Michael A. Hemovich was sent to DTROBALO where he arrived at noon on 26 May 1953.

3. Major Hemovich discussed the case with the case officers concerned at DTROBALO, and then spent twelve hours talking to KELLY. As a result of this, it has been ascertained to our satisfaction that KELLY does not appear to have information of sufficient currency regarding staff or agent personnel, or current operations, in Greece to make his resettlement within the course of the next twelve months a serious security risk.

4. We therefore recommend that Lyle O. KELLY be given whatever training in language and trade WH Division feels is required, and that efforts then be made to resettle him in South America. Our only request is that this Division be kept informed of the progress of this rehabilitation and be advised of the steps taken to resettle KELLY. In this connection it should be pointed out that KELLY has a wife and child in Greece. When queried by Major Hemovich about them, he professed no interest in having the wife or child join him, stating that he would like to provide some money for the support of the child if and when he got a job and could put aside some money for this purpose. It is therefore our intention to have KELLY write his wife a letter telling her that he has no further interest in her, that she should obtain a divorce, but that he will provide her with a certain sum of money for the child. (This sum will be provided by this Division and will probably be in the neighborhood of $1000).

5. Major Hemovich's report is attached herewith.

SE/2-DFEwing-lf

Distribution:

Addressees - Orig & 1

WHD - 1

DD/A - 1

AC/SE - 1

SE/2 - 2

201-45145