of the U. S. by force or the government of any state, territory, district, or possession thereof, or the government of any political subdivision thereof, or

Organized society, group, or assembly

(1) The person organized, or helped organize, a society, group, or assembly of persons

(2) Which taught, advocated, or encouraged the overthrowing or destruction of the Government of the U. S., or the government of any state, territory, district, or possession thereof, or the government of any political subdivision thereof.

(3) By force or violence, or

(4) The person became a member of, or affiliated with, such society, group, or assembly of persons

(5) Knowing the purpose thereof

B. SUBMISSION TO THE BUREAU OF SUBVERSIVE DEROGATORY INFORMATION ON INDIVIDUALS

1. To insure the proper discharge of the Bureau's responsibility to furnish information at the seat of Government at the request of other agencies and to have it available at the seat of Government when such requests are received from other agencies, the Bureau must be promptly furnished, for indexing purposes, by offices covering the national and local headquarters of the various subversive organizations, the names of, and identifying data concerning, persons affiliated with and becoming affiliated with the following types of organizations:

Basic revolutionary organizations or groups

- Communist Party, USA

- Socialist Workers Party

- Proletarian Party of America

- Other Marxist revolutionary organizations including splinter groups, if any, of the preceding three organizations

- Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico

Nationalist and fascist-type groups

Front organizations of 1, a and b above, including those

(1) Cited by the Attorney General

(2) Cited or declared by the House Committee on Un-American Activities [ (now House Committee on Internal Security)] or by any of the various legislative committees

(3) Described as such or as an organization dominated or controlled by one of the basic revolutionary organizations or groups by security informants or other sources of known reliability

Black nationalist extremist groups

Such lists should include the organization's membership list and any other record showing affiliation.

2. Field offices obtaining information concerning such affiliation of individuals residing outside their territory must expeditiously furnish such information to the office covering the address of the person.

3. The information should be submitted to the Bureau in duplicate by letter captioned with the title of the organizational case file, for example, "Communist Party, USA, District, Division; Internal Security - C" or "Socialist Workers Party, Division; Internal Security - SWP" and should clearly indicate that the list is being furnished to the Bureau for indexing purposes only.

4. Information received from all sources, including that received from confidential sources, highly confidential sources, reports of security informants and sources, and public and other sources, should be reviewed to insure that the Bureau has been furnished in the past and will be furnished in the future lists of all individuals (together with identifying data) affiliated with all organizations set forth in 1 a, b, c, and d.

5. In forwarding such information to the Bureau, the offices should incorporate, insofar as possible, information concerning a number of individuals in one letter. The letter should contain sufficient identifying data concerning each individual to enable the Bureau to identify that individual

3-13-69

NW 88321 DocId:32989529 Page 2104