2. Identification orders, wanted flyers, check circulars, and apprehension orders

Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of individuals and organizations to which identification orders, wanted flyers, check circulars, and apprehension orders are to be sent. Each field office must review annually its mailing list in order to see that no data is sent to firms which have ceased business or have merged with other organizations.

Addressograph plates are to be prepared at the Bureau upon receipt of field request. (The Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is used rather than name of incumbent.

Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on the list.

(1) The quality of the assistance the addressee is in a position to give

(2) The cooperation which has been afforded

(3) The following must appear on the list:

Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division: Missions Providing Lodging Bureau of Customs: Post Office Inspectors Cooperative Credit Bureaus: Postmasters Duly Constituted Law Enforcement Officers: Salvation Army FBINA Graduates: Secret Service Hotels: U. S. Marshals Immigration and Naturalization Service

(4) The following may appear on the list:

Automobile Clubs: Movie Studios Banks: Navy Shore Patrol County Attorneys: Oil Company Special Agents County Coroners: Parole and Probation Officers Credit Companies: Plant Quarantine Officers Detective Agencies: Protective Associations Enlistment Officers, U. S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps: Race Tracks Employment Service: Savings and Loan Associations Fire Departments: Service Recruiting Officers Forest Service: State Hospitals for Insane Gunsmiths: Steamship Companies Insurance Companies: Telegraph Companies U. S. Attorneys: U. S. Commissioners

Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. Should a compelling reason exist for distribution of an identification order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for such distribution.

Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels.

[e. Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribution to VA installations in such cases.]