Office Memorandum

UNITED STAT

ERNMENT

TO : L.V. Boardman

FROM : A.H. Belmont

SUBJECT: AFGHANISTAN

cc: Mr. Boardman Mr. Belmont Mr. Philcox Mr. Sanders Mr. deBettencourt

DATE: December 5, 1955

Tsonon Bryant Agrawal Belton Harbo Mehr Parsons Rosen Temm Sizoo Winterrowd Tele. Room Holllomn Geady

Afghanistan, about size of Texas, is a landlocked country in Middle East, surrounded by USSR (north), Pakistan (south and east) and Iran (west). Traditionally, she has advantageously played off one great nation against another. At Intelligence Advisory Committee (IAC) meeting 11/29/55, possibility of Afghanistan gradually falling into Soviet control was discussed. IAC group of opinion that Soviet Government able to offer considerable advantages to Afghanistan through trade routes bypassing Pakistan, traditional rival of Afghanistan with which Afghanistan is having difficulties, and through possible financial and military support. As result, it was felt there is strong possibility Afghanistan will gradually fall within Soviet control, although ostensibly remaining sovereign state.

Afghanistan maintains Embassy in Washington, D. C., Consulate in New York City, and honorary consul in San Francisco. No information received Afghan officials in US engaged in political or subversive activities. During last 4 years no information received any Afghan groups in US engaged in subversive activities. No Afghan nationals on Security Index. In event Soviet economic gains in Afghanistan lead to political control of country, we would have to consider giving comparable coverage to Afghan diplomatic establishments and official personnel as now given to Soviet satellite official establishments.

If Afghanistan becomes openly pro-Soviet, we would have to consider dangerousness of Afghan nationals in US as regards internal security and initiate appropriate investigative action.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

Liaison should call to attention Mr. Robert Murphy, State Department, discussion of IAC of Afghanistan, in connection with consideration by State as to whether we should establish coverage of certain "friendly" countries in US for intelligence purposes.

65-63113

NOT RECORDED

145 JAN 23 1950

109-12-321 JMD/amr/bcf

17 JAN 19

(6) FOR INSTRUCTIONS AS TO DISSEMINATION SERVICE NO. 62-90718

OHBK-1475v1

NW 88613 DocId:32199554 Page 32