released at that time.

Although not mentioned as an option in your letter, I would like to be permitted to review the documents containing my name which you are being obliged to release. When I retired, I gave up all links with former sources. One of these popped up in the New York Times last week. Some others may still be alive, and in need of protection, although as I recall, none had any useful data concerning the assassination. If the sources are to be exposed, I feel very strongly that they are entitled to all the protection we can afford them. I will be in the Washington D.C. area in November 1997, and would be willing to review these documents.

In terms of the provisions you cite for exceptions in your letter, (A) I consider myself a person (Agent?) whose identity currently requires protection.

The cover I am using, provided by the State Department, is (B) an intelligence method which is currently utilized.

The public disclosure of my name as part of the assassination record (C.3) could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion is so substantial that it outweighs the public interest. I cannot resist defining the public interest in this matter as "public morbid curiosity."

The public disclosure of my name as part of the assassination record (C.4) would probably compromise the existence of an understanding of confidentiality currently requiring protection between a government agent and a cooperating individual or foreign government, and public disclosure would be so harmful that it outweighs the public interest. I was COS in Bolivia when the assassination occurred. I was in close touch with the Bolivian Government security chief at that time, and with the Minister of Interior, and we probably interchanged data on the murder, although they could provide nothing useful. Also, the Station was probably tasked to query all of our sources on the matter, again with negative results. The revelation of my name and the identities of liaison contacts and unilateral sources would not only imperil me, but would also embarrass the Bolivian Government, and

MkAPR 15 '97 05:06PM USGOVERNMENT

P.4 P.13/14