EP 65-951

three times in the Korean War. He stated that he made the major mistake of his life when he did not re-enlist and continue in the Army. Besides combat duty in the Infantry, he worked as an Investigator in the Counter Intelligence Corps.

He mentioned that he spoke Japanese fluently and had been married to a Japanese woman, who he said was divorcing him in California. He also complained in this connection that the California Courts had awarded the custody of their children to her.

He stated that he thought he had been approached here in Mexico City for recruiting, but although asked specifically in this regard, refused to state by whom or for what or on behalf of what country. He stated that one job of this sort would be in New York. He volunteered in so many words that he fully realized that what he was saying could be used against him in any court or prosecution. He stated that he had almost made up his mind definitely that he would leave Mexico, but that he would not go back to the United States. He stated that he did not care to return to the United States. He stated that so far he had "done nothing inimical to the United States." He stated that he was completely "disaffected," and that he knew the full significance of that term. He also stated that he was "bitter, disgusted, disillusioned and disaffected." One thing, he said, that he could say was that if he did go to some other country, it would cost the United States millions. He stated that he was "through being a good citizen" and thought he had gotten a "dirty deal all around."

He was told to go to the Protection Section in regard to any problems in Mexico as an American citizen. He stated that he had been to the Protection Section and would not go there again, and that the way he was feeling, he would not go back to the United States. He said that he had nothing to go back for, and that his dismissal record would prevent him from getting a good job anywhere in the United States. He mentioned that the only job he had ever worked at was that of an investigator.