3. As for education, for states whether it is in school or not, for cadres, a problem should be established concerning such education on the study of the practical problems of the Chinese revolution and using the basic principles of Marxism-Leninism as the guide, and the method of studying Marxism-Leninism statically and in isolation should be discarded. Moreover, in studying Marxism-Leninism, we should use the History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Bolsheviques), Short Course as the principal material. It is the best synthesis and summing up of the world communist movement of the past hundred years, a model of the integration of theory and practice, and so far the only comprehensive model in the whole world. When we see how Lenin and Stalin integrated the universal truth of Marxism with the concrete practice of the Soviet revolution and thereby developed Marxism, we shall know how we should work in China.

We have made many detours. But error is often the precursor of what is correct. I am confident that in the context of the Chinese revolution and the world revolu- tion, which is so intensely alive and so richly varied, this reform of our study will certainly yield good results.

NOTES

1. Fuhsien County is about seventy kilometres south of Yenan.

2. The Border Region currency consisted of the currency notes issued by the Bank of the Shensi-Kansu-Ningxia Border Region Government. The Kuomintang currency was the paper currency issued by the four big Kuomintang bureaucrat-capitalist banks from 1935 onwards with British and U.S. imperialist support. Comrade Mao Tse-tung was referring to the fluctuations in the rates of exchange between these two currencies.

3. See Karl Marx, "Afterword to the Second German Edition" (January 24, 1873) Capital in which he wrote: "The latter (the method of inquiry) has to appropriate the material in detail, to analyse its different forms of development, to trace out their inner connection. Only after this work is done, can the actual movement be dequately described." (Capital, Eng. ed., FLPH, Moscow, Vol. I, p. 19.)

4. See J. V. Stalin, "The Foundations of Leninism" (April-May 1924), Problems of Leninism, Russ. ed., Moscow, 1952, p. 80.