MAR 18 '97 06:53PM

Question # 5:

We have been working to identify all technical and surveillance operations in and on the Cuban and Soviet consulates and embassies in Mexico City between September 1 and December 1, 1963. How can we frame a search query to determine if we have a comprehensive and complete list of all operations at that time?

Until very recently, we had seen no evidence that CIA had microphone surveillance of the Cuban compound. However, Dispatch HMMW 12454 (no IDEN number attached) found in Box 23, Folder 9 of the Sequestered Collection, makes reference to LICOOLs (concealed microphones inside the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City). Though the dispatch reports that the last LICOOL ceased functioning in 1961--before the period in question—the prior existence of this capability and the fact that the dispatch discusses the possibility of reactivation prompts the question of whether all technical and surveillance operations against the Cuban and Soviet Consulates have been identified to the ARRB. In addition, the dispatch refers to MKTRAP, a telephone hot mike operation which was re-actuated from a basehouse in November 1963. The specific hot mike telephone PBIMPULSE appears to have been in operation during 1963. Are there records from this operation? Are there any other operations that may have picked up Oswald's visit?

Question # 6:

How can a search query be framed to document all electronic take produced by the Mexico City Station in the immediate wake of the assassination (the first month) and during the period of Oswald's visit? How can we verify that what exists in the Sequestered Collection represents all records of technical production that were available at the time of the assassination? If additional records or original production still exists, where would it be stored or filed? What searches could be conducted to retrieve any additional records? If such electronic take has been destroyed, do records exist of the destruction?

This question is a follow up to question # 5. If MKTRAP was in operation from September 1-December 1, 1963, where are the records or transcripts describing the take? Was the take ever retained or reviewed? Do any original tapes or transcripts still exist? Where might these records be found? Were any other technical operations in progress? The various project files for the technical operations known to exist during this period are spotty and incomplete. How can the ARRB know if it has reviewed records of all the technical operation take for the relevant time period?