Memorandum

To: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director From: Robin Lindley Date: November 24, 1978 Re: Request for Salary Increase

I would greatly appreciate a wage increase. As you are aware, my responsibilities with the Committee have changed dramatically in the past few months. Not only have I assisted with ad hoc writing projects such as narrations and staff reports that have been used in public session hearings, but I am also responsible for writing and editing a substantial part of the final report of the King Task Force.

My background uniquely complements my present duties with the editorial staff. In support of this salary request, it may be useful to reacquaint you with my experience. Following my graduation from the University of Washington School of Law in 1974, I worked for two years as a full-time Instructor of Law. In that capacity, I taught a legal research, writing, and analysis course, and had the opportunity to critically examine hundreds of pieces of student work. I also developed a seminar in writing about law for persons without a legal background, an effort to encourage students to humanize and demystify their own legal writing, as well as review possible examples of this sort of writing, such as legal journalism. In addition, I am familiar with historical research and writing. I received my Bachelor of Arts degree in history (with distinction), with an emphasis in United States and modern European history, and while attending law school, I organized and taught a course concerning the role of violence in American history that was presented in the Department of General and Interdisciplinary Studies at the University of Washington.

I have worked diligently for this Committee since October 1977. As a research attorney, I did my best to research issues thoroughly and accurately, to analyze and cogently synthesize relevant material, and to present the fruits of my efforts in a clear and concise manner. I also endeavored to see that this information was used effectively in connection with the King investigation, despite some obstacles posed by staff regimentation. Furthermore, I have acted as a de facto staff counsel, notably with the King investigation in England, as well as in the day-to-day dealings with agencies and witnesses.

Consequently, based upon my work with the Committee and my unique experience, I submit this request for a salary increase. Specifically, I ask that my wages be raised from the present level of $18,000 per year to $24,000 per year.

I look forward to my continued work with Dick and the other members of the editorial staff. I find my duties gratifying, at times exhilarating, and always challenging, and I do believe that I am uniquely qualified to make a significant contribution to our final report.

Thank you for your kind consideration. I would greatly appreciate a reply to this request.

(Copy to Dick Billings)