selecting key figures in the labor field, give consideration to the critical nature of the industry or trade involved and the fact that certain industries, such as transportation and communication, are particularly vulnerable to communist infiltration and sudden disruptive action.

V. Editors, publishers, and business managers of generally recognized communist publications or communist publishing houses and operators of the important communist bookstores

VI. Prominent figures in the communist-owned and -controlled educational institutions, generally referred to as workers schools

VII. Attorneys and bondsmen who are active in the communist movement and are known to furnish important assistance to the communist movement

VIII. Espionage or nationalistic tendency subjects whose activities are connected to a significant degree with the program of the Communist Party, provided they have no recognized diplomatic status. Investigation and preparation, submission, and dissemination of reports governed by instructions issued in individual cases in this category and the general rules governing key figures as subsequently set forth in this section are not applicable to these subjects.

The above list is not all-inclusive. There may be individuals who, because of their profession, position in public life, Government employment, or other associations, may not see fit to serve outwardly in behalf of the Communist Party or its related groups but who, because of their established communist sympathies and their contributions to the communist movement, might well conform to the general key figure definition set out above. Membership in the Communist Party or other basic revolutionary organizations is not a prerequisite to being a key figure and the designation may apply to both citizens and aliens [and to black nationalist extremists.]

(b) Regulations governing the handling of the key figure program

I. Designation and deletion of key figure status Designate or remove subject as a key figure by individual letter to the Bureau carrying the subject in the caption and containing a brief statement as to the reason for designation or deletion.

Where office of origin for key figures is transferred, deletions in the old office of origin and additions in the new office are handled in accordance with 87D 7b (9) (b) above.

II. Photographs Photographs must be obtained for each key figure. Whenever possible, the photographs should be obtained from public records, law enforcement agencies, state or Federal Government agencies, and similar sources. Where more direct means employed, use extreme care to avoid prejudicing the investigation. Send one copy of photograph of each key figure to the Bureau, either by cover letter or as enclosure to a report. Maintain a copy of each photograph in the subject's individual case file in the field. If album of key figure photographs maintained, be sure duplicates are also filed in each individual subject's file.

III. Handwriting specimens Suitable handwriting specimens of each key figure must be obtained. Whenever possible, obtain handwriting specimens from public records, law enforcement agencies,