Director Central Intelligence Agency [x] (w)

It would be appreciated if your Agency would furnish this Bureau any pertinent information received concerning possible travel of the subjects to Communist China and concerning their presence in China. Should your Agency receive information that subjects plan to travel in England, France, or Japan, it would be appreciated if you would advise the appropriate Legal Attache in London, England; Paris, France; or Tokyo, Japan. [L] (w)

ATTENTION LEGAL ATTACHES LONDON, PARIS, AND TOKYO, AND SAC, NEW YORK:

A Photostat of referenced Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) memorandum is enclosed for all. It is possible that Paris may receive inquiries regarding the subjects through Swiss sources. In referenced memorandum CIA did not identify its official Swiss source. This identification subsequently given to Bureau via Liaison. The Bureau approved CIA's furnishing this information to the Swiss Federal Police inasmuch as CIA had conducted active investigation regarding subjects in Switzerland [S]

Also enclosed for each Legal Attache are one copy of a memorandum dated 11-26-58 concerning Richard Cyril Frank and one copy of a memorandum dated 1-26-60 concerning Susan Heiligman Frank. In view of reported plans of subjects to travel in England and France, and since it is anticipated that they may travel in the vicinity of Japan prior to their return to this country, the Legal Attaches at London, Paris, and Tokyo should alert sources in England, France, and Japan concerning the Franks' contemplated travel in Europe and their possible plans to travel in China. Background information concerning the subjects set forth on page two of enclosed CIA letter, as corrected in paragraph two of this letter may be made available to your sources if deemed advisable. For your additional information, both subjects are on the Security Index.

New York remain alert in this matter and submit any information received concerning the subjects in a form suitable for dissemination. If not already done, New York submit FD-122's tabbed "Out of the country."