that the context and integrity of the records be preserved. Only in rare instances will the Review Board assent to withholding particular information within an assassination record on the ground that such information is not relevant to the assassination. Section 1400.5 has been modified to clarify that, although the Review Board may allow this practice in extraordinary circumstances, this determination is within the sole direction of the Review Board.

Comment: The discussion of originals and copies in § 1400.6 is, in various respects, unclear and confusing.

Response: The Review Board made extensive changes to this section to address these concerns and to achieve greater internal consistency. The Review Board's intent in this section is to express its strong preference for including original records in the JFK Assassination Records Collection, but also its understanding that, for a variety of reasons, there may be situations where a copy instead of the original of an assassination record may be more appropriate for inclusion in the Collection.

Comment: Section 1400.6 should be clarified as to whether "record copies" of Federal agency may be included in the JFK Assassination Records Collection.

Response: The Review Board has modified § 1400.6(a)(1) to clarify that the Review Board may determine that record copies may be included in the Collection.

Comment: The Catalog of Assassination Records (COAR) described in § 1400 8 should consist of, or be replaced by, the database and finding aids prepared by the Federal agencies in possession of assassination records.

Response This and other comments received regarding the proposed § 1400.6 indicated some confusion as to the intent and operation of the mechanism established in this section For this reason, the Review Board decided to replace the term "Catalog of Assassination Records" with the term "Notice of Assassination Record Determination" (NARD), and to redraft this section to clarify the Review Board's intent to use the NARD mechanism simply to document the Review Board's ongoing determinations that, in addition to records explicitly enumerated in the JFK Act as assassination records (e g, records reviewed by the HSCA) or identified by Federal agencies in their own searches, certain other records also are assassination records to be included in

the JFK Assassination Records Collection.

Section by Section Analysis

Scope of Assassination Record

As discussed above with regard to the public comments, subparagraph (a) of § 1400.1 has been modified to adopt a "reasonably related" standard and the term "Catalog of Assassination Records" has been replaced with "Notice of Assassination Record Determination" in subparagraph (b)(3) The final interpretive regulations also incorporate suggested technical changes, including edits for clarification and revision of this section's title to make it more precise.

Scope of Additional Records and Information

The title of § 1400.2 was revised to conform to the new title of § 1400.1. Additional editing changes were made for clarity. A new subpart (G) was added to subparagraph (e) and a new subparagraph (f) was added after consideration of comments that noted the potential exclusion of certain categories from the scope of this section in the proposed interpretive regulations. The Review Board has added language in the final interpretive regulations to clarify that the purpose of this section is to aid in identifying, evaluating or interpreting assassination records, including assassination records that may not initially have been identified by an agency. The Review Board also has added language to suggest that it intends to implement this section through written requests signed by the Review Board's Executive Director.

Sources of Assassination Records and Additional Records and Information

A new subparagraph (g) was added to § 1400.3 after consideration of comments noting the potential exclusion of records created by individuals or corporations or obtained from sources other than those already identified in the previous subparagraphs

Types of Materials Included in Scope of Assassination Record and Additional Records and Information

No substantive change has been made to § 1400.4 as it appeared in the proposed interpretive regulations

Requirement That Assassination Records be Released in Their Entirety

Language has been added to § 1400.5 to permit the Review Board, in its sole discretion, to allow release of only part of an assassination record where such partial release is sufficient to comply

with the intent and purposes of the JFK Act.

Originals and Copies

Extensive changes were made to § 1400.6 for reasons of clarity and internal consistency. The Review Board also incorporated in the final interpretive regulations language clarifying that "record copies" of Federal agency records may be included in the JFK