such as (Valeriy Tereshchenko). One of (Tereshchenko's) contacts is believed to be a target for contact by (KGB) and another is the son-in-law of the woman in whose apartment (Viktor Kravchenko) had been visiting. (Kravchenko) is a (Soviet) defector who recently committed suicide. The informant has advised of the activities and contacts of (Vladislaw Krasnow, Soviet) defector to Sweden in 1962. The Bureau was not aware previously that (Krasnow) was in the U.S.

Although much material regarding communists and the Communist Party (CP) is also received from other sources, the informant continues to furnish additional details and new information regarding changes of employment and residence, travel, contacts and activities. Data regarding attempts of the DuBois Clubs to expand nationally and internationally was furnished in items on (Paula Garb), International Secretary, who went to the USSR to marry a (Soviet) if he can obtain a divorce. Items pertaining to (Mary Lou Camacho) (daughter of CP leader) told of the birth of her daughter, reconciliation with her (Cuban) husband, plans to go to Cuba to live and that one of her friends, a Security Index subject, was in Ghana when she was believed to be in the U.S.

Data is received regarding travel and contacts of (Mary Rakoczy) (widow of suspected espionage agent), who attended the (Higher Party School of the Ukraine in Kiev, USSR). Information continues to be received regarding her son, (Andrew Rakoczy), who was allegedly studying ballet but actually attended the above school for almost two years. This has included his contacts, change of employment and residence and racial, poverty and Progressive Labor Party activities in Chicago. One of his contacts now at this school has been identified as (Teddie Kardash), son of Canadian communists. The source has also advised that (Irene Rakoczy) and three unidentified individuals plan to study dancing in (Kiev), this summer (possibly at the above-mentioned school which maintains a special section to combine lessons in dancing and indoctrination) and that (Bernard Francis Taylor) (son of CP official), who went to the (USSR) with a musical and dancing group, remained in (Kiev) to attend school. (Don Zurilko), son of the alien wife of a U.S. citizen residing in State of Washington, is attending school in (Kiev). He is believed to be from the U.S. or Canada.

Additional information is received regarding persons involved in the peace movements, anti-Vietnam demonstrations, women's organizations, "teach-ins" (one has been in contact with a (GRU) officer), racial matters, Progressive Labor Party, Students for a Democratic Society, DuBois Clubs, Students Non-Violent Coordinating Committee and other organizations. Items reveal names of U.S. contacts with members of such (Soviet) propaganda organizations as the (Soviet Peace Committee, Soviet Women's Committee, Committee For Return to the Homeland) and others.