Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan RE: LUNCHEON ENGAGEMENT OF THE DIRECTOR

WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND MR. SARGENT SHRIVER, DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY DURING WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 18, 1967

Washington, D. C.

Individuals affiliated with two organizations funded in part by OEO were involved in the disturbance which occurred in the House of Representatives on 8/7/67 in protest of the shelving of the so-called "Rat Bill." The leader, Jesse Gray, a former Communist Party organizer in Harlem and a militant black nationalist, is the head of the Harlem Back Street Youth, Incorporated, which was the recipient of OEO funds. Such funds have since been suspended. Gray and at least one other member of the above organization were arrested for their part in this disturbance. Also involved in this disturbance and arrested was Robert Bailey Ransom, an employee of Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) Associates, an OEO-funded organization.

Hate-type Schools

The New York City Police Department advised on 8/9/67 that the walls of a school handling a program entitled "Special Training in Reading" for children 8 to 10 years of age contained numerous hate slogans. Examples of the signs noted thereon were "Don't love them to death, shoot them to death; make revolution not war; burn, baby, burn; arm yourselves; Johnson is losing sleep; Newark, '67; Chicago South Side, '66; Watts, '65, and Harlem, '64." There was also a picture of President Johnson's face superimposed on an Army sergeant carrying a rifle captioned "Public Enemy Number One, Wanted for Murder." The committee handling this particular program was funded in part by OEO.

A somewhat similar situation occurred in Nashville, Tennessee, in connection with a "Liberation School" which has been in operation teaching 10- and 11-year-olds. Antipoverty funds from OEO had been earmarked for the school; however, the funds were withdrawn when national publicity resulted concerning this matter. Meantime, however, certain services including the rental of an automobile and school supplies had been furnished.