TOP SECRET DINAR

NON-BLOC RELATIONS:

The Moroccan foreign minister has received a three-man Cuban "good-will" mission for the second time and the Istiqlal's Nation claims that a resumption of formal diplomatic relations is imminent, according to the US Embassy in Rabat (see Daily Summary for 29 November and 6 December). According to a semi-official account of the meeting, which took place on 4 December, the Cubans reasserted their desire to normalize relations and professed a lack of hostile intentions against the Moroccan Government--which severed formal relations after Cuban "technicians" arrived in Algeria on 22 October. "Informed sources" in Rabat claim that the government is considering the Cuban demarché with "attention." The Nation explains that the Cubans now recognize that Morocco has not been the aggressor in the Algerian conflict and that they are "repentant" over their precipitous action in aiding Ben Bella. (Am Emb Rabat, 866, 6 December, LIMITED OFFICIAL USE)

The President of Dahomey declined an invitation to attend the 1 January anniversary celebration in Cuba, according to an intercepted (radiotelephone) conversation of 3 December. The (Dahomean ambassador in Paris received the invitation from his Cuban counterpart; however, the president declined because he said it was "hardly possible" for him to be in Cuba in January. It is not clear if Dahomey will designate an official representa- tive to the celebration. (GCHQ, K34/A/6/12/1963, 6 December, SECRET SABRE)

CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY:

The Chilean ambassador in Venezuela informed his govern- ment, in an intercepted 2 December message, that he is con- vinced of the accuracy of the Venezuelan Government's charges of Cuban subversion in Venezuela. He pointed out that the heavy voting in Venezuela's 1 December national election dem- onstrates that the legal opposition in Venezuela is not impli- cated in the violence and terrorism. He also stated that the Castro regime is so thoroughly repudiated by Venezuelan pub- lic opinion that the Venezuelan Government has no need to use artificial means to stimulate anti-Castro feeling there. The Chilean ambassador pointed out that many Venezuelan Communists are in Cuba and from there "they permanently incite rebellion" in Venezuela and Cuban propaganda supports their efforts. (NSA-3/O/Z-CLD/T104-63, 7 December, TOP SECRET DINAR NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

TOP SECRET DINAR

10/1V