3. These dangerous prospects transcend the above-mentioned goals into a systematic psychological warfare that uses the military debacle to create a feeling of impotence among the Arab vis-a-vis Israeli military superiority and hence to entrench even further the fear of Israeli expansionism. From here, it is but a short step, after imposing the peace settlement, to justify ending the period of armed resistance against the Israeli aggression which, in turn, would pave the way for striking at the Palestinian resistance movement and embroil it in secondary disputes that would weaken it and divert it from its well-marked course of action against Zionist occupation.

Brothers: The Palestinian Revolution rejects all such proposals and rationalizations, for in reality it is but a new way of presenting an unconditional surrender leading to the eventual destruction of the Palestinian people. None of these efforts acknowledges the basic premise of the Israeli political entity. This is the basic strategic foundation upon which the Palestinian Revolution is based and for which it strives under its slogan: "Revolution until Victory." For this reason, armed struggle must be escalated to a degree that will paralyze the forces opposing the Revolution.

The current phase of the Revolution is the most critical one in spite of the victories we have so far achieved. It is imperative that we confront all those counter-revolutionary attempts and stand fast by the Revolution, protecting it from the internal Arab contradictions and partisan fights, allowing it to concentrate on its main task and to avoid secondary struggle. It is our duty to exert our utmost pressure on the Arab governments and the

of competing with it or attempting to contain it under the pretexts of its "Arab nature" or of "increasing its effectiveness."

Actually, increasing the effectiveness of the Revolution occurs in two main fields:

1. In the Palestinian realm, which includes the Palestinian people and the armed struggle in the occupied areas;

2. In the Arab realm, which includes the Arab people, land, and government.

The Palestinian Revolution needs both the Palestinian people and the Arab people.

The Revolution, likewise, needs the Arab land as well as Palestine.

Training must occur on Arab soil. Movement of armaments and supplies must pass through Arab land. Storage of arms and supplies must be in Arab land. Financial support comes from the Arab people. Information and news must go through Arab channels.

The mobilization and organization of the Palestinian people must be accomplished in Arab land where they are located.

All this means that the Revolution is affected in one way or another by Arab conditions and Arab power structures. This highlights the extent of the effort to be expanded in the Arab countries in order to harness all the potential in support of the Revolution.

Now comes the role of the Arab citizen. Now comes the role of the Arab organizations. Now comes the role of the Arab political parties.

-NW 882961 Dobd:32989574 Page support the Revolution instead-