in the wee hours of the morning -- even when these strangers wear the uniform of policemen. History teaches us that the man in the uniform may or may not be a policeman authorized to enter the homes of the people.

AND

Taking notice of the fact that (1) on January 16, 1968, at 3:30 A. M., members of the San Francisco Police De- partment kicked down the door and made an illegal entry, and search of the home of Eldridge Cleaver, Minister of Information. These Pigs had no search warrant, no ar- rest warrant, and were therefore not authorized to enter. They were permitted to enter for them to enter was explicitly denied by the Minister of Information. Present were Sister Kathleen Cleaver, our Communica- tions Secretary and wife to our Minister of Information, and Brother Emory Douglas, our Revolutionary Artist.

Taking further notice of the fact that (2) on February 25, 1968, several uniformed gestapos of the Berkeley Pig Department, accompanied by several other white men in plainclothes, bearing an assortment of shotguns, rifles, and service revolvers, made a forceful, unlawful entry and search of the home of Bobby Seale, Chairman of our Party, and his wife, Sister Artie Seale. These Pigs had no warrant either to search or to arrest. When asked by Chairman Bobby to produce a warrant, they arrogantly stated that they did not need one. They had no authority to enter -- what they did have was the power of the gun. Thus we are confronted with a critical situ- ation. Our organization has received serious threats, from certain racist elements of White America, includ- ing the Oakland, Berkeley, and San Francisco Pig De- partments. Threats to take our lives, to exterminate us. We cannot determine when any of these elements, or a combination of them, may move to implement these threats. We must be alert to the danger at all times. We will not fall victim to a St. Valentine's Massacre. Therefore, those who approach our doors in the manner of outlaws, who seek to enter our homes illegally, un- lawfully and in a rowdy fashion, those who kick our doors down with no authority and seek to ransack our

Page 1985