7 program in Lincoln Park which expels Latin families from their homes and apartments to be replaced by upper-middle-income white professionals. The pigs have come down hard on the Lords as a result of their involvement in these struggles. Cha Cha Jimenez, president of the YLO, has been arrested at least 10 times in the past few months on charges ranging from disorderly conduct to curfew violations to mob action. Lords are continually harassed on the streets by the pigs.

We occasionally hear it said that the fault lies with the individual policeman, and that he needs to be "educated". But the hatred for the police comes not as a result of the actions of the individual cop but as a response to the functions (outlined above) which the police play. Those of us who were in the park during the Convention this summer or who live in black or Spanish communities know that it doesn't matter if a cop is a PhD or a grade school dropout because once he puts on the uniform, he begins to "do his job".

The police have not acquired any new functions; they have historically been tools of the ruling class. They helped the slaveowners to keep the slaves "in their place" and prevented slave rebellions. They served the industrial bosses and robber barons, men like Jay Gould and Andrew Carnegie, In breaking strikes—stopping picket lines, protecting scabs and brutally beating, sometimes killing, striking men and women. They helped the company owners during the thirties when working men and women fought for unions and a decent standard of living. Even today they help to suppress wildcat strikes.

BLACK PANTHER PARTY

aged to 2.15 years the country Democratic National Convention Calif. pigs

dly stealing 400 ice cream bars and

two police agents in Calif.

charges

acy" to blow up department stores — purchase illegal weapons — $225,000

garbage arrested for "stealing city"

one day on charges ranging from "not nuts and bolts" to "headlights of car aus creating a "safety hazard"

NWI 88613 DocId:32199554

Page 1996