D. SECURITY INVESTIGATION OF INDIVIDUALS

Definitions

The term "basic revolutionary organization" or "basic revolutionary group" when used hereinafter in this subsection shall apply to any one or all of the following organizations or groups in order to distinguish the organizations from front organizations:

Communist Party, USA

Socialist Workers Party

Progressive Labor [Party]

Proletarian Party of America

Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico

Johnson-Forest Group

American Socialist Clubs

See also 87C 1d.

Responsibility of the Bureau

To conduct thorough investigation into the background and subversive activities of all persons in the U. S. and Puerto Rico who are dangerous or potentially dangerous to the internal security. Each SAC will be held responsible for the proper investigation of all persons in his area who, because of membership or affiliation with basic revolutionary organizations or other Marxist revolutionary organizations including splinter groups, may be potentially dangerous.

To determine the identities, whereabouts, and activities of individuals constituting a threat to the internal security and develop sufficient information and evidence through investigation to sustain a appropriate action by the Bureau should it become necessary for the Federal Government to institute investigative action against such individuals in courts of law or control their movement and activities in the event of a national emergency.

Purpose of investigation

The primary purpose of these investigations is twofold, namely:

Determination of dangerousness

To determine the identities, whereabouts, and activities of all individuals in the U. S. and Puerto Rico who, because of their membership in, activity in, or association with one or more of the revolutionary groups defined above or related groups, are dangerous or potentially dangerous to the internal security of the country, and the consequent collection of sufficient information concerning their subversive activities to justify apprehension in event of a national emergency

Determination of violations of Federal statutes

To determine the identities, whereabouts, and activities of all individuals who have been or may be violating laws of the U. S.

(1) Direct investigation towards obtaining admissible evidence to establish the violation.

(2) Be alert for any information indicating a violation of the Federal statutes relating to espionage, sabotage, and sedition.

(3) Title 18, USC, § 2385, paragraph (1), prohibits the advocacy, etc., of forceful or violent overthrow of the Government.

Paragraph (2) prohibits the printing and distribution of propaganda advocating the forceful overthrow of the Government. (Affiliation with an organization is not a prerequisite to prosecution under paragraphs (1) and (2).) Paragraph (3) makes it unlawful to organize or help to organize any society, etc., of persons who advocate overthrow of the Government by force or violence, or to be or become a member of or become affiliated with any such society knowing the purposes thereof. Conspiracy to violate this section is covered by Title 18, USC, § 371 (general conspiracy statute).

(4) Title 18, USC, § 2387, penalizes attempts to undermine the loyalty, discipline, or morale of the armed forces. Alleged violations should be reported immediately to the Bureau.