publicly stated they support the program of the Black Panther Party and want Huey Newton released from jail.

PROGRAM OF THE BLACK PANTHER PARTY (WHAT WE WANT AND WHAT WE BELIEVE)

The program is usually divided into one section of ten points entitled "What We Want" and then ten paragraphs explaining these points in a section entitled "What We Believe". For the sake of clarity, we have put each one of the ten points in "What We Want" immediately above its corresponding paragraph in "What We Believe":

1. We want freedom. We want power to determine the destiny of our Black Community.

We believe that black people will not be free until we are able to determine our destiny.

2. We want full employment for our neonle.

We believe that the federal government is responsible and obligate to give every man employment or a guaranteed income. We believe that if the white American businessmen will not give full employment, then the means of production should be taken from the businessmen and placed in the community so that the neonle of the community can organize and employ all of its neonle and give a high standard of living.

3. We want an end to the robbery by the white man of our Black Community.

We believe that this racist government has robbed us and now we are demanding the overdue debt of forty acres and two mules. Forty acres and two mules was promised 100 years ago as restitution for slave labor and mass murder of black neonle. We will accent the payment in currency which will be distributed to our many communities. The Germans are now aiding the Jews in Israel for the genocide of the Jewish neonle. The Germans murdered six million Jews. The American racist has taken part in the slaughter of over fifty-million black people: therefore, we feel that this is a modest demand that we make.

4. We want decent housing, fit for shelter of human beings.

We believe that if the white landlords will not give decent housing to our black community, then the housing and the land should be made into cooperatives so that our community, with government aid, can build and make decent housing for its neonle.

5. We want education for our neonle that exposes the true nature of this decadent American society. We want education that teaches us our true history and our role in the present day society.

We believe in an educational system that will give to our neonle a knowledge of self. If a man does not have knowledge of himself and his position in society and the world, then he has little chance to relate to anything else.

6. We want all black men to be exempt from military service.

We believe that black neonle should not be forced to fight in the military service to defend a racist government that does not protect us. We will not fight and kill other neonle of color in the world who, like black neonle, are being victimized by the white racist government of America. We will protect ourselves from the force and violence of the racist police and the racist military, by whatever