PRE-HEARING QUESTIONS ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

I. Nomination Process and Potential Conflicts

1. Were any conditions, expressed or implied, attached to your nomination to be a member of the Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB)?

No

2. Have you made any commitments with respect to policies or programs affected by your role as a member of the ARRB?

No

3. Are there any issues involving the ARRB from which you may have to disqualify yourself?

No

4. Have you been a party to any legal actions or administrative proceedings pertaining to access to, or disclosure of, federal records on the subject of the assassination of President Kennedy?

NO

II. Role and Responsibilities

1. What particular qualifications and experience do you bring to the role of being a member of the ARRB?

Staff member of the Public Documents Commission, created by Congress after the Nixon tape controversy. This Commission held hearings, sponsored studies on public records and wrote a final report. As a staff member, I was introduced to the promises and problems of preserving federal records and providing access to them.

Project Director, Committee on Records of Government. This foundation funded project was designed to study the relationship between information management and records management, particularly as it applies to computer generated records. As project director I worked closely with the Chairman of the Committee and its members. I organized hearings, wrote summaries of the hearings to be circulated to the Committee and was responsible for preparation of the final report.

As an historian of American Foreign Relations, I have researched documents in the National Archives (including four Presidential Libraries) from the era of the Cold War. I am very familiar with "withdrawal" notices of classified material as well as the kind of material that has been released.

I have been elected and/or appointed to several committees sponsored by various historical organizations that have