The methods of gathering intelligence are roughly divided into two groups: 1) Research and Analysis, and 2) Espionage.

Espionage includes all the "illegal" means of obtaining information, such as wire-tapping, interception of mail, stealing of documents, secretly photographing records, infiltrating, spying into enemy organizations, bribing or black-mailing individuals of the enemy apparatus.

Research and Analysis includes the careful systematic search of all newspapers, magazines, trade journals, house organs, political pamphlets, books, public records, etc., to sift a few "needles" of valuable intelligence from several "haystacks" of general information.

Professional intelligence organizations obtain about 95% of their information from Research and Analysis and only about 5% from Espionage. When espionage techniques are used, they prove most effective when a specific mission is carefully planned out in advance which takes advantage of all possible background information that may be obtained by research methods.

Let's examine how these various techniques might be used to obtain additional information of the four basic types we need most.

1. Details of the techniques used in espionage, infiltration and subversion by individual agents including methods by which they control their fellow travelers.

An agent trainee may learn something of the general espionage methods used by communist agents who have defected from the party and have then written about their experiences. Beyond this they are of very little value. The actual details of such techniques are uniformly neglected.

More useful information can be obtained from the study of past court records in which evidence has been presented in espionage cases. Hints and clues may occasionally be picked up from continuous and careful study of the regular news media. Really basic information of this type, however, must be obtained by infiltration and espionage techniques.

2. The equipment used for surveillance, communications, assassination, sabotage, etc., by individual agents.

Hints about the type of hidden microphones, short wave transmitters, miniture tape recorders, etc. used in surveillance and communication by espionage agents sometimes are mentioned by chance in the regular press or news magazines, in connection with reported spy cases. Technical details and construction plans especially are given in the magazines or "Popular Science" type magazines. Other information may be requested directly from the manufacturers of such equipment.