May. inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? (A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

Yes No

7 Dates of employment (month, year) From 9/73 To PRESENT TIME Salary or earnings Starting 0 per hr. Present same per hr. 7/74 Avg. hrs. per week 15 Place of employment City: Washington State: D.C. Number and kind of employees supervised 0

Name of immediate supervisor Bernie Richards Name of employer (from, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known) BGH Reporting Agency 24th & Penn. Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Reason for wanting to leave Course related - for experience only.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Sat-in on public hearings and took minutes of hearings and observed courtroom procedures. Transcribed notes.

For agency use (shill codes, etc.)

8 Dates of employment (month, year) From 5/13/74 To 6/14/74 Salary or earnings Starting 4.50 per hr. Final same per hr. Exact title of position Legal Secretary If Federal service, civilian or military grade Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.) Congressional Office

Avg. hrs. per week 37-1⁄2 Place of employment City: Washington, State: D.C. Number and kind of employees supervised 0 Name of employer (from, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known) Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman Longworth House Office Bldg., 3rd & C Sts. S.E.

Reason for leaving Temporary position

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Worked with research group on impeachment of Pres. Richard M. Nixon, wrote letters to constituency around the country, handled phones, took dictation and transcribed.

For agency use (shill codes, etc.)

9 Dates of employment (month, year) From 3/70 To 3/71 Salary or earnings Starting 6,500 per yr. Final 7,000 per hr. Exact title of position Secretary If Federal service, civilian or military grade Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.) Educational Asso.

Avg. hrs. per week 37-1⁄2 Place of employment City: Washington, State: D.C. Name of employer (from, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known) American Association of Junior Colleges One Dupont Circle, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Reason for leaving Moved to N.Y.C.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Secretary to Director of Veteran Programs, kept records, arranged for travel and conferences, handled phones, typed general correspondence.

For agency use (shill codes, etc.)

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE OR QUALITY IN A STANDARD FOR AN I-A OR BLANK SHEET

SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET

NW 88326 DocId:32239461 Page 41