SF 100-46832 WEHAp

which channeled funds into Scheer's campaign. It worked this way. During his campaign one of his workers was Mrs. Phyllis Haberman O'Donnell, who has been chairman of the East Bay DuBois Club. Mrs. O'Donnell worked on a work-study program directed by the University of California's Department of Criminology (which is now practically another Sociology Department) and was assigned to a leftist group called Welfare Rights Organization as a case worker. In truth, she worked for the Scheer campaign and reported on it at WRO meetings.

"The work-study program was originally funded through the Office of Economic Opportunity, receives its funds through the National Defense Education Act and is overseen by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare."

An article by IVAN SHARPE appeared in the San Francisco Bay Guardian daily newspaper published at San Francisco, California, in its issue of March 27, 1969, entitled "Ramparts - revolution with limousine service." This article reflects numerous interviews with present and former officials of Ramparts magazine and analyzes factors that led to this magazine's financial difficulties. The article places primary blame for the bankruptcy on WARREN HINCKLE and ROBERT SCHEER for their extragavant spending, such as taking their wives on trips for Ramparts and spending huge sums of money. Most of the blame was placed on WARREN HINCKLE because frequently his expense account would be more than the money he raised on promotional trips. The article gave most of the credit for the sensational stories and exposes to ROBERT SCHEER, who obtained them from his new left contacts. It reported that HINCKLE had destroyed Ramparts and SCHEER was angry about this. SCHEER decided to stay on as Editor-In-Chief of Ramparts and his salary has been reduced from $15,000 to $10,000 per year in an effort to help the magazine out of its financial problems.

1355

Copy ............of .........Copies Page .......of .........Pages

NW 88613 DocId:34517445 Page 114