NY 105-8180

On 3/5/57, Special Agents of the FBI observed the activities of a certain individual in the offices of the Ceylon Delegation where the afore-mentioned code was known to be kept, and subsequently observed this individual with GRUSHA. Approximately one hour later, after this individual had again been observed with GRUSHA, he was observed returning a red covered book to the offices of the Ceylon Delegation.

A review of the New York Office Indices reflects numerous references to the name SAMUEL/JAFFE; however, based on the information from [redacted], it would appear that the subject is identical with the JAFFE named by [redacted]. This identification is based upon the following facts obtained from the previous investigation of the subject.

According to [redacted], JAFFE, on numerous occasions during 1955 and 1956, had been in contact with individuals at the Soviet Embassy in Washington, D.C. in regard to visa matters pertaining to his contemplated travel to the USSR.

In April, 1954, according to [redacted], JAFFE was in contact with the Soviet United Nations Delegation in New York City. At this time, it was determined that he was employed as a culture researcher for "Life" Magazine in New York City, and had contacted the Soviet United Nations Delegation in connection with some work he was doing on a story for this magazine. Subsequently, it was determined from inquiry at the offices of "Life" Magazine, that JAFFE was born on 6/19/28.

Passport records of the Department of State, reviewed on 7/27/55, (as set forth in WFO letter of 8/25/55), reflect that JAFFE, in a supplemental statement dated 6/22/55 in connection with his passport, indicated that he wished to have his passport amended to allow him to travel in Communist China as a professional American journalist. It was indicated further, that he had excellent reason to believe that the Red Chinese Government would allow him to enter their country as a journalist in view of the fact that during the Asian-African Conference at Bandung, Indonesia, he obtained an interview with Red Chinese Premier CHOU-EN-LAI.