AGENT REPORT

For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT 2. DATE SUBMITTED 6 February 1972

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS (E) On 4 February 1972, Raymond R. Leal, ILT, 459-78-6563, Platoon Leader, 164th Military Police Company (MPC), Milsau (NCA), Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), APO New York 09059, and Ronald A. Margulies, SP4, 220-48-5408, Senior MP, 164th MPC, were interviewed separately regarding an incident of possible Counter-Intelligence interest, and both stated substantially as follows: (C) On 3 February 1972, Sources were in the Lord Nelson Bar, Datteln (LC8424), FRG, with other members of their unit, ILT Wood and an unidentified Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO), when they were approached by the Disc Jockey of the bar, who introduced himself only as John, and asked them if there was a particular song they would like to hear. After playing the record requested, John walked back over to Sources and sat down with them. John began asking them military related questions almost as soon as he sat down. John asked them what unit they were from. He wanted to know where they came from and where they were going. He asked them why they were in Datteln. John stated that he knew who the Security Sergeant at C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln, APO New York 09078, was. When John did not receive the answers to his Questions he stated that he knew what they were doing in Datteln. John stated that Datteln was a dead town, but that things were hoping in Westkirchen (MC3549), FRG. The site that the convoy had just come from. John then listed every site the convoy had just come from. John identified the sites by unit designation, location, APO number, and telephone number of the orderly room. John was completely accurate in every detail. John stated that he knew what they had brought to Datteln and knew how long they were going to stay. John talked about how easy it was to get information out of people by using indirect questions. John said that about four years ago he had a Lieutenant that was supplying him information about the site at Datteln. John then boasted that he could find out anything he wanted to by giving ten beers to almost any German soldier at the site. John stated that he did not have any bugs so Sources and their friends did not have to worry about what they said. John was very interested in the jeeps in the parking lot near the Lord Nelson. John said that the jeeps had poor radios and that he had a transmitter/receiver about one foot long, three to four inches wide, and about six inches high, with a three foot antenna that could reach Brazil. When asked where such a radio could be purchased, John said that it was a special model and could not be bought anywhere. John mentioned how easy it would be to put a fake bomb into the jeeps and asked Sources if they checked the jeeps before starting them or just got in and started them.

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC RE-CRADING - DOD NOT APPLICABLE Page 1 of 3 Pages

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT HEINZ E. ICKERT, 66th MI Group 6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT Henry E. Ickert