Dominican Republic

Mr. Dulles inquired whether Mr. Merchant wanted to discuss the proposal to dispatch a letter to Trujillo suggesting that the latter retire from office. At Mr. Merchant's request, the DCI stated his opinion, which was to the effect that he had considerable reservation as to the efficacy or wisdom of such a letter. He said that it seemed to him much more useful to make a personal approach, which not only stood a chance of being more effective, but also could be denied. He pointed out that a personal approach had been attempted some time ago, but that the individual in question had not been able to carry it off. He suggested that the approach might best be made by an unofficial American, and that Mr. Pawley would be a better bet than the previous individual.

Mr. Merchant said that he realized his own name had been suggested, and that he was far from enthusiastic about the idea. He said further that he has a visceral feeling against asking a Chief of State to get out of office - either through the medium of a letter or personal contact - particularly when we do not know who might succeed him. Mr. Merchant conceded with good humor the validity of Mr. Gray's wry comment that Mr. Merchant's ethics and his pragmatism might be somewhat intertwined.

Mr. Gray said that he was entirely opposed to having any U.S. official sign such a letter. He thought that an unofficial letter might be a different matter.

The conclusion of the Group was that it would be worth the effort to get Mr. Pawley to attempt a direct approach to the Benefactor; it was noted that the chances of success are perhaps less than even, but that no great harm could result.

Congo

There was a brief discussion of developments in the Congo and the possibilities of effective action there. Mr. Gray said that he hoped that Agency people in the field are fully aware of the top-level feeling in Washington that vigorous action would not be amiss.

THOMAS A. PARROTT

2

SECRET - ENDS ONLY

PROPRIETARY THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE