frequent assistance to exiles from Guatemala, Nicaragua, and other Central American countries living in Mexico. In other instances, assistance is provided through travelers coming from Cuba and through Prensa Latina representatives.

14. The assistance is usually financial. The Cubans appear to have been careful since 1959 to avoid being caught in a blatant act of subversion that could be used to justify concerted inter-American action. Financial assistance is often just as useful and much less risky than actual weapons deliveries. In a number of American countries, small arms and other weapons are available for a price. Unscrupulous or careless arms dealers in the US have also contributed to the arms traffic from which pro-Castro groups have benefitted, directly or indirectly.

15. As the following country-by-country rundown indicates, Cuban support for subversive activity has affected in varying degrees every one of the 19 other Latin American countries.

Argentina: Ernesto "Che" Guevara, an Argentine by birth, has retained his deep interest in Argentina's political affairs. On 25 May, the Argentine national holiday, he addressed the group of Argentine citizens resident in Cuba and told them that he hoped that next year they would be celebrating in Argentine under "the flag of socialism." At another point in this address he said: "Our revolution is one which needs to expand its ideas...and other people are helping us. Let the other peoples of the hemisphere get angry and take up arms or seize power and aid us in this task which is the task of the entire hemisphere and of humanity."

The Argentine community in Cuba last April organized the "Cuban-Argentine Friendship Institute" with headquarters in Havana. One of the leaders is John William Cooke, who was for a time chief of former Argentine dictator Peron's political machine in Argentina. Cooke continues active in that faction of the Peronista party which seeks concerted action with the Argentine Communists. Cooke maintains regular contact with sympathizers inside and outside Argentina through travelers and through his wife, Alicia Eguren de Cooke, a resident of Montevideo, Uruguay, who apparently has regular means of communication with individuals in Argentina. Argentine citizens have been recruited through this channel to go to Cuba for training. There are also strong indications that terrorist activities by Argentine Peronists and Communists have been encouraged and perhaps assisted through this channel.

Prior to the diplomatic break between Argentina and Cuba last February, the Cuban embassy in Buenos Aires provided financial assistance to anti-government groups there. An Argentine journalist who has contacts in the Communist party there reported last December, for instance, that the Argentine Communist party had received the sum of 50,000 pesos from the Cuban embassy as a contribution to the railway workers who were then on strike in the province of Cordoba.