Guidemost, January 22, 1965

Jean allen

ment to back it, the Zarzuela Theatre on Jovellanos, 4, has rounded up a brilliant group of actors, singers and directors and has come back with some really exciting revivals.

AWC members and their husbands can call Jo Pitts 250 03-35; Cherry Da- nos 253-60-79; or Jane Cabanys for tickets.

Cocktails At The Ross'. The Ross A. Ross' red carpet was well and truly rolled out this last week for visiting and handsome son Dean taking leave from the U.S.S. Springfield and looking up old friends in his one-time stomping ground.

Among those welcoming Dean at a cocktail party given by Mary-Alice and Ross last Thursday at their Generalismo apartment were Stewart Baxter of American Express; Major Ben Clark and his wife Alma; writer Alfred Brown and his wife Adriana; José María Garriga, head of the Aira Travel Agency; Major Mike Payne and his wife Nina; Anni and Dale Brannon; American stage and screen actor Ben Tatar; Air Force Contractor Jesse Greene; Ken Crosby of Merrill Lynch, whose wife Cricket was not present but was, according to Ken, "helping Larry Bell's wife Jeanne have her baby." (It was a boy!): Mariano Blitz, General Motors Distributor and his wife; Corinne Jordy, ex Madrid classmate of Dean's; Araceli and Ed Kreiger; Tony Blomfield, just returned from the U.S. and minus his wife Harriette, who had a touch of La Grippe. The Blomfields left later to join their yacht in Alicante; Col. John Ferry and his wife Carmen; Franz Krell of Casa Americana and his attractive daughter Olivia; Oliver Tritton, who is with the Banco Español de Crédito, Banesto; and Nick Fogarty of the maintenance company Tumpane,

The Moment Of Truth. Christine Harding, daughter of the British Vice Consul in Madrid, might well look pleased (candies don't count at 16!) as she cuts a birthday cake dedicated to

NEW BRITISH PRESS ATTACHE — Greeting the British Ambassador SIR GEORGE LABOUCHERE, left, at their party given in Madrid’s International Props Club are Mr. KEITH, the new Press Attaché at the British Embassy, and his wife, BETTY.

CHRISTINE HARDING, British Vice-Consul's daughter entertains (left to right) CLIVE BRUTON, PHILLIPA SAMUEL, ANN and ANTHONY BLACKIE of her recent birthday party.

"Man of the Year" El Cordobés. The cake of course represented the bullring, complete with toro, matador and swords. Giving her a helping hand were, among others, Clive Bruton whose father is with the British Institute; Phillipa Samuel, daughter of Ian Samuel, Minister at the British Embassy; and Ann and Anthony Blackie, whose father Jim Blackie is the Australian Consul General in Madrid.

An old hand at birthdays—and some- what of a rolling stone,—Christine takes credit for having spent her previous ones in nine different countries.

«Greek Gods» To Roll In June. Going big all the way is Diko Dimitroff, Bulgarian-born poet, screen-writer, director and producer, who flashed into our office this week with plans to make the biggest movie of all time. Slightly built, with hazel eyes, the softly spoken head of Diko Productions Inc. went on to tell us more about his 15-year-old dream. The Loves of the Greek Gods, which he plans to film in Spain and Greece. Interiors are to be done in Madrid with the use of the Bronston equipment. All exteriors will be shot in Greece involving the use of Mount Olympus and continued.

SAY YOU SAW IT IN GUIDEPOST

19