PART II

Due to the brainwashing done by TV, movies, comics etc, there are a lot of incorrect ideas about firearms that must be cleared up. The first thing to understand is, there is no piece (gun) that covers any and all situations. Although they show pigs on TV and in the movies killing people a block away with a snub-nose .38

.38

revolver, in reality this is not very practical and shouldn't even be attempted unless you are an expert's expert. From seeing to much Wyatt Earp and Mat Dillon, too many people think that if they have a hand gun either pistol or revolver that they are ready for anything. All that is necessary to give you a different perspective is to examine the armament of the pigs that occupy our Black Communities anywhere in Babylon. When you do that you will discover that most pig cars have at least one .12 gauge pump or automatic shotgun, one or two semi-automatic or automatic assault rifles, one or two bolt action rifles with a scope mounted for snipping purposes, and of course, the pigs have strapped on air-least one handgun either an automatic pistol or a revolver. In San Francisco, the S.F. Tactical Squad members carry two handguns, their standard service revolver plus a second handgun which is their personal preference; in many cases an automatic pistol. So at this time let's examine these three types of weapons; the shotgun, the rifle, and the handgun.

.12 GUAUGE SHOTGUN: the pigs use the shotgun, either pump or semi-automatic, loaded with CO buckshot generally in crowd situations such as rebellions. The standard load is nine (9) buckshot pellets per shell, however there is the magnum load of 12 pellets per shell. These magnum loads are to be used only in magnum shot-

The pigs also use slugs, 1 giant less ball. In the plans the Berkeley pig department had drawn up to attack National Headquarters of the Black Panther Party, they intended to use slugs to knock the armour plate off of our windows and to knock out the doors. This photograph shows what slugs used by

Chicago pigs did to the steel plate on the door of our office there.

There is also a tear gas shell now designed to be fired from a .12 gauge gun.

Every Black home should have at least one .12 gauge shotgun to be used to protect the door. Use CO buckshot and it will deal with any criminals trying to enter uninvited Cuban guerrillas used shotguns very successfully in the revolutionary war led by Fidel Castro. They would set up ambushes close to roads usually only a few feet away and shotguns loaded with CO buck would have a devastating effect upon the occupants of cars and/or trucks.

There is one thing about shotguns that possibly can be viewed as in our favour at this time, that is, that the barrel is smooth inside so it doesn't put any marks on the pellets; therefore, the pigs can't make an investigation based on ballistic marks.

Bolt Action

28 NW 88296 DocId:32989574 Page 345