D. INVESTIGATIONS OF INDIVIDUALS - POLICY AND OBJECTIVES

Definitions

Following organizations are "basic revolutionary organizations."

Communist Party, USA

Socialist Workers Party

Progressive Labor Party

Proletarian Party of America

Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico

Johnson-Forest Group

Black nationalist extremists and members of Puerto Rican nationalist groups and Puerto Rican subversive proindependence groups, although technically not members of basic revolutionary organizations, should be investigated under same rules. (See section 122, volume IV, of this manual.)

FBI responsibility

To conduct thorough investigations into background and activities of all persons in U. S. and Puerto Rico who are dangerous or potentially dangerous to internal security. Each SAC is responsible for investigation of persons in his area who, because of membership or affiliation with basic revolutionary organizations or other Marxist revolutionary organizations including splinter groups, may be potentially dangerous.

Purposes of investigation

Determination of dangerousness To determine identity, whereabouts, and activities of all individuals in U. S. and Puerto Rico who, because of their membership in, activity in, or association with one or more revolutionary groups or related groups, are dangerous or potentially dangerous to internal security; collection of sufficient information concerning their subversive activities to justify apprehension in national emergency.

Determination of violations of Federal statutes To determine identity, whereabouts, and activities of all individuals who have been or may be violating laws of U. S.

(1) Direct investigation to obtain admissible evidence to establish violation.

(2) Be alert for violation of Federal statutes relating to espionage, sabotage, and sedition.

Individuals to be investigated

Exercise sound judgment and discretion in evaluating importance and dangerousness of individuals or affiliates. Investigate activities of any individual falling within one or more of following categories who does not come within restrictions on investigations listed under 87D, item 5, below:

Membership in basic revolutionary organizations subsequent to 1-1-49

Espousing line of revolutionary movements Espousal encompasses wide variety and range of activities. Actual membership in basic revolutionary organization is not prerequisite. Espousal may be expressed by membership or active participation in subversive front groups. Open investigation in every instance in which subject is actively engaged in affairs of subversive front organization in leadership capacity or by active participation in furtherance of aims and purposes of front organizations. Do not open on mere membership in front organization unless there is past membership at any time in basic revolutionary organization or other subversive derogatory information.

Special training

(1) Training in subversive movement abroad

(2) Leadership training in basic revolutionary organization

Military service

(1) Service in Abraham Lincoln Brigade; membership in basic revolutionary organization not prerequisite

(2) Service in military forces of any country, including U. S. armed forces, whenever individual has ever been member of basic revolutionary organization

18

8-13-70

NW 88321 DocId:32989529 Page 2000.