Attorney Admits Novel CIA Agent

Continued from Front Page

Righted story April 25.

Garrison has charged that persons connected with the CIA became angry at Kennedy and plotted his death at Dallas. He has charged the CIA with fomenting a "monstrous coverup" and dupling the Warren Commission,

PLOTKIN SAID NOVEL'S CIA WORK had, "little or nothing to do with the Bay

When Novel left here in mid-March, he went first to McLean, Va., to take a lie detector test. McLean is the headquarters of the CIA.

Plotkin said Novel has tapes, photographs and other data which will be released shortly and will "prove beyond any shadow of a doubt that Mr. Garrison's investigation is a fraud and a hoax."

HE SAID NOVEL has turned the information over to a national news medium and that tape recordings and other matters in Plotkin's possession will be released in case Novel dies.

In the handwritten letter draft found in a hiding place at Novel's former French Quarter apartment, the fugitive will not tells "Mr. Plotkin"

"Our attorneys and others are in possession of complete sealed files containing all information concerning this matter. In the event of our sudden departure, either accidental or otherwise, they are instructed to simultaneously release same for public scrutiny in different areas...

At the same time, the letter speaks of taking "appropriate counteraction relative to Garrison's inquisition concerning us ...

It suggests that the business of handling Garrison may best be carried on "through military channels via a vis the D.I.A. man."

D.I.A. is the abbreviation for Defense Intelligence Agen-

cy, an organization established by President Kennedy to supervise CIA after the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion.

Speaking of the letter draft today, Plotkin said the letter was intended to the addressee of the letter."

"As to the contents of the letter or whether the letter was actually sent, I don't know," he added.

"NEVERTHELESS," Plotkin admitted, "the only comment is that everything in the letter as far as Novel is concerned is actually the truth."

Plotkin said the purpose of the letter was to inform "the person to whom the letter was addressed ... of activities going on in Louisiana."

Garrison has charged that Plotkin and other lawyers representing figures in the Kennedy inquiry are being paid by the CIA. Plotkin has denied the allegation.

THE LETTER draft, which a handwriting expert says was written by Novel, is a strange concoction of clipped phrases, cloak and dagger terminology and veiled references to "top secret" activities.

It begins:

"This letter is to inform you that District (Attorney) Jim Garrison has suspended myself and an associate to testimony before his Grand Jury on matters which may be classified TOP SECRET, Actions of individuals connected with DOUBLE-CHEK CORPORATIONS

TION in Miami in the first quarter of 1961,"

The recent book, "The Invisible Government," which carries details of CIA operations, identifies Double-Chek