3. At 2:00 p.m., the next day (19 March 1969), with the prior approval by and coordination with Headquarters (Mr. Tim HARRINGTON), Mr. Thomas F. HUGHES, Jr., previously mentioned, was interviewed under Agency cover at the Sage's East Restaurant, 181 East Lake Shore Drive, Chicago. The place of interview was designated by Mr. HUGHES. Sage's East is an expensive and popular eating establishment on Chicago's Gold Coast, a neighborhood of fashionable hotels, apartment houses, shops, entertainment establishments, etc.

4. Mr. HUGHES' demeanor around Sage's East indicated a great deal of familiarity with the premises and personnel. Obviously, he is a regular patron with special privileges. For instance, without permission, he walked into a closed-off section of the restaurant and selected a table for the interview. He then beckoned a waiter to bring two cups of coffee.

5. Assistant Special Agent in Charge James E. MACKEY, Jr. conducted the interview with Mr. HUGHES.

6. Mr. HUGHES is about 43 years of age and about 5'8" in height, 155/160 pounds, dark blond (or even light brown) hair, which he wears short and combed straight down. He is neat and trim, walks with confidence and agility, and appears conscious of his appearance. He was dressed in a powder blue suit, white turtle neck shirt and dark loafers. He moved around and talked with a smooth, confident, self-assured manner. Based upon his physical appearance, dress, speech and personality, he could be described as a "swinger", "jet setter", "party guy", etc. His conversation touched stylish and action-oriented restaurants, night clubs, places of entertainment, Playboy Clubs, etc. He was very cooperative and volunteered to assist in any manner.

7. Mr. HUGHES said that he is President and Owner of the M.F. Hughes Oil and Coal Company, 3134 East 90th Street, Chicago, a business that dates back to his grandfather. He said that he took the business over several years ago, upon the death of his father, and built it into a successful, profitable operation. Most of his time is spent on outside sales work. He spends very little time in the office. He has a telephone in his auto and prefers to have his office screen the telephone calls before giving them to him to answer. The day-to-day internal operation of business is handled by his office staff. He believes he contributes more to his business,