STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : A. H. Belmont

FROM : S. B. Donahoe 1 - Mr. Belmont 1 - Mr. Donahoe 1 - Mr. Little

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE COVERAGE OF DIPLOMATIC REPRESENTATIVES OF FRIENDLY FOREIGN NATIONS

DATE: October 8, 1958

Tolson Boardman Belmont Mohr Nease Parsons Rosen Tamm Trotter Clayton Tele. Room Holloman Gandy

During the recent investigation of Arthur S. Lall, Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary, Indian Delegation to the UN, which was approved by the Department of State, it was determined by the New York Office that Lall was in frequent contact with the Soviet Delegation to the UN and the Egyptian Delegation to the UN. It was further determined that during the present year, Mohamed Riad, First Secretary, United Arab Republic Delegation to the UN, has conferred with Lall, presumably concerning the Middle East crisis. Furthermore, "The New York Times" of 9/29/58 carried an article stating that V. K. Krishna Menon, India's Defense Minister, while appearing on an ABC television program on 9/28/58 declared that Chiang Kai-shek is endeavoring to get the U.S. into a war in the Taiwan Strait crisis.

From the above, it would appear that while India ostensibly claims to be neutral, her official representatives are in constant contact with representatives of countries unfriendly to the U.S. and aligned with the Soviet bloc and also appear unfriendly to the U.S. It thus appears that we should try to place ourselves in a position to obtain current intelligence data concerning India's contacts with those nations unfriendly to us, as well as information on the current political situation in India and the activities of its representatives in the U. S. The New York Office has requested that the Bureau obtain State Department clearance for the New York Office to institute a program looking toward the development of informants and sources within the Indian Consulate General in New York City, as well as in the Indian Delegation to the UN. It is felt that this should be done and also sources and informants developed in the Embassy of India, Washington, D. C.

RECOMMENDATION:

EX-136 REC-65

It is recommended that the Bureau liaison representative orally clear with the Department of State our intentions to explore the possibility of developing sources and informants on a carefully selected basis at the Embassy of India, Washington, D. C., the Indian Consulate General New York City, and the Indian Delegation to the UN, New York City with the specific understanding that we will seek State Department clearance for each individual investigation and interview.

65-63113

HUL:tw:clb

1 - 105-54374 (Consulate General of India, New York City)

(6) 1 - 105-New (Embassy of India)

NW 88613 DocId:32199554

Page 858