[107K - M SECTION-107. SECURITY INFORMANTS [AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES]

[Currency and security]

All indices shall be maintained in a current status at all times in a manner which provides tight security of the information and yet makes it easily available to Agents having a need thereof.

L. INDEX CARDS

1. Index cards (3 by 5 inches) for the alphabetical name index shall be prepared as follows:

Name: (Informant, potential informant, or confidential source) Residence: Telephone Number: Business: Telephone Number: Type of Information: Contacting Agent: Alternate Agent:

Symbol No:

File No:

2. Index cards (3 by 5 inches) for the symbol number index shall be pre-pared as follows:

Symbol: File No: (Informant, potential informant, or confidential source)

Name:

3. Contacts with informants should not be posted on index cards since this information is [shown] in the informant's administrative file.

M. INFORMANT FILES

[ Opening ]

When active investigation is initiated relative to an individual who has potential as an informant or confidential source and he is not the subject of a security-type file, a 134 classification file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts to develop the subject are discontinued.

If an individual is the subject of a security case and after being interviewed with Bureau authority he indicates he is cooperative and has potentiality as an informant, a 134 file should be opened and maintained in a pending status while under development as a potential informant.

[In espionage and foreign nationality matters the existing file may be used rather than opening a new 134 file if this is practical and will reduce paper work.]

Individual files on all active informants should be maintained and carried as pending active files.

[Monthly administrative report]

Files on potential informants and informants shall be included in the tabulations and calculations of delinquencies in the monthly administrative report.

[Assignment and tickler cards]

Assignment and tickler cards should be maintained,

The true name of informant is not to appear on the assignment and tickler cards.