Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

RE: SENSTUDY '75

In this regard, in an exchange of letters dated 3/11 and 12/75, William Colby in his role as the Director of Central Intelligence, wrote to Senator Church stating. that "I am particularly appreciative of your recognition that certain sensitive aspects of our intelligence activities must receive special consideration and treatment by the Select Committee in the course of your work. As we discussed, such matters as the identities of our sensitive sources. . . . should be protected not only from exposure, but indeed from the risk of exposure. We should also work together to protect certain other information which, if improperly disclosed, might impair the privacy rights of the individuals."

By letter dated 3/12/75, Senator Church stated as follows, "It is the Committee's understanding that the members of the Committee and designated staff will have access to any or all information which the Committee deems necessary for its inquiry. We recognize, however, that the Committee inquiry may touch on sensitive areas, such as the identities of CIA personnel, sources, or cooperating organizations whose disclosure could place persons in actual jeopardy. In the event that the Committee inquiry touches on such sensitive areas, which matters we have already discussed in our meeting of February 27, we should discuss jointly, and as you suggested quickly, what procedures might be followed should the Committee decide it requires more information in these specific areas."

The 6/30/75 SSC letter requests among other things, a list of all police departments and personnel contacted relative to a particular COINTELPRO operation; a list of all media persons contacted in relation to this COINTELPRO and the media affiliation.

The 7/1/75 SSC letter requests a list of all persons outside the FBI (including, but not limited to, employees' relatives, friendly media personnel, members of clergy, federal, state and local law enforcement and other officials) contacted in relation to four persons who were subjects of

-NW 88296 DocID:32989624 Page 238-