Miami, Florida, and further claimed that she had been slapped by an FBI agent. Wiley stated that this woman mentioned the name of the man but he cannot as yet recall the agent's name. Wiley also believed that the arrest had occurred in Miami within the last few months, also no specific date of arrest was mentioned. Wiley stated that Alvarez and the woman both spoke English although not well.

Wiley stated that the interrogation was strictly routine. They wanted to know why he was in Cuba, when he had arrived, had he ever been in Cuba before, who he worked for, etc. Wiley stated that he worked for radio station WOR and that he held strictly to his newspaper correspondent cover. Wiley stated that Alvarez attempted to talk tough at times but Wiley laughed at him and denounced the Cuban police, the Cuban military and the Cuban government to Alvarez and, in fact, invited Alvarez to do anything he wanted to. Wiley stated he bluntly asked Alvarez just why he was arrested and according to Alvarez said "we think you are an FBI spy." Wiley stated that he pointed out the stupidity of Alvarez to his face and that Alvarez from time to time became furious during the interrogation.

Wiley stated that the interrogation which was completely fruitless lasted about twenty minutes, at the conclusion of which he was given a sandwich and was told that he would be released in the morning. Wiley stated that he demanded that he be allowed to call the U.S. Embassy but this was denied. Because of this, Wiley stated that he wouldn't eat a thing until the U.S. Embassy or one of their representatives had made contact with him. He stated that he took the sandwich and gave it to some prisoners. Wiley stated at the conclusion of this interrogation he was taken to a different cell which he described as being about 15 x 15 feet having triple bunks in the cell occupied by 26 other men whom Wiley described as MRR types. Wiley described this cell as filthy, no ventilation, no lights. He stated he spent seven days in this cell and in fact went on a hunger strike. He stated he refused to eat anything and touched no food except on the Sunday following his arrest after he had been promised his release the following morning at which time he had a little soup and some other food. He added however because his release was not forthcoming as agreed, he went on another hunger strike and had no food until he was released on the following Wednesday,

SEP 30 1975

CIA

SECRET!