TO THE OPPRESSED PEOPLE

Intelligence is enhanced by one's ability to observe objectively, participate objectively, and form an objective opinion.

The capitalistic power structure over a period of 340 some odd years has tole oppressed people in various degrees or rhetoric that we as a subhuman animal are unintelligent, uncouth, buffoons, shiftless, etc. As members of the Black Panther Party we are inclined to see the masses of oppressed communities going through a period of subjective observation, subjective participation and formulating subjective opinions. Consequently adhering to the dehumanizing rhetoric instilled in oppressed peoples minds for 340 some odd Years? The Western suburb area (Argo, LaGrange, Maywood) is functioning somewhat on the same level at the mass media, to destroy the people and the peoples party, the Black Panther Party. The mass media strictly deals with one-sided subjective news to be read and listened to solely for the satisfaction of the capitalistic population mainly because it is run by the capitalistic power structure.

You've already been told you are second class citizens, 20th century slaves; you've already been denied first class food, housing, clothing, education, health, but you have the newve to expect first class news concerning the Black Panther Party. Why, because you are behaving on mass psychological un-intelligent state, subjective observation, subjective participation and consequently subjective opinion.

The Black Panther Party circulates newsletters, newspapers, and Black Panther ideology in oppressed communities (Argo, LaGrange, Maywood). Newsletters are thrown away, newspapers go unread, Black Panther ideology is received but not tuned-in to minds and ears.

Consequently you observe the Black Panther Party members in a subjective, non-tuned in manner, as gangbusters, hoodlums, cut-throats, illiterates and mercenaries of the oppressed communities. You don't participate in an objective, intelligent manner. You go about forming subjective, unintelligent conclusions and opinions about the People's Party. You see it is you, you the oppressed people that make the peoples party gangbusters, hoodlums, cut-throats, illiterates, and mercenaries!

WE ARE NOT AGAINST THE PEOPLE, WE ARE FOR THE PEOPLE. THAT IS WHY WE SAY "ALL POWER TO THE PEOPLE."

To rid yourself of this dehumanizing unintelligent, subjective observation, participation, opinion and conclusion, observe objectively the Black Panther Party, participate objectively with the Black Panther Party, form objective conclusions and opinions. Then and only then can we, the Vanguard Party go about liberating you.

ALL POWER TO THE PEOPLE PANTHER POWER TO THE VANGUARD

Western Suburban Chapter The Black Panther Party State of Illinois

NW 88613 DocId:32199554

Page 1876