Liebengood Rough Notes from U. S. v. Veciana, et al, con't.

Barres says he requested the government to give immunity to Veciana in order to destroy the traffic of Cocaine from Bolivia.

Barres studied at Columbia Military Academy in Columbia, Tennessee in 1951.

A taped transcript of Barres' debriefing by detectives Flynn and Scamardella on July 25, 1973 reveals the following: Barres got involved in drugs through his friend Veciana who was an officer of the International Development Bank in the U.S. Embassy in Bolivia. Some people think Veciana is with the CIA but Barres does not know. Barres dealt with Veciana regarding an attempt to kill Castro in Chile. He says Veciana did a good job of transferring everything into Chile (1970-1971). Barres gave Veciana $2,000 in support of this assassination effort. About this time Veciana said that drugs could be smuggled out of Bolivia through diplomatic pouch. Barres thought this was how Veciana had sent weapons into Chile. Barres advised that the head of Interpol in Bolivia gets a cut of drug money for protection on the Bolivian end and that a Secret Service Agent and two Paraguyan diplomats were also involved. They handled the transfer to Veciana in Miami Beach of the drugs from Bolivia.

Barres thought that the individual he was selling the drugs to in New York was a mafia type. It appears this is the individual who informed the police. He is known only as Tony in the transcript. The police were aware of his identity but did not desire Barres to discuss it.

Pomares' counsel, Gustavo Del Toro, urged the DEA in San Juan at the time of the arrest of Pomares to consider immunity for Pomares because Pomares possessed valuable information regarding international narcotic trafficking, including the implication of diplomats in places such as Bolivia, Paraguay and Nicaragua.

The file contains cancelled Veciana checks drawn on the account of Antonio Sira Veciana at the Fidelity National Bank, 5880 Byrd Road, Miami, Florida, in May and June, 1972, for $1,000 each, payable to the Swiss Bank Corporation for account EF558230. These checks were obtained through subpoena on Catherine Hune, Vice President and Cashier of the Fidelity National Bank in Miami.