PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) Effective Date

Jane L. Downey 3/6/79

Employee Social Security Number Type of Action

454-52-5820 Appointment Salary Adjustment Title Change

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee Termination (At close of business on effective date) XX Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business Specify Date )

Rep. Harold S. Sawyer

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title Gross Annual Salary

Staff Assistant 9,984.72

If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff— Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. __ of Congress.

Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__ If applicable, Level__ Step____

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date February 13, 1979

If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Signature of Authorizing Official) Harold S. Sawyer (Title or print name of Authorizing Official) 5th District - Michigan (Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ID

Office Code. Benefits

Monthly Annuity 00 as of Payroll

ORIGINAL — To Finance Office (For official personnel folder)

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326 DocId:32243302 Page 3