Action was commenced in the Colon area to provide means to keep track of ships and boats entering or leaving the Canal Free Zone in order to monitor the movements of those suspected of carrying contraband. Assistance to USCINCSO was provided from the continental United States in carrying out surveys as to equipment required on as secretive a basis as possible, and special optical equipment to include probable night television was approved by the Secretary of the Army for expedited delivery to USCINCSO.

A joint survey and mobile training team from USCINCSO continued assistance to Venezuelan authorities in improving indigenous capabilities for surveillance and interception of intruders.

A US Southern Command Operations Plan 50-63 was developed to provide for three levels of operational assistance to Venezuela in surveillance and intercept operations. Representatives of the US Strike Command and the Air Defense Command visited USCINCSO to assist in developing detailed supporting plans.

Information was obtained by USCINCSO concerning in-country communications capabilities of Colombia and Venezuela to receive and disseminate surveillance information provided by US forces.

5. Strengthening of Counterinsurgency Capabilities.

US Army training included the following: 13 students from 6 countries completed CI operations course in the Canal Zone; 8 students from 5 countries completed CI orientation course in the Canal Zone; 24 students from 8 countries completed Military Intelligence course in the Canal Zone; 11 Chilean students completed special Military Intelligence orientation course; three Canal Zone-based CI Mobile Training Teams (MTT) carried out training programs in Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela; and one Canal Zone-based CI MTT commenced a training program of Panamanian National Guardamen.

US Navy training included the following:

(1) The Small Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT) completed training the third class of Central American nationals, bringing to 63 the total number of students trained since May 1963.

HW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 4