During the 1968 Republican National Convention, secure electronic circuitry was installed between the Fountainbleu Hotel and CIA Langley Headquarters. The circuit was patched through the Langley facility to the CIA communications radio station at the Richmond Naval Air Station. Provisions were made to provide the Secret Service with name trace information on foreign nationals on a timely basis during the 1968 Republican National Convention and the 1972 Democratic and Republican National Conventions. In the latter instance, requests were made by Secret Service Headquarters to CIA Headquarters and communicated to CIA/DDO, Miami, for action.

In 1969 the CIA Latin American Communications Activity (AMCA) Headquarters was relocated from Washington, D.C., to Miami. This activity provides the operational, technical, and management support to the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service and CIA covert operations throughout Latin America. AMCA Headquarters also took over all CIA communications facilities and responsibilities in the Miami area.

All CIA monitoring activities ceased in 1972. The Richmond Naval Air Station radio base station ceased operation in early 1972. In May 1974 the special DDO contract facility that monitored Cuban communications, located in Homestead, Florida, was closed. At the same time, the secure communications circuitry between the DDO cover office responsible for name traces was also terminated.

Liaison was conducted with the FCC, the GSA, and the Army for purposes of cover and with the Armed Forces Courier Service.

Although very little communications support for Cuban operations was provided after 1968, on one occasion an anti-Castro group was given support in the form of radio signal plans and technical guidance on how to best install radios in small boats.

The Burns Detective Agency was contracted to provide security service and operated CIA-owned radios as part of their security posture. Cover for the Naval Air Station communications facility continued to be provided by the Army for cover.

Contact with the Miami police did occur after 1968 as the result of using an office in a Miami police station for three months to train a Surinam

5 Secret

Photocopy from Gerald R. Ford Library