Index

Prepare index cards on form FD-348 and file as adjunct to criminal informant, extremist informant, or security informant index, depending on type information furnished.

Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with criminal informant, racial informant, and security informant index where logical.

Files

When active investigation is initiated relative to prospective confidential source, open 134 file (or 137 for criminal sources) and maintain as pending until efforts to develop individual are discontinued.

Utilization

If confidential source is to be used in security investigations, secure Bureau approval, and furnish background data of same type required for potential security informants.

Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in which frequency of contact is dependent upon circumstances, contact confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained at least once every two weeks. Such contacts may be posted.

Contacts should only be made by Agent or Agents specifically designated for that purpose.

Letter to Bureau requesting authority to use subject as confidential source is to set out clearly:

(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizen-ship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest record, and service record, if any

(2) Details of expected cooperation of individual and results of any interviews conducted with him

(3) Statement to effect subject is being considered confidential source and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confidential nature of his relationship with Bureau. In addition, statement should be made that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and if he is connected with labor union he will be advised of Bureau policy on labor matters.

(4) One copy of letter requesting authority should consist only of first page. If request is approved at Bureau, stamped notation to this effect will be placed on single-page copy and it will be returned to field.

6. Security confidential sources - certification of stability and payments

Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation of payments. See subsection L, item 3b, above.

If source is not being paid on Bureau authorization or if he is not employee of foreign diplomatic establishment or an international or-ganization and is being used regularly, Agent handling must[certify stability and reliability by executing statement on this point contained on FD-209 used to record contact. Certification must be made at intervals of no longer than six months.]

If source is employed by foreign diplomatic establishments (embassy, consulate, United Nations Mission, etc.) or by international organiza-tion (United Nations Secretariat, Organization of American States, International Monetary Fund, etc.), submit FD-401 to Bureau every six months.

7. Gifts Gifts should not be given to sources.

8. Discontinuance Advise Bureau of date when source is discontinued and reasons.

S. PANEL SOURCES

Definition

See page 3 of this section.

Background investigation and approval

Check prospective panel source through office indices, canvass logical informants, review appropriate credit, arrest, and military records. [Limit credit check of individual to identifying information only (name, address, former address, employment, former employment).]

22 10-13-71

NWW 88321 DocId:32989529 Page 1761