Betsy Palmer

File Review, Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I - XVIII

May 1, 1978 Volume XIV - May 1964

1. AMWORLD Meeting in San Juan, P.R., 2-5 May 1964

Subject: Ray's Plans

Submitted by Henry D. Hecksher, WH/SA/SO/HH

Ray's plans to infiltrate Cuba by 20 May were discussed at meeting. Questions about Ray's financing of Puerto Rican conference and ability to store arms and engage in training activities on U.S. soil were raised by AMYUM/T9(MRR) Member). He volunteered to tell Hecksher where arms could be found be Hecksher "quickly dissuaded him from divulging further details" at which point AMYUM-19 commented that GUERTLER had reacted in a similar way when offered facts and figures about Ray's activities. Artime stated he would not put it past Ray to go into hiding in a secure place while pretending to be in Cuba.

2. Cable to JMWAVE from DIR, 7 May 1964 - After looking at AMTAUP material, it is obvious much of conspiratorial talk in JURE is for internal consumption only, the purpose being to protect myth that JURE is independent as basically hostile to CIA. In a desire to obtain proof of any anti-CIA or U.S. govt. activity by Ray, urge every effort to check accuracy of AMTAUP/AMOT reporting and follow through for any overt manifestations of many allegations made.

3. Memo for the Director of Central Intelligence, from Richard Helms, DD/P, dated 13 May 1964. Subject: Plans of Manuel Ray and the JURE to Infiltrate into Cuba.

Helms says there is no question but that Ray seriously plans to enter Cuba sometime in May 1964. JURE has 6 teams ready to infiltrate -- a total of 27 men. Ray hopes with aid of 40 men, he can demonstrate that resistance is possible and that Castro can be defied.

4. Cable to DIR from JMEAVE, dtd 20 May 1964. Andrew St. George, on assignment with Time-Life, left Miami 18 May with JURE elements for rendezvous with Ray.

5. Memo for the Record dtd 20 May 1964, from Samuel Halpern

Subject: JURE Purchase of Arms

Chronological resume of reports reaching WH/SA desk regarding attempted purchase of arms by JURE in El Monte, California.

A. Revenue officials queried CIA re its knowledge of certain arms being handled by Juan Erquiaga Aizcorbe in L.A. area for shipment to Florida. WH/SA denied knowledge. Discussion about 20 May 1964.