SECRET ---

VIET-NAM

Current Overall Evaluation

The general trend appears slightly favorable, with the GVN continuing to improve its military, and to a limited extent, its political and economic position. Basic problems are being eroded but quick and decisive action is rare. There were no major breakthroughs or important victories and none appear likely in the immediate future. The Viet Cong show no weakening in strength or determination despite reportedly heavy losses.

On the military side, Operations Binh Minh and Hai Yen continued well. Viet Cong casualties were up and their activities down (there is an unconfirmed news report that a major battle took place July 3, however, in which the VC defeated a regular army battalion). This may be due to reorganization and weather rather than GVN successes. The GVN took several good but minor steps to increase popular support for the war effort, and several rural social and economic programs moved ahead significantly. On the international front, there were some favorable responses to our efforts to set up an aid coordinating group of donor nations. Economic conditions improved somewhat, with stable prices, credit a little less tight, consumer goods sales and tax collections up, and rice deliveries continued good.

Fearing that the prospective Laos settlement will facilitate Viet Cong activities and that it may presage a U. S. move to neutralize Viet-Nam itself, the GVN has made difficulties at Geneva over several issues and threatens to boycott the conference. President Kennedy has sent Diem a personal letter stressing the importance we attach to a Laos settlement and our determination to continue to help Viet-Nam defend itself. There is no response as yet.

Progress on Action Program

VC Activity

Viet Cong activity continued at a relatively low level, with armed attacks falling to the lowest point over a year, 60, for the period 20-27 June and rising only slightly to 75 for the period June 27 - July 4. The lack of VC aggressiveness is likely due to the rainy season and their efforts to regroup in order to counter the improved mobility and performance of the GVN forces. Observing that this appears to be a period of VC reorganization and assimilation of recent infiltrators, COMUSMACV reports indications that VC units which previously operated as separate platoons and companies are now being formed into battalions. Infiltration evidently continues, but good intelligence is scarce. MACV J-2 estimates infiltration in May at 800-1,000 and 800 for the first three weeks of June, but this information is unconfirmed and there are no reports of infiltration since.