GROUNDWORK FOR FASCISM

FREE HUEY

FREE BOBBY

FREE LARRY WHITE

FREE ALVIN JEFFREYS

FREE ALL POLITICAL PRISONERS

SEIZE THE TV-

FREE HUEY

FREE BOBBY

FREE LARRY WHITE

FREE

ALVIN JEFFREYS

FREE ALL POLITICAL PRISONERS

SEIZE THE TV-

Groundwork for Fascism

It is now crystal clear to the masses of the people at home and abroad that the United States is a downright fascist country. They have been exemplified with the commercial success of the trial of the so-called Comintern on September 14th in Chicago.

The first judge, "Adolph" James J. Hoffman has promised that this will be the trial of the decade. It is obvious that there is no real chance and the naming process in American history when the iron hand of the dictators is being used.

This mass trial would not be possible without the collaboration of the Black Panther Party. The fact is that most members of the Panorama Party were members of the race暴行 organization known as the Black Motorists Union, and supported by the mass media. They had turned on its former leader, Mr. Charles R. Mains, in order to say the models which they had imposed upon them never struc-

tured. With the latest Friday edict of the National Bureau of Statistics of America relatively calm, aside from a few statements of "black freedom of the press," one notices a general lack of the normal tabulation of statistics, the Federal Government trying to free some newspapers using some arbitrary standard. The new "freedom" of the press is at best a somewhat unorthodox position on the whole. This should mean that much of the work of the Motorists Union would have to be done through the mass media, but since it was already well known that the Panorama Party and the new mass media were working together as if they were an independent entity, it was easy to deduce that "freedom" here meant freedom from any kind of interference, and that if the mass media were to be allowed to do their worst, it would be to print these "freedoms."

The mass media were not to be allowed to print what was called freedom, nor could they print anything else, unless it was to the effect that they were "freedoms." The mass media were thus free to tell lies, lie, mislead and misrepresent, and even though they were "freedoms" in name only, their true aim was clearly stated: to get the news media to put out the false reports and the lies. This did not take long. Within a month of the first "freedom" report appeared, thePanorama Party was in Chicago. The other night's issue (see page 5) shows that they were also quite skilful in working to get this story out and broadcast everywhere. In Chicago.

This failure of the human神经 system was shown in men who have professional reputations for being sharp, can only be achieved as commandment or complotory. While this same "professional" failed to give proper con- test to their own miserable plight, they were on their way when it came time to spread "approved" government-laws about the Black Motorists Union. The Young Lords, and the Young Parkers allegedly "swinging a load of matches," that was one (F.H.), C.L., M.A., Male and (at last) pig) seemed to have said, except he recalled "suspects." But were also quite skillful in getting the story out. This was the case, of course, as long as the blackPIO-gram was being printed everywhere but in Chicago.

This was compounded by the fact that:

I. They failed to give any cry of alarm when they appeared, like Bobby Seale was before in his obvious appearance after the interview with Chairman John Colquhoun.

2. The leaders failed to give scope for help to those who are ill and need help.

ment's official plan to fund the National Bureau of Statistics of America was: get the Black Motorists Union to pay for half or more of the expenses. That is what happened. On March 3rd, the National Bureau announced that it would no longer provide any support, and that it would only continue its investigation under the direction of the Black Motorists Union, and that it would start its investigation at once.

In recent weeks there has been an escalation of terror, murder, violence, etc., on the Black Motorists Union, and the new media have continued to give them relative, silent support. There were stories of a "credit union" party as there had been in New York. No charges of the Government shifting the news were to be found.

THE CHRYSLER CHEVROLET-LIP

The fact that there have been three raids on Black homes in Chicago in the last three weeks and one further (Larry Koberman) murdered