SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject has his goals clearly in mind and has proceeded about his business with full confidence and perseverance. He is conscientious, dedicated and a team worker. Subject has gained the confidence of his supervisors and his subordinates have accepted him as one of the group. He has recently experienced some unusual operation problems where he was required to handle the termination of some very delicate assets. He organized, planned and handled the terminations personally in a very professional and successful manner. He was commended for this work by both Headquarters and Station management. He has developed political contacts at all levels and has been very instrumental in developing disseminable information in this manner. He has quickly moved to replace assets which were terminated and by his efforts will fill in the void in a minimum amount of time. Subject enjoys meeting people and conducting operations. In the future, he will be forced to spend more time in managing his section due to administrative changes now taking place in the Station. He takes directions well and can be depended upon to fulfill all his obligations on schedule. He has an excellent command of the Spanish language and he is definitely cost conscious in the projects which he handles. Of special note is that Subject was one of the first officers to quickly retool his section when given a new requirement to fulfill. He responded immediately and in so doing once more indicated his desire to continue

1. CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS BY EMPLOYEE I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATW-05/15/70 BIGNATURE OF EMPLOYER J/S/ Joseph B. Smith

BY SUPERVISOR THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE; GIVE EXPLANATION:

DATE 05/15/70 OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE J/S/ J George A. Fill

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL Concur fully with above and would add that Subject is one of the Station's most aggressive and effective development/contact officers. In what has been an almost complete reorganization of the Station and the termination or redirection of most of its assets, Subject has probably moved faster and more effectively than any other section. Perhaps even more notable, his development of new assets and potential assets has more than kept pace with the termination of those who have outlived their usefulness. While he is very thorough and effective in all of his undertakings, a tendency to go off on tangents has a slight effect on his overall efficiency. This is probably due in large -continued

DATE 05/15/70 OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL Chief of Station TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE J/S/ James B. Holand

-continued