(b) Priority III cases must be opened for verification of residence and employment on annual basis. Review case file for any necessary action including re-evaluation of subject's status, or possible redelegation as priority I or II.

When pertinent information is submitted to Bureau for dissemination, FD-305 and FD-376 should accompany cover communication.

Subjects recommended for security index

(1) Pending inactive

If all active investigation completed at time FD-122 forwarded to Bureau, set forth lead to follow for security index approval and dissemination of report to Secret Service.

(2) Closed

After security index approved and dissemination to Secret Service, follow by administrative tickler for periodic report.

Subject not being recommended for index

Closed - prior to closing, comply with instructions pertaining to interviews.

Content

Include following and handle under topical headings where appropriate.

(1) Background

(a) Birth data

(b) Citizenship status

(c) Education

(d) Marital status

(e) Military service record (domestic or foreign, including type of discharge, citations, etc.)

(f) Identification record

(g) Employment

(h) Residence

(i) Status of health (if known)

(2) Connections with Communist Party, other basic revolutionary groups, front groups, black nationalist extremist groups, and/or other subversive organizations or unorganized groups

(a) Information concerning admission into revolutionary group, including sponsors, etc.

(b) History of activity in, attendance at meetings of, and positions held in subversive movement

(3) Revolutionary statements by subject

(a) Determine each statement and full details surrounding it.

(b) Determine all statements showing adherence to principles of Marxism-Leninism or other revolutionary doctrines.

(4) Other activities indicating furtherance of program of subversive organizations

(a) Speeches and writings

(b) Organizational directives and/or educational outlines signed by or issued by subject, or issued while subject was officer of organization

(c) Pertinent contacts between subject and leaders of organizations

(d) Details concerning subject's attendance or connection with subversive training schools

(5) False statements made by subjects, including aliases Evidence may be obtained from passports, tax returns, and voting, marital, employment, and selective service records.

(6) Miscellaneous

Pertinent items not falling under above categories

Reports on individuals should be confined to:

(1) Proof of membership and activity in basic revolutionary organizations, front organizations, and/or other organizations or unorganized groups