UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM : W. R. Wannall

I - Mr. Belmont

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Liaison

DATE: 11/13/64

1 - Mr. Wannall 1 - Mr. Ruehl

Tolson Belmont Mohr DeLoach Casper Callahan Conrad Evans Gale Rosen Sullivan Tavel Trotter Tele. Room Holmes Gandy

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE COVERAGE OF NONCOMMUNIST COUNTRIES

Believed State Department clearance should be obtained to add Cambodia to list of countries previously approved by State Department under captioned program.

Captioned program involves development by FBI of confidential sources and informants in diplomatic establishments of friendly foreign nations where (1) it appears that country is leaning toward Sino-Soviet-Bloc (2) where situation in particular country involves serious political or military crisis (3) where it is clear investigation needed. At present time we are developing sources and informants in diplomatic establishments of 45 friendly foreign nations with State Department approval.

It is believed we should, at this time, obtain State clearance to institute program to develop sources and informants in Cambodian diplomatic establishments in U. S.

Cambodia is integral part of Southeast Asian critical area where U. S. is deeply involved politically, economically, and militarily to stem tide of Chinese Communists. During 1963 Cambodia signed friend-ship treaty with Communist China; broke diplomatic relations with South Vietnam; publicly requested all U. S. economic and military aid programs be terminated; and in 1964 commenced receiving arms and equip-ment from Communist China. Any information which we can obtain regarding current attitude of Cambodia toward United States should be of value.

RECOMMENDATION:

Liaison obtain State Department clearance, from appropriate representative, for FBI to conduct discreet investigations of potential security informants in Cambodian diplomatic establishments in U. S. Liaison should advise State no interviews will be conducted with potential sources without first obtaining State Department clearance.

REC-40

DEC 8 1964

56 DEC 1964

NW 88613 DocID:32199554

Page-004