In the Congress and I believe there's going to be a rapid creation of this new department and a heavy emphasis on the importance of energy questions to our people.

We will also present to the American people, probably at a joint session of the Congress a speech by me about April 20, a comprehensive energy policy which would involve all the complexities of the energy question. It's something that's long overdue and it's going to be quite profound in its impact on the American consciousness and our society, and I hope it will be comprehensive enough so that it can be well-balanced and fair to all.

We are quite concerned about the pressures of inflation. The advisers to me on economics are trying to assess all Government programs and private actions that contribute to inflationary pressures. When this analysis is done I will use every means that I have available to me to express these concerns and possibly corrective actions to the American people as well.

And the last point is that we will have a complete analysis underway now on deregulation. And the first question is the deregulation of the air lines. Legislation is in the Congress now. We'll be submitting a message to Congress very shortly on that subject. We will not submit administration legislation because the Congress has already moved substantially forward in dealing with this important issue.

And now I'd like to answer questions. Mr. Frank Cormier.

Questions and Answers 1. Defense Budget

Q. Mr. President, you told the Democratic Platform Committee that you thought present defense expenditures could be reduced by five to seven billion dollars. Now I think you may have modified your position somewhat since then. Obviously in your short time in office you didn't find the opportunity to make cuts like that in your predecessor's budget. But isn't it also likely that next year's budget for the defense will exceed this year's.

A. Well because of inflationary pressures and because of an impossibility of assessing the potential threat to our country from other nations, it's hard to predict exactly what the level of defense spending will be. In the short time that we had available to work on the previous Administration's budget—about three weeks of hard work—we were able to reduce the suggested expenditures by almost $3 billion. I think about $2.75 billion.

This was done—and I think Senator Stennis in his recent public statements has confirmed that it has been done without weakening our own defense capability. And the substantial savings in defense spending that will still leave us muscle will be in such things as the standardization of weapons, long-range planning, a more businesslike allocation of defense contracting, an assessment of the defense contracts for construction or repair already outstanding.

A reassessment of priorities of the evolution of new weapons which in the future can become enormously expensive; a longer assignment of military personnel to a base before they are transferred; some emphasis on the correction of inequities and unfairnesses in the retirement system.

These things obviously can't be done in three weeks, but they will be an ongoing effort on my part. And I think the 1979 budget, which will be my Administration's first budget...

other nations. Sometimes other governments cooperate with us fully; sometimes they don't.

But I'll try to be sure, and so will Stan Turner, who will be the next director of the intelligence community. He will try to be sure that everything we do is not only proper and legal, but also compatible with the attitudes of the American people.

One other point I'd like to make is this. It can be extremely damaging to our relationship with other nations, to the potential security of our country even in peacetime, for these kinds of operations which are legitimate and proper to be revealed. It makes it hard for us to lay a groundwork on which we might predicate a successful meeting of a threat to us in time of war if we don't have some degree of secrecy.

I'm quite concerned about the number of people now who have access to this kind of information. And I've been working very closely with the Congressional leaders, yesterday and today, to try to reduce the overall number of people who have access to the sources of information that within the bounds that I've described—propriety and legality—and American attitudes toward secret—I'll do the best I can not ever to make a mistake. And I'm also assuming on a continuing basis a direct personal responsibility for the operation of all the intelligence agencies in our Government to make sure that they are meeting these standards.

Correcting Errors on C.I.A.

Q. If there has been erroneous information, wouldn't it behoove you to correct the record?

A. In some ways we are correcting the record, but if I began to either dispute or confirm every individual story that's written whether correct or erroneous on every matter relating to the C.I.A., then these matters which are necessarily secret would no longer be secret, so I'm not going to comment on individual items that relate to intelligence.

Difference With Meany