PART II

SECTION-6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS

2. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of individuals and organizations to which identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be sent. Each field office must review annually its mailing list in order to see that no data is sent to firms which have ceased business or have merged with other organizations. A survey should be conducted by Agents each year by every office, at time field office mailing list is purged, to determine whether additional names of individuals and businesses should be added. to field office mailing list.

Addressograph plates are to be prepared at Bureau upon receipt of field request. (Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is used rather than name of incumbent.

Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on list.

(1) Quality of assistance addressee is in a position to give (2) Cooperation which has been afforded (3) Following must appear on list:

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco Missions Providing Lodging and Firearms Postal Service Inspectors Bureau of Customs Postmasters Cooperative Credit Bureaus Salvation Army Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Secret Service ment Officers U. S. Marshals FBINA Graduates Hotels Immigration and Naturaliza- tion Service

(4) Following may appear on list: Automobile Clubs Navy Shore Patrol Banks Oil Company Special Agents Car Rental Agencies Parole and Probation Officers County Attorneys Plant Quarantine Officers County Coroners Protective Associations Credit Companies Race Tracks Detective Agencies Savings and Loan Associations Enlistment Officers, U. S. Air Force Recruiting Officers Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps State Employment Offices Employment Service State Hospitals for Insane Fire Departments Steamship Companies Forest Service Telegraph Companies Gunsmiths U. S. Attorneys Insurance Companies U. S. Magistrates Movie Studios

Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. Should a compelling reason exist for distribution of an identification order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for such distribution.

Give consideration to desirability of circularizing motels.

Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribution to VA installations in such cases.

2-27-73

NW 88321 DocId:32989529 Page 1056