1

PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY; PROGRESSIVE LABOR MOVEMENT; "PROGRESSIVE LABOR"

A source advised on July 2, 1962, that Progressive Labor groups held a conference in New York City on July 1, 1962, where MILTON ROSEN acted as chairman. He read a statement at this conference setting forth their intention to form a new Marxist-Leninist Party in the United States. ROSEN stated that a more formal organization was necessary, one which would provide a framework for all who wanted to join in a united effort to build an American vanguard. The functions of this new organization are to consolidate all existing forces around Progressive Labor and organize additional forces; expand and improve political activities; win additional forces to an outlook of Marxism-Leninism and increase the open advocacy of socialism; develop a significant Marxist-Leninist program for the new party; and organize a collective organization of leaders and members.

"The Worker," an east coast communist newspaper, issue of January 7, 1962, page 10, column 3, reported the expulsion of MILTON ROSEN, former labor secretary of the New York State Communist Party, from the Communist Party, USA.

A second and third source advised in February, 1963, that this new Marxist-Leninist Party had not yet been organized on a formal basis but that Progressive Labor groups had been formed in several localities in line with proposals of MILTON ROSEN. The sources advised as of February, 1963, that the leaders of this group were referring to it as the Progressive Labor Movement.

The "Amsterdam News," a daily New York City newspaper, dated July 27, 1963, page 22, set forth that the "Progressive Labor Party is a new political formation based on Progressive Labor Movement, a Socialist organization with groups in all parts of the United States. The organization publishes a monthly magazine called Progressive Labor."

The July-August, 1963, issue of "Progressive Labor" set forth that it is published monthly by Progressive Labor Company, G.P.O. Box 808, Brooklyn 1, New York.

APPENDIX

328

13