OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES C M emora

TO : Mr. A. H. Belmont

FROM : Mr. S. B. Donahoe

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE COVERAGE OF FRIENDLY FOREIGN COUNTRIES

- Parsons

- Belmont

- Donahoe

- Liaison 1 - Mossburg

DATE: March 24, 1961

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr

Belmont

Gallahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

We are requesting State to grant clearance for us to conduct a program to develop sources and informants at diplomatic establishments in the United States of the Mali (Africa) Government in view of that Government's anti-Western and pro-Soviet-bloc attitude.

The Republic of Mali was admitted to the United Nations as a new republic in Africa on 9-28-60. The Office of Special Investigations (OSI), Department of the Air Force, has advised the "leftist-oriented government" of Mali apparently intends to establish ties with a number of Sino-Soviet-bloc countries. On 10-13-60 Mali recognized Communist China and OSI indicated that the Nationalist Chinese representatives in Mali would be asked to leave that country. In October, 1960, Soviet Russia recognized the new Republic of Mali and a Soviet delegation was due to arrive in Mali in late 1960. OSI has advised that Mali has consistently voted at the United Nations with the communist bloc on East-West issues.

The Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI) advised on 1-27-61 that Soviet-bloc activities in Mali were expected to increase. The Government of Mali has retained "radical, leftist and pro-Marxist" ministers in key posts including: interior, planning, information, transportation, communications, public laws and "leftist" Prime Minister Modibo Keita had retained portfolio of defense and security. ONI advised on 3-21-61 that Mali signed an economic and trade agreement with the USSR for a 44 million ruble loan. Mali is presently purchasing Soviet planes; has concluded an economic agreement with Communist China and is selling 90 per cent of its total exports to the communist bloc in 1961.

ACTION:

It is recommended that Bureau liaison contact the appropriate State Department representative and obtain clearance for the FBI to institute a program to develop sources and informants at diplomatic establishments in the United States of the Republic of Mali in view of the fact that Mali appears to be fast becoming a satellite of the Soviet bloc.

APR 5 1961

New York

F-105-NEW (Republic of Mali Embassy)

1 - 62-77787-384 (Republic of Mali UN Delegation, 1 - 105-NEW (Republic of Mali Consulate)

NW 88613 DocId:32199554

Page 1/22