ADDENDUM: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

6/10/75

Intelligence Division strongly feels Exhibits A through E should not be made available. These constitute work papers prepared on an expedite basis by Special Agents operating under the understanding their effort was of a rough draft nature which would be utilized by a committee of the Justice Department and FBI for an in-house investigation. The Agents preparing the documents never conceived that their effort would be subject to review outside of the Department and particularly outside the Executive Branch.

By letter dated 4/21/75 to the Attorney General it was pointed out these exhibits related to the internal deliberations of the Department and FBI representatives, some of the material in these summaries is classified and relates to sensitive operations and they should not be revealed. Also, Deputy Attorney General Lawrence Silberman in testimony before the Civil Rights and Constitutional Rights Subcommittee (Edwards Committee) on 11/20/74 indicated as regards these documents, "If we had thought it was appropriate to release the full discussion we would have done so at the time. There are a lot of internal working documents which go into the making of a final report."

Further, if these documents are released to the SSC, or if the Committee is allowed access to them, we would then be in a position to deny access to them by the Edwards Committee or the House Select Committee on Intelligence (Nedzi). Should they be released and come within the public domain, we could then be in a position of violating individual rights of privacy and compromising sensitive investigative techniques and Bureau sources. We feel we should first go through these work papers and excise such items to avoid any such complication.

INTD recommends Legal Counsel advise Mr. O'Connor we strongly object to the release of the above Exhibits to the SSC. However, we recognize our objection may be overruled by the Attorney General; and if so, we would request we have an opportunity to make the excisions noted above prior to the Department turning the Exhibits over to the SSC.