E. INVESTIGATIONS OF COMMUNIST FRONT ARE MISCELLANEOUS ORGANIZATIONS

1. Purposes a. To obtain sufficient pertinent data to make possible accurate determination of organization's true character b. To obtain intelligence data and keep Department and other interested Government agencies advised regarding existence and activities of subversive organizations c. To obtain legally admissible evidence re. subversive nature of such organizations to permit implementation of: (1) Internal Security Act of 1950 (2) Registration Act (3) Smith Act of 1940 (4) Executive-Order 10450

General policy

Newly formed known or suspected subversive organizations (1) Upon receipt of information concerning formation of such a group, immediately open a case and advise Bureau at that time. (2) After conducting sufficient inquiry to determine true character of group (a) If further investigation warranted, advise Bureau through established report writing procedures. (b) If further investigation not warranted, advise Bureau results of investigation and specific reasons for determination in letter form.

Established subversive groups (1) Keep Bureau currently advised by appropriate communication are pertinent activities including any changes in principal officers, structure of organizations, and forthcoming events. (2) If no specific leads outstanding, case may be placed in pending-active status after submission of initial report. (3) Submit reports at least every six months. (4) In reports concerning communist from organizations and miscellaneous organizations, such as the Nation of Islam [and those affiliated with the new left movement], leadership in which is grounds for inclusion in the security index include on cover pages a statement that all persons named in the report as officers or leaders who reside within the area covered by the reporting office are listed in the security index or are informants or sources. [The cover pages of reports concerning those organizations affiliated with the new left movement should also contain this statement in reference to leading activists in the organizations, as well as their officers or leaders.] Exceptions should be named and a statement made as to the status of their investigations.

Organizations political in character (1) Investigation should not be instituted without Bureau approval. (2) Furnish all pertinent information concerning communist infiltration, influence, or control of such organizations to Bureau in letter form.

Organizations connected with institutions of learning (1) No investigation to be conducted without prior Bureau approval (2) If requesting Bureau authority to investigate, submit complete available data and reason investigation is desired. (3) If Bureau authority granted, it will be permissible to contact all established reliable sources, including those functioning in an administrative capacity with an institution of learning. (4) Before conducting any interview with a student, graduate student, or professor connected with an institution of learning re security-type investigation of an organization, whether organization itself has been connected with institution of learning, Bureau authority must be obtained to conduct such interview. Submit complete justification for desired interview to Bureau. (5) Section 87D 5a (1) of this manual should be read in conjunction with above instructions.

Legitimate noncommunist organizations that are communist infiltrated (1) No investigation should be conducted without prior Bureau approval.