(e) Prior Bureau authority

I. Subjects of active current investigations where no interview with prior Bureau authority has previously been conducted

II. Closed cases where the subject is on the security index and no prior interview has been conducted

III. Subjects of investigations requested by the Bureau, both open and closed, such as applicant-type cases, loyalty cases, etc.

IV. Any persons where circumstances indicate a delicate situation exists and a greater than usual risk is involved, such as individuals employed in the newspaper field, educational field, radio and television industry, religious field, publishing houses, labor leaders, and the like. Bureau authority must be requested with respect to situations of this kind even though prior interviews have been had with these interviewees.

V. Security subjects who have publicly disclosed previous contacts

VI. Subjects of section A reserve index cards

In any of the above cases, no report need be submitted when requesting Bureau authority to interview a subject of a security investigation except those persons under IV above. This does not relieve you of the responsibility of submitting reports in security cases when due.

VII. The request for Bureau authority for the interview should be set forth in the first paragraph of the letter and unless you are recommending a special manner or procedure for conducting the interview, the first paragraph should contain the following statements:

"Bureau authority is requested to interview subject in accordance with existing instructions relating to interviews of security subjects. If this subject is cooperative, no affirmative steps will be taken during the initial interview to direct his activities and complete background investigation required by section 107C of the Manual of Instructions will be conducted and Bureau will be requested to authorize recontact with subject as a PSI."

Form FD-336 contains the above statement and may be used in requesting Bureau authority for the interview.

The above statement in no way precludes interviewing Agents during initial contacts and recontacts from obtaining all subversive information subject is willing to furnish or other data which will assist in determining his potentialities as an informant.