Promptly prepare LHM, including complete details disseminated and identities of Secret Service officer and local law enforcement officers to whom given and date and time of notification. Promptly disseminate LHM locally to Secret Service and any other appropriate Government agency and furnish sufficient copies to Bureau for dissemination at SOG. Disseminate copies of all LHMs and reports concerning organization locally to Secret Service on continuing basis and furnish extra copies of such communications to Bureau for dissemination at SOG.

Determine identities of members of organization involved in plot. Background information concerning such individuals should be fully developed and included in communications disseminated to Secret Service.

5. Communist Influence in Racial Matters, Internal Security - C (code name "CIRM"). Bucfile 100-442529. Office of origin: New York

Submit quarterly reports, to reach Bureau by February 1, May 1, August 1, and November 1 on full extent of communist influence in racial matters. Include information on communist infiltration of Negro organizations and subversive individuals active in racial movement. Include this information even if it duplicates information in other reports. Offices with no information to report advise Bureau by letter.

Use three-part outline in report: (1) Communist Strategy, (2) Communist Tactics, and (3) Communist Penetration and Influence in Racial Organizations. Under strategy, include plans and line of CPUSA and other communist groups, such as SWP and Progressive Labor Party. Under tactics, describe communist direction, influence, and participation in demonstrations, disturbances, and other events with racial overtones. List events in chronological order with appropriate subheadings. In part three, report influence of subversives in racial organizations.

Title and character.

[Communications covering organizations and groups should carry the name of the organization and characters as set out below.

Internal Security - Communist The use of this character will apply to:

(1) Communist basic revolutionary organizations (both pro-Soviet and pro-Chinese); for example, Communist Party, USA, and Progressive Labor Party.

(2) Communist front groups.

(3) Communist infiltrated groups.

Internal Security - Communist (Trotskyist) The use of this character will apply to:

(1) Trotskyist basic revolutionary organizations such as the Socialist Workers Party, Workers World Party, Young Socialist Alliance and Youth Against War and Fascism.

(2) Trotskyist fronts such as the Student Mobilization Committee.

Internal Security - New Left This will include all organizations affiliated with the New Left Movement except those which would be characterized as Communist or Trotskyist front and infiltrated groups.]

Where appropriate, include identity of particular district or field division; e.g.,

Classification - 100

Communist Party, USA District Division Internal Security - C