EMERGENCY CONFERENCE TO DEFEND THE RIGHTS OF THE BLACK PANTHER PARTY TO EXIST (ECDBPP)

The second source further stated that at this session David Hilliard, National Chief of Staff of the BPP, spoke regarding the organization of the Panthers. He was followed by Doctor Quentin Young, Head of the Medical Committee on Human Rights (MCHR) in Chicago, who spoke briefly regarding the BPP program of medical care and their luncheon program for ghetto children.

The Medical Committee on Human Rights was described in testimony before the United States House of Representatives Committee on Un-American Activities Hearings during October, 1968, as being founded in 1964 to aid civil rights workers injured while serving in the South and which more recently aided injured demonstrators during the Democratic National Convention held in Chicago in 1968. Doctor Quentin Young, in connection with testimony regarding the MCHR declined to state he was a member of the CP, USA on the basis such would be a violation of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

The second source further advised that Charles Garry, a BPP attorney from San Francisco, California, then spoke at the morning session of the Conference and in that connection stated he brought greetings from Huey Newton, National Minister of Defense of the BPP and Bobby Scale, National Chairman of that organization.

He then spoke briefly regarding the legal ramifications relating to trials of BPP members and accused the courts of using fascist tactics in that connection and was accusing the juries of being racists. Garry called for unity of all minorities to end repression. Bobby Rush, representing the BPP of Chicago, then briefly commented concerning Panther activities in the Chicago area.

The second source further advised that following these opening speeches a temporary Steering Committee was set up which represented a cross section of the United States. This Steering Committee was under the leadership of Richard Criley, Executive Secretary of the CCDBR. It was then announced that the Conference would be adjourned until afternoon at which time it would be resumed by having workshops on the following subjects:

N:W 88613 DocId:32199554 Page 2810