Platform and Program

1. We want freedom. We want power to determine the destiny of our Black Community.

We believe that black people will not be free until we are able to determine our destiny.

2. We want full employment for our people.

We believe that the federal government is responsible and obligated to give every man employment or a guaranteed income. We believe that if the white American businessmen will not give full employment, then the means of production should be taken from the businessmen and placed in the community so that the people of the community can organize and employ all of its people and give a high standard of living.

3. We want an end to the robbery by the CAPITALIST of our Black Community.

We believe that this racist government has robbed us and now we are demanding the overdue debt of forty acres and two mules. Forty acres and two mules was promised 100 years ago as restitution for slave labor and nars murder of black people. We will accept the payment in currency which will be distributed to our many communities. The Germans are now aiding the Jews in Israel for the genocide of the Jewish people. The Germans murdered six million Jews. The American racist has taken part in the slaughter of over fifty million black people; therefore, we feel that this is a modest demand that we make.

4. We want decent housing, fit for shelter of human beings.

We believe that if the white landlords will not give decent housing to our black community, then the housing and the land should be made into cooperatives so that our community, with government aid, can build and make decent housing for its people.

5. We want education for our people that exposes the true nature of this decadent American society. We want education that teaches us our true history and our role in the present-day society.

We believe in an educational system that will give to our people a knowledge of self. If a man does not have knowledge of himself and his position in society and the world, then he has little chance to relate to anything else.

6. We want all black men to be exempt from military service.

We believe that Black people should not be forced to fight in the military service to defend a racist government that does not protect us. We will not fight and kill other people of color in the world who, like black people, are being victimized by the white racist government of America. We will protect ourselves from the force and violence of the racist police and the racist military, by whatever means necessary.

7. We want an immediate end to POLICE BRUTALITY of black people.

We believe we can end police brutality in our black communities by organizing black self-defense groups that are dedicated to do the same thing the United States government is doing: arms. We therefore believe that all black people should arm themselves with guns.

8. We want freedom for all black men held in federal, state and city prisons and jails.

We believe that all black people should be released from jails and prisons because they have not received a fair and impor- tant education.

9. We want all black people when brought to trial to be tried by a jury of their peer group or people from their black community defined by the Constitution of the United States.

We believe that the courts should follow the United States Constitution so that black people will receive fair trials. The 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution gives a man a right to be tried by his peers, and is a person from a similar economic, social, religious, geographic, environmental, historical and racial background. To do this the courts must select a jury from the black community from which the defendant came. We have been, and are being, tried by all that have no understanding of the "average reasoning man" community.

10. We want land, bread, housing, education, clothing, justice and as our major political objective, a United Nations-independent country to be held throughout the black colony in which only it subjects will be allowed to participate, for the purpose of ending the causes which impel them to the separation.

We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalloyed rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, to protect, defend, and naturalize. All just powers from the consent of the governed; that, whenever government becomes destructive of those ends, it is the right of the sovereign to alter or to abolish it, and to institute a new government foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such manner as to secure to them the right to resist any attempt to change the form of government; that, whenever a majority of the peoplelege shall choose to alter or to abolish it, and to institute a new government, it shall be established with the consent of the majority; that, whenever a government becomes destructive of those ends, it is the right of the sovereign to改变 its form, either by altering the same object,