FILE:SECRET

Office of Security, although that office had an excellent relationship with FBI. Allan Dulles would not have condoned it since he had great respect for the FBI. Papich believes the same is true of McCone and Helms. Papich also concedes the possibility of entries by the CIA, citing the independent operation conducted regarding the (Bolivian official) Hoover opposed going to CIA or NSA for technical support in a joint surveillance operation. The FBI would only do so for equipment for its own operation.

Regarding the memorandum of understanding between CIA and FBI, the general problem was developing sources in the United States among foreign officials; as many as 12,000 of them a year were turned to the United States. CIA tried to tap into other sources in the 50's. FBI involvement in "off and on" and some thought a new FBI division would be needed for it. The FBI as constructed did not have trained personnel or capability to develop foreign targets. The CIA had this capability. Papich proposed that FBI permit CIA to recruit in the United States. CIA would advise FBI of its interest in a target, the purposes of the contact, and any results. If the FBI had no interest in the target, that is, an interest in a KGB contact for example, it would OK the CIA contact. FBI required that CIA furnish it any information relevant to its needs, that is regarding KGB contacts (the New Left was handled separately from the memorandum of understanding procedures).

Alan Belmont headed the FBI Intelligence Division before Sullivan. A capable administrator, he operated behind the scene, stayed out of politics, had good rapport with agents, and was able to handle Hoover. When Belmont retired, the FBI "lost a rudder". This was a crucial point in FBI history, with Hoover getting old. Belmont stressed to his subordinates the need to develop a strong case for any proposal going to Hoover. Once that case was ready, Belmont would push it hard, but Papich and Belmont did disagree on such matters as counter-intelligence operations against the KGB.