(4) In all instances there must be clear showing, by overt acts or statements or other evidence, that there has been continuing sympathy for aims and objectives of Cuban Government since '10-1-60. Citizenship status must be clearly established.

Pro-Cuban activity All individuals in security index under basic criteria (item 3a, above) should be tabbed "Pro-Cuban" if by their activities and sympathies they warrant special consideration in event of limited emergency involving Cuba and U. S. This tabbing includes Cubans and non-Cubans who have engaged in activities in support of Cuban Government or pro-Castro groups. For this tabbing, submit FD-122 to Bureau with notation "Pro-Cuban" typed opposite words "Miscellaneous (specify)." Attach page containing concise summary of facts supporting recommendation. Security index cards sent to field on such subjects contain letter "C" on left side of card at beginning of second line. These cards are not kept in "Cuban" special section but are tabbed with metal tabs.

Evaluating interviews for security index status (1) Positive statement to interviewing Agents clearly indicating adherence to doctrines, aims, or purposes of revolutionary organization or front organization shall be considered overt act. (2) Other than above, interviews are not factors in making determination as to security index; e.g., lack of cooperation or partial cooperation are not factors.

Effect of resort to fifth amendment Department has advised resort to fifth amendment by witness appearing before governmental body should be considered overt act within security index criteria (1) when subject was asked directly concerning present membership in subversive organization and (2) when question calls for response as to past membership in organization in those cases in which available information would seem to bring subject within criteria except for overt act within required period.

Activity in Nation of Islam and other black nationalist extremist groups Department has advised Nation of Islam constitutes potentially dangerous instrumentality in event of national emergency; statements and activities of individuals in Nation of Islam indicating anarchist and revolutionary beliefs should be considered in making judgment as to whether or not member should be in security index. Give particular attention to developing and reporting such statements, including violent and revolutionary statements made by other members in subject's presence. Statements should be reported in detail. Apply these instructions to other black nationalist extremist groups.

4. Recommendations for and preparation of security index cards

SAC must personally recommend inclusion in and removal of any name from security index except in offices having more than 1,000 security index subjects, where recommendations can be made by SAC, ASAC, or Bureau-approved security supervisor.

Where potential dangerousness of subject has been established, office of origin is to [prepare]recommendation to Bureau on form FD-122; in triplicate. Forward original and copy to Bureau, and place copy in subject's file. Nothing should appear on FD-122 which is not in subject's file. FD-122 has [three]uses: (1) to recommend subject for security index, (2) to submit changes for existing cards, [and (3)] to recommend subject be deleted from Security Index.] Submit abstract when recommending subject for security index but no abstract for changes[on the security index card.]

When FD-122 is submitted to recommend subject for security index, attach additional page or pages setting out succinct summary of facts on which recommendation based. Facts must be in sufficient detail to support recommendation, including justification for designated priority level for apprehension. Statements of conclusion are not enough and original sources must be characterized as to reliability. Summary must show pertinent data of subject's activities.