(10) Communist infiltrate of mass organizations program

(a) Submit semia. ... 1 letters March 1 and September 1 under caption of a : program, Buprofile 100-3-106, using following topical outl... and headings:

I. Information concerning Communist Party program

Furnish summary of information received concerning overall Communist Party program to infiltrate mass organizations, nationally and locally; steps taken to carry out program including statements made by Communist Party leaders, directives issued by the Communist Party, and articles appearing in Communist Party publications; and success being achieved by party.

II. Recommendations for additional investigation

Briefly outline steps being taken to keep abreast of Communist Party efforts to infiltrate mass organizations and indicate specifically what additional investigation will be undertaken to determine the extent to which mass organizations are being influenced, dominated, or controlled by the Communist Party.

III. Identity of organizations which are targets for infiltration or have been infiltrated by the Communist Party List names and Bureau file numbers of all organizations which are subject of a pending communist infiltration case. Include descriptive data concerning each organization and indicate extent to which organization has been infiltrated.

[Established sources and informants who are students or employees at an institution of learning, but who are not reporting on any campus activities or any matter pertaining to the educational institution, may be contacted without Bureau authority. These contacts must be made away from the campus.]

[g.] Members of law enforcement agencies are not to accompany Bureau Agents during course of security-type investigations without prior Bureau authority.

[h.] Photographic surveillances

(1) No photographic surveillances are to be conducted in communist front organization cases unless it is essential to protect Bureau's interests in internal security field by supplementing live informant coverage of a particular meeting with such a surveillance.

(2) Request Bureau authority to institute such a surveillance and outline manner in which it will be conducted and supervision which will be afforded it.

(3) No such surveillances should be instituted without specific Bureau authority..