(3) Dangerous characteristics of subject, e.g., notation if subject carries firearms.

(4) Any special information needed to locate subject.

(5) Notation that security flash notice (FD-165) has been posted with Identification Division

(6) FBI number and fingerprint classification, when available. Case should normally be kept pending to secure all pertinent identifying data enumerated in paragraphs a. and b. above. However, if it appears a considerable amount of effort would be required to obtain a particular item, use judgment in deciding whether to continue in pending status solely for this purpose.

Use FD-186 to report above information. File in case file.

Arrangement of ADEX

At FBIHQ.

Index is printed on IBM cards, two copies of which are sent to field. An alphabetical breakdown of true names and all aliases of subjects is maintained at FBIHQ.

In field office

Index is maintained in three sections:

(1) Alphabetical section

This section includes one complete set of current ADEX cards.

(2) Geographical section

This section includes ADEX cards of all subjects except those who are missing, temporarily out of the country, or in prison. Geographical section is broken down by residence address in accord with needs of each office, e.g., by state, county, city, or if needed, into boroughs or suburbs. Cards are filed alphabetically under each such breakdown.

(3) Unavailable section

This section includes cards of individuals who are missing, out of the country for an indefinite period, or imprisoned, broken down into three corresponding subsections.

(a) Missing subjects

(b) Subjects out of country for indefinite period Include foreign residence and employment addresses on FD-122, if known. Place stops with INS to be advised of subject's return. Verify foreign residence annually.

(c) Subjects imprisoned Identify institution in which subject is incarcerated on FD-122. Request prison authorities to notify us of subject's release and set tickler to verify.

Special interest subjects

Following classes of individuals could be of special interest in national emergency:

Espionage subjects

Any action taken in these cases should be handled, if possible, in such manner as to not destroy the opportunity to penetrate an active espionage network.

Foreign government employees

Any action taken in these cases must be handled so as to minimize the possibilities of diplomatic repercussions.