SECTION-87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS

Communist Party members, review of field office files, pretext interviews, surveillances, Special Agents attending mass meetings, etc.

4. Internal Security Act of 1950

To insure successful proceedings against a communiqué front organization under this act, a preponderance of admissible evidence must be secured to [show] extent to which

Persons active in management, direction, or supervision of an organization are active in management, direction, or supervision; or as representatives, of

Its support, financial or otherwise, is derived from

Its funds, resources, or personnel are used to further or promote objectives of

Positions taken or advanced by it from time to time do not deviate from those of

Any communist-action organization, communist foreign government, or the world communist movement.

Panel sources

Purpose

To develop potential witnesses who will be willing to obtain and introduce legally admissible evidence relevant to subversive nature of organizations in future prosecuting action

Program

(1) Since Special Agent and active security informant testimony is undesirable, field should recruit panel of potential witnesses locally. Some may be found among American Legion contacts, plant informants, former and exposed security informants, etc.

(2) Panel members should attend public rallies and meetings, as well as obtain literature of organizations they are covering.

(3) To aid panelists, exhibit photographs of individuals they will most likely encounter at front organization functions.

(4) Handle notes, statements, and exhibits of panelists in same manner as other evidence. As panelists may subsequently become security informants, the same procedure should be followed in handling, processing, and reporting data and material furnished by panelists as is afforded that received from security informants. (See section 107, Volume IV, of this manual.)

(5) Legitimate expenses incurred by panel members should be reimbursed in same manner as security informants.

(6) Eliminate inactive, ineffective, or unsatisfactory panelists on a continuing basis. At time of submission of semiannual letter, office panel should be reviewed to make certain all such panelists have been removed.

(7) Identities of panelists should be concealed.

Administrative handling

(1) Check prospective panelists through office indices, local police department, credit records, and established informants. If no undesirable information is developed, initial contact may be made with panelist to ascertain cooperativeness.

(2) Submit names of cooperative panelists to Bureau by letter outlining complete background and recommendation as to inclusion in office panel. [One of the required copies of the letter to the Bureau should consist only of the first page of the letter. When approving the field's recommendation, this single-page copy will be stamped "Approved" by Bureau and will be returned.] Be certain such individuals are not plants and will consider relationship with Bureau in confidence.