Files

29 January 1964

N. D. Stevens

THE LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASE #351164

1. According to a newspaper column of "Allen and Scott" in the Chicago American of 6 December 1963, on the Oswald Case, Allen CHAYES, Legal Officer of the State Department, was one of two persons immediately responsible for Oswald's being permitted to return to the United States from the Soviet Union in June 1962. The other individual named was Llewellyn THOMPSON, the then Ambassador to Russia. Another said to have been involved in the handling of Oswald's case was Samuel WISE, Counsel of the American Embassy in Moscow.

2. Abreu CHAYES, #352234, who as of 16 February 1961 was described as "the new Counsel in State", was granted Security approval for liaison contact with J. Foster COLLINS (in the office of the Chief of the Court Action Staff) on 6 March 1961. The request for CHAYES' clearance was a "barrier" request to permit discussions with him of EEC 5412/2 matters on a need-to-Know basis.

3. In September 1961 there was a White House namecheck request on CHAYES' wife Antonia (Toni) Leigh CHAYES, use: HANDLER.

4. In March 1962, CHAYES was granted a renewal of his liaison contact clearance with CICA on a continuing basis. This time his contact was Architect ROOSEVELT, Jr.

5. On 10 February 1962, HUMAN EVENTS reported as follows with reference to CHAYES:

"SOFT ON COMMISSIONER: Representative Francis E. Walter (R.-Pa.), Chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, has secured the new State Department regulations on passports, claiming they would allow Beds denied passports to "rifle freely the confidential files of the FBI, the CIA and other investigative agencies." The men behind the new regulations, which Walter claims violate the Internal Security Act of 1950, is reportedly State's chief legal officer, Abreu Chayes. Chayes, a Kennedy appointee, is an ex-Harvard professor who was Chester Bowles' top legal adviser when Bowles was Governor of Connecticut. Walter has introduced legislation to remedy the new passport regulations."

GROUP-1

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification