A. H. Belmont

S. B. Donahoe

I - Mr. Belmont I - Mr. Donahoe I - Mr. Bartlett I - Mr. Schaefer

9/10/59

LAOTIAN ACTIVITIES IN THE U. S. INTERNAL SECURITY - LAOS

New York by letter 6/25/57 captioned "Laos Delegation to the United Nations, IS - Laos" advised that Mr.. Clark McBurney, public relations officer for Hunter College, 68th Street and Park Avenue, New York City, was interviewed in connection with another matter. He stated his wife, Marie Jo McBurney, at that time was chief secretary of the Laos Delegation to the United Nations and in that position had access to files maintained by the Laotian Delegation. In addition, he stated his wife would be glad to help the FBI on a confidential basis should the need arise.

Bureau by letter 7/16/57 authorized New York to interview Mrs. McBurney to determine desirability of attempting to develop her as a potential confidential source. State Department clearance for this inter- view was obtained 7/11/57. Mrs. McBurney was cooperative and stated in event she came into possession of information of interest to the Bureau she would notify the New York Office.

New York by letter 8/28/59 advised it desired to recontact Mrs. McBurney to alert her to the interest of the Bureau and to secure an information which may be of interest to the United States Government. New York pointed out that McBurney as of 8/11/58 was still employed by the Laotian Delegation to the United Nations.

ACTION:

(1) Prior to having New York recontact McBurney regarding above felt we should have Liaison discuss orally with an appropriate official in the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs, Department of State, the possibility of this Bureau developing live sources within Laotian diplomat establishments in the U. S. If it is approved, Liaison should also secure clearance for very discreet investigations of potential sources which we will, thereafter, select. In view of the current political unrest in Laos its proximity to Communist China and possible future alignment with the Soviet Bloc, felt we should secure this clearance from Department of State in an effort to have sufficient sources of information at the various Laotian diplomatic establishments in the U. S.

Tolson Belmont DeLoach McGuire Mohr Parsons Rose Tamn Trotter W.C. Sullivan Tele. Room Holloman Gandy VJS:yds

NOT RECORDED 145 SEP 30 1959

105-NEW-105-61978 (Laotian Delegation to the United Nations) 65-63113 (Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of Friendly Foreign Nations)

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

NW 88613 DocId:32199554

Page 891