within the CS; advising and assisting CS components in the preparation of Operating Directives and the program portions of the annual response to the Program Call; chairing the Program Review Panel; preparing and/or coordinating special studies and surveys on operational programs; coordinating and preparing the annual DDP report to the PFIAE, preparing the annual DDP briefing of the PCI on CS problems and progress; and, as required, advising CS components on the requirements of PZBS that need to be addressed in CS documents requiring PCI or Executive Director-Controller action.

5. In his previous assignment Mr. Wheelor was detailed to OPFB to give that office, in the preparation of Agency programs for submission to the Bureau of the Budget, a better understanding of clandestine collection and covert action, to help that office better review and integrate CS programs in Agency programs, and to give him a broad view of the PVB System and Agency management in both of which he had shown considerable interest. His performance in that office was rated "Strong," and it was on that performance and on his genuine enthusiasm and interest in management generally that his services were sought for MPS.

6. In the performance of his duties as Chief, MPS/PRG he made immediate use of his long experience in and knowledge of CS operations, the experience and knowledge gained in CPD, his formal education in the PBI System, and a strong belief in and desire to put to work within the CS certain concepts of that system for general and specific management improvement. Given the idiosyncrasy of the CS, he recognized early that in order to make the PVB system work effectively knowledge of the "why" and "how" of that system must be possessed at every decision-making level. With limitless energy and enthusiasm he got about "preaching the gospel" from division chief to case officer. Whichever and wherever a formal group is assembled and management is a topic for discussion, the Office of Training can count on him to drop everything and hold forth on the subject, so that the Senior Management and Planning Course (whether for supergraders or below), Station Chief Conferences, the CS Senior Seminar (now in session) and the like. Acting as the DDP/TRO's right arm to encourage attendance at the Senior Management and Planning Course he has crusaded with division and staff chiefs for the attendance of certain of