SF 100-46832

"Ramparts" magazine is largely staff produced and has nothing to offer but the guts and freedom of its reporters to report facts as they see them. "Ramparts" does not edit the reporters' articles for opinion or value of concept. These articles are only edited for size and possible emphasis for a particular issue so that there would not be four articles on Vietnam in a single issue, for instance. When "Ramparts" sends a reporter to do a story it prints what the reporter writes even though the Editor does not necessarily agree with that reporter's viewpoint.

SCHEER feels that the United States is more afflicted with an extremely biased press because in the United States we have the illusion of freedom and Americans are raised to believe that we have a free press while in fact the press is controlled through "an interlocking directorate of big business, big military and big government" that effectively manages the news so that it is not troubling or upsetting to their interests.

SCHEER believes that the honest reporting of news by "Ramparts" is doing "an awful lot of good" because a generation is being raised in the United States that knows how to be free for a change and "is not going to buy the nonsense that comes out of Washington". The youths are asking some very searching questions about American society and are not satisfied with the usual glibness so they are willing to go on marches because they do not buy these answers. This is a very large minority of youths.

Most of the American soldiers in Vietnam have been raised to believe that their country always does right and have an implicit racism. They realize that the Vietnamese do not really share United States objectives. For instance "There is a 650,000 man Vietnamese army that never does any fighting". "It is very clear that the Viet Cong has considerable support from the countryside and has done some very fine things in the countryside."

There are some cracks in the brainwashing and some disillusionment with the war in Vietnam even among American troops. More people have refused to fight and more people in the army

1345

Copy ......

Page ....... of ............Copies of ............Pages

DocID:34517445 Page 104