The March 1, 1954, issue of the "Young Socialist Challenge," published as page three of "Labor Action," an official publication of the Independent Socialist League (ISL), contained an article concerning the creation of the YSL, which pointed out that at a unity conference occurring February 12-14, 1954, at Labor Action Hall, New York, New York, a merger occurred between the Young People's Socialist League (YPSL) and the Socialist Youth League (SYL). The new organization was named the YSL.

A source on June 15, 1954, made available the minutes of the YSL's National Action Committee meeting of April 13, 1954, which reflected that one S. SITEMAN, "Chairman of SP (Socialist Party) Youth Committee," had objected to a statement appearing in "Commerce," a New York University journal, which indicated that the YPSL merged with the SYL to form the YSL. He explained that the YPSL did not merge with anyone; that it continued to exist as the youth section of the Socialist Party. He explained that a small group of the YPSL was dropped, expelled, or suspended from that organization and joined the SYL, which he characterized as the youth group of the "Trotskyite ISL." He explained that after these few former members of the YPSL joined the SYL, the SYL then proceeded to change its name for its own purposes.

On April 9, 1956, a source advised as follows: The YSL has frequently worked in close sympathetic cooperation with the ISL toward similar objectives, although each major issue given mutual consideration is decided upon by these organizations individually. The YSL serves as an apprenticeship for the ISL, but the ISL selection of members from YSL ranks is made on an individual and personal basis. In many instances YSL members are also members of the ISL. The YSL and the ISL utilize the same printing house in New York City and the YSL publication is printed as an insert in "Labor Action." Frequently, lecturers before the YSL are ISL members.

The September 22, 1958, issue of "Young Socialist Challenge," which appeared as page five of "Labor Action," contained an undated statement from the National Committee of the YSL which indicated that the YSL had been dissolved. The statement appeared under the caption "Join the Young Peoples Socialist League."

The YPSL is publicly known as the youth affiliate of the Socialist Party - Social Democratic Federation.

A source advised on June 12, 1958, that the Berkeley, California, unit of the YSL was formed in 1954, following the unity convention held in New York in February 1954, which combined the forces of the SYL and the YPSL. The source stated that the YSL in the San Francisco Bay Area continued to operate under the leadership and guidance of ISL members.

A source advised on October 9, 1958, that the YSL Branch dissolved itself in line with the YSL national organization, and the branch members joined the YPSL.

APPENDIX 81

948