5/23/75

RE: MISS GANDY'S QUESTIONING BY SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING FEDERAL AGENCIES WITH INTELLIGENCE-GATHERING FUNCTIONS

Miss Gandy and I appeared before the staff of the subcommittee for questioning on May 15, 1975, our appointment being set for 10:30 a.m. The group consisting of Messrs. Gitenstein, Epstein and M. S. Talley immediately proceeded to the former Carroll Arms Apartment building which is now used as an office building by the U.S. Senate. We were taken to the sixth floor where we entered an empty office which contained telephone equipment, some chairs, and a desk.

Mr. Gitenstein had apparently drawn up a list of questions he wished to discuss with Miss Gandy and he referred to this list throughout the questioning period.

There is attached a rough draft memorandum consisting of four pages and dated May 15, 1975, which was prepared by Miss Gandy concerning her recollection of what transpired during the interview. The interview, incidentally, lasted until 1 p.m. when a one-hour break was taken for lunch. The session reconvened at 2 p.m. and was terminated at 3 p.m.

I am setting forth hereafter in numbered paragraphs items which I recollect transpired during the interview which should be helpful in embellishing Miss Gandy's memorandum.

(1) During the early part of the questioning, Mr. Gitenstein attempted to draw a chart of Mr. Hoover's office in the Department of Justice building. He said he had previously visited Mr. Kelley's suite in the Justice Building. His effort at charting the office was poor at best and he requested my assistance. A rough chart was drawn showing Mr. Hoover's personal office on one end and Miss Mooney's office on the other end. In making up the chart I inadvertently left out the supply room which, of course, would have been of little or no significance to the questioners since this room contained supplies only and no files.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED BEFORE IS UNCLASSIFIED. Dated 10-17-75 PM S2-14/MF

ENCLASIFIED

NW 88326 DocId:32989611 Page 120