SAMUEL ADASON JAFFE

Jaffe offered his opinion that Yarochevskaya may be connected with Soviet intelligence. He stated his opinion is influenced by the fact that in her 1965 employment as a translator in Moscow, Yarochevskaya had the opportunity of becoming acquainted with foreign correspondents assigned to Moscow. His opinion is influenced also by Yarochevskaya's subsequent marriage to a personable and younger Soviet who received an assignment to the United States as a Tass correspondent. Jaffe stated Yarochevskaya is the only Soviet national whom he knows who was employed by "UPDK" as a translator for foreign correspondents, who later came to the United States.

Jaffe stated that when he served in Moscow he and other foreign correspondents often heard references to a "Black Tass". The rumors were that the Tass News Agency abroad performed two functions. One was to gather news for dissemination to the Soviet people through Soviet newspapers and periodicals. The other, "Black Tass", was a form of intelligence gathering, the results of which were never made known to the Soviet people but were furnished directly to the KGB in Moscow for transmittal to Kremlin officials. Jaffe stated that an example of the "Black Tass" operation would be a Tass correspondent in Washington, D.C. feeling out his contacts to ascertain what the thinking of government officials might be in regard to some phase of the United States' foreign policy. Jaffe said that "Black Tass" would not necessarily relate to espionage.

Jaffe stated the only contact he has had in recent months with Soviet nationals occurred approximately in the end of January, 1971, exact date unrecalled. Jaffe had just stepped away from making a telephone call in the lobby of the Statler Hilton Hotel, 16th and K Streets, N. W., Washington, D. C., when Oleg M. Sokolov, a First Secretary, Soviet Embassy, walked into view. Sokolov greeted him warmly and asked Jaffe where he had been keeping himself and why no one had seen him. Jaffe replied that he has been in the Washington, D. C. area but that