Congress of the United States Employment Information Form

1. Name (Last, First, Middle) Miss Mrs. 10. Birth date (Month, Day, Year) 11/11/42

and Address (Number, Street, City, State, and ZIP Code)

Rife, Rebecca Anne 11. Home State Pennsylvania

125 South Reynolds St., Apt. J-410 12. Height Feet 5 Inches 6&frac12;

Alexandria, Va. 22304 13. Are you a United States citizen? -1173&xmark Yes &xmark No

2. Home phone (including Area Code) 370-6755 Friend 3. Other phone (including Area Code) Judy Sullivan 697

Leave messages

4. Kind of job you are applying for: Secretarial/Staff Assistant

5. Term of Employment: Full Time Summer

6. Will you accept temporary employment? Yes No

7. Will you accept part-time employment? Yes No

8. When will you be available? Immediately

9. Are you presently employed by the U.S. Senate, the U.S. House of Representatives, or other office of the Congress? Yes No

10. Skills &xmark Typing -75-80 wpm. Shorthand @85-90 wpm. (To be considered for positions involving typing or shorthand, applicants must undergo tests actually administered either by the Placement Office or by the U.S. Civil Service Commission. If the latter is used, attach Notice of Rating dated within the past 12 months.) Office equipment (specify) Computer: Terminal Operator, Programmer, Systems Analyst (State expertise with specific systems, languages, and components.)

List eligible ratings attained on U.S. Civil Service Commission examinations, titles of examinations and dates of ratings. Have been a G.S. 8 Social Worker. On Mid-Level Register and Clerk-Typist

Did you graduate from high school, or will you graduate within the next nine months? Yes June 1960 No Register HIGHEST GRADE COMPLETED MONTH/YEAR

Course emphasis: Academic, Business, Other (specify)

Training schools attended (for example, business, vocational, armed forces, or trade). Give for each the name and location of school, dates attended, subjects studied, number of classroom hours of instruction per week, certificates, and any other pertinent data. Waynesboro Business School, Waynesboro, Pennsylvania - Attended during high school and studied typing and speed-writing.

22. A. Name and location (City and State) of colleges or universities attended. COURSES STUDIED

CREDITS COMPLETED

Chatham College, Pgh., Pennsylvania Major Minor Semester Quarter</