B-

Development of LIKING/3 by Rowton:

6. Rowton met Subject in April,1966, by cold approach in the art studio where Subject at the time was presenting his latest works under sponsorship of Bellas Arses. Rowton poned as a Greek businessman interested in Subject's style and his immediate objective at the time was to ascertain the address in New York City of Subject's wife's father ( a Cuban of Chinese origin who had left Cuba as a refugee). Rowton, feeling that he had to present an above-average prospect to Subject to permit future meetings, alleged that he was anxious to arrange for the painting of a mural to be installed in a New York nightclub owned by a Greek friend of his ( Rita Dimitri, owner and performer at the "La Chan-sonette"). Rowton felt that pin-pointing a "New York nightclub" would have the double advantage of determining Subject's sentiments toward working in New York City and in a bourgeois environment.

7. Subject reacted very favorably to the initial approach and accepted Rowton's invitation to dinner in the company of Subject's wife the next evening. Both Subject and his wife were cautions in revealing any specific data concerning their background and personal history, but neither con-cealed their mutual approval of Castro's regime and dislike for the corrup-tion in Mexico. As a result of this meeting Rowton realized that any at- tment at a direct approach to either Subject or his wife, who was then em-ployed part-time at the Cuban Consulate, would be conterproductive and that a more subtle approach would have to be developed. Rowton decided that a strong personal relationship developed wth Subject would be productive and could eventually lead to useful production on Subject's part.

8. When, therefore, on 2 May,1966, Subject expressed gratification at having met Rowton and indicated that he wished to continue his friendly contacts, regardless of whether Rowton purchased his painting or arranged for the mural, Rowton ex moved in with an offer to "hire" Subject as his business associate on an unofficial basis, so that Subject could acquire a degree of independence financially and perhaps do some traveling for Rowton. In order to develop as much clandestinity as possible in his future con-tacts with Subject, Rowton explained that he was simply a tourist in Mexico and as such not permitted to engage in lucrative business activities. He would therefore have to depend on Subject's discretion in any dealings he might have with him. Subject accepted this as quite normal but pointed out to Rowton his limitations xas far as business training and experience went. In reply to Rowton's cuery, he did confess, however, that he had excel-lent contacts in Havana that could be exploited for business dealings with Cuba. He volunteered to make an exploratory trip to Havana to renew his friendship with the perons concerned. Rowton accepted this offer, not only to test Subject's story but also to seize the occasion to be in a position to provide Subject with money to make the trip and thus compromise him some-what at the outset.

9. Rowton's next move was to explain to Subject that he had a long-term interest in Cuba and hoped to do a great deal of business in the fut-ure but first felt it was essential that both he and Subject develop the proper contacts inside to ensure success. Subject readily agreed to this and felt relieved that Rowton did not expect him to produce concrete results overnight. When Rowton, therefore suggested that Subject find and rent a safehouse for entertainment and development of prospective contacts, Subject went to work immediately without question. (Although Rowton's suggestion was first made on 17 Juno, Subject did not succeed in finding a suitable place until the end of July.) This project, however, gave Subject something speci-fic and relatively clandestine to do for Rowton without seriously compro-mising any of his principles. Subject, as it developed later, was interests in such a hide-away, unknown even to his wife, for his own purposes. -