RE: SECRET

After his return from the USSR, Jeff Jaffe told source that during a portion of the tour of the "Young Presidents of America" in the USSR, they were escorted by Mikhail Bruk. Source was told that "at one point in an elevator in the Ukraine," Bruk mentioned source's name to Jeff Jaffe and asked if source was a relative or friend of his. When Jeff Jaffe informed Bruk that they were close friends, but not related, Bruk asked Jeff Jaffe if he would mind taking a letter or note to source. Jeff Jaffe indicated he would be glad to do so, however, they parted that day and he did not see Bruk again for a couple of weeks. Just prior to his departure from the USSR, Jeff Jaffe met Bruk again and reminded Bruk of the letter to source, pointing out that he would be leaving the USSR very shortly, however, Jeff Jaffe got the impression he "was talking to a dummy." Bruk gave absolutely no indication that he recalled ever requesting him to deliver a letter or note to source.

Source stated that when Jeff Jaffe called him September 14,1970, and extended him the invitation to attend the party for Bruk at the Harmony Club, which source referred to as a very exclusive Jewish club, source inquired if Bruk was aware that source might attend the party. Source was told Bruk should not be aware of this. Source indicated he would be in New York City on business Wednesday, September 16, 1970, and might stay over to attend the party that Friday. He indicated his wife would not be able to attend because she has to remain home with their children.

Source indicated he has observed no indication that Bruk has attempted to contact him during Bruk's current visit to the United States; however, source noted that he and his wife were out of town the previous weekend and would not be aware if Bruk attempted to call him during that period.

In answer to a specific question, source indicated he does not know whether or not KGB would have been aware that he was a close friend of Jeff Jaffe prior to the latter's trip to the USSR. Source stated it is possible during his assignment in Moscow as ABC correspondent that he could have mentioned Jeff Jaffe to Mikhail Bruk. He said it also is possible that Bruk asked Jeff Jaffe about him merely because both have the same surname.

-NW 88326 DocID:32989704 Page 214-