Re: Black Panther Party Detroit Division

Leonard Brown mentioned the fact that the white policemen must realize that the black people are not afraid of them and will defend themselves in any critical situation. Brown mentioned the fact that a good example of the white police officer is the incident that occurred in New York City where 200 white off-duty policemen attacked innocent members of the BPP. Brown further stated that the black political leaders in the country are nothing but "phonies" and "Uncle Toms". He further stated it is time for the white power structure to realize that it is impossible to dictate to the black people as they have been doing for years and that the black people only want a chance to govern their community as they see fit.

Victor Stewart stated that the BPP in its useful state is not an "underground party" but an "above the ground party". Stewart stated that the only way the black people can excel or exist in this world controlled by the white man is to take what he wants. Stewart stated that this does not mean asking or getting on your knees begging the white power structure. He further stated that the key to the black man's destiny is through black political education classes in which he will be cognizant of the political structure in this country. Stewart further stated that the BPP's motto is "All power to the people; Black power to black people".

Marian Kramer, Negro, female, stated that the black female must awaken and play a vital role in organizing the BPP. She stated for years the black female has been neglected from the political system in our country.

Sources in the Detroit area who are familiar with the black nationalist movement, stated that they have no information at this time that a BPP is organized in the Detroit area and conducts regular scheduled meetings. These sources further advised that during other black militant organizational meetings the name Black Panther Party has come up; however, no significant meaning as to actually being established in the Detroit area is known.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is the property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88296 DocId:32989574 Page 26