2. Cover political operations technically require State Department clearance. In practice, however, CIA has often been able to seize the initiative in ways which reduce State's role almost to that of a rubber stamp.

This has been partly the consequence of the superior drive and activism of CIA personnel, especially as compared with the diffidence of State Department personnel. For example, when men come to CIA with the assignment of developing covert political campaigns or organizing coups or preparing for paramilitary warfare, these men naturally fall to work with ingenuity and seal; they probably feel that they are not earning their pay unless, say, they organize as many coups so possible. The concept of 'contingency planning' has legitimatized the concrete preparation of operations still presumably to a hypothetical stage: people did not at first notice that 'contingency planning.' when carried to the stage of recruitment and training of personnel, creates a vested interest which often transforms contingencies into apparent necessities. Thus, if a group is assembled and revved up on a contingency basis, then the failure to carry the project through (it to argued) will invite the disengagement and alienation of the group; so the procedure increases to follow through on what had started as a pure speculation. This was a central factor, of course, in the Cuban contingency -- the fact that distant command of the Cuban force in Guatemala just seemed to create too many problems and embarrassments. Having entered into relations with personalities in foreign lands, CIA has sometimes seemed to feel that we must therefore do pretty much what they want -- or else they will blow security or even go over to the Communists. This approach has made us an occasion the prisoners of our own agents.9

We become prisoners of our agents in another sense too. The Cuban episode leaves the strong impression that CIA is not able to control its own low-level operatives. While the CIA people in Washington are men of exceptionally high quality, the men attracted to field jobs are sometimes tough and even vicious people motivated by drives of their own and not necessarily in political or even moral sympathy with the purposes of the operation. Such actions as locking up the Revolutionary Council, such enterprises as Operation 40 in Miami where CIA agents reportedly trained Cubans in methods of torture, such episodes as the detention and third degree reportedly administered to Dr. Rodolfo Nodal Tarrasa and 16 other democratic Cubans this February -- all three suggest that things go on under CIA sponsorship with which CIA in Washington is only indirectly acquainted.