THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

SUBJECT: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, 23 November 1960

PRESENT: Messrs. Merchant, Gray, Gen. Lansdale, Dulles and Bissell

Cuba

Mr. Bissell reported that further consideration following the meeting of last Saturday had led to a tentative conclusion that Saipan would be the best place to which to move the bulk of the Cuban trainees. He emphasized the security advantages of the location, and said that it is believed the move can be accomplished with our own transportation plus two roundtrips by C-124s. These we would request the Department of Defense to provide. We would probably move some small commando-type units - about 50 men - to Fort Randolph. Mr. Bissell also stressed the fact that additional construction costs would be significantly less at Saipan than anywhere else.

The DCI agreed in general with this preliminary thinking. He urged, however, that the matter of morale of the trainees be borne constantly in mind, and that the move not be accomplished all at once. Gen. Lansdale agreed. Mr. Dulles also asked that President Ydigoras be informed.

Mr. Bissell concluded that plans would not be firmed up until receipt of Defense's report on facilities available in the U.S.

Mr. Bissell then spoke of the report of a possible attempt by Cuban dissidents to take over the Isle of Pines. He explained that we have nothing to do with the plan and would in fact be unable to give much support to it. He said that it is highly questionable whether this attempt will take place in the reported time schedule, or indeed at all, but emphasized that this illustrates how initiative might be taken by others, so that we could be presented with drastic requests for assistance on very short notice. Mr. Bissell also mentioned the report of possible major sabotage to be carried out in the very near future. In addition, he said that we now have six B-26s, plus eleven crews, available for combat, with other aircraft for supply. He noted that Nicaragua might be used for refueling in the event of actual operations, but that the immediate objective would be to obtain strips on the Isle of Pines. Mr. Dulles remarked that this would of course require an active revolt.

Mr. Dulles also mentioned the proposal by Peter Grace to encourage Father Peyton (described as a sort of Catholic Billy Graham) to carry out activities in Cuba.