File Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I - XVIII

May 1, 1978 Volume XV - June 1964

1. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 30 May 1964 - information from Rogelio Cisneros Diaz - as of 30 May 1964, Ray had not entered Cuba. Boat to be used in final infiltration developed motor trouble. JURE reps were making all out effort to go to Ray's aid with replacement for boat and an additional supply of drinking water.

2. Cable to JMWAVE from DIR, dated 2 June 1961, Ref: WAVE 7218 (in 95616) Please note similarities rumor reported Ref Para 2 and statement attributed to Rogelio Cisneros that CIA had instructed AMWORLD boats to fire on JURE boats per WAVE 3691 (IN 41477). Is this significant?

Artime's followers authorized to attack any of Ray's or Gutierrez's men on high seas.

2. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE dated 3 June 1964 stating that Ray and Andrew St. George were among the individuals arrested by the British near Cayo Largo. (Location of Anguilla Cay also used in cable). Detainees taken to Nassau. Tom Dunkan, Life photographer, also in group.

3. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 4 June 1964 - AMTAUP/2 reported that Ray's organization going to make press statement that Ray's failure to enter Cuba was fault of CIA.

4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE dtd 6 June 1964 reflects feelings of Cuban exile community over Ray's failure to enter Cuba.

Ray made a fool of himself by taking a girl and two non-Cuban newsmen with him, none of whom adapted to rigors of guerrilla warfare.

British and U.S. participated in Ray's capture

Whole thing was a publicity stunt which went wrong.

Enrique Huertas jubilant over Ray's disgrace, but feels it is a loss of exile prestige and harbingers bleak and hopeless period

Dr. Antonio Maceo says many have lost faith in Ray for lack of accomplishment this past year.

Ray is laughing stock. Those who had hopes now feel he is only an ambitious politician not will to keep promises.

JURE members confused and undecided over how to defend Ray. Alanis and Zarraga wish to remove their followers from JURE.

Cisneros states to AMTAUP that Ray will accuse U.S. government of treachery for cutting off economic aid one month ago and for searching his home, automobile and offices (Cisnero's?)(Photostats in volume XIV)