H. REPORTS ON INDIVIDUALS

General

Cases of all security index subjects must be reopened for preparation of reports following schedule below. Critically analyze each case in light of security index criteria each time it is reopened and brought up to date.

2. Schedule of submission of reports

Priority I - annually

Priority II - annually

Priority III - initial report must be summary. Subsequent information may be furnished by LHM. Each office is responsible to insure all pertinent developments are furnished Bureau.

Origin

Office covering territory in which subject's subversive activities occur

Classification

100 - for individuals affiliated with basic revolutionary and front organizations of Marxist ideology

105 - for member of Puerto Rican nationalist groups or others having foreign nationalistic tendencies

157 - Nation of Islam and other black nationalist subjects

Title

Only one subject shall be carried in title of each report. Separate reports must be submitted for each subject regardless of relationship; i.e., husband and wife, father and son, etc.

Character

Top functionaries

Internal Security (or Racial Matters, if subject is black nationalist) - followed by letters designating organizational affiliation or nationalistic tendencies. Examples:

- Internal Security - C - Internal Security - SWP - Racial Matters - NOI

Others

Security Matter - followed by letters designating organizational affiliation or nationalistic tendencies. Examples:

- Security Matter - C - Security Matter - SWP - Security Matter - X (native fascist) - Security Matter - M (miscellaneous)

When subject is deleted as top functionary, change character from internal security to security matter in next communication. Communications regarding subjects employed in key facilities should have "Key Facility" in character. Communications regarding CPUSA National Committee members should have "National Committee" in character. Black nationalist investigations and racial matters should have character as set out in section 122, volume IV, of this manual.

Status

Carry cases as pending until all active investigation has been conducted. Thereafter, status shall be as follows:

Top functionaries

Pending inactive. Submit reports annually. Place case in pending-active status 45 days prior to date report due.

Key facility cases

Pending inactive. See instructions under individuals employed in or having access to key facilities.

Other security index subjects

(1) Closed

(a) Follow by administrative tickler to insure submission of periodic reports according to priority designation. If, following investigation, no subversive data is developed and information consists only of verification of residence and employment and negative contacts with sources, submit FD-400 in lieu of report setting forth identities of informants and sources contacted and any pertinent administrative data. Also submit FD-305 properly executed. Open case 45 days prior to date report due.