(c) When all logical leads have been exhausted in case of missing important functionary, consider requesting Bureau authority to circularize all field offices with subject's photograph and background information.

d. Individuals traveling abroad (Also see section 105G, volume IV, of this manual.)

Set forth below are steps to be taken when information is received that subject in one of following categories intends to travel abroad or has already departed this country for foreign travel: subject of current security investigation, subject in priorities I and II of security index, past security subjects who may be in underground capacity, or subject concerning whom there is current information indicating need for foreign coverage.

(1) Immediately advise Bureau by LHM available details concerning travel, including places and dates of departure and intended return, destination and itinerary, purpose of trip, name under which passport was issued, number of passport, and issuing office, if known. Include full description of subject and all aliases (in case of Chinese and Korean subjects, include Chinese telegraphic code or Korean telegraphic code numbers). Also include concise resume of available subversive data regarding subject. Do not delay advising Bureau of actual or intended travel while developing details of travel as time is of essence.

(2) Set out lead for WFO to check records of Passport Office, Department of State; but do not limit efforts to develop pertinent information to such check.

(3) Information concerning subject's proposed travel abroad, including information concerning subversive activities, is furnished Department of State, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and legal attaches. If travel is in area covered by legal attaché, forward sufficient copies of LHM to enable dissemination of three copies to each legal attaché involved. For each of these legal attaches, forward one photograph of subject, if available. If stops are to be placed with security services abroad, cover letter should so indicate. Set forth requests for investigation abroad on separate numbered page, captioned "Leads," at end of LHM. Request should not refer to legal attaché or request investigation by particular agency abroad.

(4) Subsequent report in individual case should contain details regarding subject's travel. In nonsecurity index cases where LHMs are submitted, communication transmitting data regarding travel should indicate whether investigation is being initiated and, if not, why.

(5) Set forth below are steps to be taken when information is received that one of following is forming tour group for foreign travel: organization of investigative interest to Bureau or subject in one of categories described in first paragraph under item d above.

(a) Advise appropriate offices, under caption of tour group or organization, identities of individuals participating in tour, and furnish Bureau LHMs for State Department, CIA, and appropriate legal attaches. Include all readily available information pertaining to tour, such as itinerary, pertinent dates, names and addresses of participants, and thumbnail sketch of organization or individual sponsoring tour.

(b) Offices should immediately identify participants and submit LHMs on those in one of categories described in first paragraph under item d above. Refer to LHM previously prepared under caption of tour group or organization. Submit letter to Bureau under caption of tour group or organization listing individuals within territory participating in tour on whom there is no subversive information.