Second is the "Principle of Provocation". At the beginning of this stage only a few real patriots are willing to take part in underground activity. The vast majority of the population is still wishfully thinking that they can "get along" with the oppressive forces. They want only to be left alone and will not take action until they are personally threatened. During this stage the underground conducts a series of actions which provoke the enemy forces into making harsh repressive measures on the general population. This turns the general population against the oppressive forces and convinces them that the underground is really their only hope.

Stage Three may be called "Principle of Natural Allies". When the government's action against the general population becomes sufficiently brutal then large numbers of people will be willing to help or join the underground. Their reasons for doing so may be numerous and their ideology man not always be the same as the basic underground movement. During this stage minor differences between different underground groups must be minimized and all of our natural allies must be rallied to the cause of freedom.

The intelligence branch of our organization is well aware of the communist infiltration and control of the present United States government. It can rightly be said that we are now partially controlled by a foreign ideology. Thus, we are already engaged in Phase I of this conflict. How long this will continue until open warfare breaks out is anyone's guess. Once again, the best prediction of our intelligence department is that Stage II will last for several months, perhaps even years. This will be a time of assassination and counter assassination, terror and counter terror. During this phase the "average citizen" may avoid direct conflict at the price of his dignity and individual freedom. Known patriots will be in extreme danger.

For most people membership in the Secret Army Organization will not materially increase their danger during this time. For many years our enemies have carefully catalogued the name and address of every person who has ever written a patriotic letter to a newspaper. The membership lists of the more prominent "conservative" organizations have long been available to communist infiltrators in these organizations.

Continued activity and membership in other conservative organizations by members of the S.A.O. is desirable in many cases but those individuals should not identify themselves as members of the Secret Army Organization. For most of our own members it will be best if you do not take part in the activities of these other organizations. Although many of you are already "marked" men a certain degree of security can still be achieved by quietly dropping out of other right-wing activities and keeping your membership in the S.A.O. secret from all except your most trusted fellow members.

There may come a time when the average American is still able to go about his business with little negotiation but during which you as a known or suspected patriot, may be sought out for arrest or assassination.