separate and distinct phenomenon, and we refuse to accept any solution focussed on the results of the last aggression without considering the source of the aggression itself.

The Resolution of the Security Council, November 22nd 1967, and all further proposals explaining or modifying it, are inadequate and irrelevant from our point of view, and therefore are totally and categorically unacceptable to us.

All such proposals skirt the real issue and avoid its core, namely: the right of the Palestinians to liberate their country, to enjoy land and homes, and to have the right to decide how they want run it.

We, the people of Palestine, are carrying on an armed revolu- tion in order to re-establish peace with justice in the Holy Land.

We would like you to consider the magnitude of our problem. For we are facing a Zionist structure that had its roots in 19th century Europe, at the heart of the imperialist movement. Zionism is one of the most oppressive and aggressive forms of imperialism, one that has as its major goal the total uprooting of one people from a country to replace them by another.

The roots of the aggression lie in the Zionist ideology itself, with its belief in the need to bring a select, chosen people without a land, to a land that is to be evacuated by its inferior people.

These methods used to accomplish this objective are terror, oppression, and deceit.

Let me quote one of the original Jewish pioneers in Palestine, Nathan Chofshi, who wrote to the editor of the Jewish Newsletter in February 1959:

"If you really wanted to know what happened, we old Jewish settlers in Palestine who witnessed the fight could tell you how and in what manner we Jews forced the Arabs to leave cities and villages...Some of them were driven out by force of arms; others were made to leave by deceit, lying and false promises. It is enough to cite the cities of Jaffa, Lydda, Ramleh, Beer Sheba, and Tel-Aviv from among numberless others." Nathan Chofshi continued. "Here we have people who lived on its own land for 1,300 years. We can see and turned the native Arabs into tragic refugees."

NHW 88296, DocId:32989574, Page 471

And now we face to stand firm, align them, to besmirch their

name. Instead of being deeply ashamed of what we did and trying to undo some of the evil we committed, by helping those unfortunate refugees, we justify our terrible acts and even attempt to glorify them."

Professor Erich Fromm, the noted Jewish writer and thinker, had this to add: "It is often said that the Arabs fled, that they left the country voluntarily, and that they therefore bear the responsibility for losing their property and their land. But, in general international law, the principle holds true that no citizen loses his property or his rights of citizenship, and the citizenship right is de facto right to which the Arabs in Palestine have much more legitimacy than the Jews. Just because the Arabs fled?" Professor Fromm asks. "Since when is that punishable by confiscation of property and by being barred from returning to the land on which a people's forefathers have lived for generations? The claim of the Jews to the land of Israel cannot be a realistic political claim. If all nations would suddenly claim territories in which their forefathers have lived two thousand years ago this world would be a madhouse."

The Zionists went ahead coldbloodedly with their sinister scheme to vacate Palestine of its people, by the use of terror, massacres and frightening rumors.

Arthur Koestler, the pro-Zionist author, described what happened at Deir Yassin on April 9th, 1948, as the "blood bath that was the psychologically decisive factor in the Arabs' spectacular exodus."

On that day, the Zionist terrorist organization Irgun Zvei Leumi killed 250 men, women and children. After 1948 there were other mass killings in occupied Palestine, e.g. Ikrit (1951), Al Tira (1953), Abu Ghosh (1953), Kafr Kassem (1956), etc., as part of the systematic Zionist plan for the complete evacuation of the Palestinians, to be replaced by Jewish settlers from all over the world.

These were the conditions that forced the Palestinians to leave their homeland.

The Zionists did not come to a country without people. There lived in Palestine a people with a civilization. They reacted to the

33