Here it is, the long-awaited first call upon women to join the Jeannette Rankin Brigade. I'm enclosing copies -- hope you can find means to duplicate these for your community.

Much has happened since I talked to you -- exciting things, much response, and some firm dates. A great deal of time was spent with Miss Rankin in order to do this in the way that she felt was best. A there were other very important things already in the hopper, such as Women Strike for Peace in Washington on Sept. 20, and the tremendous Stop the Draft Week of Oct. 16 - 21, all taking the time and energies of the peace groups.

The next full-scale convergence of women throughout the land will be the Jeannette Rankin Brigade. We will go to Washington on January 15. We will endeavor to enter the U.S. Congress to present our demand for end to the war. These plans will be formally announced on November 1. Veterans Day (formerly Armistice Day), when Miss Rankin will issue the Call to the women of the nation.

Now is the time to organize those in your community, to find those who can go to Washington and those who will support us by lending the names or helping in other ways. Now is the time to bring this up in churches, P.T.A.'s and women's organizations, including union auxiliaryies.

We have been in touch with many men, important in their fields -- labor, retired generals, professors, etc. -- who have offered to sponsor the Brigade. But it was decided to have only women as national sponsors. Among these at present are Dagmar Wilson, Loretta King, Ruth Krause, Esther Pike, and Jessica Mitford. Interested men are being invited to join a "Men's Auxiliary," to help with fund-raising, etc. More on this anon. Several clergymen in the Bay Area have agreed to preach sermons on the subject of women and their responsibility of working to oppose war.

Ideas for supportive action in local communities are needed and welcome. Please let me know what you are doing and planning.

Yours for peace,

P.S. Please forgive a mineographed letter, but I have so many people to contact and the time is short!