XIII. Violation of penal laws arising out of activities as a subversive

XIV. Active service in armed forces supported by a subversive movement, such as service in the Loyalist Forces during the Spanish Civil War which were supported by communism

XV. Constant support of the Soviet Union in acts and utterances

XVI. Acting as a courier for the subversive movement or as a confidential mail drop therefor.

XVII. Constant participation in the activities of a subversive organization or advancement of the organization's aims or interests, especially when such participation involves financial sacrifices or personal inconvenience or disadvantage

(b) The above factors, while not all-inclusive, should be used as a guide for determination of potential dangerousness. They are not to be considered as criteria for placing an individual on the security index; however, should be considered as indicating loyalty to a subversive organization.

(c) An individual shall not be deemed dangerous merely because one or more of the above factors are applicable in his case.

(3) Criteria for placing and retaining names in the security index

(a) The addition to and retention of names in the security index shall be governed by the following criteria:

I. No name shall be added to, or retained in the security index unless one or more of the following situations have been established through investigation:

(A) Subject has had membership or participation in the activities of a basic revolutionary organization with in the last 5 years as shown by overt acts or statements established through reliable sources, informants, or individuals.

(B) Subject has had membership or participation in the affairs of one or more front organizations, which adhere to the policies and doctrines of a revolutionary group, in a leadership capacity or by active substantial participation in the furtherance of the aims or purposes of the front organizations within the last 3 years as shown by overt acts or statements established through reliable sources, informants, or individuals,

(C) Investigation has developed information that an individual, though not a member or a participant in the activities of a subversive organization, has an anarchist or revolutionary beliefs and is likely to seize upon the opportunity presented by a national emergency to endanger the public safety as shown by overt acts or statements within the last 3 years established through reliable sources, informants, or individuals,

(D) Although investigation has failed to establish overt acts or statements on the part of a subject within the time limits set out above, facts have been developed which clearly and unmistakably depict the subject as a dangerous individual who could be expected to commit acts inimical to the national defense and public safety of the U. S. in time of emergency.