4. June 2, 1967-Harrell Tucker was arrested by the Berkeley police. He was accused of fighting a white boy. He was not allowed the two phone calls that any prisoner is required by law to have. He was separated from the other inmates, he was tried, convicted and sent to Santa Rita where he was told not to engage in any political discussion. He was forced to work on the farm section and to cut his "Afro" hair style. He pointed out that the Berkeley police have pictures of Huey Newton and Bobby Seale which are cautioned "Approach with Caution".

5. October 28, 1967-Huey Newton wounded and arrested in a shooting incident in Oakland in which Oakland Officer Frey was killed and Officer Heanes wounded.

6. January 15, 1968-National Captain David Hilliard arrested while massing out leaflets at Oakland Tech.

7. January 16, 1968-At 3:30 a.m. San Francisco policemen broke down the door of Eldridge Cleaver's apartment at 850 Oak St., San Francisco, and searched the apartment-without a warrant. Eldridge, his wife, Kathleen, and Panther Revolutionary Artist Emory Douglas were present.

8. February 5, 1968-At 1:00 a.m. a Panther and his girlfriend were arrested for "disturbing the peace", after a rally at which Dr. Shock, and James Forman spoke. They were beaten in jail.

9. February 24, 1968-Panther Jimmy Charley approached a policeman who was in the act of assaulting a black person, and questioned the officer. He was promptly arrested and charged with "resisting arrest".

10. February 25, 1968-At 3:30 a.m. police broke down the door of Bobby Seale's home, where Bobby and his wife, Artie, were in bed as sheen. There was no warrant. Police said they were acting on a complaint implicating Bobby in a vague "conspiracy to commit murder" charge, which was promptly dropped for lack of evidence. Shotgun-toting police confiscated weapons and arrested Mr. and Mrs. Seale. Four other Panthers, in a car nearby, were also arrested a short time later, and charged with misdemeanors. Mr. and Mrs. Seale face trial on charges of possessing illegal weapons, including possession of guns with serial numbers filed off. Seale contends that the police filed off the serial numbers after the arrest. Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale, before forming the Black Panther Party carefully studied and analyzed the law pertaining to carrying guns and taught these laws to new members of the Black Panther Party-they were anything but unaware of the law and followed the law in all respects.

11. Third and fourth weeks of February, 1968-A rash cfXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX arrests of black men either in the Panthers or identified with them. One of the incidents took place in front of the Natural shop on San Pablo St. in Oakland. This incident happened when police stopped the car of a black youth on an alleged traffic violation in front of the shop. Policemen pulled the youth from the car, threw him against