INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-0-N-F-I-D-R-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY International

REPORT NO. 00-B-3,278,069

SUBJECT Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining and Milling, Vienna, Austria, 26-31 Aug 63

DATE DISTR. 18 Oct 63 NO. PAGES-2

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO. August 1963 PLACE & DATE ACQ. Vienna--August 1963

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US citizens; professors of industrial medicine at a large western medical school.

Sources, one of whom is a medical doctor, attended the conference under the auspices of the Atomic Energy Commission. This was their first experience at a conference of this kind and first meeting with foreign colleagues in this field.

[Sources are generally available for reinterview, should any further questions be generated by this report.]

[On file in CIA Library is the official program of the Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining and Milling under the sponsorship of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the International Labor Organization and the World Health Organization. Held in Vienna on 26-31 Aug 63. Also on file is the Provisional List of Participants as of 19 Aug 63 and the Provisional Volume of Abstracts in the language submitted by the author.] [FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY].

1. The Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining and Milling in Vienna, 26-31 Aug 63, did not provide much new information mainly because the US is so far ahead of the other countries represented at the symposium in its studies of these subjects. The US was actually the only country which presented original material at the conference. The Soviets sent a small three or four-member delegation headed by Yury Ivanovich Moskalev, a very personable and diplomatic gentleman. At the end of the conference, he voiced his dismay in all apparent sincerity, that the Soviets had misunderstood the exact point of the meeting and had presented very minor papers.

2. All the Soviet papers were read by V S Kusneva, a woman physician who delivered them very dramatically. The most interesting Soviet claims, which we do not believe directly applicable to the causes claimed and which were not fully documented were:

that uranium effects the central nervous system, i.e., causes certain changes in the Pavlovian reflexes;

5 4 3 2 1

11W

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-R-T-I-A-L

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC

GROUP-1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

NO DISSEM ABROAD

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the Intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID-1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organizations or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.