SASSINATION TAPES

THE OFFICIAL STATE OF MARYLAND FROM 1890 TO 1975

Ed hard stress on the PSE. Unfortu- the nature of the wound. interview with Captain Humes was informative. Just before the interview, 7, Humes had re-examined the autop- photographs and X-rays, and he dis- d them at length on the CBS tapes. grams drawn during the autopsy, had not been intended to precisely ment the location of the wounds. How- one now produced a sketch which, he did represent these locations accu- The interviewer asked. "Your re- nation of the photographs verify that wounds were as shown here?" sir," he replied. No stress. there any wounds other than one base of the neck and one up in the "No, sir. there were not." Moderate not enough to suggest deception. there any doubt that the wound at ock of the President's head was an ound? "There is absolutely no doubt, gain stress but again moderate. together, how many wounds were "There were two wounds of entrance to of exit." At this point the stress be- hard.

where were the entry wounds lo- "Posteriorly, one low in the right or scalp. and one in the base of the n the right." Hard stress again.

and he be absolutely certain that what was an entry wound was, in fact, yes, indeed we can." Hard stress. interview with Humes was one of the st and most detailed on the CBS and I charted most of it with the PSE. clear to me that he believed much he was saying, but the frequent flick- of moderate stress and the occasion- es of hard stress suggested that he nearly as confident of his testimony claimed to be. As Dr. Perry had I out, sometimes it's not easy to tell y wound from an exit wound.

interviewer asked him one good "bot- te" question: you have any different conclusion, ferent ideas, any different thoughts her seeing [the autopsy photographs] than you had at that time?"

replied Captain Humes, "we think ear up very well, and very closely, timony before the Warren Commis-

stress was hard. Specter, one of the Warren Commis- principal investigators, also spoke on tapes. He said that the case against fitted together very well, and that could one find among actual crim-

the charge that the Commission had been formed to whitewash the facts.

The PSE said he was telling the truth.

John McCloy, a member of the Warren Commission, said much the same thing, and added that he had seen no credible evidence to contradict the findings of the Commission. The PSE backed him up on this. but it failed to do so when, speaking of the Warren Report, he said, "There was nothing fraudulent about it." Here the PSE showed hard stress.

If Specter and McCloy were as confident as the PSE shows them to be in the truthful- ness of the Warren Report, what could be fraudulent about it? Perhaps the snipping off of a few loose ends, the suppression of a few pieces of inconvenient evidence which conflicted with a version of events they believed to be essentially true.

The one man who could be expected to have the most informed opinion regarding the work of the Warren Commission is former Chief Justice Earl Warren himself. He had declined to be interviewed on the CBS program in 1967, but he did appear on television in May, 1972, in an interview

"...we found no evidence of any kind that there was any conspiracy." There was very hard stress on "no evidence"

which was part of a series called The Bran- deis Television Recollections. Bob Smith of the Committee provided me with the tape.

The interview was an hour long, but the Kennedy assassination and the Warren Commission came up only once. The inter- viewer, Abram Sachar, Chancellor of Bran- deis University, was friendly and deferen- tial. I charted some of Warren's remarks unrelated to the assassination and found that he was generally unstressed. Sachar raised the subject of the Commission obliquely, and Warren volunteered several rather lengthy statements about it.

Warren said that immediately after the as- sassination there were two theories, one that Khrushchev and Castro were behind the killing, the other that a group of right-wing Texas oilmen were responsible. He said:

"We explored both of those theories for ten months and found no evidence that either of them was involved in it