U.S. House of Representatives OFFICE OF THE CLERK

OFFICE OF FINANCE

IMPORTANT NOTICE TO EMPLOYEE

Newly employed personnel must execute the attached combined PAYROLL INFORMATION FORM and PERSONNEL AFFIDAVIT properly and submit them to the Office of Finance, where a Notary Public is on duty to perform this service without charge. DO NOT SIGN PERSONNEL AFFIDAVIT UNTIL BEFORE A NOTARY.

Currently employed personnel wishing to make changes in their records need only complete the pertinent section of the PAYROLL INFORMATION FORM, indicate their employing office, and affix their signature. Please be certain that information is legible enough for the Finance Office to identify the individual making the change.

DETACH AND RETAIN THIS NOTICE

Salary payments are made by check monthly and mailed to the address designated on the Payroll Information Form. Checks are disbursed from the Office of Finance to normally reach the addressee on the last working day of each month.

For additional information, contact the Office of Finance, 263 Cannon Office Building, Telephone Extension 56515 or 57064.

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

RETIREMENT: An employee of the House of Representatives is eligible to join the Federal Civil Service Retirement System. Participation is voluntary, and action to elect retirement coverage may be initiated at any time by completing the appropriate section of the Payroll Information Form. Once an election is filed and the normal deduction of 71⁄2 percent of the gross salary commences, the employee cannot discontinue deductions so long as he is continuously employed. (Note: Legislative employees are not covered by the Social Security Act.)

LIFE INSURANCE: An employee is automatically covered under the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act unless he waives or subsequently cancels such coverage by filing the required waiver form with the Office of Finance. The insurance coverage is $10,000; or an amount equal to the gross annual salary, rounded to the next higher thousand dollars (if the salary is not a multiple of a thousand dollars), plus an additional two thousand dollars; whichever is the greater. Additional optional insurance coverage in the amount of $10,000 is also available.

HEALTH BENEFITS: The Federal Employees' Health Benefits Program is available on a voluntary basis with costs partly financed by the Government. Within 31 days after the effective date of appointment, every employee must register to enroll in a plan or not to enroll. Future opportunities to enroll or to change the type of enrollment are shown in the enclosed pamphlet. Also enclosed is the necessary registration form, Standard Form 2809.

U.S. SAVINGS BONDS: Monthly deductions for bonds in regular bond denominations may be authorized. Authorization cards are available in the Finance Office.

WORK INJURY BENEFITS: An employee injured or incurring disease as a result of performance of duty is entitled to medical care and monetary benefits under the provisions of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act. In instances where such injury or disease is fatal, the employee's family is entitled to monetary benefits. The Compensation Act is administered by the Bureau of Employees' Compensation, U.S. Department of Labor. Forms for filing notices of injury and claims for compensation are available in the Office of Finance or from any Postmaster.

UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION: An employee may under certain circumstances be entitled to unemployment compensation if discharged or otherwise separated from his employment. The compensation is usually payable by the State (including the District of Columbia) in which the employee had his last service. However, a claim for benefits may be filed in the local office nearest the employee's residence. If an employee is discharged for misconduct, quits voluntarily without good cause, or refuses a suitable job without good cause, then there is a period of disqualification which varies from State to State. The amount of payments and period of time payable also varies from State to State.

16-82058-1

NW 88326 DocId:32243290 Page 12