3. In lieu of a specific annual appropriation act for the Agency, OMB by letter notifies the chairmen of the two appropriations committees that the Agency budget of a specific number of dollars is contained in the DOD appropriation request. The letter also specifies the accounts in which these funds are located. In the past where there were appropriations to the Reserve, that letter would specify the amount of the operating budget and the amount to be applied to the Reserve. After committee action, appropriate letters, sometimes separately and sometimes jointly signed by the chairmen of the two committees, are sent to OMB specifying what has been approved for the Agency budget and confirming the accounts in which they are located. Thereafter, the necessary transfers to the Agency are accomplished pursuant to the authority of Section 5 of the CIA Act of 1949, which was specifically worded so as to permit appropriations for the Agency to be placed in the accounts of other agencies and then transferred to the Agency free of all limitations and restrictions on the appropriation from which transferred. The effect of this was to permit those funds to be expended under the authorities of the CIA Act of 1949, rather than the authorities of the appropriation acts from which transferred. A transfer under other authority such as the Economy Act would require that the funds be spent in accordance with limitations of the appropriation from which transferred, both as to purpose and annuality. Unlike any other agency, our "appropriation act" is the process described above and consists of the following principal elements:

the OMB letter;

the chairmen letters;

the DOD appropriations act approved by the whole Congress and signed by the President; and

the transfers to the Agency approved by OMB and authorized by Section 5 of the CIA Act of 1949.

4. The question then arises whether a return of money from a previously established proprietary can be placed in the Reserve and later expended by the Agency under the law. There are several provisions of law based on Article I, Section 9 of the Constitution, which states that "no money may be drawn from the Treasury, but in consequence of appropriations made by law," Twenty years after the Constitution was ratified, the act from which present law derives was enacted. That law is section 628 of Title 31 of the U. S. Code which states:

Except as otherwise provided by law, sums appropriated for the various branches of expenditure in the public service shall be applied solely to the objects for which they are respectively made, and for no others.

RECEIVED

JUN 30 1975

CIA

HW 50955 · DocId:32423532 Page 218