A. H. Belmont

S. B. Donahoe

GHANA ACTIVITIES IN THE U.S. INTERNAL SECURITY - GHANA

June 29, 1959

I - Mr. Belmont I - Mr. Donahoe I - Mr. Bartlett I - Liaison I - Mr. Schaefer

Bureau by letter May 25, 1959, captioned "Ghana Activities in the U.S., Internal Security - Ghana" and "Guinea Activities in the U.S., Internal Security - Guinea," furnished Washington Field Office (WFO) and New York information received from Office of Naval Intelligence and Central Intelligence Agency wherein it was indicated that there were strong nationalistic currents prevailing among native populations of African countries and indications of attempts of communist and Soviet infiltration into these movements. Thirteen Soviets were expected to arrive in Accra, Ghana, on May 12, 1959, to establish the USSR Embassy. It is felt that with embassies in both Guinea and Ghana, the USSR is in an excellent position from which to continue its constant and persistent efforts to increase Soviet influence and subversive activities in Western Africa.

WFO was instructed in above letter to advise Bureau whether it had any sources that could supply information in regard to Ghana. WFO in reply states it has no sources who could supply such information and, therefore, desires Bureau to obtain State Department clearance to institute a program with view toward developing informants and sources within the Embassy of Ghana, Washington, D. C.

Since WFO advised by letter 6-11-59 captioned "Guinea Activities in the United States, IS - Guinea" that Guinea at the present time does not have an establishment in Washington, D. C., no further action is being taken in that matter at this time.

RECOMMENDATION:

It is requested Liaison contact Deputy Under Secretary of State Robert Murphy and discuss with him orally the possibility of this Bureau instituting a program in an effort to develop informants and sources within all diplomatic establishments of the country of Ghana in the U.S. and at the same time secure his clearance for very discreet investigations of potential sources within those diplomatic establishments of Ghana. At the present time there does not appear

Tolson

Belmont

DeLoach

McGuire

Mehr

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Holloman

VRS:gmh:dmd

105-78601

(1) - 65-63113

Representatives of Friendly Foreign Nations)

NOT RECORDED

145 JUL 6 1959

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

Gandy

NW 88613 DocId:32199554

Page 886