(b) Contacts during investigation

I. Once Bureau authority is granted to conduct the in- vestigation, it is permissible to contact:

(A) All established reliable sources, including those connected with the institution of learning

(B) All individuals not connected with the institution of learning who, consistent with discretion, would be contacted in a usual security case; e.g., neighbors, credit agencies, past employers, etc.

(C) Registrars If the registrar is reliable and can be depended upon not to divulge the Bureau's identity, Bureau authority is not needed in these cases to contact the registrar's office to obtain background data useful for identification purposes, to develop other proper investigative leads, or to verify connection with the institution of learning.

II. Superiors of faculty members

No contact should be made with the superiors of a sub- ject who is a member of the faculty since the superiors might take action against the subject as a result of our contact,

III. Students, faculty members, or other employees If, during the course of an investigation of a subject who is connected with an institution of learning, it is desired to interview a student, faculty member, or other employee of an institution of learning who is not an established reliable source, prior Bureau authority must be obtained. When requesting authority to interview such an individual, that individual's name, position, and a positive statement concerning his discretion and reliability should be furnished to the Bureau,

(c) Receiving voluntary information These instructions must not deter or prevent the immediate and proper interview of any person connected with an institution of learning who desires of his own volition to furnish information to the Bureau or who desires to be contacted by an Agent.

(2) Subjects not connected with an institution of learning When the subject of a security-type investigation is not connected with an institution of learning and you desire to interview, in connection with the case, a student, faculty member, or other employee of an institution of learning, prior Bureau authority must be obtained for such an interview unless the student, faculty member, or other employee is an established, reliable contact of the office. In requesting authority, the name, position, and a positive statement concerning that person's discretion and re- liability should be furnished to the Bureau.

(3) Contacts of foreign establishments In connection with investigations of contacts of Soviet, satellite, and Yugoslav officials and official establishments, Bureau author- ity must be obtained before conducting any inquiries or surveil- lances at any school, college, or university. Submit complete facts and your recommendation when requesting such authority.

U. S. Government employees, individuals having foreign diplomatic or official status, employees of foreign official establishments, employees of the United Nations or international organizations, and members of the armed forces Should information be received or investigation develop the fact that an individual being investigated under a security caption is or becomes

2-12-60

NW 88321 DocId:32989529 Page 904