UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. Jenkins DATE: 9-13-74

FROM: J. J. McDermott SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION OF JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY DALLAS, TEXAS-11-22-63

Reference my memorandum of 9-12-74 concerning contacts between Inspector Bowers and Don Donahue, Special Assistant to Senator Henry Jackson (D-Wash.), regarding the information and photographs Donahue had obtained from Michael Canfield which Canfield believes are pertinent to captioned matter.

Late on 9-12-74 Donahue advised Bowers he had learned from Sam A. Jaffe, free-lance writer in Washington who has been involved with Canfield concerning this matter, that Canfield apparently has made a deal with Stern Magazine, a German publication described as the Life Magazine of Germany, for its use of the photographs Canfield has collected and the information concerning them. This magazine allegedly has arranged for a Swiss photographic expert to examine the pictures in an effort to determine if the three "bums" shown in the photographs might be identical to E. Howard Hunt, Frank Sturgis, and Thomas Arthur Vallee.

Supervisor John Ruhl of Washington Field Office advised Bowers on the night of 9-12-74 that he had received a call from Jaffe who was seeking an FBI evaluation of Canfield's reliability and the information Canfield had regarding the Kennedy assassination. Jaffe told Ruhl he had given Canfield $300 as an advance toward a possible story which he might write regarding the photographs and information Canfield has developed. Ruhl furnished Jaffe no information. He is submitting a communication to the Bureau on 9-13-74 furnishing full details of his conversation with Jaffe. Ruhl also advised that Canfield had contacted him on 9-12-74 and promised to furnish him a set of the photographs he has obtained in accordance with a promise he had made to Ruhl some time ago. NOT RECORDED

28 SEP 23 1974

Memorandum of 9-12-74 from Mr. Downing to Mr. White reported that Laboratory examination of the photographs which were furnished to the Bureau by Donahue has led to the conclusion that Hunt and Sturgis are not identical with the

1 - Mr. Callahan 1 - Mr. Adams 1 - Mr. Gebhardt 1 - Mr. McDermott 1 - Mr. Bates 1 - Mr. Bowers Classified By: 6/26 Exempt from GOS, Category: Date of Receipt:

5/7 SEP 23 1974

ORIGINAL TANGIBLE ID: 71177174