[107N

SECTION-107. SECURITY INFORMANTS[AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES]

4. [Four-month evaluation of informants not paid on Bureau authority] If the informant is not being paid on Bureau authorization, a communication must be transmitted to the Bureau every four months after the date of designation containing the same information set out above in subsection 3b except those items concerning payments. Recommendation of SAC regarding continuance of informant should also be set forth.

[In espionage and foreign nationality cases comment is necessary regarding only those applicable items in subsection 3b.]

5. Receipts When payments are made to anyone for information or assistance on security matters, either on the SAC's authority or on prior Bureau approval, receipts must be obtained in every instance in which it is possible to do so. a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce the receipts in evidence during the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate to other documents or files. b. Receipts should clearly show: (1) Date on which payment was made (2) Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis (3) Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for services or expenses where these items are pertinent (4) Name of Agent making payment (5) Signature of person receiving the money c. When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses to the Bureau, they should be stapled directly to the blue slip, leaving a margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to avoid contact with the Acco fastener punch. The staples should be placed in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on the receipt will not be mutilated and all information on the receipt can be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Care must be taken that receipts are of such a nature that they clearly show payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary material contained in Bupiles.

NW 88321 DocId:32989529 Page 1794

2-12-60