29. PART-TIME AND SUMMER EMPLOYMENT DURING THE LAST THREE YEARS.

Name of Employer Dates Salary Position and Duties

Worked for Sen. Gary Hart for a month in 1975 when one of his secretaries was on vacation. Worked in office of Cong. Stanley Lundine for a month when he won special election in 1976. Typed invitations to a luncheon for

30. FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT. (List Most Recent Experience First.)

December 1977

Exact title of position

Secretary (temp. position) Annual Salary Starting 10,800

Present 11,500

Name of immediate supervisor Fred Hansen Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known) ACTION, 806 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Area Code and Phone No., if known

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? [X] Yes [ ] No

Reason for wanting to leave Temporary position ended. Seeking permanent employment.

Description of work Performed clerical duties: typing, sorting mail, answering phones, answered telephone inquiries, composed own correspondence at times. Helped coordinate office during reorganization.

Dates of employment (month, year) Exact title of position Annual Salary Starting

From Jan. - March 1975 Secretary (?) 8500

Leaving 8500

Name of immediate supervisor Mr. Bill Wise Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known) Birch Bayh for President in '76, K St.N.W. Washington, D.C. (Call Sen. Bayh's office.

Area Code and Phone No., if known

Reason for leaving Campaign folded.

Description of work Worked for press secretary, typed press releases and correspondence, mailed press releases to national mailing list; maintained press release files and national mailing list; answered routine calls from pres

Stayed at Employer's House (wrote thank-you notes and did help with financial salary report.)

From Apr. 1974 To Jan. 1975 Legal Secretary Starting 8,000 Leaving 8,000

Name of immediate supervisor Mr. Andrew Pepsin Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known) Wilkinson, Cragun and Barker, 1735 New York Avenue, N.W