Investigative procedures and suggestions

This section contains detailed investigative guides for use in investigating and reporting activities of the Communist Party, USA.

To accurately and clearly show the true nature of the Communist Party, USA, data concerning the following topics must be fully developed and reported. Reports on the Communist Party, USA, as an organization must be submitted by each office quarterly, and should cover activities for the preceding three-month period. All offices are required to use the following breakdown in preparing quarterly reports on the Communist Party, USA. Each subfile caption must start on a separate page.

(1) Organization (Bureau file 100-3-69)

(a) Security setup of district and/or state organization. Office covering district headquarters, describe the population, the location, and size of Communist Party office facilities, rent paid, and name and number of office employees.

(b) Identities and short biographic sketches of principal district officials including chairman, secretary, and other paid and/or important functionaries, together with short resume of important activities of each during three-month period.

(c) Names of new commissions or special committees, identity and capacity of individual members thereof. Submit resume of activities of groups under appropriate subfile captions.

(d) Special meetings embracing only organizational matters. Other pertinent matters discussed at meetings concerning policy or strategy to be submitted under appropriate subfile captions.

(e) Extend this outline as far as necessary for clarity and to meet needs of office under this or any succeeding subsection. Auxiliary offices submit pertinent data concerning above matters which do not normally come to attention of office covering district headquarters.

(2) Membership (Bureau file 100-3-68)

(a) [Quarterly reports are not to contain any membership statistics. Cover pages accompanying each quarterly report must contain latest available statistics relating to total number of Communist Party members in the district. Membership data must start on a separate cover page.] Office of origin, which is office covering Communist Party district headquarters, should submit following figures:

I. For entire Communist Party district

II. For individual states covered by Communist Party district

III. For number of Communist Party members in area covered by field office

Auxiliary offices should submit following membership figures to the Bureau and office of origin:

I. For state or portion of state covered by that field office

II. For number of Communist Party members in the area covered by that field office