UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO :MR. J. B. ADAMS

FROM :LEGAL COUNSEL

SUBJECT :SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams 1 - Mr. T. J. Jenkins (Enclosures - 2)

DATE: May 7, 1975

1 - Each Assistant Director

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar 1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis 1 - Mr. P. V. Daly 1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

Re my memorandum to you 5/5/75 enclosing a request from the Senate Select Committee (SSC) for additional information. Attached to the copies of instant memorandum for Messrs. Jenking, Ash, Moore, and White are copies of the referenced memorandum and its enclosure.

The following is to delineate individual responsibilities and assignments for securing the information requested by the SSC. Because the request covers areas of operations affecting all Divisions of the Bureau except Office of Planning and Evaluation (OPE), it will be necessary that the very closest coordination and maximum of cooperation be effected in order to implement the SSC request.

In handling this request which deals primarily with the furnishing to the SSC of various Sections of the Manual of Instructions and Manual of Rules and Regulations, as well as information concerning our filing system, and particularly copies of all Bureau forms, we should bear in mind that there are available three options for consideration. One, is to give the requested information or documents. Two, is to not furnish the documents but merely permit their review at FBIHQ. A third option available is to set forth justifying data to support a denial of furnishing the information or documents. Of course, in furnishing any documents, we should bear in mind the option of excising sensitive information.

In delineating the specific responsibilities for the various Divisions, we are designating the Division having primary interest as the one to prepare the necessary material and are

62-116395

EX-1108

PVD/SFP:ekw (20)

MAY 22 1975

LEAH

MAR 20 1975

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED #more!

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

NEW 88296 DocId:32989532 Page 83