Fitness Report (Part II): Potential.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor and to appropriate career management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is not to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision for at least 90 days. If less than 90 days, hold and complete after the 90 days has elapsed. If this is the initial report on the employee, however, it must be completed and forwarded to the [text incomplete].

Section E. General.

1. Name: McCord. First: James W. Jr. Middle: [blank].  
2. Date of birth: 26 January 1924.  
3. Sex: Male.  
4. Service designation: SD-SS.  
9. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: On Security Research Staff. Special positions.

C3-13. Type of report (check one): Initial X. Assistant/Supervisor. Annual. Assistant/Employee. Special (specify).

Period covered of this report (inclusive dates): 22 August 1956–21 August 1956.

Section F. Certification.

1. For the rater: I certify that this report represents my best assessment of the individual being rated.

A. This date: 27 August 1956.  
B. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: Harlan A. Westrell; Harlan A. Washburne, Chief, CI/Sec. Research Staff.  
C. Supervisor’s official title: Chief, Security Research Staff.

For the reviewing official: I have reviewed this report and note any difference of opinion in attached manuscript.

D. This date: 27 August 1956.  
E. Typed or printed name and signature of reviewer: Paul F. Gaynor; Paul F. Gagnon, Chief, Security Research Staff.  
G. Official title of reviewing official: Official.

Section G. Estimate of Potential.

1. Potential to Assume Greater Responsibilities.

Directions: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee’s potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

Rating number.

1. Already above the level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

2. Has reached the
