25 July 1966

Subject: Moscow, Russia

1. Subject should get a visa to visit Loginov at his office on 20 July. (Loginov has asked permission at the office too.) Loginov told Subject that he had received a letter from V連連 saying that “they” were very disappointed because they had left their jobs and had hoped that Subject would cooperate.

Subject answered that he must have sounded like a broken record by then: he was still a friend to the Soviet Union, was on their side, and was their man—but he could not do anything for them. He hoped they would not try to force him, because he simply could not do anything for them.

Loginov did not give up. He told Subject that Pavol Yatskov was leaving for Moscow on 4 August, having been in Subject’s office to make the arrangements, and would be returning in a month. He asked what word Yatskov could bring back to Moscow.

Subject said he had already told him: nothing—he could not do anything for them. Loginov then asked what Pavol Yatskov could bring back to Subject, and Subject said not a thing.

He jokingly told Loginov that if they could bring “Tumara,” a Soviet actress who had attended one of the parties, with her, the two would be fine with him. Loginov appreciated the joke and cordially departed from Subject.

Comment: Loginov did not ask for the piece of paper he had left in Subject’s office. Some man had started to inquire about it, and Subject left it at that. Loginov did not give the man’s name, although he has the piece of paper to return to Loginov.

2. In response to the C.O.’s inquiry, Subject mentioned the names of some applicants for travel to the Soviet Union.

Apparently the S-69istiky Committee was to take place in Moscow in August 1966. Loginov had received several applicants at Subject’s office: Juliet Fernandez de Ochen and her sister (Dr. Fernandez’s card attached), and two friends. Dr. Fernandez made inquiries about travel arrangements. She has not come back yet.

Licenciada Luciano Lara had come to the office (?) on 21 July to arrange travel to the Soviet Union. Subject said that his employee, Miriam Avila Katz, who handles INTERSTATE matters, had told him that Lammz had been invited by the Soviet Ambassador and also that he was a close friend of the Mexican Hizb to Moscow.

The Montfort Travel Agency in Tijuana had transferred a request to Subject to handle travel to the Soviet Union as tourists for two “Senoras”: Maria Jesus de Abakian and Estela Castro.

Comment: The C.O. told Subject that we wanted more information about these applicants.

CYP to P-885, P-11712, P-2912

P-11712
