Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

This officer has brought to bear on his current assignment his varied organization experiences in a manner which brings credit to himself as well as to the organization. His unstinting giving of himself is an outstanding attribute. The trials and tribulations of PERMPART in an area traditionally hostile to the whole concept have made his assignment particularly challenging, always difficult, and infrequently satisfying; but he sticks to it with firm determination. His supervisory role of our Central Registry frequently catches him in the cross currents of opposing interests and priorities but he successfully calms such troubled waters. While a part of his PERMPART activities, this officer's supervision of the CCFJ, an intelligence community pooled activity for agent checks, has been excellent. Finally, his task under SD 4 is largely a handholding one but one which requires large amounts of tact, patience, and goodwill. There is no other Station officer performing comparable duties with whom this officer can be compared.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Signature of employer. Date: 23 January 1963. Frederick Randall (Signed).

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation. Date: 11 January 1963. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert P. Wheeler.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official. Concur. Date: 11 January 1963. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature: William V. Broe.
