Curriculum Vitae

Born in Conakry, Haiti, on April 21, 1923, into a peasant family. Had his primary schooling at the “Ecole des Freres des Conaives,” and his secondary schooling at the “Lycee Cedardard” in the same town.

Upon his father’s death, did various jobs to support his family. Was in turn schoolmaster at the rural school of Verrettes, at $15 a month; freelance teacher at $0.40 per month per child; timekeeper; plantation supervisor; photographer; sanitary clerk; and freelance journalist. In the latter capacity, founded “L’Intrefyide” and “L’Aurore” in cooperation with the late Emmanuel C. Paul.

Phytopathologist.

In 1946, was appointed Controller General of the Esseance Development Company (BADESCO), of which he became the General Agent in 1948. The following year, established himself as a manufacturer’s agent and created an import-export trade house.

Married Sophie Lébrisonn in 1952.

In 1953, went to London as a member of the Economic Mission sent to England by the Haitian Government, and in 1954 negotiated, on behalf of the Government, a contract with the General Electric Co., Ltd., Coventry, England. This contract concerned the extension and modernization of the telecommunication system in Haiti.

In 1957, was appointed as a member of the Economic Mission to the International Conference held in Brussels, Belgium.

Created in 1960 the Banque Commerciale d’Haiti, of which he is the President and Director General. Is also the President of the following firms he himself created:

Universal Enterprises Co. S.A. (USACO)

National Deutsches Associates, S.A.

Mekoarp d’Haiti, S.A. (Essau Cultivation)

Magdoo Enterprises, S.A.

Boyd’s Haïtienne de Feux & Cuirs (Leather & Skins)

Le Zanac Haïtien

Administration Portuaire de Port-au-Prince

Caribbean Cordage Mill

Corporation Filatélieque d’Haïti

Shaba Division, Montrois

Automobile Insurance Division—Third Party Liabilities

Les Essences Aromateques d’Haïti (Essential Oils)

Produits Nationaux, S.A.

Assurance Visieuse Obligatoire (OHA)

Entreses, S.A.

Société Général de Matériel de Constructions (BOOMACO)

Société Nationale de Fruits et de Légumes (BONAPRUCO)

Is he the exclusive agent for the following firms?

The General Electric Co., Ltd. of Coventry

Nevans Schuhartwerks A. O., Erlangen, Germany

Presently: President of the Chamber of Commerce of Haiti
