Fitness Report, Section A: General Information.

Employee number: 056361. Name: HICKS, Calvin W. Date of birth: 8 Nov 24. Grade: GS-13. Official position title: Watch Officer. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: ODD/OPS/INT/IW. Current station: HQS. Type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Contract, Other, Temporary, Annual Readmission, Special.

Reporting period: 1 Nov 72–30 September 73. Date report due in G.P.: 31 October 1973.

Section B: Qualifications Update. If a qualifications update form is being submitted with changes and is attached to this report, place the word “YES” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “NO” in the box at right.

Section C: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Superior: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties: List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, including the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: DDO is the closest qualification code to describe the work of a Watch Officer. Prepares TD disseminations from DDO Intel cables and releases them to the U.S. Intel Community, expediting their delivery by advance electrical transmission when appropriate. Also disseminates certain DIV/D cables. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Reviews intel cables for adherence to established reporting procedures and operational security; when necessary, deletes objectionable data from the SUPDATA and/or authentication statements. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: After hours grants or denies clearances, in consultation with the responsible area division, for use of DDO information in finished intel publications. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4: Keeps current on the general and special requirements of both internal and external Agency customers, particularly when the information involves the security and protection of U.S. and foreign dignitaries, hijacking, etc. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 5: Maintains good working relations not only with DDO area divisions and staffs but with Signal Center and Cable Secretariat at all levels to expedite the dissemination of significant reports; works closely with DDO Duty Officers and SDOs to keep one another alert to significant events.
