5 October 1968

José Ejma, also known as Carlos Salvador Marillo on the street, later told Cardoza about the attempted recruitment of him by a “special agent.” Ejma asked Cardoza for money, but the latter refused (15).

As of 18 October 1968, he and José Luis Balcarcel Ordoñez were handling the travel of Guatemalans to the USSR and receiving funds and documents directly from Nikolay Sergeyevich Leonov, known KGB officer and press attaché at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico (15).

4 September 1968

He headed a meeting of Guatemalan Communist exile leaders in Mexico, and they discussed the reorganization of the exiles in Mexico (15).

15 February 1969

He had been named overall chief of the Guatemalan Communist Party (PGT) exile apparatus in Mexico to replace José Luis Balcarcel Ordoñez, according to Carlos Enrique Forno Reynoso. The change had been made as the result of instructions that had just been received from the PGT in Guatemala. The change was twofold. Cardoza is a member of the central committee of the PGT whereas Balcarcel is not, and Balcarcel has been lax in his duties, once being unavailable when some important PGT members passed through Mexico. However, Balcarcel will continue to act as chief of the exile group until Cardoza is on his feet again, since the latter had suffered another heart attack and was confined to his bed at home. Until this change Cardoza had been the central committee representative in Mexico and had functioned as an advisor (15). Presumably Balcarcel replaced Gutierrez and Cardoza replaced Balcarcel, although on 4 September 1968, Cardoza was to take Gutierrez’s place in Mexico (Gutierrez was killed in Guatemala in 1966) (15).

As of 19 February 1969

He was replaced by Balcarcel (Barcarcel) as chief of the PGT exile group in Mexico in order to justify Cardoza’s continued membership on the PGT central committee (15).

Prior to 9 March

He met with José María Ortiz Vides, who had recently arrived in Mexico City from Cuba. Ortiz informed Cardoza that the Cubans had sent him to Mexico to “spy” on the PGT in Mexico on behalf of Cuba (15).
