Cricket

Inter-City Match in Villa

The Inter-City match played at Villa last week-end was interesting enough to merit a commentary from R. C. R-G or E. W. Swanton. However, yours truly must suffer the weather was fine. Lucky Chuican cricketers, as last year's Wisen pointed out, to find this unexceptional.

Wonderful to relate, the players were nearly all ready to start, as the secretary had ordained, at 10.30 a.m. sharp. However, nobody seemed to have faith in this coincidence and the game duly started at 11 a.m. Santiago won the toss and chose to bat. One Villa optimist was heard to remark that this was defeatism, choosing to play for a draw. But by lunchtime, with Santiago 90-odd for one and Meredith seeing the ball football-size, there were some signs of complacency amongst the Santiago players. Manning had by this time been exasperating the bowlers with his smothering tactics, which effectively closed up one end, while Meredith made hay. Even so, it had not been fast-moving and it looked as if the draw prophecy was not without foundation. Jones had made a useful if lucky 26. Meredith was clear of his 50 and Manning was well, still there. Manning, incidentally, was using a substitute run-getter.

From Villa's point of view, the lunch interval, always a stuffy time for the batsmen, worked wonders. It woke Manning, who had batted fitfully with a four like golden-rain fireworks and then went out, played-on to Ness. It made Meredith careless and had him bowled by Freestone. Thereafter the score-sheet shows a steady fall of wickets until the end of the innings. Santiago were unlucky to lose Hobsbawn, run out on his own call, who had been shaping up well, but apart from him and Tienken there had been no other serious attempts to stop the rot. Ness had taken 6 wickets for 55 and Freestone 2 for 15 when Strart's wicket fell, caught at the wicket by Fairbrass off Maxwell at 3:30 p.m. Paine, with 5 maidens out of 8 overs, had been bowling with a consistency that was to be rewarded in the second innings. Apart from a few muffed catches, the fielding had been keen and it was anybody's game. Although on paper it was then to be expected that Villa would be able to put on over 200 in reply and leave Santiago to make up the difference in their second innings.

But the fates in cricket are no respectors of paper probabilities and Villa wickets fell with alarming rapidity. An opener, Paine, played late and outside a fatally straight ball from Tienken. Sutton lost an L.B.W. suit to Meredith. Tienken traded Fairbrass into passing a fly-ball to Knowles and Freestone allowed Marshall to knock off his balls. Maxwell and Paine were in together after tea and looked as if they might pull the game out of the fire, but Maxwell, the safer of the two, played a weak forward stroke to a good left-hand ball from Meredith to be bowled. Then it was Yeoman's turn to be battling at Marshall and missing, and Moodie was out to the last ball of the day, being caught and bowled off a half-hearted stroke to a ball from Meredith. Reid was still there with 53, but there was Saturday night to come.

On Sunday it was not long before the Villa tail lay down and the scores stood at 155 to 140, still anybody's game.

In the second innings Santiago were off to a bad start when Paine had H. P. Hardy caught by Macquarie.

Then came Manning, and the bowlers heaved a sigh of resignation, but 17 was a welcome stimulus to his team's fortunes and he hit with 3 boundaries to his credit when once again played on to Ness. Then Paine bowled Jones, who at 39 looked dangerous, and the game's complexion changed perceptibly. Knowles played some pretty [text truncated].
