Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action.

From the time of Subject's arrival in Mexico and through December 1963, he was utilized principally in translation work and was held on tap for the position of heading up the Station's joint telephone tap center. Circumstances beyond the control of the Station and Subject are responsible for the fact that the incumbent in charge of the center will continue these duties and Subject will be given other responsibilities.

Primarily, Subject will be trained to handle analyst and case officer responsibilities in the Soviet field. The level and range of the responsibilities will depend on the progress Subject makes in handling these duties in a manner satisfactory to the Station.

Subject is most conscientious and effective in every assignment given him to date, and the Station is extremely pleased to have him available as an outside Station asset. He is enthusiastic about all his work, including certain part-time routine and arduous duties, and he looks forward with confidence to the prospect of becoming a case officer. Although it is premature to state positively that Subject will succeed as a case officer, the supervisor believes that Subject will undoubtedly progress adequately.

Subject and his family have acclimated themselves excellently to the deep cover situation, faster than most of the Station's other staff agents, and certainly with fewer problems and requests for guidance from the Station's staff.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 29 Jan. 1964. Signature of employee: ALLEN L. NORMAN.

Months employee has been under my supervision. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 29 January 1964. Official title of supervisor: Operations Officer. Signature: /S/ HerbertLLancill.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official. Date: 29 January 1964. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Signature: /S/ Winston M. Scott.

Typed or printed name and signature.
