Executive Committee in New York often confer and reach certain agreements with high-ranking individuals in CIA and the Department of State without consulting or even informing anyone else. This has led to a great deal of confusion, duplication of work and, of course, embarrassment.

2) An office in New York which is poorly staffed and which has made itself virtually independent of CIA guidance. (Due probably to the lack of proper guidance and control in the past, there is at present a great amount of freewheeling in the New York office. The members of the Executive Committee seem to feel that they are an autonomous unit rather than agents of their sponsoring office.) Furthermore, dealings with the experienced politicians in exile from the satellite states require a staff which is mature, has savoir-faire and a broad background in Balkan politics. This is not precisely the case.

3) A feeling among émigrés that the promises and threats made by NOFE are meaningless and that money will be forthcoming under almost any conditions.

IV. Possible Courses of Action

Confronted with the situation sketched above, it would appear that insofar as CIA is concerned, the following alternative courses of action are possible:

1) Keep the present setup;
2) Withdraw support from émigré affairs;
3) Ask the Department of State to take over; or
4) Make certain changes along lines recommended below.

Since the present setup is unsatisfactory for the reasons indicated above, obviously the first alternative may be immediately dismissed. The second alternative is not feasible because the peoples of the satellite countries are important allies of the United States in the Cold War and it is to our interest to afford assistance to the principal Eastern European refugees and their major organizations. The State Department cannot take over relations with the émigrés because of the official recognition given by the United States to the “Democratic Republics” of Eastern Europe. The logical, indeed inescapable course for CIA to follow, therefore, is to continue to deal with the most important Eastern European émigrés on the basis of certain premises which follow:

1) NOFE is an organization, set up by and subordinate to CIA, charged with émigré affairs as directed by the sponsoring office.

2) The émigré groups in this country do not constitute governments in exile, but merely units useful for the following functions:

a. Prestige Use

To serve as a symbol of resistance to the subjugated peoples behind the Iron Curtain. To provide speakers
