Section C. Narrative Comments.

Mr. McCord supervises a technical operation with considerable skill. Although not an engineer by training, he has breached the difficult gap of communication between the administrative and technical aspects of his Division. He has maintained a high esprit de corps under difficult conditions which involve the necessity of his personnel to travel extensively throughout the world. Although such duty carries with it numerous family problems, Mr. McCord is able to manage the Division in such a manner as to maintain a high state of morale. Perhaps the most outstanding accomplishments which I attribute to Mr. McCord's fine management of his Division lies in the field of developing useful and esoteric equipment in the counteraudio field. I have a distinct impression that he and his Division are considerably ahead of other Government departments in this area of activity. This fact alone is a high tribute to his management skill. Because of the success in this field, I consider him to be economical in the use of manpower and funds.

During this rating period, the Technical Division has had operational success in the overseas area. I attribute this success to the careful planning and training which the incumbent has accomplished and directed. Further, he has already shown a high degree of skill in planning for a new activity of considerable responsibility which he will undertake during the coming fiscal year. I am highly.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 26 Apr 1968.  
Signature of employee: James W. McCord Jr.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 26. Official title of supervisor: Dep. Dir. of Sec. (PTOS). Typed or printed name and signature: Ermal P. Griss.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 4/29/68. Official title of reviewing official: Director of Security. Typed or printed name and signature: H. Irvin L. Obayin.
