Biographic Data Sheet – Edward G. Tichborn

1. Edward G. Tichborn, 40, is bilingual and has a wide range of business and social contacts throughout Latin America. Following graduation from Harvard Law School in 1948, Tichborn became affiliated with a law firm in Los Angeles which represented many Latin American corporations with California business connections. In the mid-1950s he became active in California State politics and served in various capacities in Democratic Party state and national organizations. He participated actively in the California gubernatorial campaign of James Roosevelt, the senatorial campaign of Helen Gahagan Douglas, and both the 1952 and 1956 Stevenson campaigns for the presidency. He has been President of the Southern California Young Democrats, a member of the California Democratic State Central Committee, a member of the Host Committee for the 1956 Democratic National Convention, and a member of the Board of Directors of the National Democratic Minority Conference. In 1960 he served as Los Angeles coordinator of the Kennedy Movement for Americans of Mexican Extraction which, it is reported, contributed substantially to the success of the Kennedy campaign in Southern California. His only try for elective office was in 1958 when he was defeated in his bid for the position of California Secretary of State.

2. In late 1959, Tichborn was hired by the Agency as a political action advisor for Agency-sponsored election operations throughout Latin America. In 1961 he became a full-time contract agent and was assigned to Mexico City, under personal cover, to establish a degree of security and mobility which would permit him to travel readily on third-country political action assignments. Since the beginning of his relationship with the Agency, he has participated in Agency-sponsored political operations in Cuba, El Salvador, Guatemala, Argentina, Chile, and the Dominican Republic.

3. Tichborn has contributed stories, articles, and interviews to a variety of United States publications. An interview by Tichborn of Catherine Anne Porter, Pulitzer Prize winner, appeared in a recent edition of Harper’s, and a Tichborn essay concerning the cultural dichotomy under which Mexican Americans exist will appear in an early edition of the American Heritage publication. He is working on a series of articles and a book on the population problem in Latin America and is considering a book on Mexican political institutions, particularly the Partido Revolucionario Institutional (PRI).
