Dispatch. OSHA-26117.

C. SAMKO gave AMAUTO-1 a new Kennedy half-dollar which delighted AMAUTO-1.

N. SAMKO told AMAUTO-1 that he expected AMAUTO-1 to be bigger than just an ambassador to Spain. He said, “I want you to get to the United Nations.” SAMKO repeated his desire to show AMAUTO-1 his Florida home and spend a few days at the beach with him. AMAUTO-1 again was visibly moved with this idea.

E. SAMKO restated that “Bill, you have a good friend, don't forget it. You are like a son.”

F. They exchanged addresses. SAMKO had printed his address, but AMAUTO-1 asked him to write it on another piece of paper. AMAUTO-1 reasoned that he wanted it written to understand it better, but we believe he will use the sample to compare it with letters SAMKO might send in the future. They promised to write to each other. SAMKO was given AMAUTO-1's private address, not that of the embassy.

G. AMAUTO-1 regretted that SAMKO had to leave so soon because he would have enjoyed showing SAMKO the Spanish interior. SAMKO said he might consider returning near the end of 1970, but AMAUTO-1 did not say whether he would be in Spain in late 1970.

H. AMAUTO-1 said he was suspicious when he first saw SAMKO, noting that the nature and importance of his position make him act suspicious, but the suspicion soon dissipated—so he said.

14. On saying their last goodbyes at the hotel, both men embraced and again promised to keep in touch through correspondence. At this point the operation was over. SAMKO was met late that evening. He was taken to a new safehouse.

15. Accomplishments: We feel the objectives programmed and rehearsed were successfully fulfilled, perhaps far greater than our own expectations. Unless we are misjudging the shrewdness of AMAUTO-1 through our own naivete, we believe the relationship was sincerely re-established and a channel opened for future use by AMAUTO-1 should he desire to use this channel other than to maintain a friendly correspondence. It was unfortunate that his Barcelona trip interfered possibly to the point of SAMKO having one or two additional meetings with AMAUTO-1; nonetheless, in the six plus hours together, SAMKO admirably fulfilled our requirements and courageously maintained the fiction of his visit to Spain. We believe too, that although AMAUTO-1 appears to be solidly in favor of the Cuban regime, he did not criticize the United States, which we feel he might have done had he suspected that SAMKO's visit to Madrid was sponsored by the U.S. Government. AMAUTO-1 has come a long way since his internship as a butcher in the United States and
