Section C — Narrative Comments

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This officer continues to consistently perform at the excellent level which has characterized his work in this Station for several years. His high level of personal dedication and professional competence have become standard.

From his daily work he has an intimate knowledge of and insight into the personalities of individual Soviets and the personal inter-relationships existing between members of the local Soviet colony. The character analyses which he prepares are excellent and an invaluable aid to our Soviet program.

He has had no professional, administrative, or personal problems during the reporting period.

His knowledge of Spanish continues to improve and aids him considerably in his work.

Section D — Certification and Comments

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 28 Jan 60. Signature of employee.

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Months employee has been under my supervision: 41 months. Official title of supervisor: Ops Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: Paul L. Dillion /s/. Date: 28 Jan 69.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: The reviewing officer concurs with the ratings given in Section B and in the narrative evaluation of this officer's performance in Section C. He continues to perform his duties in a superior fashion. Date: 28 Jan 69. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: Winston M. Scott /s/.
