Dispatch.

To: Chief, WHD.  
Info: Chief of Station, Mexico City.

Subject: General—Administrative; Specific—Cover Income Tax Return to Edward G. Tichborn.

Reference: H08S-3952, dated 15 January 1965.

1. Referenced dispatch has caused Tichborn and the Station to become aware of some new problems with the Mexican banking system. As Headquarters may not be aware, Tichborn has a dollar account with a Mexico City bank for his personal affairs. Mexican banks do not return cancelled checks to the depositor, but only provide statements. Tichborn requested his bank to provide him with his cancelled check, on a loan basis, so that copies could be made of it. It developed over a process of several weeks that the bank could not locate this check nor had it been run through Tichborn's account. Since ample time had expired—it was mailed in June 1964—the bank checked all accounts of persons with Tichborn's last name on the theory that it might have been run through someone else's account, not an unusual occurrence here. It had not, that the bank could discover.

2. As a result, Tichborn is stopping payment on the check with the bank, writing the office with which he filed his over-tax advice that office of the circumstances, and requesting some word back whether or not, in fact, that office received and cashed the check. If the check was received, Tichborn will provide the Station with a copy of the letter so stating and remove the “stop payment” order on the check. If the check was not received, mail being another problem, then Tichborn will send another check and a copy of the interchange of correspondence on the matter with the bank, and the income tax authorities will be provided Headquarters. It is hoped this will be satisfactory.

3. The only reason the Station is providing all the gruesome details on the foregoing is so that Headquarters will have some understanding of the Mexican banking problems should questions of this nature arise again.

For Willard C. Curtis.

Cross-reference: Dispatch symbol and number HB-7-5226, dated 24 February 1965. ARC Chart.
