Dispatch. To: Chief, Special Affairs Staff. Info: Advance. From: Chief of Station, INV AVE.

Subject: Operational/CYPOSE/AMIRE/ANPLEN/AUPOX WT Operator Candidate Inside (Insice) Target Area.

Action Required: Request for Headquarters Review of Files—paragraph 5.

1. In the fall of 1960 AMIRE-1 (Peter J. DI CERVENO) recruited in Havana a WT operator candidate, whose name he cannot recall at this time. This candidate was spotted and first contacted by AMPANIC-1, who passed the lead over to AMIRE-1. AMPANIC-1 first contacted the candidate on the porch of the old Mercedes Benz Agency (Arency) at Kalecon and Principe Streets, and AMIRE-1 then contacted the subject in the latter's apartment on the fourth floor of a building located in the middle of the block on the east side of Menocal Avenue (Infanta) between Valle and San Jose Streets. This building had a store on the first floor, was painted a pinkish beige, and the apartments were very small: one bedroom and bath, living-dining room combination, and a small kitchen. The subject was at the time working in a hardware store and living with his wife and a small child. The subject was about 33 years old, 6'8" tall, 120 lbs., wore thick glasses, and had a light complexion, light hair, and protruding facial features.

2. The subject had experience as a professional WT operator and worked a clandestine WT set for the Organización Auténtica (OA) against the Batista (Satista) regime. AMPANIC-1 was a member of the OA and spotted the subject through a leader of the OA for whom the subject worked in the underground.

3. The subject was trained for a week or so by AMELEN-1 in a safehouse located at 39 San Rafael Street, which had been obtained for that purpose by APTOX-1. APTOX-1 attended the training sessions as a lookout, but neither APTOX-1 nor AMELEN-1 knew the identity and address of the trainee. Training included the clandestine operation of an RS-1, the use of signal plans, the use of pads in coding and decoding, and personal security. Training was conducted in the fall of 1960 after recruitment of the subject and with the approval of CO George D. SCOPCORY, who was AMIRE-1's CO at the time and to whom full reports were turned in.

Distribution: Headquarters.

Date typed: 28 Jan. 63. Date dispatched: 1/53. Dispatch symbol and number: UFCA-7439.
