SWL Part II: Worksheet.

1. True name: Victor Rico Galan.

2. Other names. Alias: Armando Conte.

3. Date of birth: 6 Feb 1978.

4. Place of birth: El Ferrol, Spain.

5. Citizenship: Spanish at birth, naturalized Mexican 15 Mar 49.

6. Occupation: Writer/journalist.

7. Location. Residence as of Aug 65: Ernesto Larranzingar 7-8, Colonia del Valle, Mexico City.

8. Political affiliation.

Date of photograph.

Subject has been a well-known leftist journalist in Mexico since at least 1957. Since at least 1960 he has been a steady writer for the two leftist periodicals Siempre and Política. Subject was a founding member of the MIN and subsequently headed that group's Press and Propaganda Committee. He has always been close and sympathetic to the CASTRO revolution and, in 1961, was reported to be a member of “Periodistas Mexicanos (Mexicenos) Amigos de Cuba” and of the “Committee for Solidarity with the Cuban Revolution.” As of June 1965, Subject was reported to be a member of the FEP and an enemy of the FPS.

9. Subversive activities.

Subject was arrested in Aug. 63 for participating in a pro-political prisoner demonstration. Subject's pro-CASTRO/Communist writings as well as his contacts with known Soviet, Satellite and Cuban intelligence personnel in Mexico during the past few years leave no doubt as to his “CI/propaganda” role, under journalistic cover, on behalf of these interests. Subject visited Cuba during May-June 63 ostensibly to interview CASTRO after the latter's return from the Soviet Union. During this contact with the Cuban government, however, he was given the mission of traveling through Central and South America to contact local Communist/guerrilla leaders for the purpose of persuading them to begin campaigns of violence and terror to take the pressure off the FAIN in Venezuela. A secondary mission was to bring about greater unity among the various Communist and terrorist groups. Subject undertook this assignment during Oct.-Dec. 63, visited Caribbean and South American countries, and contacted key Communists in each. Subject visited the Dominican Republic in Jan. 64, and as a result of the contacts made there with the AFCJ (militant, revolutionary, pro-CASTRO group) was able to serve during the Dominican crisis of May 65 as a relay point for material and instructions from Cuba to the AFCJ and also as a reporting channel from Juan F. MEJIA, an AFCJ leader, to the Cuban Intelligence Service and the AFCJ's CASTRO-Cuban leadership in Cuba. Subject finally returned to Mexico from a trip to Cuba on 11 February 1966.

Sources of worksheet data.

Entry 3. Document symbol and no.: C.D./T.A. 10. Document date (cryptonym): A.N. Date of information: 1965. Comments: no comments.

Entry 3. Document symbol and no.: T.A. 7-10. Date of information: --. Comments: no comments.

Entry 5. Document symbol and no.: S.A. 1. Comments: no comments.
