IRD #72501

Him again. In 1967 while with the IDEN R, Subject gave IDEN C some "pencils" to keep him away which Subject did not then report to WOFIRM but later did. He gave him about 120 altogether. Subject had promised IDEN C some 500 pounds of C/4 explosives, M-2's, sub-machine guns, etc. but all was intended to bait IDEN C for arrest and none was ever supplied to him. Later Subject noted after reacting to a break-down question that he had supplied him with pencils, silencers, and also some grenades and pentolite. But these he claims should be a matter of record with JMWAVE. The grenades were typical military type and numbered about 24 to 48 altogether. Again, however, Subject noted that he acted only as intermediary between IDEN C and another individual who is now deceased in PSRUMEN and did not physically handle any munitions shipments. As noted above, continued sensitivity to the question of the amounts or types of equipment furnished IDEN C is believed attributable to uncertainty of Subject's part as to exactly what he did arrange for shipment to IDEN C. As to the basic question about contact with him since 1967 (or when he was told by IDEN Q to no longer have contact with IDEN C), Subject insisted that he never re-established contact of any kind but always checks at IDEN S to determine if IDEN C is around.

Do you now have in your possession any arms, munitions or articles of demolition which was once the property of the LNHARP? Only those items which were discussed during a pre-test debriefing, viz., items brought to Caracas by him in a suitcase and consisting of the following: 3 or 4 smoke grenades; 6 or 7 booby traps (army type); 1 piece of delay fuse about 100 feet long; one primer cord about 100 feet; 2 or 3 MK2 grenades; about 10 pencils (some regular open market supply items and some of the "company" variety); demolition pliers; knife; compass; metascope (infra-viewer worth about $50 used). These items he said were taken while with the IDEN R and with the knowledge of IDEN T although IDEN T did not know exactly what he had taken. Subject was using these items frequently in training courses and they were not to the best of Subject's knowledge the property of LNHARP at that time although it is possible that some of these items were at one time LNHARP and possibly WOFIRM items. But he explained further that these items are plentiful in the Miami area and can
