Section D: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comments on foreign language competence, if required for present position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel actions. Provide an evaluation of managerial or supervisory duties and cost effectiveness in the use of personnel, spare equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

During this reporting period Mr. Hicks' performance has continued to be characterized by exceptional proficiency. The record is already replete of laudatory comments regarding his performance not only in IW but in previous assignments. Mr. Hicks is retiring from the Agency at the end of this year on a medical disability.

Since his assignment to IW, 7 1/2 years ago, he has had a medical hold and because of his deep rooted motivation and strong belief in the Agency's mission, he has held on tenaciously until he reached the age of 50. In addition to being a very effective IW officer throughout these years, Mr. Hicks has also performed in a superior manner as a paramilitary officer during the early years of his career, overseas and in Headquarters.

We wish him Godspeed, and our best wishes for good health throughout the coming years.

Section E: Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance: 64. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Retired.

Date: 24 December 1974. Official title of supervisor: C/OPS/INT/IW. Type or printed name and signature: Joseph A. Procaccino.

2. By Employee. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance. Have attached: X. Have not attached. Date. Signature of employee: Calvin W. Hicks.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the rating official's comments. Mr. Hicks turned in a creditable performance during his extended tour on the Operations Staff, and well deserves his supervisor's “Strong” rating. We all hope that his years of retirement are rewarding and fruitful.

Official title of reviewing official: C/OPS/INT. Type or printed name and signature: Elise K. Page.

4. By Employee. I certify that I have been the entire in all sections of this report. Date: Employee retired on 27 Dec 1974. Signature of employee: Debarred.
