Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employees for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

This outstanding employee has maintained the high standard of performance set forth in the report of this supervisor until now. There is possible, also, that he has exceeded her earlier performance record. During the past year this office acquired considerable new personnel, which subject trained in a highly capable manner to guarantee the smooth-functioning of the office. The undersigned hopes this employee will continue to serve this organization indefinitely notwithstanding her marriage during the past year.

FEB 12 11:43 AM '62.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

1. By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 23 January 1962. Signature of employer: Charleston Z Burton-Vidilva.

2. Months employee has been under my supervision: 24. By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days.

Other (Specify). Date: 23 January 1962. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Desk. John G. Wagen. Typed or printed name and signature: John H. Wag.

3. By reviewing official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance. Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 2/19/62. Official title of reviewing official: CHM 17. Typed or printed name and signature: Jed V. Heaton.
