THE NEW YORK TIMES, FRIDAY, JULY 19, 1958

5.6 LINKED TO ITKIN INDICTED BY U.S.

Accused of Kickback Plot Involving Teamster Fund

By MARTIN TOLCHIN

Six men linked to Herbert Itkin—the key Government informant in the James Marcus kickback case—were indicted yesterday by a Federal grand jury in an alleged kickback conspiracy involving a Teamster union pension fund.

Itkin was not indicted, but was named in most of the overt acts charged in the indictment, and he appeared to be the key figure in the conspiracy.

Itkin, who was an informant for the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, testified in Federal Court that he had paid off Teamster officials and criminals to arrange loans from the fund on behalf of individuals and corporations.

Itkin did not name the persons who allegedly received the payoffs. However, Government officials indicated privately that the indictment—and three previous indictments involving Teamster pension funds—had resulted from Itkin’s information.

Construction Involved

Yesterday’s indictment charged that the six men had participated in a scheme to get a $1,350,000 mortgage for Big Value Discount Department Stores, Inc., of 24 West 25th Street, for the construction of three discount centers in Pompano Beach (P Panano Beach), Cocoa and Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Robert M. Morgenthal, United States Attorney, said that the men had obtained a tentative mortgage commitment from the Central States Southwest and Southeast Areas Pension Fund of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, based in Chicago. Mr. Morgenthal added, however, that the loan never was made.

This was the fourth indictment involving the pension fund since May. Three of the

N.Y. Jury Indicts 6 in Marcus Kickback Case

NEW YORK, July 18 (UPI)—A Federal grand jury indicted today six alleged associates of attorney Herbert Itkin, key figure in the Marcus kickback case, on charges of another kickback conspiracy involving mortgage applications made to the Teamsters’ Union pension fund.

U.S. Atty. Robert Morgenthal identified two of the defendants, Salvatore Granello, 45, and James Plumeri, 65, both of New York, as members of the Mafia. Their codefendants were David Wenzer, 57, Great Neck, N.Y.; John Kielley, 37, Oyster Bay Cove (Oyster Bay Cover), N.Y., and Hyman Levine, 58, of Coral Gables, Fla., and Leonard Russo, 45, of Larchmont, N.Y.

Itkin was not indicted but was named in each of four overt acts cited in the indictment.
