Fitness Report. Employee serial number: Career Agent.

Section A. Name: DEVUCHO Irving C. General.

Official position title. Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career-Provisional; Special (specify).

Date report due in O.P.: 01 July 1965–31 December 1965.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

W. Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibility must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Supervises a 30-man Indigenous Commando Group. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Maintains the training of the group at a proficient level in weapons, tactics, pre-strike rehearsals and related activities. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Develops operational concepts for infiltrations/exfiltrations, raids, caching and rescue operations and prepares operational plans for same. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Reporting to include operational, contact and monthly reports, and other required correspondence. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 5: Case Officer for one FI Reporting Agent to include handling, reporting and guidance of Agent. Rating letter: S.
