February 7, 1966

Pico's Trip to Medellin

After reading Pico's report and talking to him twice, I reached the following conclusions:

I. Achievements of Pico (Picc)

1. Achieved, with the cooperation of Edgar Maduro, the softening of the anti-US line in the Declaration of Principles and elimination of the US name, which was replaced by “imperialisms.”

2. Together with the Venezuelan delegates, drafted the motion condemning the Tricontinental Conference and participated actively in drumming up support for this motion.

3. Pushed through the motion condemning Castro's regime.

4. Exercised a strong anti-communist and anti-Castro influence among the delegates.

II. Pico's Impressions of the Medellin Meeting

1. Pico came back favorably impressed by the strongly anti-communist stand of the delegates. He says that even if Maspere would try to cooperate with the communists, the rank and file would not let him do so.

2. Pico noted only three rabid anti-US delegates: Miguel Cardoso (Accion Sindical Uruguayana), Diogenes Gutierrez (Federacion Istmena de Trabajadores Cristianos—Panama), and Heliodoro Agudelo Rivera (Accion Sindical Antioqueña).

3. Pico informs that Henry Molina (Secretary General of Confederacion Autonoma de Sindicatos Cristianos, CASC-D.R.), even if highly critical of US intervention in the Dominican Republic, is an outspoken communist, and he recommends him as material for recruitment.

4. Molina spoke very favorably of Conrado Rodriguez, who during his stay in the Dominican Republic as a FORDC delegate made an excellent impression and became a good friend of CASC.

5. It is evident from the briefing instructions received from headquarters and cables received from “our man in Medellin” that strong opposition to the CLASC headquarters stand, or Maspere's stand, on the new funding proposal by CISC and ISI was expected. Pico says that he could not discover such opposition and that three national unions which had already applied for direct funding according to instructions received from CISC quickly withdrew their applications. Pico (Eice) also did not note any “betrayal” on the part of Federacion Campesina.

Thus I see two possibilities: (a) the opposition to the CLASC headquarters stand that all funding should go through headquarters was exaggerated; (b) Pico is considered close to Maspere and was not trusted by the opposition.

According to Pico, the feeling was quite unanimous that the funding should go through CLASC headquarters, and the CISC attempt at direct funding was resented as an effort to undermine the CLASC Executive Committee.
