Intelligence Information Report

Directorate of Plans

Report No. CS-311/06103-69. Date distributed: 7 July 1969. Country: West Berlin/West Germany. Date of information: March to mid-May 1969. Subject: Status Report on Problems, Activities and Plans of the West Berlin National Democratic Party. Acquired: Germany, Berlin (March–mid-May 1969). Field No. EGB-24,611. Source: Intercepted communications, supplemented by information from a member of the West Berlin National Democratic Party (NPD) with close contacts among members of the Berlin NPD Executive Council and a record of accurate reporting.

Summary: The Berlin NPD has been plagued by a split between the Berlin City leadership, which is loyal to the Party's national leaders, and the "Loyalists" headed by the Berlin district leaders, who opposed the dissolution of the Berlin NPD ordered by National Party Chairman Adolf von Thadden in October 1968. Court action led to the thwarting of the plan for dissolution. In an effort to keep the Berlin Party alive, in mid-March von Thadden ordered a cessation of open Party activities until after the September parliamentary elections. Subsequently, von Thadden arranged a postponement of a scheduled Berlin Party convention until October, because of the possibility of a ban on the Berlin NPD by the Allies and the threat of trouble from the militant left. At the end of March, Berlin City NPD Chief Rudolf Kendzia resigned in an effort to promote party unity in Berlin, but he remains active behind the scenes. Since early April, the Berlin NPD leadership has followed von Thadden's guidelines. The influence of the Loyalists has been greatly reduced, and in accordance with von Thadden's instructions party activities have been circumspect. Both the Berlin and the National leadership are hoping that the NPD will obtain 25 to 35 Bundestag seats in September, which, they feel, will make the party more acceptable to right-wing voters in Berlin and enhance NPD chances during the 1971 Berlin communal elections. Berlin is planning to send volunteer workers to campaign for the NPD in West Germany, especially in North Rhine-Westphalia, the NPD stronghold. End of Summary.

1. (Field Comment: In October 1968, the West Berlin NPD had approximately 480 dues-paying members. According to a senior party official, more than 100 members have officially dropped their

Liaison: EGB-24,611; CAYANK; CAVANISH. Coordinating: HN/JL.
