7. To the left is a copy of the letter of recommendation from Charles to General Lee, dated March 8, 1863, in which he requests that the latter will take care of him while in the army. This request was granted, and Charles was sent to camp with his company to be mustered into the army.

The next document is a copy of a letter written by Charles to his mother, dated March 9, 1863, showing how much he depends on his company for their support and protection while in the army.

8. Next Charles and his company are seen meeting with General Lee at Quantanam. It is assumed that Charles has a meeting with his command for the purpose of reporting to his commander. It is also assumed that General Lee would want to see Charles before leaving the army. As this is not likely, it is assumed that Charles went to the army without reporting to his commander. This is very possible, but it is more probable that Charles would have reported to his commander, as he had in other cases.

9. In the course of the January convention, Charles has been appointed to the task of writing to his brother to see if he can get him to stay with him in Virginia. There is no reason to suppose that Charles could not do this, so it is assumed that Charles did write to his brother, telling him to come to the South with him. The next document is a copy of Charles's letter to his brother, dated Washington, D.C., April 5, 1863, requesting leave to return to his command. This request is granted, and Charles is allowed two days to report to his commander. He then writes again to his commander, asking if his request has been approved. This request is granted, and Charles returns to his command, taking leave of his company.

10. After Charles leaves his company, he meets up with his brother, who tells him that he cannot go with him to Virginia because there is too much business to be done there. He also explains to Charles why he cannot go with them, and suggests that he should stay where he is, and wait for further instructions from his company.

11. Mr. Charlesamy, dated March 9, 1863, states that as a result of the meeting with Charles, the War Department has bid him further plans to continue his duty. A told him. But Charles now says he intends to remain with his company until after the war is over. This is considered an intention to depart from his command. As Charles now has no other orders, he does so with the consent of his company, but it is unknown whether this was required or permitted by military law or custom.

12. Mr. Charlesamy, dated May 14, 1863, informs his company that as a result of the meeting with Charles, the War Department has bid him further plans to continue his duty. A told him. But Charles now says he intends to depart with his company to the South. As this was known before, he is allowed to depart without further orders from his commander.
