Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 006102.

Section A—General. Name: Richardson, Gregorie. Date of birth: 20 Jan. 1924. Sex: M. Grade: 15. To: D. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/WE/French. Current station: Paris. Type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Temporary, Career-Provisional, Special. Type of report: Initial, Reassignment Supervisor, Annual, Reassignment Employee, Special. Report due in O.P. Reporting period: 1 April 1964–2 June 1965.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Contact, cultivation and assessment of, and collection of biographic and operational intelligence on Soviet scientific and technical targets, and on other Soviets and other nationalities to whom he has access through his cover. Rating letter: 0.
