28. List special skills, hobbies and abilities (radio, photography, etc.).

No hobbies. Special ability lies in salesmanship and the establishment and maintenance of personal contacts necessary to career.

29. Financial status (earnings, bank accounts, securities, property).

Paid approximately $66.00 monthly by Trans World Airline. Bank account with Chemical Bank and Trust Company of New York. No property or securities outside of life insurance policies.

30. Employment history (include type of work done, dates, employers, and addresses).

Business career began in Europe. Brought up in France and speaking French, he was appointed, at the age of 18, General Sales Agent for numerous American products including Jantzen bathing suits, Three-In-One Oil, the Franklin Motor Car and the Le Baron Motor Car. Successful with these lines, later became General Sales Agent in France for Dusemberg Motor Cars and the Packard Motor Car Company. Almost immediately after taking on Packard sales he accepted a proposition to work exclusively for the Packard Motor Car Co. Remained with the company in Paris for two years, or until early in 1931. Was then sent to the United States by the company to handle Packard sales in Buffalo, New York, where he remained until the autumn of 1932.

At that time he was approached by Raymond-Whitcomb Inc., a leading American travel company specializing in deluxe tours and cruises, and asked to take over sales in the New York office due to his knowledge of Europe and his contacts in Europe and the United States who were potential customers for high-priced travel offerings. He went to work in the company's principal sales office at 670 Fifth Avenue and remained there until 1940. The travel business became so severely restricted after the outbreak of war in Europe that Raymond-Whitcomb Inc. was obliged to close most of its offices. Sales were at a standstill and, as he was working by his own choice on a commission basis, it was necessary for him to leave. During his eight-year tenure with Raymond-Whitcomb Inc. he wrote on an average of $500,000 worth of business yearly by himself.

After leaving Raymond-Whitcomb Inc., he took a position as Assistant General Manager of the St. Regis Hotel in New York and subsequently transferred to the Hotel Pierre in the same capacity. He remained at the Hotel Pierre until 1942.
