served to block NPD growth, has now become even less acceptable than before to the SPD, which would have lost three-fifths of its Baden-Wuerttemberg seats under this system.

A ban of the NPD appears unlikely unless the party commits some flagrant violation of accepted rules. A Bonn press office spokesman has stated that the government will seek a political debate with the NPD, and not a ban. On present form, the NPD may get 40 seats in the 1969 Bundestag elections. An attempt to set a higher minimum percentage of votes (present minimum: five percent) for Bundestag representation would arouse violent FDP (FPD) opposition, and does not seem to be under serious consideration at the moment. It would violate German tradition, and might produce a reaction in favor of the NPD, enabling it to overstep even the new margin.

Although the growth of the NPD is disturbing, alarm does not seem to be warranted. In the early 1930s, Germany suffered from depression and high unemployment, and had bitter memories of a recent inflation which wiped out savings. Powerful elements in the government and society, including President von Hindenburg (Hindenberg), the army, the courts, and heavy industry, were highly reactionary and either cool or hostile to republican democracy—as were the professors and students. Racism was rampant and more or less respectable, and unwillingness to accept defeat in World War I provided endless opportunities for demagoguery. All these conditions are now virtually absent. The defeat in 1945, and subsequent disclosures, work to discredit any real Nazi manifestations. Moreover, the fact that no other state will elect a new assembly before the 1969 federal elections may help to prevent a real bandwagon development. It must be emphasized that the NPD is still a small party, if no longer a mere splinter group.

The Coalition Problem

German observers tend to be more worried about the effect of the NPD showing on foreign opinion than about the increase in NPD strength itself, and their greatest concern is over the prospects for the grand coalition, resulting from the SPD losses. A Baden-Wuerttemberg SPD convention voted on 18 May against continuing the coalition in Stuttgart, and the old state SPD leaders resigned. This would seem to make the prospects for the Bonn coalition less favorable.

At the same time, the FDP appears not to be in a mood to return to a coalition in either Bonn or Stuttgart. Dahrendorf has suggested that there might be a CDU minority government in the state. State CDU leaders may, however, prefer to call new elections if a coalition cannot be formed. In this event, they would appeal for an absolute majority from the voters. If they got it and if the NPD vote declined, this would be encouraging, but new elections might also have a less favorable outcome.
