Place: Washington, D.C. From: June 1943. Name of employer: OPA. Address: Washington, D.C. Kind of business or organization: Government. Number and class of employees supervised: 1 CAF-3. Name and title of immediate supervisor: Ruth C. Proskey. Roles, illnesses needed at home: Other. Employee service officer, financial adviser, advisor on all financial activities. Starting salary: 2000. Performed various duties pertaining to collection and distribution of funds for all campaigns for personnel of OPA. Responsible for setting up accounts, handling cash, and submitting reports. Under bond. Emergency Loan Fund of approximately $1,500; Recreation Fund $1,000 (employee contributions); War Savings Bonds (payroll and cash); Group Hospitalization collections, $800 monthly; estimated transactions of OPA Credit Union. Responsible for three bank accounts. Investigated insurance and credit companies. Wrote reports and memoranda. Equipment used: typewriter, adding machine, and calculator. Excellent efficiency rating.

Place: Washington, D.C. From: October 1942. Name of employer: OPA. Address: Washington, D.C. Kind of business or organization: Government. Number and class of employees supervised: 1 CAF-3. Name and title of immediate supervisor: Ruth C. Proskey. Reason for leaving: Promotion. Transportation officer, starting salary 1800. Employee services clerk, YF, final salary 2000. Duties and responsibilities: Employee relations duties involving interviewing and organization of various agency campaigns; responsible for safes and for setting up and maintaining accounts for the above-mentioned funds. As transportation officer, organized car clubs (500), certified applicants for supplemental pensions, and wrote reports and memoranda. Worked with various sections of the agency and administrative officers in selecting representatives for promoting agency campaigns and war bond sales. Administrative assistant to head of section. Calculators and equipment used: typewriter, adding machine, and calculator.

Place: Washington, D.C. From: April 1942 to October 1942. Name of employer: same as above. Address: Washington, D.C. Personnel clerk. Starting salary: 1620. Final salary: 1800. Duties and responsibilities: Transportation officer for OPA personnel in organization of car clubs. Responsible for planning and setting up a war bond payroll allotment plan. Disseminated information regarding all agency campaigns, such as Community War Fund, Red Cross, United R. LIel., etc. Wrote reports and memoranda. Various bookkeeping and accounting assignments. Excellent efficiency rating.

Place: Washington, D.C. From: March 1942. Name of employer: OHM-OPA. Address: Washington, D.C. Kind of business or organization: Government. Number and class of employees supervised: None. Name and title of immediate supervisor: Ruth Proskey. Reason for leaving: Promotion. General personnel clerk. Performed various clerical and secretarial duties in the personnel section. Machines and equipment used: typewriter, adding machine, and stenotype.
