Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 036130.

Section A — General.

1. Name: Flores, Daniel Daniel Daniel. 2. Date of birth: 4 Aug 35. 3. Sex: M. 4. Grade: GS-05. 5. S.O.D.: D. 8. Official position title: Intel Clerk. 7. Office/Division/Area of assignment: DDP/WH/COG. 8. Current station: Wash., D.C. 9. Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career Provisional; Special (Specify). 10. Type of report: Initial. 11. Date report due in O.P. 12. Reporting period: 1 April 66–31 Jan 67.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W. Work: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Conducts liaison between two contract agents and WII/COG/CICS. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 2: Maintains files and handles administrative matters for these same two contract agents, including travel, housing, payments, etc. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 3: Prepares translations from Spanish to English and from English to Spanish. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty.
