Field Fitness Report. The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Field Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters.

To the Field Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the record of this individual's career, he has been under your supervision.

You have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of my work, as well as in general way he knows where he stands.

Posted For: C.S. W.L. 3/17/56. Date: 3/17/56. Name:

It is optional whether or not this fitness report is shown to the person being assessed.

Section I. Newton H.I. Scott's Use Only. Miler. Date of birth: 1 March 1926. Sex: M. Service designation: DC. Grade: GS-13. Station designation (current): China Station, Subic Pay. Due date of this report: 9 January 1956–15 June 1956. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 1 October 1955. Current position: Asia Ops. Officer; Chief, China Independent, China Station.

Section II (To be completed by Field Supervisor). Date assumed responsibility for position: 1 October 1955.

State the specific assignments or tasks which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency): Subject is responsible for all China Station operational activities outside of the framework of activity with the Chinese Nationalist Government. This includes the China Station Headquarters support responsibility for a field station complement of approximately 50 staff personnel located in scattered Far Eastern areas. Also, it includes the responsibility of supporting, guiding and stimulating LCHARMIST operations in the Far East. His position requires an understanding and appreciation of official policies vis-a-vis many Asiatic governments.

Section III (To be completed at headquarters only). Do not complete. For headquarters use only. Authorization of report and signatures: Grant A. Fielden, 19 July ’56; L C.S. Wickham, 19 July ’56; Demond Fynberg LD; Mary A. Wickham, 19 July ’56. Please mark ASAP where you wish to see it (see attachment).
