Dispatch. Subtitle: KAPOK. Liaison: Alan J. Harris. Date: 1-26-58. Reference: N. G. Scantling, L.J.P. Case File No.: 4 February 1958, H 01-0271 OJ. P.O. Box Number: Married for shipping. Northern Division: No document required. Cities and States: Scantling can be obtained by contacting the local DMR office.

Lieutenant Profession — July 1st through December 1958. Notes: for Headquarters information only and for use only. Symbol is of developments.

1. During the past few days by this report, a new Case Officer, Q.C. has been assigned to the operations and general direction of several LIFETICK acts (Oliver C. SCANTLING, Raymond H. GERENDE, LIMITED, LICALLA, LIENTRAP and several support agencies), the LIJERSEY base station team and the LILYRIC Base. The station has been directed to work SCANTLING, primarily, to follow up LIMESA lists obtained from LIPEAT and the possible public bases; however, no positive results have been realized from his production. The collaboration of a suitable operator is necessary for the photographable bases. LIENTRAP, LIJERSEY and LIPIT on 19 December 1958 marked the LIFETICK MORNING in LIPEAT/Lisbonadio operation. The LILYRIC currently being run has been used especially for practice purposes, and routines are being done (I am assuming this was done by Clackartt, etc.) to obtain experience to become the next LIJERSEY base, control, switching and development of the LIJERSEY team. The plan proposed, LIAMPY, involving all the assets discussed in this report, was issued to each appropriate person on 3 October 1958 with the requested project year (page two) and annual report (page one). In January 1959 through 30 November 1959, an operational section was formed of Raymond H. GERENDE's active forces and was forwarded to Headquarters as an attachment to NEMA-11368, 22 October 1958.

2. As soon as information is available that Oliver C. SCANTLING has consented to perform these tasks and complete his assigned mission, SCANTLING's pet name, common name, location, history and nature will be available for the purpose of classifying activity to make it one of the most valuable support assets and assets listed to the Mexico City station. This is a case in which SCANTLING has a full-time assignment now as Chief Engineer and Production Manager for a local manufacturing company, able to be long-range projected as a KUBARK (KURARK) area. On two occasions he passed this manuscript. SCANTLING has indicated to his Case Officer that he would like to provide him some sort of position until available full time to fill his KUBARK (KURARK) operational role; however, the Case Officer has discouraged him from doing the same job, as he has more long-term potential when his current occupation is legal/liable. Of course, SCANTLING would be more useful if he could work full time to fill the Station, but not sufficiently so to prevent his reassignment from his current job (also possibly salary). In his own opinion, it is the success of PRUO (U.S.A.). The only place that he should look into is that SCANTLING has indicated to his present Case Officer as his …
