2. Ratings on Performance of Specific Files

Directions:

a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties.

b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.

c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty. Do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only.

d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others in performance of the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.

e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are:

Oral briefing; has and uses area knowledge; giving lectures; develops new programs; conducting seminars; analyses industrial reports; briefing technical reports; manages files; conducting external liaison; operates radio; typing; coordinates with other offices; taking dictation; writes regulations; supervising; prepares correspondence.

g. For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

Mileage interrogations. Prepares summaries. Translates German. Office filing sources. Keeps doors. Drives truck. Maintains air conditioning. Evaluates significance of data.

Descriptive rating number:

1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty.
2. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty.
3. Performs this duty acceptably.
4. Performs this duty in a competent manner.
5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.
6. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs.
7. Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Specific Duty No. 1: Conducts liaison with other U.S. agencies. Rating number.

Specific Duty No. 2: Liaison with local security services. Rating number. Conducts operational liaison with other U.S. agencies. Rating number. Develops and handles agents. Rating number. As branch chief directs and plans operations of denied area branch. Rating number.

J. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance

Directions: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job.

Subject is an exceedingly well-equipped operations officer. He is mature, intelligent, has a thorough background in operations in his area and the ability to grow in his job. His operational planning and execution is usually impeccable. He has the loyalty of his subordinates
