Section D. Narrative Description.

Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was the act exemplary? Describe why the act was outstanding and if it was more than normally expected. Explain why and how. If an action or marine operation, describe the type and position of crew, the crew position of the individual, and all unusual circumstances indicating results of the act. Include an unclassified citation.

Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance: State the character of service during the period for which recommended. Give a complete description of administrative, technical, or professional duties and responsibilities if not covered in Section C; include dates of engagement and relief. What did the individual do that merits the award? Why was this outstanding when compared to others of the grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances? If appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other persons or units. What obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate results of achievement, service, or performance. Include reference to letters, reports, letters of commendation, or other documentation already on file which supports this recommendation. Enclose an unclassified citation.

See Attachment. Continued on attached sheet.

44. Check one: Is original? Is not original? If derivative work is described in the Act, or if derived works are identical, with the individual making a new and specific idea or improvement of the act.

1. Proposed citation.
2.
3.

47. Recommendation intended by: William E. Colby.

48. Title and signature of employee making recommendation: Deputy Director for Operations.

49. Date: 16 May 1973.

Section E. Recommendation forwarded through officials concerned for their information.

50. Head of Department Career Service (career service as shown).

51. Deputy Director of Career Service.

52. Deputy Director of Operating Component.

Title and signature: Deputy Director for Operations. Date: 16 May 1973.

Title and signature. Date.
