Country: Cuba. Report No. CSDB-3/660,494. Subject: Political Philosophy of Manuel Artime Buesa. Date distributed: 9 April 1964. No. pages: 2. Date of information: 18 March 1964. Place and date acquired: United States, Miami (6 April 1964).

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Approval of content is tentative.

Source: A Cuban exile observer who was present during the speech.

Headquarters Comment. The following is a resume of the political philosophy of Manuel Artime Buesa, leader of the Movimiento de Recuperación Revolucionaria (MRR, Movement for Revolutionary Recovery) as prepared by Source. It is based on statements made by Artime in his speech on 18 March 1964 to the Asociación (Associación) para Recuperación Económica de Cuba (AREC, Association for Economic Recovery of Cuba), on his first publication entitled Comunismo por qué? (Communism: or what?), which was written nine months before Castro came to power, and on Artime's book Traición (Betrayal).

1. Artime does not believe in political extremes — neither the left nor the right. He believes that extremes always end by touching one another. If any extreme gains power in Cuba, and in the case of the extreme right by imposing a dictatorship, he will continue to fight with weapons in hand. Artime does not believe in the classification of men by race, by political ranks in former governments, or by money. He confesses to being an opportunist in the sense that he is taking maximum advantage of each opportunity, but not in the sense of changing his beliefs in accord with opportunities.

2. The main theme of Comunismo por qué? was that more than a change in government a change in the conscience of men is needed. It outlined the duties of the padrón (landowner) toward the workers so that the latter may live in dignity and honor. The padrón should feel that the problems of his workers are also his problems. The worker, in turn, has certain obligations to the padrón. If this quid pro quo is not adhered to, a (Christian) government has the right to intervene for the common good. In his letter of resignation to Fidel Castro accusing the latter of being a
