Dispatch.

To: Chief of Station, Madrid.  
From: Chief of Station, JMWAVE.  
Subject: KEYWAY/PBRUMEN/MHVIPER AMSCROLL Article for Republication.

Action required: None.

1. A result of QUSPOT-2's recent holiday in the JMWAVE area has been to establish a correspondence between him and AMFRAME-1, the signer of the Suplemento Especial of the AMSCROLL Economic Bureau, a copy of which is forwarded by separate cover. QUSPOT-2 has indicated that he could use AMSCROLL economic studies and that he could arrange for publication of at least some of these in Identity A. He suggested that the original of such publications be sent to Identity B with a copy to him. This was done in the case of a recent economic report which was shortly thereafter published in Identity A. QUSPOT-2 airmailed this story to AMFRAME-1, which arrived at about the same time as the copy the Madrid Station airmailed to the JMWAVE overt address.

2. We wish that the article being forwarded by separate cover also be surfaced in Identity A. The original has been airmailed to Identity B with a copy to QUSPOT-2 per QUSPOT-2's suggestion. JMWAVE feels that this is a useful mechanism and unless advised to the contrary we propose to forward additional AMSCROLL studies to Identity B for publication in Identity A. Should Madrid prefer, we of course can in the future forward such articles directly to the Station for placement instead of airmailing them to Identity B.

3. Studies similar to the one being forwarded are regularly prepared in English on a number of economic subjects. They are distributed to shipping firms, certain banks engaged in international commerce, international trade organizations, international commodity houses, etc. They are translated into Spanish solely for use in Identity A; thus, in this sense, these reports are an “exclusive.”

Attachments: 1. AMSCROLL Article Sheet. 2. Identity Sheet.

Philip G. Elmard. Cross reference to CS copy.

Distribution: 3- COS/Madrid, with attachments; 2- C/WF, with attachments; 2- WII/C, with attachments; 2 copies for new lines with scan (2).

Date typed: 18 July 66. Date dispatched: 21 July 1966. Distribution and number: UFGA-25559. Headquarters file number: 19-120-26/3.
