6. The peace offensive will firmly continue on the international scene—but will not have a purely propaganda character; no gentle concessions (e.g., surrendering of East Germany) will now take place. On the internal scene in the Soviet sphere there will continue to be talk of improving the living standards of the workers, but in actuality the course will be toward increased capital investment at the expense of consumer goods—particularly in the satellites.

II. Guidance:

Caution: As before, we speculate on future developments in the Kremlin and the satellite countries, but we do not accept any one particular theory. This is the end of the first act of the power struggle for the succession, but only the first act; there are many more and bloodier acts to come. The coalition which destroyed Beria is just as subject to internal dissension as was the Malenkov-Beria-Molotov coalition formed after the death of Stalin. The basic analogy here is to Stalin's tactics after the death of Lenin (Leinin). First he eliminated Trotsky (Trussky) and the leftists; then he eliminated Beria; probably the next act in this present drama will involve elimination of the rest of the coalition by the remaining element in it.

A. To the People:

As the Bolsheviks (Boishevins) devour each other, our people can look on with pleasure and assurance while their oppressors are making themselves weaker and they, the Eastern European people, are becoming stronger. When the Kremlin is weakened by dissension, the satellite Kremlins become even more weak and paralyzed, and of course the purge has just begun. Local satellite Communist big shots will be too occupied with saving their own skins to be as tyrannical as before. This could not come at a better time for the peasants and workers of Eastern Europe: after Eastern German retreats and Czechoslovak demonstrations, they now know their own strength and their own power. As they are marshalling their forces, their tyrants' structure of control is cracking. The eventual doom of Communism was never more certain than now. The regimes will certainly try, as the Kremlin is trying, to present a façade of “monolithic unity.” But you know, as they know, that the façade is hollow and that the regimes, confused and rent with internal dissension, will probably not be able to undertake any one clear and decisive policy.

However, we should warn the people that this shift to extremism may mean (in Hungary in particular) that the Kremlin will order its puppets to take a more extreme course than before. But here also we must wait and see—confusion now reaches everywhere. Now is the time, in this period of confusion, for the people to estimate the gains they have already made and press on for more. In a very real sense, the people are more than ever actors on the stage rather than spectators in the audience. Led by your new leaders, you, the people, must continue your efforts in the collective farms and in the trade unions, in the ways you know so well, to force the regime to make actual concessions to you.
