C. Indicate if you think that any single strength or weakness outlines all other considerations. His conscientious attention to his duties outweighs all other considerations.

D. Do you feel that he requires close supervision? C. Yes, if yes, indicate 2 PM ’55.

Mail Room.

E. What training do you recommend for this individual? None for his present assignment at this time. Eventually Mr. Christ and the Agency would benefit by encouraging him to further his technical education.

F. Other comments (indicate here general traits, specific habits or characteristics not covered elsewhere in the report but which have a bearing on effective utilization of this person): None.

Section VI.

Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under subsections A, B, C, D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties adequately: He is incompetent.

2. Rarely adequate in performance: Although he has had specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.

3. Performs most of his duties acceptably: Occasionally reveals some area of weakness.

4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.

5. A fine performance, carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well.

6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equaled by few other persons known to the rater.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? X No. Yes. If yes, what?

B. Directions: Considering others of this person’s grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibilities normally indicated by promotion?

1. Has reached the highest grade level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

2. Is making progress, but needs more time in present grade before promotion to a higher grade can be recommended.

3. Is ready to take on responsibilities of the next higher grade, but may need training in some areas.

4. Will probably adjust quickly to the more responsible duties of the next higher grade.

5. Is already performing at the level of the next higher grade.

6. An exceptional person who is one of the few who should be considered for rapid advancement.

7. Has reached the highest grade level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

8. Is making progress, but needs more time in present grade before promotion to a higher grade can be recommended.

9. Is ready to take on responsibilities of the next higher grade.
