Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 025798.

Section A — General. Name: Wilcott, James B., Jr. Date of birth: 27 Sep 31. Sex: M. Grade: GS-07. SD: SF. Official position title: Fiscal Acct Asst. Current station: JNWAVE. Special appointment: Resignation. Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: 26 Apr 65–15 Apr 66.

Performance Evaluation. W — Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C. A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence. P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner. S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency. O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional that in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Lists, computes and verifies four cover companies' commercial payrolls involving approximately 200 persons. Prepares and verifies all salary checks. An accounting machine is used for payrolling. Rating letter: A.

Specific duty No. 2: Maintains both overt commercial and covert pay records, files, etc. for staff employees, staff agents, contract employees and agents. Maintains leave records for WAE contract employees and all staff personnel. Rating letter: W.

Specific duty No. 3: Responsible for timely payment of monthly tax deposits and preparation of the quarterly Federal Withholding and Social Security tax returns of the cover companies. Rating letter: A.

Specific duty No. 4: Initiates dispatches and cables to Headquarters and Field Stations on all matters pertaining to pay, leave and payroll deductions of staff employees, staff agents and contract employees and agents. Rating letter: A.
