Provisional Operational Approval.

Memorandum for: Chief, CA/CF — James Murphy. Number: 201-3/652. Subject: ABSTRACT/1. Reference: Your Memorandum, dated 10 February 1966. Jab.

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

(1) POA is granted to utilize Subject in an international context to exploit his contacts and/or associations with a wide variety of personalities and organizations (particularly Cuban and Chinese) engaged in “anti-imperialist” propaganda operations. Subject will be expected to renew his old relationships and expand his circle of contacts with Afro-Asian national liberation leaders, pro-Chinese Communist, and similar personalities and to report general political and biographic material relative to the interests, activities and plans of such individuals and their organizations.

(2) Requirements passed to Subject will be confined, insofar as it is operationally feasible, to instructions for the refinement and completeness of the reporting he is capable of providing from his normal intercourse with source personalities. Disclosure of classified information will be held to a minimum, he will not be given operational assignments supporting or servicing other AVEARK operations, nor will he participate directly and/or fittingly in the spotting and/or recruitment of other agents.

(3) In addition to this background, certain of Subject’s past statements and behavior are inconsistent with, and give rise to an uncertainty about, the nature and degree of his presently professed motivations and loyalties. It is impossible to resolve this uncertainty with the knowledge now available. At the present time, therefore, it is believed that his bona fides have not been established to an extent which would warrant handling him in any way than “at arms length”.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.

 /s/ Edward P. Brown

Approval. CI/Operational Approval and Support Division. Date: 23 May 1966.
