Section D. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, equipment, and tools must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Moore is the prospective Chief of the Dallas Field Office. He was assigned to DCS headquarters in July 1972 for a familiarization and training tour prior to assuming that post. For approximately six months he served as Acting Deputy Chief of the Soviet Bloc Division, during which he was required to fulfill that role as though it were a permanent assignment. Although he had never been active in headquarters before, he quietly and efficiently familiarized himself with the operations of the division. Through his friendly personality, experience, and interested approach he quickly and effectively made what was basically a training role into one of real contribution on a daily basis.

Certification and Comments. Section E. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, and D of this report.

Date. Signature of employee.

By Supervisor. Months employee was under my supervision: 7. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Has returned to Dallas Field Office.

Date: 14 May 1973. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Soviet Bloc Division. Type or printed name and signature: J.M.S. SHERIDAN.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 14 May 1973. Official title of reviewing official: Director, DCS. Type or printed name and signature: JAMES R. MURPHY.
