Subject: Joseph Legrand (LE AND).

Place acquired: France, Paris.

Evaluation: C.J.

Report No.: E&P 5929.

Date of information: Current.

Date acquired: 8 January 1952.

Date of report: 12 January 1952.

Source: Through a fairly reliable source from an informant with E&P contacts.

1. Joseph Legrand (LEAND), involved in the “Promotion affair” and as a result expelled from the Central Committee of the CP for the spring of 1951, was recently reassigned the position as Administrative Secretary of the Regional Minerals Federation (COT) in the Nord and Pas-de-Calais regions. August’s decision was instrumental in securing the reassignment for Legrand (LECRAND), according to source.

2. Legrand (LEAND) (Jean) and Korin (Gino), who were in charge for two years of the reorganization of the Regional Federation, have been placed under Legrand’s (LEAND’s) orders and have been charged with “insufficient action.”

3. Legrand (LECRAND) has been given “full powers” to visit all syndicates and to eliminate those elements judged unnecessary, reducing the directing organization of the various syndicates. Source stated that Legrand’s (LECRAND’s) activities are partially dictated by financial necessity and that staffs will be reduced for economic reasons.

4. Legrand (LEAND) (Jean), Secretary of the Minerals syndicate of Domain (Nord), has been charged with reorganizing the Valnoletias sector, in particular the Upper-Calais region, which has fallen into disorder as a result of the insertion of the traitor Guy (GUY) (Gino). According to sources, Guy (GUY), former Secretary General of the Minerals COT syndicate in Anjou, has left his post because he has been in line for administrative as a result of lack of discipline and incompetence in syndicate affairs. However, no one wanted to take the responsibility for controlling him, so the first step performed by Legrand (LECRAND) in his new position was to fire him.

5. Legrand (LECRAND) recently declared that he also has been given full power to purge (pure) minerals syndicates and the Mining Group (Charles) will not be a COT syndicate in the next elections for minerals’ collegate.
