Period of Activities (Continued, 3)

D. II, continued:

1944, Berlin. He was held for days, chained to a heater in solitary arrest, nobody caring for his hand. Then he was brought into a hospital.

From there he telephoned the Belgian girl, asking some civilian clothes sent to him. The girl promised to bring those. Instead of her came policemen and took him to hospital in Berlin-Tegelitz jail.

For months he was daily driven to the Police House for interrogation.

Later he was held in a cellar of the Police HQ. His father came from Vienna and was allowed to see him, somewhere where the evidences of his forgery were displayed.

He wrote to “00008” to report an invention of his—to escape being liquidated. He was interviewed by specialists and asked to work on it. He, Katz and Allumes were transferred to Wolfenbüttel Jail, near Hannover, away from the approaching front line. He does not know of Asterée’s fate.

1945, April 11. The Americans freed them from the jail.

Katz and Allumes went to Cassel, where they were officially discharged.

D. After World War II.

1945, Paris. David wanted to register in a hotel as a Frenchman. DATTO. He was recognized as TIZICINILI by a woman who thought him to be his brother, Achilles.

He was reported to the Sûreté militaire; however, he was released after he had explained what he had done during the war against the Germans.

He worked with Jacques CARPE.

He married Renée PARROD. Date not asked.

His parents, sister and brother-in-law returned from Vienna.

1946.

1948. His old friend Jean ADAI contacted him and asked him to participate in robberies. He refused; his mother would have been hurt by this.

1949. His mother died. His father, sister and her husband returned to the USSR. Jean Adam contacted him again, and they robbed a jewelry store.

1950. They tried another hold-up, but failed. He refused to continue such things; his wife did not like Jean Adam.

Jean ADAI came back and threatened to tell all to David’s wife if he would not cooperate. He agreed.

They cased many places, finally decided on and made a hold-up in a bank, successfully.
