Continuation of dispatch. HMMA-13951, K-1705.

5. During the evening of 20 September the Station LIFEAT Case Officer was advised that GERENDE had been directed to disconnect the LIVERY lines and to transfer all LIFEAT equipment to a safe location. To further insure the security of LIVERY, all LIVERY lines were pulled externally during the early morning of 21 September.

6. At approximately 1000 hrs., 21 September, LINEW informed the Chief of Station that a contact of his (LINEW's) had just informed him that L-10 (true name) and the LIENTRAP vehicle were being held by the Secret Service. LINEW stated that if L-10 was one of KUBARK's agents he would attempt to have his contact in the Secret Service obtain his immediate release. LINEW was told that L-10 was, in fact, a KUBARK agent and that the Station would very much appreciate his efforts to effect his release. A short while later LINEW again contacted the Chief of Station and informed him that it would be necessary for a documented ODACID official personally to contact Commandante LIMON of the Secret Service and that L-10 would then be released. According to LINEW, L-10 had told the Secret Service that he was carrying out his operational photographic assignment on a contract basis for ODACID; therefore, an ODACID official would have to establish L-10's bona fides.

7. As the Station learned later, the Secret Service agents were roughing up some of the individuals attending the rally; consequently, they were endeavoring to make sure that no photographs were taken which could be used against them by the Communists. L-10 and L-11, the LIENTRAP driver who left the scene before he was detained, were just preparing to leave the area after taking five rolls of film when a Secret Service agent demanded a search of the vehicle on the suspicion that it contained Communist propaganda. L-10, his camera with telephoto lens and the film were then discovered in the rear of LIENTRAP. It was at this time that L-10 was accused orally by the police officers of being a Soviet agent and later of being a local Communist agent. After being taken to Secret Service Headquarters, L-10 told LIMON, in private, about his association with ODACID and emphasized that he certainly was not a Communist agent. LINEW's source (possibly Commandante LIMON), believing that there may be some truth in L-10's statement, contacted LINEW. Based in part on assumption and in part on fact, this is the Station's opinion as to how ODENVY became involved in the case.

8. The Station, realizing that LIENTRAP-10 (LIEΜΡΤΥ-10) had not committed an illegal act by taking photographs, decided that WARE should personally visit LIMON and request L-10's release. WARE contacted LIMON and the sub-jefe of the Secret Service, Raúl MENDIOLEA Cerecero (Raül MENDIOLEA Cerecero), about 1230 hrs., 21 September, identified himself as an ODACID official and told them that L-10 did from time to time perform photographic assignments for ODACID, particularly in the field of local Communist activities. WARE also told LIMON and MENDIOLEA that L-10 was never permitted to do any task which was illegal under Mexican law and that if he had done so it was certainly not under the auspices of ODACID, but on his own volition. They implied that L-10 had not done anything illegal and that all they wanted to be sure about was that L-10 was not a Communist agent. L-10 was immediately released and the LIENTRAP vehicle returned to him with all equipment intact, including the five rolls of undeveloped film.

9. While WARE was on his way to see LIMON at the Secret Service Headquarters, the Chief of Station was advised by the ODACID Security Office that L-10 was being detained by the Secret Service. The Security Office was told that WARE was presently investigating the matter and should be at the Secret Service Headquarters at that time. By coincidence, WARE was talking to MENDIOLEA when the ODACID Security Office phoned to inform him that WARE was taking care of the matter. It was learned later that WARE was talking to MENDIOLE.
