I know of no affiliations of STUART with foreign political parties or government. His attempts to get close to Fidel CASTRO in 1960 were motivated by a desire to exploit the journalistic advantages of an interview. His original interest in The Shark and the Sardines was apparently motivated by money-making interests and by the hope that he might spark a sensation—exactly what he did manage to do with his outrageous advertising. He seemed to calculate that there might be libel suits possible against the firms and the newspapers he could provoke to attack him.

The original contract of ARFVALO with STUART was superseded by another in November of 1961, granting STUART certain rights with regard to other foreign language editions of The Shark and the Sardines and, I believe, establishing that he should have first option on other ARFVALO books translated into English.

Information about STUART's dealings with ARFVALO and whatever others could be obtained (with cullie) from Eileen BRANT, who was his editor at the time of the first contact with ARFVALO. She subsequently broke with him because of deep and bitter resentment against him, then returned not too long ago to collaborate with him. She is his wife's sister. She is certainly working with him now only because he finally offered her a little better pay. For her to have changed her mind about him would be almost impossible, I believe, in view of the long history of incidents that had brought her to have contempt for him, at the time I knew her in 1961. She knows his operation inside-out.

In order to get information from her, it would be absolutely necessary to approach her from some angle that would give no hint of government investigation. She is very gregarious. She is a fortyish medium-attractive, lonely, New York single woman (unless her status has changed since I knew her). If contacted by somebody she would assume to be a writer, and who would be a bit friendly with her and see her off-hours, she would probably talk freely about STUART. But she is quite clever and rather worldly in some respects, so that must be kept in mind in case she is contacted. SHE HAS A VERY DEEP AND LONGTIME NEGATIVE ATTITUDE TOWARD ALL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES INVOLVED IN INVESTIGATION. She was active in liberal activities in Chicago, and if I remember correctly, although she is certainly not communist, she considered herself a little jeopardised by the McCarthy period.

Angela Delli SANTE-ARROCHE could also be contacted, of course.
