HAROLD ROBERT ISAACS, continued

The Havas News Agency. Shortly after this, in Shanghai, he married Viola Robinson, who was, like Harold, a wide-eyed intellectual. This marriage probably took place in 1932. Viola was a great friend of Agnes Smedley, the author of the Battle Hymn of China and of other books dealing with the Chinese Revolution.

An organization called the China League for Civil Rights was formed about 1932. Yang Ch'ien was the head of this for Central China, and Dr. Hu Shih (later Chinese Ambassador to Washington) was the head of it for North China. Yang was at that time Secretary-General of the Academia Sinica. Yang was soon assassinated by the Blue Shirts (at that time Yang Kai-shek's bodyguard). Harold Isaacs had been an enthusiastic member of the China League for Civil Rights, and in the atmosphere of turmoil, after the killing of Yang, when all leftists were under attack by the Kuomintang, Harold became the editor and publisher of the China Forum, a magazine that published a number of controversial articles. The magazine was protected by the fact that the editor was an American, and therefore had extra-territorial rights. Yet the magazine was regarded as a “thorn in the flesh” by Mr. Cunningham, who was at that time American Consul-General in Shanghai. There were various controversies—the printing shop was broken up by Kuomintang strong-arm men; the mails were refused to the magazine; but he continued publication for some time, and smuggled the copies out to the subscribers.

In 1933 or 1934, Isaacs had a fight with Agnes Smedley. It was an ideological fight, and therefore especially bitter. Isaacs and his wife left Shanghai after this, and moved to Peking. There he acquired a Chinese translator named Liu, and there he settled down to write his book, The Tragedy of the Chinese Revolution. This book “nails the Stalinists to the mast” and shows that they were messing around with a situation in China which they did not understand. Very many people who have read the book consider it excellent.
