CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR  
17 January 1973

Fidel Castro

Gifted demagogue

The Rise and Decline of Fidel Castro - An Essay in Contemporary History, by Maurice Halperin. Berkeley, Los Angeles, London: University of California Press. $12.95.

By Philip W. Bonsal

Maurice Halperin has been forced out of two teaching positions at American universities because of his political beliefs. He spent three years on the faculty of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, went to Cuba in 1962 at the invitation of Che Guevara and, though his relations with Guevara quickly deteriorated, spent six years at the University of Havana.

Though one might expect from such a background that dreary mix of the stuffy and the shrill so often associated with the polemics of the far left or right, Professor Halperin's book is a work of insight, wit and understanding.

In this book he concentrates on the first five years of Castro's rule, through 1964, with a sequel to come. However, this volume contains enough about the later years to warrant the use of the word "decline" in his title.

After stressing the pride and optimism of the revolution's fifth anniversary, he writes that none of those present at its celebration "could remotely imagine the disappointments and failures that lay ahead, and that on the tenth anniversary of the Revolution, there would be only bitter austerity and hard work - and the tarnished but unflinching charisma of Fidel -, to arouse their enthusiasm."

Professor Halperin's account of Castro's first two years in power (when the author was not yet in Cuba) does not give due credit to the United States. After all, initially the United States did make efforts to find an accommodation with Castro, despite the latter's vicious anti-Americanism and his plundering of American properties in ways not even provided by Castro-dictated legislation.

Nor does he adequately explain how, after the policy of accommodation had been abandoned, injudicious American economic sanctions plus the Bay of Pigs failure left the presumably reluctant and sceptical Russians no choice other than massive support for Castro and Guevara.

But when Castro and Khrushchev had become masters of the Cuban people's destiny, Professor Halperin comes into his own. His description of the relations between those volatile and voluble rulers is a delight. The Chairman's surrender over the missiles in his October, 1962, confrontation with President Kennedy, without informing Castro first, much less consulting him, was deeply humiliating to his Cuban ally.

Yet by April of 1963 the suits and strains of the previous fall had been banished. With uncontested rhetoric the two autocrats bemused their peoples and themselves into the spectacular euphoria that surrounded Castro's visit to Russia. How this was done is but one engaging example of Professor Halperin's analytic and narrative talents.

This exuberant reconciliation did not prove lasting. Khrushchev was overthrown - perhaps partly because of his unprofitable strategic involvement in Cuba. Castro's export of subversion and insurrection to other American republics was considered tactically undesirable by the Kremlin.

Guevara's fatal campaign in Bolivia and other setbacks, combined with the failure of grandiose but unsound schemes for industrialization and agricultural diversification at home, considerably diminished Castro's stature.

His downward curve was further accelerated by failure - after six years of preparations and exhortations - to produce ten million tons of sugar in 1970 and by the disruption of the Cuban economy that effort had caused. Castro's later reconciliations with his Russian patrons smacked more than a little of submissions.

Professor Halperin also describes the Washington-initiated exploration during the final weeks of President Kennedy's life, of a basis for discussions between the Cuban and American governments. He believes that if Kennedy had lived something constructive might have evolved from the effort. His conclusion is debatable, since nine years have now elapsed without any significant positive development.

During those nine years there has indeed been a cooling down of American attitudes toward Cuba.

But Castro's attitude toward the United States has not changed. His concept is still that his people, armed to the teeth and knowing only what he chooses to tell them, must remain blindly united around their Maximum Leader, ready to thwart the plots of the once defeated, but still wickedly unrepentant imperialists.

This is unfortunate. Although a return to the old association between the two countries is neither desirable nor possible, the people of both would profit from a rational relationship. This will not be easy to establish even when both governments are truly ready to face the task. Meanwhile in the light of Professor Halperin's brilliant account of contemporary Cuba, it seems reasonable to speculate that increasing numbers of Cas
