Sir,

On behalf of Mr. A. Pretsionu, Chairman of the last conference, and Mr. Constantine Stitch, Chairman of the Serbian National Committee, Chairman of the next meeting of the Central and Eastern European Conference, I am inviting you and your political friends to a meeting on the 30th, 7th, and 14th of December at the Hotel Ilard, Executive Room, Pennsylvania Ave. and 14th St., Washington, D.C., at precisely 3 P.M.

The agenda of the meeting will be:

1. Report of the Secretary General on the meetings of the General Committee on the action of the OACO on deportations, in Washington, New York, and Paris, about the press conference in Washington, etc.

2. Report of Mr. Jerzy Lerski, Vice Chairman of the Polish Political Council's Working Committee in the U.S., on collaboration with Americans of Central and East European descent.

3. Report of Mr. V. Stanka on World University.

The report of Mr. Lerski is attached to this invitation.

Memorandum

On Americans of Central and East European Descent

From Jerzy Lerski, Vice Chairman of the Polish Political Council's Working Committee in the U.S., 612 4 Street, 9., 1pt. 15, Washington 3, D.C.

The last three decades of the past century and the first two of the present one mark the period in which millions of the impoverished peasants of Central and Eastern Europe rose to the happy lives of free America. There are over at least twelve million U.S. citizens of Central and East European descent. This is, of course, a very careful estimate. Congressman Kenneth J. Hestlin of Rochester, N.Y., in his final—

U.S. Delegation to the International Political Council of Europe in 1968, by the Secretary General Jerzy Lerski:

Nicholas Giulianese, Fosco Francisca Sullivan, Roberts, Joseph Dickinson, Leon Kallenbach, Rudolf Gohde, Gordon Schaefer, Lindsay Williamson, Roger Schoffeniel, Thomas Whitelaw, James Goldstein, John Parker, Michael McCormick, Robert Harris, Frank Kohl, Rochester Joyce Schouwarts, Joseph Millward, James Moore, Benjamin Gordon, Herbert Aubert, Joseph Moore, Charles Poker, Benjamin Brown, Joseph McGuire, Joseph McMorris, Robert Millward, John Fowler, David Kelley, Robert Curtis, Frank Bloom, and Mary Clark.
