GFA-541

He can enrol it as a “walking credential” in Algiers, a unique way to suggest to himself is one of iden A’s “bors”. It would be better, on the other hand, that this situation provides iden A a unique means of monitoring STERENT/1’s activities and contacts.

3. Of seniority interest at this moment, however, is the fact that iden A has expressed to STERENT/1 his dissatisfaction with the progress to date in getting his book (iden P), emphasized in English. iden A claims that an Australian is supposed to be working on a translation but that he could get nothing from him in over six months. STERENT/1 then told iden A that he himself could do the translation job with the aid of friends, but that he would have to spend some time with iden A to work over five points and to write together a new chapter updating the book. In this way STERENT/1 feels he could cement his personal relationship with iden A.

4. There are obviously operational and statistical policy questions that should be considered in this context. First of all, our sole reporter on the STERENT/1-iden A relationship is STERENT/1 himself. Is he really seeking to set up a meaningful operational summit to be exploited by EUBANK, or is he seeking to regain status among his former peers? We tend to believe the former on the basis of the results of STERENT/1’s ACQUISITION examination and his long conversation with his deep-cover officer. Secondly, should the damage to the FAMNIST national interest inherent in the publication of iden A’s book in English ensnare the operational gains to be made by putting STERENT/1 in iden A’s confidence? STERENT/1 agrees that, on the contrary, the publication of the book in English could hurt no one except possibly iden A himself, because STERENT/1 claims the book is a trite polemic against one small communist group by another small communist group. While he has no intention of misinforming EUBANK, he will help get the book in print in any case, for that should be iden A’s own problem. Thirdly, if STERENT/1 did not undertake the translation job, the Australian could probably get through it before too long himself.

5. We are sure that we can see in this situation the seeds of a useful operational contact with iden A, who, according to various reports STERENT/1 is receiving from the core of his contacts in the pre-Chinese factions of the European Communist Parties, is starting to lose his grip on his old organization.

6. In any event, unless advised to the contrary, we intend to encourage STERENT/1 to continue developing his relationship with iden A, essentially as regards translation of the book. We are forwarding to Headquarters a copy of the book and request that the associate office in KOREA be appointed immediately and asked to provide, on a priority basis, an English-language translation which we can pass to STERENT/1. We could then report this translation effort and involve his wife in the editing of it, preparing the finalized product for iden A as a family effort. Of particular importance from a critical point of view is that translations of quotations from non-English sources (Russian and other, for example) should be consistent with the official English-language version of the quotations.

7. The time element involved is this: KWOLF Career Agent has put P. EUBANK will be meeting STERENT/1 in Rome on or about 15 July. At that time he could have some information sent from KOREA on the status of the translation effort. In point of fact, of course, the ideal situation would be to have the translation in hand at that time, though we cannot tell from here whether that is feasible. In any case, SUGGEST would have to have the translation definitely in hand the first week of August, when he will be leaving Paris for his second resting site, STERENT/1.
