Section D. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in mind perspective their relations, up to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of past performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and recordkeeping in the use of personnel tools, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, use a separate sheet of paper.

During the period under review Mr. Piccolo was the senior referent in the Branch for LA Division affairs. In this capacity he functioned most effectively and efficiently, and fully exploited his more than 17 year's association with LA Division.

With respect to Specific Duties, Nos. 5 and 6 are pretty much self explanatory and are the bread-and-butter type activities that provide you with a data base for approaching other responsibilities and keep you au courant of operational conditions. There is no rating for No. 4 as this activity this year was handled by O/C/CI.

In terms of Specific Duty No. 1, Mr. Piccolo has had several field station assignments in LA Division plus several at Headquarters. He maintains close and continuing contact with country desks and staff officers and when appropriate has initiated operational comments and suggestions. For example, when reviewing the traffic from an on-island Cuban reporting source he noted indications that the source might be under hostile control, and sent forward a memorandum outlining these indications to COG while deferring to them for further action. On another occasion when a walk-in appeared at an overseas Station he again approached COG.

Continued.

Section E. Certification and Comments.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 12. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: 5. Date: 1 Dec 78. Official title of supervisor: DC/OG/OCR. Typed-on printed name and signature: John F. Markham. I have or have not attached a statement concerning the supervisor's evaluation of my performance: Have not. Date: 1 Dec. 78. BIO/Name of employee: Joseph S. Piccolo.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: This Fitness Report is one of the most thorough and balanced from a substantive view which I have reviewed in some time. I find it to be accurate from my perspective and reflects my own contention that Mr. Piccolo is for his grade one of the most productive, aggressive and versatile officers we have in the DO.

Earlier this year Mr. Piccolo received a QSI in recognition of his fine performance on the CI Staff during the previous year. There is no question that a sustained superior effort on Mr. Piccolo's part will continue to be the pattern in the future. He has a prosperous career ahead of him.

Date: Open as to review who reviews. Typed on printed name and signature: 1 December 1978, Chief, CI/O/C, Stephen L. Creane.
