Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in Item B of Section A below.

Section A. General.

Name: Randall, Thunderick. Date of birth: 23 October 1926. Ser.: Nale. Service designation: DZ. Office/division/branch of assignment: Intelligence Officer (FI). Grade: 10-12-2. Date report due in DP: June 1957. Period covered by this report: September 1956–June 1957. Type of report: Special. Specify: Promotion.

Certification.

For the rater: This report was shown to the individual dated. If not shown, explain any objective.

Check appropriate statements:

This report reflects my qualifications of this industry. If individual is referred to as an individual, please specify if employee or supervised.

This report reflects the qualifications of me as well as previous supervisors.

I have discussed with the TET, supervisor and assistant the qualifications as needed in the tenth as well as requirements of the job.

Date: 26 July 1957. Name on form 10-2 and signature of supervisor: Valentine O. Goodell. Supervisor’s official title: Chief of Station, Jakarta.

For the following officer(s): Refer to substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, if any other in performance, which will lead to a notice undergoing of this report.

Date: By No. 2 Jan 58. Revise by JCS.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is collected in the above section.

Section C—Job Performance Evaluation.

1. Select an individual to evaluate. The individual being evaluated will complete the evaluation sheet in the “Notes” tab.
