25 January 1962

The following message has been received from Mexico City:

For King and Sayre from Ambassador Manns:

1. As you know, some weeks ago we became convinced that the only chance of getting Mexico to break relations with Cuba would be on the basis of Cuban intervention in Mexican internal affairs. This, of course, was on the assumption that a two-thirds Rio Treaty vote could not be obtained at Punta del Este.

2. With this objective in mind, Department and CAS authorized me to turn over materials described in IN 12549 to an appropriate Mexican official. I chose Gustavo Diaz Ordaz.

3. Diaz Ordaz has informed CAS that he discussed this evidence with Lopez Mateos, who expressed surprise and interest. We discount Lopez Mateos's statements because, as you know, he has much better evidence of Cuban Embassy intervention, which he keeps strictly to himself and has never told the Cabinet about. The evidence we turned over to Diaz Ordaz has psychological importance because the President is now aware that Diaz Ordaz also knows part of the story. He can never be sure that Diaz Ordaz will not use this to support his own anti-Communist convictions if a showdown between the Communists and anti-Communists should occur in Mexico.

4. Diaz Ordaz has asked me through CAS whether I would have any objection if the information we furnished him were made public should an appropriate occasion arise in the future. He said there would be no mention of the U.S. Government and that Gobernación would present the evidence as collected by it.

5. I recommend that CAS and Department authorize me to inform Diaz Ordaz that we have no objection on the basis outlined by him. The reason for my recommendation is that, on the one hand, we lose little by blowing the microphone operation since the battery is scheduled to expire soon in any case. We believe we are in a position where we can safely deny that we had anything to do with placing the microphone. In this connection, Diaz Ordaz obviously believes our story that we picked up the signal by routine dialing of different frequencies and that the microphone was presumably placed by the Soviets to check on their satellites. On the other hand, an affirmative answer to Diaz Ordaz will also implicitly suggest the possibility that the time may come when we ourselves might wish to make this information.

Lienay/peo
