Germany before the father went. David's sister went to Berlin probably in 1941/1942 (no clear statement about this). In 1944 Simon, his wife, and their daughter moved from Berlin to Vienna, Austria. In 1946 they came back to Paris, together with their son-in-law. In 1948, after the mother had died, Simon, together with the daughter and the son-in-law, returned to the USSR.

From the USSR Simon wrote one letter in which he asked for literature concerning “the cold,” which made David think that he was dealing with the problems of refrigeration. According to the information received from Mathe KERESSELIDZE, Simon lived in TIFLIS in 1958.

4. Mother: Marie, née CANTCHELI, of Georgian origin. The date of birth, 2 February, might have been hers or her father's; year of birth unknown.

She poisoned herself in Paris in 1958, in connection with Simon's talks of going back to the USSR. She did not want to go, especially because the sons refused to go.

5. Sister: Helen, nickname Elico, the oldest in the family.

Born: 1 May 1915, in GROZNY.

During World War II she went from Paris to Berlin, where she worked for six months in the East Ministry (Ost-Ministerium).

In 1942, probably in May, she married in Berlin a Georgian, Irakli LORDKIPANIDZE, who at that time worked with the German Security Service, “Sicherheits Dienst” (SD).

In 1944 she, together with her parents, moved to Vienna, Austria, where her husband joined them later.

They had two children, both sons: Hodar, born in 1945 in Vienna, and Dimitry, born at the end of 1947 in Vienna. Hodar's nickname is TSITSCU.

In 1946 (?) the family returned from Vienna to Paris, together with Helen's parents. In 1943–49 they returned, together with Simon, to the USSR. Note: presumed together with their children, although David did not mention the children.

According to the information received from xxx Mathé KERESSELIDZE, in 1958 he saw Helen in Moscow, and she told him that she was working in Tiflis (Tirlis) as a language teacher. She had been detained for five years (1952–1957) in a camp or closed town because she had said something about Stalin. In fact, it was nothing bad, but this was misunderstood and falsely reported to the authorities. She was vindicated after Stalin's (Salin's) death, and she was even paid her salary retroactively for the time she had been detained.

6. Brother: Achilles, nickname ATCHICO. Born: 17 July 1916, in BORZHOMI, Georgia.

Occupation: Architect, self-employed, associated with two other architects, Georges LINGUIR and fnu ROQUES, all three having their office in GAP, Department of Hautes-Alpes, France, at the corner of Rue Pasteur and Rue de France. In the firm Achilles uses
