Section XXIV. Additional Information.

1. Do you advocate or have you ever advocated; or are you now or have you ever been a member of; or have you ever supported or been associated with any political party, individual or organization which advocates or teaches the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force, violence or other unconstitutional means, or seeks by force or violence to deny persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States? Yes.

2. If you have answered “Yes” to the above question, explain.

3. Do you use or have you ever used intoxicants? No.

4. If so, to what extent?

5. Do you use or have you ever used narcotics? No.

6. If so, to what extent?

7. Have you ever been a member of, or supported, or had any connections with a foreign intelligence organization or its activities? No. If answer is “Yes,” give complete details.

8. List below the names of Government departments, agencies or offices to which you have applied for employment since 1940. I served 4 years in the United States Marine Corps.

9. If to your knowledge, any of the above have conducted an investigation of you, indicate the name of the agency and the approximate date of the investigation. An investigation (I do not know by whom) was conducted prior to my departure for Bolivia where I was attached to the American Embassy. This investigation took place during August and September of 1958.

Note special instructions: If your answer is “Yes” to the following Questions 10, 11 or 12, provide the information requested for each question on a separate, signed sheet and attach the sheet to this form in a sealed envelope.

10. Have you, or to your knowledge has your spouse, ever been detained, arrested, indicted or convicted for any violation of the law other than a minor traffic violation in the United States or abroad? No.

If so, state name of court, city, state, country, date, nature of offense and disposition of case in accordance with the special instruction above. Yes.
