Material in a concealment area in his desk; the KGB also continued in surveillance of the dead drop site, observed PENKOVSKIY load the dead drop, and sent an American (JACOB) who came to unload it. PENKOVSKIY was then confronted with photographic evidence of the loadings and unloading and could offer no defense. This report was the only indication from a Soviet source that the KGB had surveilled the two visits to the Pushkin Street site made by U.S. Embassy officers; while this report stated that one American visited the site twice, in fact two different Americans visited the site once each, NARONELY on 21 January 1961 and ABIDIAN on 30 December 1961.

(iv) Remarks

The Pushkin Street dead drop was never used for communication to PENKOVSKIY, and in fact was loaded only once, when the KGB did so and activated it on 2 November 1962, thereby apprehending JACOB. Moreover, the first visit to Pushkin Street, in January 1961, predated any personal contact between PENKOVSKIY and Western Intelligence, either American or British. Thus, this report on Americans visiting there is only partially accurate, and the use of these “surveilled” visits as an explanation for how the KGB detected PENKOVSKIY is unsupportable. In reporting incorrectly on this matter, it could have erred merely because his sub-sources (one unnamed, the other apparently despite the conflict in reporting about his position) repeated erroneous information in his presence.

Nevertheless is the only source to reveal that the KGB was aware of the Pushkin Street dead drop as early as 21 January 1961, when NARONELY went to the site. Therefore has detracted from the bona fide of NOSEMKO (NOSENKO) by showing KGB awareness of a CMI officer having gone to the dead drop site 11 months before ABIDIAN’s visit there, and even before PENKOVSKIY finally succeeded in establishing personal contact with Western intelligence services. It was the ABIDIAN visit, NOSEMKO (NOSENKO) said, which first aroused KGB interest in the site at Pushkin Street.
