They certainly are quite active. For instance, the Colombian I mentioned—I still can't think of his name—but his daughter was put in an Albanian school. Poor girl, about eleven years old, and she didn't know a word of Albanian, and most of the Albanians didn't know Spanish. She has managed to suffer through a year of it. It is very interesting to talk to this little girl, now about 12. She was in Cuba, where you might think of the revolution as extremely informal, lax in many ways, easy-going. It's a libertarian type of revolution. Certainly it hasn't had the puritanical type of after-period that one finds in most revolutions, certainly in those where the puritans in China prove a great obstacle for the Africans who go there. They are virtually unable to keep African students because of the fact that there is no sex. They used to let them go to Hong Kong and they would all come back with syphilis and gonorrhea, to the great disgust of the Chinese. This girl, who seemed to like Cuba, in Albania was shocked by the degree of formality of relationships. For instance, she said that at the beaches—in Cuba all the beaches were open, anybody can go to the beach. In Albania they have, as I suppose you find in many Communist countries, high officials, middle officials, low officials, and then just plain working people. (Laugh.) This to her was shocking. She wasn't aware of politics as such, and that is what made talking to her so interesting.

What do you think of Cuba nowadays?

I know one thing, that the PS& has virtually been defeated in every way, the old Communists. I was very much involved; obviously, the Cubans who were my friends were Communists. I suppose that one of the things that made the Cuban revolution attractive was that it wasn't doctrinaire. For Americans, college students, the young people, after all of the years of disenchantment about revolution as such, the Cuban revolution looked like a romantic thing. It was extravagant. All these bearded fellows coming out of the mountains, and anyone who went to Cuba couldn't help but feel the contagion.

I think there was a sympathetic feeling within the States because it was not alien to our own revolutionary background, the idea of little men hiding behind trees shooting at the Redcoats.

Right. Only they were shooting at Batista's troops, who were armed by the United States. This is one of the things that many Americans are unable to realize, how deeply involved the US is with these military regimes. It has obviously been exploited from a point of view, but from the popular imagination, we just don't think of it.
