Dispatch.

To: Chief, OP, NO.  
Date: 19 October 1961.  
From: Chief of Station, Leopoldville.  
Subject: Request for Documents.  
Action required: Guidance regarding model (paragraph 5).

References:

1. On 2 October 1961, WIROGUE telephoned Lester R. SALVACK and said that he had something important to discuss with him. WIROGUE requested SALVACK to come to his house in Binza, a suburb of Leopoldville.

2. WIROGUE had two requests. The first was to ask “Dan” to forward the two laissez-passers (laissez-paissezs) which WIROGUE stated he had turned over to Dan and never got back. Wirogue was quite emphatic that he needed these documents. SALVACK suggested that Wirogue write a note stating exactly what he wanted and give it to him to forward. Wirogue did so, and the note is forwarded as a separate-cover attachment to this dispatch.

3. Wirogue (WIRGUEL) then showed SALVACK a model of a one-man submarine on which he had been working in conjunction with a Belgian engineer (Identity No. 1), who is also a Congolese Air Force adviser. He claimed that this submarine would be capable of speeds up to 100 kilometers an hour on short runs and would have a cruising distance of 500 kilometers. The model, being built to one-seventh scale, is approximately half completed and, of course, has never been tested. Wirogue said he had discussed this model and his plans fully when in headquarters and had made a full report concerning all details. SALVACK said that (1) he was not an engineer and (2) was in no position to make any promise or commitment. All that he could do was report that the model was in the process of construction and further report that Wirogue wanted to make sure that the test got it instead of the Communist bloc.

4. Wirogue expressed full willingness to show the model and gave his companion explain it fully to anyone SALVACK wished to bring to Wirogue’s house. SALVACK made no commitment other than to report the conversation. It should be noted that Wirogue had never mentioned this item before to Station personnel and told SALVACK that neither he nor his companion had said anything to anyone in the Congo concerning it up to this point.

5. If Headquarters is willing, the Station suggests that the COACH attaché be put into contact with Wirogue concerning this item. He could conduct any necessary tests or experiments. Because of Wirogue’s past, however, and the nature of his documentation, the Station requests Headquarters guidance and approval prior to taking any action.
