“UNIDAD” Monthly, Issue No. 36, April 1967.

Front page:

1. Another regime official defects in Great Britain: A brief story on the Collazo defection, followed by excerpts from his original statement. Excerpts include reasons why free-world sea trade with Cuba is declining, including the U.S. Black List and Latin workers’ boycott; Cuba-trading shipowners take advantage of Castro and overcharge him for charters; the personnel problem in “Mambisas”; the planned deception for Expo 67, exhibiting console record players made up of foreign components and wood as Cuban-made; general conclusion: regime officials do not know where they are headed.

2. Editorial: Hated by friend and foe: The Russians hate Castro because he has two-timed them in the Sino-Soviet rift; the Chinese loathe him because they regard him as a mercenary who has sold out to the Soviets. Latin American Reds hate him as well because, as they say, he has promoted fractionalism in their ranks. Anti-Communists throughout the Americas hate him too, as there is not a country in the hemisphere where mothers and wives are not mourning the loss of a dear one to Castroite terrorists. And anti-Red Cubans would not touch Castro with a ten-foot pole. Hated by friend and foe alike, how could anyone think that Castro may eventually survive a chronic economic crisis that his own ineptitude has wrought on the nation?

Page two:

1. Morocco breaks dependence on Cuban sugar: From the EIR we take the story on the Moroccan plan to develop its own sugar industry at the expense of purchases from Cuba. This plan, we stress, is receiving Polish financial and technical aid, which shows to what extent Castro’s Red comrades are concerned with his sugar interests.

2. Do the Soviets send “reject” parts to Cuba? Also from the EIR, this is the story on the “coincidence” that poor-quality or defective parts began to arrive in Cuba, under Soviet-Cuban barter agreements, right after the price of sugar dropped.

3. Where is Raul? A humorous poem by Luis R. Cáceres, Jr. It goes like this…
