Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, being in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This report is occasioned by Subject's early departure from Lima, before end of tour, to assume the duties of COS in Kingston, Jamaica. That fact alone attests the esteem in which he has been held by Hqs and, when the proposal for that assignment was made, also expressed once again by the rater.

Subject had not yet completed his first two years as a DCOS and this was his first crack at that level of responsibility. So his rise of late has been rapid, although of course it is based on abilities and experience developed and polished in the course of a number of tours overseas prior to his coming to Lima. These have all been spent in the Latin environment so the Caribbean will be for him a completely new world. This will be a healthy change for him and is managementally sound as well for the Station to which he is going.

As DCOS in Lima, Subject has shown a high order of operational soundness, administrative good sense, and a conscientiousness about his work that permitted COS to delegate without hesitation both specific problems in any area or even whole sections of Station activity, e.g. narcotics, for him to carry out or to supervise. Subject is a prudent man who thinks things through before acting. He weighs the pros and cons carefully, is quite CI-minded, an indispensable attribute in this semi-hostile climate, and then acts promptly. His judgment, while it tends to come down on the conservative side, is invariably soundly based. His periods of serving as Acting COS have been competently handled as well, always within his understanding of what the COS would want done if he were here.

As a supervisor, Subject has the right combination of patience and firmness when dealing with younger case officers who want to be off and running. He encourages their dealing with younger case officers who want to be off and running.

Certification and Comments by Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: Not dated, o/a 10 Sep 1973. Signature: Thomas J. Keenan.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 15.

Date: Not dated, o/a 10 Sep 1973. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: Richard S. Welch.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

There is little more that can be added to this eloquent report. Mr. Keenan's exceptional characteristics and abilities and his fine performance as DCOS, Lima, an unusually active, busy station, have led to his present assignment as COS, Kingston. The rating officer has stated that Mr. Keenan's rise of late has been rapid and this is true. However, all that he has achieved he has worked very hard for and certainly earned; and despite the fact he has a youthful face and a somewhat boyish manner, he is not all that young in years, so the present grade and position are hardly inconsistent with his age. Viewing the record and this man's potential, there is every reason to expect that he will continue to progress up the managerial ladder at essentially the same pace we have seen in the last three or four years.

Date: 12 November 1973. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WH/Branch 3. Typed or printed name and signature: Richard
