9. Preference for next assignment (continued). Indicate your preference for next assignment by inserting numbers 1, 2, and 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in the boxes below.

2. Return to my current station.

Be assigned to Headquarters for a tour of duty. With respect to possible assignment in Headquarters, indicate choice of component: 1st choice WIID; 2nd choice RID; 3rd choice WED.

3. Or assigned to another field station. With respect to possible reassignment to another field station, indicate choice of geographic area or specific station based on qualifications: 1st choice Madrid; 2nd choice Rome; 3rd choice Salvador.

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments? Indicate number of work days: 15.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents who will be travelling or moving with you: None.

12. Signature: Complete Item No. 5-1, Transmittal Sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form.

To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training:

It is recommended that this employee be returned to Headquarters in January 1960 in order that he may complete his college education at Georgetown University. His replacement, who should be a trained RID specialist, should arrive in Mexico in early December 1959.

This employee should be allowed to take KUBARK training courses which would lead to his becoming an I.O. upon completion of his college education. It is believed he can become a very good I.O. with training.

14. Signature: Complete Item No. 5-2, Transmittal Sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form.

To be completed by appropriate personnel officer at Headquarters.

15. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the component to which he is currently assigned, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training:

Concur with Chief of Station recommendation for assignment at Headquarters in RID since there are no appropriate positions in WH Headquarters to which he could be assigned.

16. Name of personnel officer: P. C. Bowers. Date: 1 July 1959. Signature: [Signature].

For use of Career Service.

17. Employee was or has not been notified or planned to be assigned.

18. Reference.
