Fitness Report. Employer serial number: 00369.

Section A—General.

Name: Williamson, William (?), Earl, J. 13 March 1915.

Service designation: D. Official position title: 7, Officer, Division of Assignment, Madrid/WE.

Career staff status: Members to be deferred; non-deferred. Type of report: Initial; reassignment/supervisor; annual; reassignment/employee. Pending; declined; denied.

Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1961. Reporting period: From 3 Oct 60–31 Mar 61; to 31 Mar 61. Special (specify).

Section B—Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Deputy Chief of Station. Rating No. 1.

Specific duty No. 2: Directs all operations connected with liaison and supervises other officers conducting same. Rating No. 2.

Specific duty No. 3: Liaison with number of local officials. Rating No. 3.

Specific duty No. 4: Contacts with nationals of another area in connection with operations in another area. Rating No. 4.

Specific duty No. 5. Rating No. 5. Specific duty No. 6. Rating No. 6. Specific duty No. 7. Rating No. 7. Rating No. 8.

Section C—Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position: performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee’s overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
5. Performance in every important respect is superior.
6. Performance in every respect is outstanding.
