Dispatch. To/Info. Dispatch symbol and No.: HR-4-4026. From: Chief of Station, San Jose. Headquarters File No. 201-32723. Subject: Operational/Field Traces—CORIERO Calderon Family. Reference: FCS-H-1730.

1. Field traces reveal the following on the CORIERO Calderon family:

a) Federico was born on 29 March 1912, has been living in Panama for several years, and is currently employed at the Union Club in Panama City.

b) Antonio had been living for several years in the Pacific Banana Zone city of Quito, Costa Rica. Recently, he was placed in jail in San Juan de Tibas, a suburb of San Jose, on a charge of robbery.

c) Marie was born in San Jose on 7 February 1920 and was a militant communist prior to and during the 1948 Costa Rican Revolution. After the revolution, she left the Party voluntarily, but was reported to have been actively sympathetic towards communism for the past ten years. Another source reported this month that Marie is visited regularly by communists, who leave printed propaganda with him.

d) Agustín was born in San Jose on 12 November 1925 and is currently living in San Jose, employed as a shopkeeper in a shop owned by a communist. He is reported to be sympathetic to communism.

e) Angela Argentina was born in San Jose on 15 March 1915, now living in Mexico with her husband who is a PERDIE citizen. They own a house in San Jose, in which Maria, see e. above, now lives.

f) Gaby was born in San Jose on 27 February 1923, is married common law to a Spaniard, and has resided in Spain for many years.

g) Congreve is living in New York City, working in a beauty parlor; there are no available traces on Norma or Isabel.

2. Discrepancies will be noted on the vital statistics as opposed to those in reference; Costa Rican Civil Registry files are the station's source. The Registry had no file on either Norma or Isabel. Station files, inquiries to Station assets, and an investigation conducted by HIBURBO accounted for the narrative portions of the traces. The above traces include all of the information available to the station.

Distribution: Washington; Files.

FIA:taf.

16 August 1999.
