The 1st Secretary said that he recognized Rafael because he had seen his picture. During the conversation, the Secretary asked Rafael over to dinner that night, and he accepted. When Rafael arrived, he was introduced to CHIRNISH, who made overtures of friendship that later led to the attempted recruitment. In the meantime, Rafael had introduced CHIRNISH to ANDREA and now regretted it. This led into further conversation about the KGB, and I asked him about CHICKOV. He said that he had worked for CHICKOV but had no idea that CHICKOV was KGB. CHICKOV had never made any attempt to recruit him for anything. He later mentioned that he might know VOSKUEVSKIN by first name, but could not be sure of the last one. I did not try to describe him. The subject mentioned other Soviets who were KGB during a fast-moving conversation, but I did not take notes. My aim was the recruitment, and I tried to keep the conversation channeled toward that end.

During the conversation, the subject said that at one time his mother had confided in him that they had tried to recruit her several times in Moscow to work against Spaniards and Latin Americans who visited. The KGB had once threatened her, but when she confirmed that she would consult her husband, they told her to forget it. He said that she had known many members of the KVD, KVD, and now KGB, but that she still refused to work for them in their business.

After considerable further discussion along the same lines, the subject finally thought a bit and said that he would agree to work with me on one condition only. The condition was that I would not ask him to inform on or work against any of his friends or students, including CELL, VINTURA, or ANDREA in particular, and that if anything should happen to him as a result of his work for me, I would promise to take care of his wife and child. I agreed to his condition, restating that my only concern was the KGB. I said, however, that in the future, if I could prove to him or convince him that any of his local acquaintances were directly involved with the KGB, then I would expect him to help me.
