From/To. Date of employment (city and state). Name and address of employer (item, organization, or person; if Federal, name department, bureau or establishment, and division). Kind of business or organization; number and kind of employees supervised by you; reason for leaving; description of your work.

If more space is required, use a continuation sheet (Standard Form No. 50) or a sheet of paper the same size as this page. Write on each sheet your name, address, date of birth, and examination title. Attach to inside of application.

Military training: In the space below, describe any training received in the Armed Services (not already listed under Item 16) that would assist in qualifying you for employment in the present service. Indicate actual amount of training received, such as hours per week. Detailed information regarding any special service schools you attended is especially important. Extra pages may be used to give full descriptions.

Education (circle highest grade completed).

Name and location of college or university: Sir, Geo. Williams College; Trinity College, Conn.; U. Michigan, Ann Arbor. Chief undergraduate college subjects: French; English; Japanese.

Name and location of last high school attended: High School of Montreal. Subjects studied in high school which apply to position desired: English, French, physics, history.

Other training, such as vocational, business, study courses given through the Army Forces Institute (show name and location of school) or in-service training in public or private employment: USAFT.

Indicate your knowledge of foreign languages. Reading: excellence in this area. Speaking. Understanding. Listening. Japanese. French.

If you have traveled or resided in any foreign countries, indicate names of countries, dates and length of time spent there, and reason or purpose: France: 3 mos, 1927; 3 mos, 1944. Canada: 5 yrs, 1927–1928. Japan: 1 yr.

List any special skills you possess and machines and equipment you can use, such as operation of short-wave radio, multifilm comptometer, key-punch, turret lathe, scientific or professional devices: All cine equipt; teletypes; short-wave receivers and transmitters. Approximate number of words per minute in typing: shorthand.

Are you now or have you ever been a licensed or certified member of any trade or profession, such as pilot, electrician, radio operator, teacher, lawyer, CPA, etc.: No. Give kind of license and state. First license or certificate (year). Latest license or certificate (year).

Show any special qualifications not covered elsewhere in your application such as: (1
