(Seventh Department — January 1962–January 1964)

Gribanov instructed the two representatives of the American Department to write a report on what other possibilities existed. He also told them to request permission to arrest and search the Service Attachés.

Gribanov then asked what pertinent information was held by the Seventh Department. He was told that there were relatively few American tourists in the Soviet Union at that time. These included Barghoorn, who was mentioned to Gribanov along with one other (name not recalled). Nosenko and Kovalenko reported, however, that the KGB had no “strong” materials to use against them. They were ordered to make an immediate study of the situation and to report back to Gribanov as soon as possible.

Returning to the Seventh Department, Nosenko and Kovalenko gathered the entire American Tourist Section in their office. In a general discussion, it was decided that Barghoorn was the only possible American target. All information on Barghoorn was gathered, and Nosenko and Kovalenko took it to Gribanov. Gribanov read it and was pleased; he was sure that Barghoorn was connected with American Intelligence. He then asked what could be done. Nosenko and Kovalenko reported that Barghoorn was then in Tbilisi and that, in fact, Ye. N. Noskov (case officer, American Tourist Section) was in Tbilisi with a woman doctor from the KGB Operational Technical Directorate for the purpose of working against Barghoorn; the doctor had some special substance which had been used to make Barghoorn so violently ill that he had to be hospitalized. While he was in the hospital, a careful search had been made of his belongings, but nothing of operational interest had been found. In addition, a KGB agent was placed in Barghoorn’s room as a patient; he made anti-Soviet statements and offered Barghoorn “materials,” but Barghoorn did not rise to the bait. At the time of this meeting with Gribanov, Barghoorn was scheduled to fly from Tbilisi to Moscow the following morning, and the KGB knew from a phone tap that he had an appointment with Theodore Orchard of the British Embassy at the Hotel Metropol the following evening.
