(Seventh Department—June 1955–January 1960)

Yefremov's known activities with respect to Americans took place in the course of less than twelve months in 1959–1960. It is probable that Nosenko's claim that he was their sole case officer during even this relatively brief period is also false. In the period April–November 1959, apparently unknown to Nosenko, Volkov and Yefremov were involved with one Dutch and five American visitors, including three CIA agents, in the Soviet Union. Further, in other contexts Nosenko has described their involvement with Americans Matlaw (see p. 419) and Karlov in 1959, of which Nosenko only learned when he retired Volkov's and Yefremov's file in 1962–1963. Karlov was a Swedish, not an American, citizen.

Operational Activities (1955–1958)

Tourist Section Case Officer

According to Nosenko, he was among the first case officers to arrive in the Seventh Department Tourist Section when it was being formed. He took part with other officers in the acquisition of an agent network from within Inturist, in the establishment of facilities and methods, and generally “getting things going.” After several months, he participated in what he says was his first operation against an American tourist. This was Nosenko's behind-the-scenes (and hence unconfirmed) and unsuccessful attempt to compromise American student Martin Malia. Nosenko's next case, the first operation in which his participation is confirmed, took place a year later, in June 1956, when he assisted in the homosexual entrapment and recruitment of Professor Richard Burgi. Sometime in 1957, he said, he was personally involved in the attempted recruitment of the German businessman Gehrckens and in the sexual and black-market entrapment of Sundar, a Norwegian journalist. Both Gehrckens and Sundar admitted to having been the object of KGB recruitment attempts, the former reluctantly in a private interview, and the latter publicly in the press. It has been possible to question neither in detail. Nosenko's presence in the third “operation” in 1957 is confirmed: he accompanied the
