By some Congressional friends that such an assignment would be somewhat equal to “going off to Sibbors” career-wise. The other two job potentials are nongovernmental and private in nature. The first, but perhaps least desirable of these, since he would have to put up some of his own funds, is to assist some contacts in New York in establishing an investment concern in Latin America. The main advantage of this would be that he would be traveling throughout the area on an exploratory basis. The second of these nongovernmental positions, and the one which is at present most to Tichborn’s (P) liking, is legal representative for a TV film dubbing and distribution firm located in Mexico City. The American owner of this firm is a personal friend. In addition, this type of position would provide good cover for travel throughout Latin America and would at the same time leave him free to devote a considerable amount of time to operational activities. The main drawback is that the salary, unspecified, apparently is not adequate or commensurate with the income Tichborn (P) has derived from his law practice in the past.

3. As to Tichborn’s (P) present situation, he is anxious to get settled as soon as possible and is waiting to determine our actual interest in using him before he makes a decision as to which job offer to accept. He is not working in the interim, although he has left someone in his law office on the West Coast and does derive some income therefrom, which is another factor in his hoping to obtain an answer from us as soon as possible. Also, he is temporarily renting a house in Arlington and would like very much to get his family more or less permanently settled and his children in school.

4. This future use of Tichborn (P) was suggested to WHD and IOD in general terms a few weeks ago, and both appeared interested, WHD especially so. Consequently, an appointment was set up with WHD for 5 May, but this meeting was cancelled due to other meetings which arose within WHD. Meetings were then arranged and held with Mr. McLaughlin of 10/6 on 6 May and with Mr. Penney of WH/CA on 9 May, both of which were held at the Marriott Motor Hotel, Key Bridge. The conversations were very rewarding to all concerned, and 10/6 expressed an interest in Tichborn’s working in

Cline

-2.
