Office Travel Order No. EB-266/32. Allotment Account Symbol: COINS (C-3210-31-01).

Name: Lucia E. Comeen. Office phone: 671. Grade and salary: Major – USA. Title: Intelligence Officer. Official station: Washington, D. C.

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with Agency Regulations.

Itinerary: 15–20, Washington, D. C. to Athens, Greece to Frankfurt, Germany and return to Washington, D. C.

Purpose: To confer on operational matters in connection with CORPS.

Special provisions: $250.00 action authorized. Military cover orders authorized.

Coordination, as required, to be effected by originating office: DD/P; other operational areas; theater clearance, if obtainable.

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized.

Travel to begin on or about. Terminating approximately. Certification by processing branch. Mode of travel: 31 May 2021.

Allowance for privately owned automobile as follows if applicable: (A) Seven cents per mile, not to exceed cost by common carrier. (B) Seven cents per mile, as being more advantageous to the Government.

The change of official station indicated is effected in the interest of the Government and not for your personal convenience. In connection with change of station, you are authorized to transport your immediate family, your household goods, personal effects, subject to weight limits, restrictions and provisions as set forth in Agency Regulations.

Travel to first post of duty abroad, including expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal effects and automobile, is authorized.

Return from post of duty abroad, including expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal effects and automobile, is authorized.

Dependents to travel with employee. Military orders required by MPD: 15 Apr 93.

Dependents to travel within one year of employee.

Temporary duty.

Name and title of authorizing official: Fred N. Bronel, Capt., AGC. Date. Signature of authorizing official.
