(b) In addition to the above payments, you will be entitled to an equalization allowance calculated at the rate of $2180 per annum. This allowance is in lieu of any present or future standardized post allowance established for your present permanent post of duty overseas, but is subject to the entitlement provisions applicable to standardized post allowances. It is understood and agreed that this allowance is predicated upon the comparative cost of living between Washington, D. C., and your overseas post, your unofficial cover, family status and basic compensation. Consequently, this allowance may be unilaterally adjusted or discontinued by the Government whenever warranted by a change in any of these factors. No accounting will be required for this allowance.

5. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for the following travel and transportation expenses:

(a) For you alone for authorized operational travel. In addition, you will be entitled to reimbursement in accordance with standardized Government rates for the authorized official use of your private automobile.

(b) Upon the satisfactory completion of each two (2) years of successful overseas service under this contract, you will be entitled to home leave travel expenses for you and your dependents from your permanent post of duty overseas to your place of recorded residence in the United States and return travel expenses to your permanent post of duty overseas; provided, however, that you have fulfilled any other requirements relating to home leave which are applicable to Government staff employees.

(c) Upon the successful completion of your services under this agreement, for you, your dependents, your household effects and your private automobile from your permanent post of assignment overseas to your place of residence in the United States.

You will be entitled to per diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of all travel performed hereunder and, when authorized, for you alone while on temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be properly authorized and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to payment and accounting in compliance with applicable Government regulations.

6. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information, as specifically approved by the Government. Each funds will be subject to accounting in compliance with Government regulations.

7. Repayment. It is recognized that your failure to account for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appropriate.
