Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections D, C, and E to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

One of Mr. Piccolo's outstanding characteristics is his desire to improve himself. This is evidenced by both his continued educational program on the outside and by his successful effort to learn everything possible about his job. He wants very much to obtain further career training within the DD&F area, particularly in the FI field. I believe he has a definite potential for such work and that he should be given an opportunity for appropriate operational training as soon as possible.

His performance while under my supervision has consistently been well above that to be expected of an employee in his present grade, and I strongly recommend that he be promoted at once to GS-8. He has more than earned it.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Months employee has been under my supervision: 7 months. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify). Date. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

3. By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Date: 14 May 1961. Official title of reviewing official: Acting Chief, WH/4. Typed or printed name and signature: E. A. STANLEY.
