3. Indicate the approximate number of months the rated employee has been under your supervision.

4. Comments concerning potential: His potential for advancement is excellent, he has the right blend of operational know-how and supervisory talent to undertake most of his assigned duties. Although his advancement has been restricted for this reason, he now holds a position that requires “high security” poise and common sense almost completely eliminate any factor in his potential for a more senior job.

Mail from.

Section W. Future Plans.

1. Training or other developmental experience planned for the individual: Subject reserves at sometime within the next year or two the opportunity to broaden his experience either by change of station or advancement to a more responsible job in a large one.

2. Note other factors, including personal circumstances, to be taken into account in individual's future assignments: None.

Section I. Description of Individual.

Directions: This section is provided as an aid to describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret the words literally. On the page below are a series of statements that apply in some degree to most people. To the left of each statement is a box under the heading “category.” Read each statement and insert in the box the category number which best tells how much the statement applies to the person covered by this report.

Category number: X — Have not observed this; hence can give no opinion as to how the description applies to the individual. 1 — Applies to the individual to the least possible degree. 2 — Applies to individual to a limited degree. 3 — Applies to individual to an average degree. 4 — Applies to individual to an above average degree. 5 — Applies to individual to an outstanding degree.

Category 4: 1. Can do as well as another's point of view. Category 5: 11. Was high standards of accomplishment. Category 5: 21. Is effective in discussions with associates.

Category 5: 2. Can make decisions on his goals without advice. Category 1: 12. Shows originality. Category 4: 22. Implements decisions regardless of our feelings.

Category 4: 3. Was initiative. Category 5: 13. Accepts responsibility. Category 4: 23. Is thoughtful of others.

Category 5: 4. Is analytic in his thoughts. Category 4: 14. Admits his errors. Category 4: 24. Works well under pressure.

Category 4: 5. States constantly for use and knowledge and ideas. Category 4: 15. Responds well to supervision. Category 5: 25. Displays judgement.

Category 4: 6. Doesn't need to be help. Category 5: 16. Does his
