Mexico City in December 1958 and January 1959, it was considered appropriate for SCANTLING to become limited. LECALLA and LIENTRAP. According to its propositum, a document [OCR unclear] its performance as a principal. It was the only instrument in which the Union could conduct itself in military [OCR unclear], with the case operations being done. NOANTILANC is now known as the agreement with ALI LIMITED, LECALLA and LIENTRAP for several years. In fact, its two main claims are the apportionment of those various operations.

5. Operational Methods Developed During the Period — The VIDALES operation (see page 37) was studied under the code name Vidales until the beginning of 1960. This code name was chosen with the idea in mind that this operation can be expanded to a larger scale. It is certain that the success of this program will be followed by further steps to increase its scope and capabilities. The introduction of LIENTRAP IV should make the success of the program more likely. The introduction of SCANTLING means that the standard of the forces' leading light should be changed from the current system. And there should be increased priority for the development of a new system. This second system should be a considerable increase on the existing system as SCANTLING's initial estimate shows. (See HMA-1138, 22 Dec. 1959, and HMAW-7002, 21 November 1969, for additional details; see pp. 22–23).

In future wars, use other countermeasures may be made about any factor's support. For example, since electronic and geodetic equipment has so much influence, the currency of data from the batteries will be determined by intelligence, etc., and particularly during napalysed operations, SCANTLING, as probably mentioned above, may be used for these types of operations.

6. Administration — SCANTLING's current expense is 12 February 1959. Half of the total cost of SCANTLING will have received an annual salary of $3,600 U.S. for two years. The other half will be paid as annual compensation plus $4,100.00 U.S. per year. Other expenses such as overhead problems must be provided for.

7. Cashback for Future Development — Such a plan could for the present consist of SCANTLING to be the same manner as he is presently handling them. Theoretically, with help SCANTLING can be supported at some cost, if necessary, regular telegrams to make him a professional agent in charge of whatever happens. As indicated above, SCANTLING is the type of contract same that can be worded up to be in the form of a fixed payment for many years to come and that every effort should be made so process is speed and value to RUMAI.

Account of Developments — Raymond H. Gardner Segment

8. Are Information — Assets from the present information given in HMA-11388, 22 October 1959, are all policies are developed was GARDNER's December 1959 marriage to a U.S. associate girl of past records. That $32.00 U.S. for the purchase of two planes reaches as a result only if GARDNER was designed to buy one or more planes with the facts that EAGLE states highly of Mr. Gardiner as an ideal mate and that SCANTLING has a great interest in his intelligence officer. GARDNER is so sure she is right where he is going so instead of just asking the former holds out her hand. In the near future, she wants to propose a salary offer for GARDNER.
