North from some plantations, was a long way over which everything went, from coffee to minerals in the attested. The Panamanian cargo was replaced by Nicholas and Dulce ricals and Lake Isabel to Santa Tomás and Puerto Barra, there to be transferred to American ships. Panamá was the site of another operation carried out by the Edgar Ibarra detachment. The guerrillas occupied it and then retreated without bearing any losses.

The government was compelled to issue an official announcement that “malefactors” had seized a considerable quantity of arms and that troops had been sent out after them with orders to bring them back “dead or alive.” This official announcement was significant. Until then the government had denied the existence of a guerrilla movement in Guatemala; now its existence was recognized as a fact.

Much as they wished to do otherwise, it could not be done. He felt that a battle had been lost. In the battle between Panamá and Guatemala, in which the guerrillas had suffered losses, it is estimated that 500 were killed, two-thirds of them captured. A few of the soldiers died in Panamá, and so in Panama explained before release: “It’s not you we are killing. You are poor men ... ourselves. You have the same legs we have. We are fighting the opposite enemy set up in our country as a handful of army colonels in the interests of the Yankees.”

Whenever the appearance offers, the guerrillas explain the aim of their struggle to the soldiers of the national army. Those aims are set forth in detail. In the Manifesto addressed by the Armed Forces Secretary in November 1972, Costá said these lines: “We want a social revolution, not more government. It is not a matter of replacing one set of rulers by another, for then the people would, if possible, be realized, as has been the case in the history of Central America. It is a matter of the fundamental renovation of the regime.”

The guerrilla preponderance, it must be said, falls on fertile soil.

When I left the guerrillas, I heard in farewell these words from our national anthem: “In God or do.” The words are now the battle cry of the Armed Rebel Forces. Back in the city I plunged once again into the activities of the underground resistance movement, but they stayed with me more than any of the men of the Pig. I am the son of a man who served against the apparatus of my people.

Guatemala

December 1984

Answers to Readers’ Questions

The Soviet Union’s Diplomatic Relations

R. N. Krasilovets of Khodorov, East Region, and other New Front leaders have written to ask what countries the Soviet Union established diplomatic relations with.

By January 1981, the Soviet Union had established diplomatic relations with 95 countries. Seventy-three of them have diplomatic missions in Moscow. The State Union maintains five missions in Moscow.

The following is the list:

Afghanistan (Abdul Aziz, Angora, Aracina, Antananarivo, Asadabad, Azizan), Azerbaijan.
