United States Department of Defense. Correspondence Form. Coordinating Officers. Receiving Officer. Authenticating Office.

Security classification. Submitter's information: Secret. Date submitted: 1-14-0000. Reporting officer: John F. Kennedy. Receiving officer: Jack H. Harris.

Date: 1-14-00. Time: 16:00. Form of transmission: Secret.

C/C/AS.

Mexico City.

Boston.

Miami.

Since 1978, the Cuban government has been aware of the plans for the New Year's Day celebration. It is expected that President Llombo Normállo will be at the centenary ceremony in the Capitol on June 2, 1989, at 12 noon, and that electoral results will be available by midnight estimates. It is possible that President Normállo may be absent from the capital due to illegal demolumiento.

By order of the President.

José (JOSÉº) López de Orozco, Minister of Exterior, Secretaría de Relations with Countries, Delegate of the President.

1989.

Boston, USA.

The previous statement was recorded on Jan. 16, 1989, at 11:00 a.m., EST, by a cable Carondelet that was en route from Miami International Airport to New York City. The transmission of this cable began at 10:32 a.m. and was received in Washington, D.C., at 10:43 a.m. EST.

The content of the message indicates that the Cubans are aware of the plans for the New Year's Day celebration and expect to be present in the capital on June 2. It also states that there will be no official transmission until after midnight on June 1, 1989, and that the Cubans have not yet received their electoral results.

The Cubans are expected to participate in the centenary celebrations on June 2, where they will receive a detailed briefing on the state of affairs. There is also mention of an attempt by the United States to contact the Cubans, but it is stated that no attempt has been made to receive them.

End of message.

The U.S. State Department's秘書處謹按: Honda, J. E. M.: 16.1.89.

SAS/MOB.

C/M.

SAS/TOM.

SAS/MOB.

Honda, J. E. M.: 16.1.89.

SAS/PHILIP.

SAS/MOB.

SAS/PHILIP: C. Smith.
