Thousands as difficult handling problems. Given these apparent factors, the Nosenko (NOSENKO) lead may have been considered expendable by the KGB, without long-lasting adverse effect on the fulfillment of its overall intelligence requirements.

Nosenko (NOSENKO) was the first source to identify James Storsberg (STORSBERG), a U.S. military code clerk stationed at the Moscow Embassy, as a target who had rejected the KGB's recruitment offer (Pages 165-185). The information was received from Nosenko (NOSENKO) after Storsberg (STORSBERG) was discharged from the U.S. Army, and when interviewed on the basis of this information, Storsberg (STORSBERG) generally confirmed Nosenko's (NOSENKO's) reporting on the case. Golitsyn (GOLITSYN) had earlier reported on what may have been the same KGB operation, but Golitsyn (GOLITSYN) believed the military code clerk had been recruited; from what Golitsyn (GOLITSYN) had previously told CIA and from later investigations, it seems possible that the KGB recruited either Storsberg (STORSBERG) or William Hurley (HURLEY), who Nosenko (NOSENKO) said was not recruited or approached by the KGB. If it is assumed that Storsberg (STORSBERG) was not recruited in the approach described by Nosenko (NOSENKO) and in the operation discussed by Golitsyn (GOLITSYN), the KGB suffered no loss in the American services learning of this case. If it is assumed on the other hand that Storsberg (STORSBERG) or Hurley (HURLEY) was recruited, the reporting by Nosenko (NOSENKO) assisted the KGB—not the American services—by deflecting security investigations from a recruited agent of the KGB.

(iii) Importance or Usefulness

The American leads from Nosenko (NOSENKO) enabled U.S. security authorities to:

Confirm previous information on the recruitments of 13 tourists and three correspondents.

Verify previous derogatory information on 11 tourists, two correspondents, and perhaps one military code clerk, Storsberg (STORSBERG).

Remove two homosexuals from the U.S. Embassy in Moscow.

Identify 32 KGB agents including Hedwig Johnson (JOHNSON) and Mintkenbaugh (MINTKENBAUGH).

One or possibly two of these 32 agents (Smith (SMITH) and possibly Howard (HOWARD)) in the past had been in a position to pass classified information to the KGB, and a third (Johnson (JOHNSON)) had current access to classified information and current contact with the KGB; the two homosexuals at the Moscow Embassy (Armstrong (ARMSTRONG) and Hoffman (HOFFMAN)) presumably also had access to classified information. From the standpoint of protecting the security of the U.S. Government, Nosenko (NOSENKO) brought to an end the Johnson (JOHNSON) operation and the KGB's potential for recruiting Armstrong (ARMSTRONG) and Hoffman (HOFFMAN).

Against this product of Nosenko's (NOSENKO's) reporting must be balanced the amounts of money and manpower that were needed for U.S. security authorities to exhaust and investigate Nosenko's (NOSENKO'S) information on 49 recruitments, 35 developmental targets, seven unsuccessful recruitment approaches, and 33 investigations by the KGB—a total of 113 operational leads. CIA carried the burden of the debriefing and interrogation of Nosenko (NOSENKO) on these cases, but the investigative

Among these 32 agents were many whom the KGB had not recontacted after their return to the United States from the Soviet Union, others who had broken contact with the KGB, some who were known
