Incumbent University of Chile Rector Edgardo Boeninger, an independent with Christian Democratic sympathies, gained 51.9 per cent of the vote for rector in April against three other contenders representing the UP coalition and leftist splinter groups, including the MIR. An independent-PDC slate also gained control of the previously Marxist-controlled Superior Normative (Normanative) Council. The victory was billed by the opposition media as another victory for democracy and pluralism over “Marxist totalitarianism.” In the process Rector Boeninger became a hero of the opposition media and a symbol of “democratic” defiance of Government efforts to impose its will on an independent university. The opposition’s rallying cry became “Defend a democratic and pluralist university.” Translated into media terms it became “‘We want a democratic and pluralistic university TV channel.”

Rallying behind that slogan, opposition supporters at the two Catholic Universities (Santiago and Valparaíso) began to ease out leftist influence in the news departments of the two university channels. UP supporters, however, remain at the technician level at the Santiago channel and can be expected to create problems for their opponents. Opposition authorities who now control the channel are proceeding cautiously against them.

A more significant indication of UP long-range attitudes toward television freedoms has been the Government’s persistent refusal to permit university television stations to extend their networks throughout Chile. In September 1972, President Allende blocked the opposition’s most recent attempt to obtain legislative sanction for such an extension by vetoing selected items in a PDC-introduced bill. The Government claimed that its own bill—pending before Congress and allowing universities to establish stations only within the territory in which the seat of each university is located—would create a national network for all recognized universities on an “equal and non-discriminatory” basis. What the Government did not say was that the bill if passed would preserve the State Network’s position as the only single channel that can be viewed by a national television audience. Presumably the Government bill also would permit the Communist-dominated State Technical University to operate a television station in Santiago in competition with Santiago’s Catholic University channel which, according to available public opinion surveys, is viewed by approximately 69 per cent of the capital’s audience.

R-4-73. February 27, 1973.
