Section D: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Piccolo is an integral part of the Special Operations Branch which, in way of explanation, is charged with undertaking certain sensitive operations assigned by Chief, CI; it is also responsible for a variety of ad hoc requirements not normally found elsewhere in the DDO which require the handling of offbeat but CI-related investigations, and in rendering support to the FBI in its cases abroad. Mr. Piccolo, in the fulfillment of these assorted tasks of the Branch, has demonstrated discretion, tact, flexibility, open-mindedness, operational know-how, and good common sense. He is viewed as a highly experienced, completely dependable officer, requiring a minimum of supervision. He does, however, know when to seek guidance and accepts it with good cheer. His approach to operational problems is based on a solid appreciation of what is required and is not afraid to express his views on a problem when necessary, but he will implement a decision once made. These attributes, coupled with his fairness, single-minded approach to his work, and dedication, mark him as a professional in the true sense of the word.

Continued.

Section E: Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 15. Date: 25 October 1977. Official title of supervisor: AC/CI/OG/SO. Typed or printed name and signature: Daniel R. Niesciur.

2. By Employee. I have not attached a statement concerning the supervisor's evaluation of my performance. Date: 25 OCT 77. Signature of employee: Joseph S. Piccolo.

3. By Reviewing Official.

I have known Mr. Piccolo since early this year and have been much impressed by his professionalism, conscientiousness, and capacity for just plain hard work. He has done everything that we have asked him to do quickly and well. His work both on the sensitive and productive CI project mentioned by the rating officer and on several counterintelligence surveys has been consistently first-rate. He thinks well and he writes well. Based on his broad field experience, his language skill, and his deep dedication to the Agency, he would appear to have considerable growth potential. He is one of our very best officers. I unhesitatingly concur in the rating officer's letter grades and narrative comments.

Date: 26 OCT 77. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, CI Ops Group. Typed or printed name and signature: Jack Friedlander.

4. By Employee.

I certify that I have read, understood, and fully agree with all statements made in this report, if any, as to the qualifications necessary for the position of the officer hereto designated.
