Field Reassignment Questionnaire. Name of employee (true): Bogley, Tennent. Date (from Item 9-1): 1 Mar 55. Name of supervisor (true): Tweddle, Bromson. Date (from Item 9-2): Mar–Jun.

Note: and signature of official at headquarters authorized to verify data in Items No. 1 through 7 below. Do not complete for headquarters use only. So not complete.

To be completed by employee. Date of birth: 11 November 1925. Grade: GS-12. Current position title: Area Operations Officer.

Establishment and direction, under the Chief of Operations, of counterespionage effort of VOB, initially against all opposition services and subsequently Soviet intelligence only. This included organisation and maintenance of files, establishment of necessary procedures (namechecking, carding, filing, reporting) and the supervision and handling of CE operations; double agents against Soviet and Hungarian IS; surveillance operations; interrogations and debriefings of personalities of CE interest (including staff officer defectors from RIS and HIS); planning and execution of recruitment/defection approaches to Soviet officials; collation and exploitation of CE information obtained from VOB operations, Hqs, and other station correspondence and from liaison with other U. S. agencies. Personal handling of agents operating against following targets: double agents against Soviet and Hungarian services, penetration of Soviet element in Austria (Austris), Austrian government, economic intelligence, Satellite installations in Vienna and legal and illegal border crossing into Satellites. Maintenance of liaison with other U. S. agencies in Vienna. Technical functions including photography and audio surveillance.

Service designation (if known): Kufire. Current station or field base: Vienna Operations Base. Other duty stations or field bases during current tour: None. Expected date of departure: 15 September 1955.

Preference for next assignment. Write a brief description of the type of work you would prefer for your next assignment if it differs from that indicated in Item No. 8 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choices. Headquarters or United States field assignment in the counterespionage field.

Indicate what training you believe you should have in order to increase your value to the organization (refer to catalog of courses, if available). Advanced Counterespionage Course.
