Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the supervisor where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him about his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-170. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item R of Section A below.

Section A. General.

1. Name (Last): Wicken, Lee H.

2. Date of birth: 1 December 1957.

3. Sex: M.

4. Service designation: DL.

5. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/WE/Scandinavian Branch.

6. Official position title: Acta Opas Officer.

7. Grade: GS-11 ACAP.

8. Date report due in or: 19 March 1957–23 September 1957.

10. Type of report: Initial; Annual; Special (specify). Signature/supervisor: X.

Section B. Certification.

I, for the rated [ ] has [x] has not been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

Not: He is no longer in WE-I.

A. Check (X) appropriate statements.

X This report reflects my opinions of this personal (personnel).

This report reflects the considered opinions of myself and previous supervisors.

I have discussed with this employee his startracks (strengths) and recommendations so that he knows where he stands.

If individual is rated “I” in C1 of D, a pending let-go is set up to minimize copy attachments to this report. I cannot certify that the rated individual’s rating was equally as good as this, but I can evaluate his job performance because (specify).

B. This date: 25 October 1957.

C. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: Robert C. Vore.

D. Supervisor’s official title: AC/WE-I/Sweeden.

2. For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

L.Y. Date.

Posted for Control DP 11/14/57.

Reviewed 11/15/5
