And processor of tapes; he has excelled in this type of work because of his bilingual Spanish/English facility and, more importantly, due to his diversified experience in clandestine operations, which permits him to spot operational leads much more readily than the average LIFEAT monitor.

b. Duties — GERENDE is currently serving as the principal agent in charge of LIMITED, LICALIA, LIPSTICK Photo Truck, LIJERSEY Surveillance Team, and LILYRIC. In addition, he monitors and processes the BGMORNING and Cuban Exiles LIFEAT taps. He also supervises the photographic processing of LIPSTICK-38 (his brother-in-law) and the translation work of LIPSTICK-40 (his sister). He maintains contact with and provides administrative support to LIMITATIONS 5 and 6, LICCOL-7 Base operators. Quite obviously, GERENDE's many duties overlap the bounds of several Station operations, namely LIPSTICK, LIJERSEY, LIFEAT, LICCOL, and several activities which are not listed under formal projects, such as BGMORNING. It is recognized by the Station that it is not advisable to have one principal agent connected with as many operations as is GERENDE. However, the present scarcity of both staff and contract agents of the principal-agent type necessitates such efficiency measures. Every effort is being made to compartmentalize the various segments of GERENDE's operations and to decrease, and to eliminate where possible, all lateral communications between agents.

c. Security Problems — The most serious security situation surrounding GERENDE and his many activities is the fact that LIPSTICKS 12 and 30 (two of the LIPSTICK Team members arrested in the June 1958 flap) know GERENDE by true name, and knew that he also worked for KUBARK. In fact, LIPSTICK-30 is a close personal friend of GERENDE's and was originally recommended for KUBARK employment by GERENDE. The operational security hypotheses that can be constructed from these existing acquaintances are too numerous to list in this brief review. Suffice to say that should GERENDE be arrested by one of the local police agencies, most of the remaining support assets would be destroyed or so seriously compromised that the Station would indeed be foolish to continue using them. It is appropriate to state here, however, that neither GERENDE nor the Station believes that GERENDE has yet been named or otherwise identified as a result of the LIPSTICK flap. It is granted, though, that any future questions by one of the local police agencies to the compromised LIPSTICKERS represent a continuing type of danger for GERENDE. Based on the duties which GERENDE is currently performing, the readers of this review can well imagine what the consequences to several operations
