Continuation of Dispatch

UFGA-7171

He believes that they would yet be willing to carry or send any obvious envoy material. He does believe that they would be willing to carry canned goods to AMCUTLER-2, and this is being explored, with the idea of concealing money, maps, etc. in the tin cans.

4. For the purpose of trying to develop new KUTUBE operations, AMCUTLER-1 has been following up leads given him by his case officer. He has interviewed:

Carlos Manuel Caceres-Blay  
Former manager, Motel Las Cuevas, Trinidad  
Residence: 1122 S.W. 16th Ave., Miami, Fla.

from whom he obtained two intelligence reports; and

Evelio Cruz  
Born: Candelaria, Cuba  
Residence: 1545 S.W. 6th St., Apt. 4, Miami, Fla.

from whom he obtained operational information on the Esquivel Caves, Soroa Zone, termino municipal of Candelaria, Pinar del Rio. Cruz passed AMCUTLER-1 to:

Luis Hernandez, aka “El Terrible”  
Residence: 665 N.E. 24th St., Apt. 8, Miami, Fla.

who gave additional information on the caves which, he said, are the property of his brothers-in-law:

Dionisio Pugarte  
Sixto Pugarte

and

Anita Perraste Betancourt, Candelaria, Pinar del Rio, Cuba,

who still lives in the area.

5. AMCUTLER-1 reported that his friend “Pepe” Gonzalez, whose brother-in-law now resident in Spain is a son of:

Dr. Carlos Apdemonte  
Head of Cartographic Office of INRA

has received word that Apdemonte is looking for a way to leave Cuba. AMCUTLER-1 is trying to develop additional information on Apdemonte’s situation from Gonzalez. Other than press clippings, the only JMWAVE trace on Apdemonte is contained in HKH-02664 of 15 April 1960.

6. On 22 December 1962 AMCUTLER-1 reported that he had been invited by one:

“Chique” Kontes, C.I.T., Cuba  
Cuban citizen  
Resident: Puerto Rico

to join a maritime expedition aimed against tanker traffic on the south coast of Cuba, with the further objective of seizing a Cuban frigate with the cooperation of its captain. Details were sent to Headquarters in WAVE-2749 of 22 December, in the hope that it might be possible to make a tentative identification of the naval officer involved.

7. On 25 December 1962 AMCUTLER-1 reported that he had been informed the day before by:

Pedro Luis Adal Lanz

that two individuals named:

C.I.T.: Cuba  
Contact Sub. of 201-293865

Gouvernement de l’Islande

Since 1965, the Island of the Queen
