12 May 1966

Subject: Contact Report/LICOY-5. 11 May, 1200, subject's office.

1. By telephone an attempt was made to line subject up for an LCFLUTTER. But the time subject was able to allot for “meeting the representative from Washington” was too limited for the operator, and thus the examination was postponed to some later date.

The C.O. wants to go on record, in any event, for believing that the timing was not appropriate for subjecting subject to the LCFLUTTER. Subject had been led over a period of months up to the point where he carried out a break-off from the Soviets regarding clandestine work for them. Just the same day he had been scheduled for the examination, 3 May, he had a scene with his old Soviet case officer, Prikhodko, and no matter what aplomb subject has (and he has plenty), subject finds the break-off soones emotionally wearing. Hence, to have sprung an LCFLUTTER on him at this time, he may have been inordinately sensitive to a feeling that we distrusted him—coming as it did after our adamant stand that he cut loose from the Soviets. The risk of affronting subject by an LCFLUTTER was not, in the C.O.'s opinion, worth it at this particular stage of relationships in the operation.

2. On 11 May subject reported that on 10 May at about 1630 Valentin Loginov came to his office. Loginov asked subject if he knew anything about the Congress of Intellectuals that was going to take place in Mexico. Loginov said that the Congress, whose topic was Anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union, was really anti-Soviet. He brought subject a pamphlet in Spanish, “The Jews in the Soviet Union” (printed by the Soviet Embassy in Mexico)—attached. Subject did some fast thinking, because he in reality had booked the hotel reservations for the group that was to attend the Congress. He told Loginov that he had handled the hotel reservations at the Hotel Del Prado. When Loginov asked for the names of the delegates, subject said he didn't know them.

Earlier that day subject had seen Israeli Ambassador Arad, and the Congress had been a topic of discussion between them. Arad had said that some news media, specifically El Dia, Politica, and Siempre, had criticised the Congress as being anti-Soviet. The Israeli Embassy actually was supporting the Congress, but for policy reasons, had to remain in the background. An Israeli, named Tov, was in Mexico promoting the Congress, but he was not associated with the Israeli Embassy. Arad feared there might be leftist interruption of the Congress, scheduled to take place at
