CO-3(L) 322/05021-64

Emphatically that if by any remote chance Allende were not to win, there would be a revolution in Chile by November 1964. Tello claimed also that he had visited several times with Raúl Castro, and had met Fidel, all within the past year or so. He insisted that the US would recognize Cuba before the end of 1964. Tello said also that he was on good terms with important people in both the Soviet and Chinese Communist governments, and that both nations were anxious to have him as Chile's ambassador, but that he was not especially anxious to go. Another reference to Communist China was the possibility that Chile might have some small cargo ships built there.

4. Tello's pro-Communist and anti-American feelings were shared with his daughter, Carmen, who claimed to have been a youth group leader in the University of Chile. Another daughter, Patricia, I believe her name is, was said to be even more intensely anti-US. Either she or her husband is connected with a Latin American organization, possibly the OAS or Pan-American Union. Another daughter is married to the director of personnel in the Cortina plant in Costa Rica.

5. At times, it was clear that Tello's average transcended his concerns for the poor. Once when another American suggested that the building of the houses in Chile would give employment to many more Chilenas if they avoided use of pre-fab units and pre-cut timbers, etc., Tello was not interested. He wanted to get in, get as much as possible, and get out as soon as possible. At times he referred to plans to live in Europe after he had made a few financial killings.

6. I have details on only one Chilean proposal, this a fisherman operation known as Cachagua. It was formed within the past year with an authorized capital of E850 thousand [approximately US$57,500], about half of which was paid in. The prime investors were said to be Gerst Enrique Encinosa, Emilio Lannon Martinez, Gaston Pascal Leon, Cristian Casanova Subercaseaux, and Gonzalvo Subercaseaux Canartu. Its main office is in Santiago; its plant in Iquique. Somewhere behind the scenes was Tello.

7. Somehow, in a manner I do not pretend to understand, Tello really wanted an American “front-man” in order to withdraw earnings in excess of what the law permitted. His planning for an American's participation included marriage to his oldest daughter, Carmen, who was later involved in a shooting incident in San Francisco in June 1954, shortly after the departure of her father to his new post in San Jose, Costa Rica, where he is now Chargé d'Affaires.

8. In Costa Rica, Tello seems to have considerable influence also. One of his schemes there is the acquisition of a huge ranch in the Puntarenas area. The property, now self-supporting, lies between the Pan American highway and the Gulf of Nicoya. He plans to develop it both for commercial and residential purposes with the operation of a gambling sanctuary in the to-be-established resort section.

9. Tello's successor as Chile's consular representative in San Francisco will be Hector Burr. He appears to have the same anti-US bias as Tello. At the time of the supposedly self-inflicted gunshot wound of Tello's daughter, Carmen, Burr said, “This is an international incident. By government will demand an apology from the United States.” It was our guess by this time that Burr was interested only in creating anti-US ill will in Chile so as to enhance the election possibilities of Allende.
