The aging Charles Boyer plunked in a spy scenario, looking not so much the part of James Bond as his enigmatic superior, M. All three follow WerBell’s briefing with small nods and half smiles of approval.

WerBell talks on, his eyes on the pearl-grey ash of his cigar, his growly voice low. There’s work to be done—lots of it. The day known as U.D.I.—that is, the date when Abaco breaks away from the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, the Unilateral Declaration of Independence—is tentatively set for New Year’s Day of 1975. The operations required to seize control of the island have been disguised as the “uprising” of an “autonomous, locally organized independence movement” with such amazing skill that none of the world’s major press has spotted what is going on. A number of seemingly local organizations and deceptively “ad hoc” groups have sprung up to handle those activities that cannot be kept from public view—propaganda, organization, and so forth. There are: the Abaco Independence Movement (known as A.I.M.); the Abaco Development Council; Friends of Abaco; the “Prosperity ’74” Economic Conference on Abaco.

Every one of these cover organizations has been clandestinely created, financed and managed from WerBell's headquarters in Powder Springs, a suburb of Atlanta. To coordinate their activities—propaganda, recruitment, proselytization, the importation of distinguished guest speakers from the U.S. who preach the independence gospel but buttressed by a variety of economic and political promises—a carefully camouflaged “forward headquarters” has been set up in Miami. A large, deceptively suburban house at 1666 S.W. Twelfth Street hides a high-powered SSB radio station, a “dispatch center” for handling cargo traffic with Abaco via a small seaplane, and a halfway house for promising independence militants who are discreetly flown to Miami. On arrival, the independence activists are either enrolled in political indoctrination courses held in Miami, or, having been provided with plane tickets under various cover names, they are flown farther north to a training base near Atlanta, where they receive paramilitary training under the command of a former U.S. infantry officer, Col. Robert Bayard.

Col. Bayard, a tall, leathery man in the Gary Cooper mold, with grey eyes and a shock of reddish brown hair, is the officer in charge of “special personnel.” Young, muscular, unattached, Abaconian independence enthusiasts, whose commitment to the cause of U.D.I. is especially strong, are given seven weeks of supersecret instruction in the use of small arms, demolition devices and other commando skills at the proving grounds of Mitch WerBell’s arms company. Proving grounds? Well, WerBell makes plenty of gadgets that bear testing. His companies produce a deadly sniper rifle, “accurized,” automated, utterly silent, with the built-in capability of plugging a beer can at a thousand yards—“We guarantee this much,” says WerBell—and a special sighting device which enables the rifleman to fix his target day or night. With Gordon (Gordan) Ingram, WerBell has designed and produces the incredible Ingram, a miniaturized submachine gun no larger than the familiar .45 service automatic, eight hundred rounds per minute, the whole shooting match about as noisy as a very fast Ping-Pong match—“pac...pac...pac-pacpac”—the barrel is a patented WerBell silencer. There is plenty of “sophisticated equipment” to test. But among visitors who have been invited there more than once, the place—electronic security fencing, the dog patrols, the imperious warning signs, the helipad for combat choppers, the airstrip for the company Learjet—among people who call Mitch by his first name, the place is known as “the farm.”

Training special personnel is a rigorous regime, and Col. Bayard keeps himself in shape; at Zeibert's he takes grilled liver and a single beer, and lunches in silence, seldom intervening in the discussion, occasionally glancing at his wrist chroniometer—he must be back at the farm by nightfall, and as a mere colonel, he must “fly commercial”—no Learjets pre-warmed on the ready strip.

Setting out the final phases of the Abaco take-over campaign, Wer-

Abaco's head honcho: military analogue, ideologue and philosopher Michael C. Oliver.

Ah, yes, the seven thousand native inhabitants; after the revolution, every Abaconian will get a certificate like this one, worth one acre of homestead land absolutely free.
