A. The reporting officer is assisted as the employee's mentor. In other respects, the person who is presently best acquainted with the employee's work performance, but based upon the cumulative standards, the Chief of Station may not wish to entrust the immediate supervision with this responsibility in any case. The Chief of Station will change or replace the rating of the reporting officer only when such changes or modifications are called for. The Chief of Station is ultimately responsible for the accuracy of facts and statements which appear on the Status and Efficiency Report. In many cases, especially in a small unit, the Chief of Station may wish to fill out all the reports himself.

2. In addition to the annual report, the following special reports, utilizing the same form, will be rendered:

A. Upon completion of first ninety (90) days of service at a station.

B. Upon relief or reassignment of reporting senior.

C. Upon determination or recommendation that an employee in a field station should be reassigned to another station or returned to the U.S. for reassignment, or other disposition, such report will be forwarded so as to reach Washington Headquarters at the earliest possible date after such reassignment determination is made. If possible, the report should be sent in at least three months prior to proposed reassignment in order that all time possible may be devoted to appraisal and evaluation. If consideration of reassignment is being given without the employee's knowledge, Items 1 to 8 will be filled in as far as possible by the rating officer without delay to the employee.

3. In fairness to the individual being rated and in the interest of the Government, the importance of careful preparation and accurate efficiency reports cannot be overstressed. The following basic principles of rating should always be remembered:

A. Always base your judgment on:

(1) What you have observed the individual do or fail to do.

(2) Typical performance, not on an isolated striking incident.

(3) Examples relevant to the characteristic under consideration.

(A) The Efficiency Report is to be used to rate all civilian employees. But reporting officers should bear in mind that different standards prevail in different assignments, whereas it is necessary, for example, that an intelligence officer possess initiative. This same trait is not always desirable, except in a minor way, for a type. The ratings and evaluations should be in reference to the job, the actual work assignment for which the particular employee is being paid. Every effort should be made to arrive at a just estimate of the qualities of the person reported on for the period covered by the report. Avoid exaggerations and superlatives. They detract from the value of a report and are unfair to others.

B. Biased opinions based on personal likes and dislikes must be scrupulously avoided. It should be borne in mind that the preparation of efficiency reports is an important function of all supervisors of employees, and the accurate and true evaluations expressed therein are a direct reflection upon his own ability and qualification for the position he holds.

C. No reports will be rendered covering periods of less than 40 days' observed service.

4. Reports will normally be classified confidential; however, the classification may be raised if deemed advisable by the rating officer.

5. Reports will never be shown to the employee reported on.

Disposition of Reports

1. Reports will be forwarded to the appropriate branch chief in Washington Headquarters within ten (10) days after the close of the reporting period.

2. If
