French francs, and the Belgians, thinking Subject to be an escaped prisoner of war, helped Subject in the instructions or how to proceed, and Subject took the train to the French-Belgian frontier, arriving in the vicinity of Valenciennes. While still on the train, Subject had to go through a control point in the forbidden zone near St. Quentin. At this time he was helped by the conductor of the train and the postal clerk. Subject successfully passed through this difficult point, concealed in a mail sack. At Valenciennes a check of the passengers was made by a German control officer who somehow seemed to overlook Subject's presence, and did not ask Subject any questions. From this point on Subject had no difficulty and arrived in Paris and proceeded to his home.

20. Subject's father inquired why Subject had returned to France, and upon learning that Subject had left his job without authorization, was very upset and talked Subject into returning to Germany. After three or four days at home Subject went to the German Arbeitsamt, made an application for work as an electrician, and requested that he be assigned work in Berlin. Subject stated that he was not asked any questions, apparently no check was made, and he departed for Berlin, by train.

21. Subject was employed in a factory in Berlin which was engaged in making electrodes. Here Subject was employed as a photographer, but his job did not last very long, because Subject did not come to work on time and was not very interested in his job, since it was a very monotonous, repetitious sort of work. An incident occurred in the factory which became a pretext for Subject's transfer to another factory. There was a robbery in Subject's department, involving the theft of some platinum crucibles. While Subject was never accused of it, he was asked questions by the police officials who came to the factory to investigate the theft. The factory manager used this incident as a pretext to have Subject transferred.

22. Subject was assigned to work as an electrician in another factory in Berlin, which was engaged in the manufacture of belts for machine guns mounted in aircraft. Subject stated that the production work was very antiquated, and numerous women were engaged in inspecting belts for the proper size, by using a hand gauge. Subject built a jig which greatly speeded up the inspection work, and the management of the factory decided that Subject was a great German patriot.

23. In Berlin, Subject met a Frenchman by the name of Pascal, who was also employed as a French voluntary worker. Pascal told Subject that he (Pascal) wanted to return to France. Subject was also tired of his job, and they decided to try to get back to Paris. They went to the office of the Arbeitsamt in Berlin and got blank leave passes. Subject filled in the information on a typewriter, then with a burnt match and india ink traced the outline of the cachet from a validated leave pass, and returned to the Arbeitsamt office where he stood in line to have his pass validated. When Subject's turn came, the busy clerk, with a cursory
