Subject

The newspaper, El Mexicano, published at San Luis, Sonora, on November 10, 1965, carries an article entitled “The Lot Owners Union Now Does Not Show Signs of Activity.” The story indicates that the Mexican Supreme Court had ruled that the expropriation of the land was legal. Reference is made to Legales (tolegales), Arizona Intelligence Report of August 5, 1965.

The Partido Popular Socialista (PPS) has held infrequent meetings, about twice a month, in San Luis, Sonora, recently, according to a reliable source. In February, they plan to hold meetings weekly in connection with stepped-up (stopped-up) activities during the coming political campaign. The local committee from San Luis, Sonora, headed by Loreto Holea-Villa (LORETO HOLEA-VIIIA), recently was successful in forming a block or group of the PPS at Camp 57, Sonora. The source states this group has been organized strictly for political purposes and that the membership has not so far been enrolled (undertrained) as regular members of the PPS.

This source also reported concerning stories brought back from PPS headquarters at Hermosillo (Hermosille), Sonora, recently by Loreto Holea-Villa (LORETO HOLEA-VIIIA). One of these alleges that two Americans with United States Communist credentials were instrumental in the arrest of Rico-Galan (RICO-GAIAN) and associates a few months ago by Mexican authorities. They are said to have gained the confidence of this group, furnished money for arms, and then denounced them to the Mexican government. They are believed to be CIA agents.

Another incident was the occasion when two Americans with United States Communist credentials visited the president of the PPS at Chicaman (Chicaman), Salvador, Mexico, who then communicated with Victe Leonardo-Tolemano (VICTE LEONARDO-TOLEMANO), who in turn arranged for photographs of the men to be sent to the United States to be identified to see if they were United States Communists. It was claimed that they could not be identified and, therefore, were believed to be CIA agents.

A platoon of the PPS was to be held at Hermosillo (Hermesillo), Sonora, on December 9, 1965.
