LISTEN Report 228, Cairo (Kairo)

10 January 1963

Subject: Contacts with Serge Michel (Serve Michel)

Pablo Ghletti Hotel (PABlo Gletti Hotel), two meetings 17 January and two meetings 10 January.

1. Michel is starting a new publication to be called ATLAS, much on the order of Paris-Match (Pari-Hatch), which will be set at French-speaking North Africa, where he lived, and Africans in France. An Algerian trained at Paris-Tour in Africa will be editor (he was unrated), and Michel will be the writing genius. Color will be used for the cover and ads inside, the plates being made in West Germany. An Arabic edition will be issued later.

2. Michel plans to use three photographers for the magazine, Fna Lakhdar, aka Djanal (Fna Lakhdar aka Djanal), trained in Czech; Djalal Tchanderli (Djalal Tchandërli), if he consents to use a camera instead of a movie camera; and me. Michel said he had to use Algerians even though we are not “photographers,” but that he needed me to back them up technically. He has already taken twenty-one photos from me and has given me a long list of others he wants. He has promised to pay 150 francs each to start, with a raise in pay as the magazine progresses. I said my present work earns my living, and a question of prestige was more important than pay for the work. Comment: I’m not sure how serious Michel is, nor if he has the authority to use me. At least he takes good care, and he has taken some photos to show the editor for use in the first few issues.

3. Before Michel offered employment on the magazine, he asked if I would be free to spend three or four weeks in Angola and the Congo with Roberto Holden (Holden Roberto) to take “several thousand” photos which could be used for the next several years in a continuing campaign for the liberation of Angola, with me retaining selling rights in the negatives and the entire trip being paid by Holden. I said I was willing if I could arrange it with my employer. That was at noon 18 January. At six p.m. 18 January, Michel announced to me that Holden had agreed to sponsor a trip for me to Angola. As a first step, Holden wanted me present at 1000, January 19, to take photos of his interview with Ben Bella. I will be there.

4. Michel then said the Atlas, once underway, would not be his responsibility, just as he had loosed the reins of Al Shaab once it was started. Then he will publish an entire series of slatks, one-time publications on the various phases of the Algerian government and its efforts, a photo book on Algeria, and photo books on the various regions and problems of Algeria. Concurrently, he will be doing publications on Black African subjects, taking many long swaths through Africa to gather the information and photos. He said, “You will be working more with me and traveling through Africa at that time than working on Atlas, which should have a good backlog of Algerian photos by then.” He added, “Of course, I’ll have to get permission to take you on these trips—maybe they’ll want an African photographer instead.”

5. After the Holden–Ben Bella interview today, I am to get Holden and Michel to make further plans.
