I. France

f. France — The delegation was initially divided into four sections by 27 December; a sort of truce was worked out and there was no overt trouble. Prominent members of the delegation were Roger Furey, a[n] almost University lecturer; Jean-Pierre Viger; a naive Rawlinson, brother of Alain Krier in off guard; a str city; and Marie-Claude (Algerian living in Paris).

g. West Germany — The delegation was composed primarily of unidentified militants of the Socialist German Student League (SDS). The group took a very left sectarian position and joined with the PSC from Britain in openly refusing to give full support to Al Fatah. On the other hand, the Germans played no role, speaking only briefly in the Political Commission.

b. Spain

i. Switzerland

The Netherlands — Represented as observers by Keers Wagtendonk and Bertus Hendriks, who came from Amsterdam. Source comment: Wagtendonk said that he was still a member of the Pacifist Socialist Party; Hendriks described himself as a Marxist-Leninist.

k. Scandinavia — Included Sweden, and perhaps two other Scandinavian countries. Source comment: The small Scandinavian group, which consisted of observers, was guided during the proceedings by one of its own, Otani, who resides at alubacken 11, Mannerstein, Stockholm. He is an Arab journalist who writes for Lebanese and Syrian publications and who had attended the Vietnam War Crimes Tribunal in Stockholm.

l. Algeria

m. Palestine

n. United States — Delegation as follows:

(1) Herb Block, of the Ad Hoc Committee for a Marxist-Leninist Communist Party, who led the delegation.

(2) Mrs. Block, wife of Herb Block. Source comment: The Blocks announced that they were attending the Congress under the pseudonym of “Douglas.” Mrs. Block even went to the length of wearing a reddish wig and dark glasses. Neither Block played any significant role.

(3) Eldridge Cleaver, Black Panther Party leader now residing in Algiers.

Don (LNU), a Negro from Chicago who accompanied the Blocks and who claimed to be a member of the Black Panther Party.
