July 4, 1969

Contact Report

Subject: Jimmy SABORI

Date of meet (Reet): July 1 at Seps-Paris at 1900 hrs.

1. This meet was held in lieu of the one scheduled for June 30 at 1400 hrs. Subject requested the postponement of the meet by phone on grounds that LOGINOV (LOGNOV) did not show up for the meet on June 25 and another meet with him was arranged by phone and will take place on June 30 at 1400 hrs.

FERNALD phoned Subject the same day of his call and arranged to see him at Seps-Paris restaurant at 1900 hrs. F, who came to the meet place 5 minutes earlier, found Subject there waiting for him. The meet lasted 5 hours in spite of the fact that F paid the bill 2 hours before Subject decided to leave.

Next meet: Monday, July 7 at the Del Perseo at 1400 hrs. Note: F. will change the meet place to a more modest restaurant.

2. Subject immediately asked what was the decision concerning the Embassy directory which LOGINOV was asking for. F told Subject that the directory was his last worry and that he would like to hear how things went with LOGINOV. Subject started speaking about the meet (see separate attachment). By the time Subject was through with his description of the meet, F obtained a more convenient table and, as we moved to it, F requested Subject to write additional data to his PRQ-I, which he did promptly. Then F asked him to write the chronological sequence of his contacts with LOGINOV, which Subject did by looking in his agenda, and he did it without hesitation.

3. At this point Subject told F that he had seen him in the vicinity of the place where he met with LOGINOV. F stated that he was there and that the purpose of being there was that Subject see him. He asked if F also saw LOG, and F stated that when he saw LOG coming he moved in the direction from which Subject was coming. F concluded by saying that the fact that F was there himself should be sufficient to assure Subject that we keep operational matters restricted to a minimum of persons for reasons of security.

4. P looked at what Subject wrote concerning his meets with LOGINOV.

P13,830

The handwritten notes in red ink are circled in red ink.
