Nosenko further reported to CIA that the KGB case officer working against Morone was Nosenko's subordinate and specialist in code clerk operations, Kosolapov. Nosenko read the file on Morone and saw his visa photograph, but he never saw him in person and so could not provide a physical description. Nosenko had discussed the Morone case with Kosolapov and Gryaznov on a number of occasions.

Nosenko said that the KGB agents working on Morone were:

Svetlana Ivanovna, a maid or waitress at America House who reported to Demkin, the case officer responsible for Americans living there, on everything she saw or heard concerning Morone. Kosolapov visited her several times with Demkin to discuss Morone, and Nosenko himself met her once or twice in one of the two safe apartments that Demkin had at his disposal. Nosenko did not recall any specific information on Morone which was interesting or useful from this source.

An Egyptian employed at the Egyptian Embassy who was an agent of the Sixth (Under-developed Countries) Department of the KGB Second Chief Directorate. He visited America House and met Morone, but he did not report anything of value that Nosenko remembered.

One of two East German females imported for use against the inhabitants of America House. In early 1960 Gryaznov went to East Berlin to obtain two German women who could be used for this purpose. The first of these was Hanna, blonde, documented as a West German travelling to Moscow. Nosenko never met her but instructed Freis-Freund (see the Storsberg case) to take her to America House and leave her on her own. Hanna went several times to America House in 1961, but Nosenko can recall nothing that she may have reported on Morone. The other East German girl was documented as an Austrian. Nosenko never met her but recalled that she was asked for her documents at America House on her first or second visit there. She replied that she had left them at her hotel, left America House, and never returned. Nosenko did not remember the time when this incident occurred, beyond the fact that he was still in the U.S. Embassy Section and that Abidian was the Embassy security officer at the time.

An Italian at the American Embassy and Kosolapov's agent, reported everything he heard or saw about Americans to Kosolapov. Nosenko recalled nothing specific that had said about Morone.

CIA has no information concerning such an incident in 1960–1961, but the circumstances described by Nosenko seem to apply to those surrounding a relationship between a woman named Lillian (last name not known) and the military code clerk Zujus. These details are given in Part V.E.3.c.(v). In any event, the incident involving Lillian occurred after the date when Nosenko says he was transferred from the U.S. Embassy Section. At the time, Hugh Montgomery rather than Abidian was the Embassy Security Officer.
