Fitness Report (Part I): Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative office: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you; completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him or her about his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20, 370. It is recommended that you read the entire set before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in Item A of Section A below.

Section A. General.

Name: KEEFARI, Thomas J. Date of birth: 29 June 1930. SER: M. Service designation: ST. Office division/branch of assignment: OTR/JOTP. Official position title: JOT. Grade: OS-7. Date report due in OP: 20 February 1958. Period covered by this report: 20 May 1957–20 February 1958.

Type of report: Initial; subsequently supersedes; special.

Section B. Certification.

For the rated, this report has been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not shown.

Check appropriate statements: This report reflects my doubts of this individual. This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and others on that subject.

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses as well as what he shows where he stands.

This date: 3 February 1958. Type or printed name and signature of supervisor: Willet L. Eccles [Signature]. Supervisor’s official title: C/JOTP/TR.

For the revising official, record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

This date: 2/10/58.
