Issued by: Personal History Statement.

Instructions: Answer all questions completely or check the appropriate box. If a question is not applicable, write “NA.” Write “Unknown” only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use the blank space at the end of the form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

Type, print, or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful completion of all applicable questions will permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

Section I: General Personal and Physical Data.

1. Full name (Last-First-Middle): 1/1/66. 2. Age. 3. Sex: Male. 5'72", 180. 6. Color of eyes. 7. Color of hair. 8. Type complexion. 9. Type build. 10. Sees/hears (type and location). 11. Other distinguishing physical features.

12. Current address (No., street, city, zone, state and country): 5'5" tall, blue eyes, 6'3" height. 13. Permanent address (No., street, city, zone, state and country) and phone no.: Jameson, John, 41 St. 14. Current phone no. 15. Office phone no. and extension. 16. Legal residence (state, territory or country): Washington, D.C.

17. Nicknames. 18. Other names you have used. 19. Indicate circumstances, including length of time, under which you have ever used these names. 20. If legal change, give particulars, where and by what authority.

Section II: Position Data.

1. Indicate the type of work or position for which you are applying. 2. Indicate the lowest annual entrance salary you will accept. You will not be considered for any position with a lower entrance salary. 3. Date available for employment. 4. Indicate your willingness to travel. 5. Indicate your willingness to accept assignment in the following locations; check each applicable item: occasionally, frequently, constantly, other. Washington, D.C.; anywhere in U.S.; certain locations only (specify); outside continental U.S. 6. Indicate what reservations you would place on assignments outside the Washington, D.C. area.
