19 February 1965

Subject: Contract matter / 1304Y-5

18 February 1970, subject's office

1. At the time of delivering to the subject on the evening of 15 February a case of wine that he had requested, the C.O. permitted the subject, at the latter's suggestion, to take a “rush-in” show for his rest with Major Prichard on 16 February at Salem's (Salemns) Restaurant, Instructors, at 0900.

2. The subject reported on 13 February the story of his brush-off meeting with Sasha on 16 February. He told Sasha, when he found him standing to the side of the restaurant in Salem's, that he was sick and had gotten up out of a sick bed against his wife's instructions just to show Sasha (Sash) that he wasn't trying to avoid a meeting—but he was too sick to stay. Sasha accompanied the subject outside and walked with him toward the subject's home. Sasha told the subject to submit to him the findings of the Temple Clinic on the subject's illness, and he would forward them to Moscow for medical advice. Comments: The subject has no intention of doing so.

The subject told Sasha that he had spoken to Jacobo Zabludovsky (Jacoboabludovsky) about Sasha's (Sassa's) questions on U.S. nuclear policy, and that Zabludovsky had just laughed at him for putting such naive, silly questions. Zabludovsky had said that everyone knows of U.S. interest in curbing the spread of nuclear power. Sasha laughed and said that was only newspaper talk.

The subject expressed concern to Sasha as to why he had been turned over to Valentin Lorinov. Sasha repeated his previous statement that Lorinov had more opportunity for outside contact, even visits to the subject's office as part of his natural consular duties. Further, the changeover had been ordered by their superiors. Sasha said that Lorinov would get in touch with the subject.

3. The C.O. found out that when the subject had mentioned Echeverría (Echovirra) to Sasha at an earlier meeting as being a seeker for the presidency of Mexico, Sasha had shown great interest.

The C.O. asked the subject if there were any activity on travel to the Soviet Union, for the purpose of discovering if the subject would bring up the name of Maria de la Paz Cervantes, a Sabena airline employee interested in travel to the Soviet Union. The subject replied that some members of the Jewish community in Mexico were inquiring about a trip to the Soviet Union.

4. Subject to call in whenever he hears from Lorinov about a meeting.

FAX

Note: The subject, in anticipation of his housing arrangement for his new agent, requests that by April, or during April, we procure for him one case of Scotch, one case of Condé, a case of white wine (white wife), and a case of Fec. If it is possible, the C.O. suggests gradual accumulation of this lot over the next two months.
