(American Embassy Section — January 1960–January 1962)

“I regularly reviewed all of the transcripts from microphones in the American Embassy for a period of approximately two years, from January 1960 to January 1962. The following is the only information which I can remember as being important, interesting or operationally useful to the KGB:

“From the microphone in the office of the Minister Counsellor, FREERS, I remember that he occasionally dictated cables about the Embassy’s evaluation of certain declarations or acts of the Soviet Government and advised the State Department on positions for negotiations with the USSR. This information was of such importance that special reports were written to the Central Committee of the CPSU. However, I cannot remember any specific incidents or events which these cables reported nor any specific evaluations or recommendations made in these cables.

“Also from the microphones in the Minister Counsellor’s office, I remember that he dictated fitness reports (kharakteristiki) on about twelve officers in the Embassy. I cannot remember who any of these officers were or any details from the reports. There was nothing in these reports which was of interest or useful to the KGB.

“From the microphone in the Army Attaché’s office I remember that the service attaches regularly discussed plans for trips within the USSR and the targets that they wanted to cover. They also discussed the results of these trips after their return. However, I cannot remember any information about specific trips planned by specific service attaché personnel or any specific targets that they planned to cover or any specific operational activity taken by the organs of the KGB against service attaches on trips within the USSR which was based on information obtained from this microphone. There was no interesting, important, or useful information about the personal or professional lives or about the vulnerabilities of anyone in the service attaché offices (Army, Navy, and Air) obtained from this microphone.

COG15C3
