Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Vitale's longevity on the project makes his services increasingly valuable. This is particularly true in briefing and orienting new officers. He continues to do an exceptional job in assisting his office on a most complex project, where many of his colleagues have transferred primarily because of the many demands and frustrations caused by this extraordinary project. Mr. Vitale continues to be a most loyal, cooperative and willing worker, getting along well with all hands. His maturity and many years of experience in his field, in addition to his great general knowledge, make him a most valued employee when compared to colleagues of similar rank. It is because of this that I have again rated Mr. Vitale very high. Although Mr. Vitale has no supervisory responsibilities and, fully realizing his limited potential as a senior operations officer, I feel he is still undergraded and should be promoted to the next higher grade at the earliest opportunity. Because Mr. Vitale's job and performance have remained almost exactly the same as during the previous year, this fitness report is also very similar.

Date: 23 July. Copy No. 17.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 13 July 1965. Signature of employee: Darryl Vitale.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 46 months. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/C/MO/PM. Typed or printed name and signature: Calvin Hicks.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: The reviewing official does not use the same rating scale as the supervisor; therefore, would rate subject one letter lower in the first three duties and P in the overall performance. Subject is conscientious, pleasant and has an excellent “stay-on-the-job” approach.

Date: 20 July 1965. Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/C/MO. Typed or printed name and signature: Walter T. Cini.
