104-10012-10024

10 May 1982

Dear David,

Valeriy Vladimirovich Kostikov

1. Please refer to our conversation of 6 May. Kostikov, born 17 March 1933, Moscow, was posted to Beirut in 1978 as 1st Secretary and may still be there. He is identified KGB and served in Mexico City from 1961–71. There is a reference to him on page 307 of Barron's KGB, which suggests that he may have been Department V. We do not appear to have asked Lyalin about him, and are now doing so.

2. We also note that Epstein in “Legend” claims that according to a CIA telecheck Kostikov was Lee Harvey Oswald's KGB case officer in Mexico City. According to Barron (page 335), Oswald was in Mexico between September and November 1963 and was seeking to obtain a Soviet visa. There was certainly a KGB interest in Oswald, although according to Nosenko this was defensive.

3. The reason for our current interest in Kostikov will be obvious. As you are aware, our Embassy in Beirut, in common with other Western Missions, has been subject to threats and violence in recent months, and in view of earlier hostile attentions from the KGB, we have been reviewing our records of KGB staff in the area who might have been involved in promoting strong-arm tactics.

4. We would be grateful for your views as to whether the KGB are likely to be behind any of the recent incidents, possibly through the Syrians, and for any information on Kostikov and his activities in Mexico and in Beirut. In particular, what are your comments on the Oswald story; can you confirm that Kostikov is still in Beirut; is there anyone else in Beirut or Damascus whose trace record suggests an Active Measures role, or worse?

5. We should be grateful for an early reply and, as I said on 6 May, will treat anything you can tell us on a strictly Service-to-Service basis.

Mr. David Blee

A. C. M. de Vere

Cross-file copy for 201-289248.

XAF 09218

APR 101—Resignations

10 May 1982

The meeting is adjourned until further notice.

There was no mention of the meeting being adjourned until further notice.

The meeting was adjourned until further notice.

It appears that the meeting was adjourned three times during the session.

The first time it adjourned for an hour and then returned to the meeting.

The second time it adjourned for one hour before returning to the meeting.

The third time it adjourned for two hours before returning to the meeting.

The meeting was adjourned until further notice.

The meeting was adjourned until further notice.

The meeting was adjourned until further notice.

The meeting was adjourned until further notice.
