July 23, 1960.

Captain

Contact Report

Subject: Jimmy SAEORI (P-13,850)

Date of meeting: July 12, at 1:30 p.m. at Heliotrope Campo & Leibnitz Coffee Shop at 1500 hours.

1. The meeting was arranged by phone. On July 17 S phoned to our office and requested that FERNMANN ring him up the next morning. After numerous fruitless attempts F finally reached S at his house at 1130 hours. S told F that he was with a Chinese the previous day and would see him again that afternoon at 1400 hours. S concluded that on the barbe of his first encounter with the Chinese he prepared a report for his friend, LOCINOV, whom he would see the same evening at 2000 hours. F told S that he would want to see what he wrote before he gave it to LOC, and a meeting was arranged at the above-indicated location.

2. F asked S how he arranged to see Mr. Chin-Hsiang Teng and where he should see him. S stated that Pierre-Louis helped him; F phoned to the Chinese Embassy and said that S, a collaborator in La Mission, would like to visit the Embassy and talk to a person who would be able to give him some information for an article he was preparing for La Mission. On July 17, about 1300 hours, S went to the Embassy and, after saying that he was coming from Pierre-Louis, he was received by TAME, Counselor of the Embassy. S stated that he was interested in preparing an article concerning the China-Soviet ideological conflict, Mao’s territorial claims, and repeated border clashes; S would want to have some views of the Red Chinese government on these problems.

TAME stated that he, nor his government, had any interest in the ideological conflict between Teikiyo and Moscow; with regard to Mao’s territorial claims, there was no doubt that they were legitimate. The fact that Mao was bringing up these claims tended to indicate that Mao’s position was weak within the country and his ruling party, and therefore Mao sought an issue which would unite the leaders and people around him. Such a political play might lead to war. S asked BULL on which side—Red or White—Mao would be in case of war between Red China and the USST, and TAME told him that such a decision would be made by a special top-level department of their government. TAME remarked that Red China cannot...
