Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 006102.

Section A: Richardson, Sergeant. General. Name (Last, First, Middle). Date of birth. Sex. Grade. SD. Official position title: Ops. Officer. Official division/branch of assignment: DEP/NE/France. Current station: Paris. Type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Temporary. Initial, annual, reassignment, supervisor reassignment, employee. Special (specify). Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1964. Reporting period: 1 April 1963–31 March 1964.

Section B: Performance Evaluation. Rating letter: S.

W — Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Finding, cultivating unwittingly and assessing new target personalities among Soviet scientists, engineers and other technical specialists. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Continuing the assessment and unwitting development of established targets in the same category. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Development of similar leads on target personalities from other denied areas; making recruitments outside base country. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Development and assessment of technical personalities of international U.S. Air Force's internal (domestic) programs. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 5: Managing and directing cover company's foreign bureau and its assets to strengthen own cover and diversify access for KUTJLE, KUWOLF and KUDESK purposes. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 6: Researching, writing and editing own and others' material published by cover company to strengthen cover and diversify access for KUDOVE operational purposes. Rating letter: O.

Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and
