Subject: Trip to Congo

Dear Stan,

Just a brief heads-up on the Congo business. I arrived on the Monday following Porter, and of course it was a holiday, so I wasn't contacted until the following day, Tuesday. By this time I had an agreement ready and in the hands of the Congolese (Compense) Air Force on Wednesday. On Thursday we met with the minister of the Cabinet, and he indicated all was in order and that we could be sure he would sign the following day, Friday. On Friday nothing happened, but now we waited out Saturday; again, nothing happened, so there was nothing to do but wait until Monday. By that time I had talked with Behaia and got a free ticket on them from Leopoldville to Brussels so that I'd have more flexibility. On Monday there was still no action, and again I moved them the benefit of the doubt by remaining until Tuesday, when I could have gotten a 207 flight on Monday night direct to Brussels. On Tuesday I left Leopoldville in the afternoon, proceeded to Bozoville, and waited 10 hours for the delayed K.I. flight (DC-7), finally leaving at 3 AM and arriving in Frankfurt at 1900 that night.

As I told you, Major Reiner is an Austrian who acts as an adviser to the Congolese (Compense) Air Force. Major Pierrott, commander of the Air Force, is young and ambitious. At the present time there is nothing but a shell, and instructors are badly needed. There are, according to Pierrott, 8 AT-6s and 7 Tiger Moths on order, which will give them a total strength of 9 of each aircraft. They expect to put a total of 120 cadets into training. I talked along the lines of a package deal on training, but this didn't sink in. They just want to get started and so go into detail later. As you can well imagine, the government structure in the Congo is very shaky, and it will be a long time before the II and III forces leave and things settle in a normal manner. For example, there could be a change in the government, including Pierrott, anyway, and this could be followed by any number of changes in the weeks following. Any contract we sign could be thrown out by a new government. In addition, there is also a good possibility of renewed violence, which might throw everything into a turmoil.

Without going into detail, following are the more important points of the agreement:

1. Air Force retains us for the purpose of hiring personnel for training mechanic and pilot personnel.

2. Air Force pays transportation of personnel from point of hire to Leopoldville and return, plus air travel done in the Congo.

3. Air Force pays to the bank in Ely $1,000.00 for my experience, each payment to be made within 20 days after signing the agreement.

4. Initially, 3 mechanic and 3 pilot instructors will be hired, and Air Force will accept persons of German, Swiss, French, or English nationality.

5. Pay of personnel will be the responsibility of Air Force, and mechanics will receive $770.00 or $650.00 blue room. Pilots will receive $870.00 by blue flying-day, which is figured at $50.00 for each 25 hours flown. They anticipate pilots will fly 25 hours per month, or $750 blue room blue flying-day. In addition, all personnel will be furnished their meals except on weekends when they are not working.

6. Personnel will be able to transfer one half of their pay to their country of residence—this limits out at $285.00 and $455.00.
