Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States, within the meaning of the Magnuson-Moss Law, Title 18 U.S.C. Sections 792 and 794, the transmission or revealedness of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Cuba. Subject: Fernando FUENTES Coba. Report No. CSCI-316/01228-64. Date distributed: 2 October 1964. No. pages: 2. Date of info: 1964. Place and date acquired: Washington, D.C., October 1964.

Return to CIA. Background Use Only. Do Not Reproduce.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality information provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

Fernando FUENTES Coba was a lieutenant in the Cuban Police Force and worked in the Confidential Department under Commander Efigenio ALMEJEIRAS, Chief of Police. Although source cannot verify it, he heard that FUENTES was discharged from the police force because of problems relating to drugs. The last source heard of FUENTES, he was working in a printing establishment in Halifax, Canada. Source described FUENTES as being about five feet eight inches tall and 160 pounds.

Headquarters Comments

1. Included with a report dated 27 November 1959, was a complete list of the personnel employed by the Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones (Technical Department of Investigations—DTI) as of 6 November 1959. Included on the list was one Sergeant Fernando FUENTES Cobas who worked in Bureau “A,” the section responsible for foreign intelligence operations for the Policia Nacional Revolucionaria (National Revolutionary Police—PNR).

Distribution recipients: STATE, DIA, ARMY, NAVY, AIR, NSA, NKX, OCR, FBI 2. REP CINCLANT CINCSO # I&NS. Note: field distribution indicated by “#”.

LX-1693 (x-159). No project (ASMUG/1). CSCI-316/01228-64. Coordinating WMR: CO.Swk. Totals: WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1. Liaison.
