Dispatch. To: Chief of Base, JMAVE. Info. From: Chief, W/ Division. MSGT Crozier (Crossier), Ron (premium pay). Action requested: automatic. Processing: prior to action; actual pushed.

KEY WATE 4698 (ID 4138), dated 21 March 1961.

1. The contract of base Crozier (Crossier) with assignments has been reviewed. It is noted that the terms set forth a rate of CS-12 as full compensation and no provisions are indicated permitting additional pay. Contract time does not apply above CS-10 and premium pay has not to date been applied to contract types.

2. The approval of premium pay is based on CEC Regulations, Section 25.261, which permits such pay to full-time employees subjected to substantial amounts of irregular, unscheduled overtime, night and holiday duty. Consequently, certifications were received from supervisors at Headquarters attesting to those eligible, and in the field all staffers were processed for this in CS-11 and above (not to exceed the top of a CS-15) on the knowledge of the various assignments subjecting our employees to these qualified conditions.

3. Since processing is an administrative exercise of effecting a personal action to add to his salary and thereafter ensure that he is taken off this entitlement as soon as he is no longer entitled to it, it is not intended to do this for short periods. Except in the initial cases effective 1 February 1961, this pay became effective at the beginning of the first pay period after he entered this type of duty and is taken off at the end of the pay period when he is no longer subjected to such duty. On contract types, it is suggested, therefore, that overall aspects be considered, such as:

a. Is his duty and salary similar to a staffer receiving this entitlement?

b. Is the period of time proposed for the duty 30 days or longer?

Cross referenced to.

External distribution: 2 – Magesee.

Internal distribution: 1 – WR/2/Support; 1 – WR/4/Registry.

Date typed: 23 March 1961. Date dated: 29 March 1961. Headquarter name: 201-168891. Originating office: WR/4. Support: E. W. Schmidt. Type: vlm. Code: 8712. Coordinating office no.
