Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective the relationship of this employee to his supervisor. Give recommendations for improvement. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Also, on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. MakSYMIEC continues to support the Exploratory Development Laboratory Branch well as its senior laboratory technician. His duties remain as follows: require him to work closely with the physical scientists and by himself on various projects which require many practical and some theoretical skills.

Mr. MakSYMIEC works very well with others, follows instructions willingly (williarily), and carries out his responsibilities in a professional manner. He requires very little supervision and completes his assignments quickly and competently.

Mr. MakSYMIEC has made a conscientious effort to overcome his writing deficiency and has greatly improved this necessary skill since his last review. Although there is still room for improvement, it is felt that real progress has been made and improvement will continue in the future with sufficient practice.

Mr. MakSYMIEC's duties require him to provide guidance to the laboratory's junior technician. His ability to train this man and to help him increase his photographic skills is considered above average. It is felt that he is presently doing the work of a higher grade, so it is recommended that Mr. MakSYMIEC be promoted to GS-09.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date. Signature of employee.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision.

31. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: This report is for promotion purposes.

Date. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Exploratory Development Laboratory Branch. Typed or printed name and signature: Richard E. Suing.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

I concur in the above evaluation.

Date. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Assistant for Plans and Development. Typed or printed name and signature: John A. Paulett.
