The Newspaper

C. R. Williamson is one of two chief editors in the country's chief newspapers. He has been in the business since 1867, and was born in New York City. He received his training at New York University, where he graduated with honors. During three years of that time he was editor of the local paper, which was then printed in six columns. Mr. Williamson was first a common printer, then a common manager. He has had his experience in printing. As a common manager he has had charge of all the large papers of the city. Since 1902 he has been editor of the New York Times. In 1905 he became editor of the New York Sun. Since its foundation in 1904 Mr. Williamson has had charge of every department under it. For ten years the general manager of the paper has managed its circulation and sales. It is a paper printed for the people of New York City. He has been a partner in four large companies. As a partner he has managed five large corporations, among them being those of The Wall Street Journal Co., The Times, and The Sun.

The paper was started by him in 1876. At first, when he completed his education, he had to go into the printing trade, but he soon found that there was not much money in it, and he turned it over to his brother, who was then a boy. His name appeared on the paper under the title of “Sunday Mirror,” because his father was a newspaperman.

Mr. Williamson was then in his twenties. He had spent some time in New York, and knew a good many of the leading men in the city. He was a member of the National Association of Newspapers, and was then secretary to its board of managers. When the National Association of Newspapers was organized in 1902, Mr. Williamson was its president. From that time till now he has held the position of its president. He has also been a member of the National Association of Newspapers, and of the National Association of Journalists. He has also been a member of the Council of the New York Press Association, and of the Council of the American Journalist. Since 1902 he has been a member of the Board of Trustees of Columbia College, and of the Council of New York University.

His first paper was called the “Newspaper.” The name of the second was “The Mirror.” It ran from November 1st, 1876, till May 1st, 1877. The name of the third was “The Sun.” It ran from June 1st, 1877, till September 30th, 1878, when it was sold to the “Evening Sun.”

Mr. Williamson left the paper in May, 1879, and was elected its editor in March, 1880. He remained as editor until the spring of 1882, when he resigned to enter politics, and was elected its chairman in 1882. He was re-elected chairman in 1884, and again in 1888, when he was elected chairman for a term of three years. He was then chairman from 1893 till 1900, when he resigned to serve a second term as chairman from 1901 till 1907, when he left the paper. During the year 1907 he was elected chairman for a term of three years, and from that date till his retirement in 1912, he was chairman. During the year 1912 he was elected chairman for a term of three years, and from that date till his retirement in 1917 he was chairman.

John H. McKeen

He was born in New York, and attended school in New York City before going to college in Annandale, New Jersey, where he finished his course under Professor Josephus B. Stockton. After leaving college he entered the practice of law, where he remained four years, after which he returned to New York. During these years he was partner in a law firm, and in 1894 joined the law office of his brother, John McKeen, in New York. In 1896 he was made partner in that firm, and during the spring of 1897 he left it, and joined his brother’s law office, which was then called Stockton & McKeen. In 1900 he was made partner in his brother’s law office, and during the spring of 1901 he left it, and joined his brother’s law office, which was then called Stockton & McKeen.

Mr. McKee was born in Ireland,
