NARRATIVE COMMENTS—continued

Cursory, and from the beginning there has been a high premium on both technical accuracy and sound substantive judgment. As Mr. Randall himself noted in a report on his deputy, we have an enviable record as far as “flaps” are concerned; in a situation fraught with danger of inappropriate release of information we have had only five cases where release has led to embarrassment—out of 7,000 “possibles.” Mr. Randall, with typical modesty, uses the statistic in praise of others; I choose to use it to praise him. The Group’s record to date is nothing short of astonishing, and Mr. Randall can take great pride in his team’s accomplishments.

He has built an extremely able and dedicated team, and he is as quick as anyone I know to ascribe to individual members of that team credit for actions, ideas, or progress. They respond to his fairness with loyalty and affection, and their morale in the face of constant harassment and frustration is testimony to his leadership.

New responsibilities for support to the Office of General Counsel were added to PIAG’s burdens this year. Mr. Randall opposed the move and argues (and lobbied) intelligently to preclude it, to no avail. It is to his credit that, having urged a different course of action, he set about to ensure that the unpopular new function received the same careful attention which has been the hallmark of PIAG’s other work. As a consequence, our OGC-related efforts, which are very demanding and time-consuming, have the PIAG stamp of excellence on them.

Mr. Randall created the system he manages, and continues to seek ways to improve upon it. Our move to an automated index of reviewed and released documents was urged and supported by Mr. Randall, and he has been equally supportive of a new branch chief’s efforts to restructure our Initial Review process. He is also quick to see and to comment on the way our efforts affect larger Agency and government equities, and vice versa.

During this year his responsibilities were broadened by the addition of our Declassification Review Branch to his Group, a reflection of our recognition of the inevitable relationship between scheduled declassification and selective declassification and release under FOIA/PA/E.O. 11652. This Branch will shortly be absorbed by the new Records Review Branch of the DDA, but PIAG will continue to be the focal point for policy formulation on declassification of DO records.
