31 March 1963

Project AMTRUNK Operational Review

I. Status Report on Training and Processing, 4–31 March.

The AMTRUNK Team, consisting of AMICE/27, AMICE/14, AMTRUNK/2, and AMTRUNK/3, were safehoused on 4 March 1963 at Safesite #164 on Plantation Key. Andrew S. PARMERS, KUROAR (KUBARK) instructor from headquarters, was already at the training site when the team was brought there by the two case officers, Irving N. PEGGINS and Hobart J. VANDEBORN. PARMERS remained at the safesite until 16 March, during which time he conducted training in clandestine methods and techniques. This training included security, cover and compartmentation, clandestine communications, agent spotting, selection, recruitment and management, and operational planning and reporting. The training included group discussion and participation in a series of appropriate operational situations, several problems, and daily physical training. During this two-week period, either PEGGINS or VANDEBORN visited the safesite every day, spending an average of two or three hours with the group in operational discussions and processing. During the week of 18 through 23 March, both case officers spent a majority of the time with the group, debriefing them in detail on their operational contacts, working out operational details of their infiltration, and continuing their training on an informal basis. The week of 25 through 30 March was spent in PM-type training, with emphasis on compass and map reading, including two night problems, and on weapons familiarization and firing. During the period under discussion, the AMTRUNK group were all LCFLUTTERED, were assessed by the KUROAR (KUBARK) assessment team, were given an initial series of immunizations, were issued clothing, were processed for alias documentation, were processed for disguises, and were further processed on cover and finance problems. The results of the LCFLUTTER examinations were sent to headquarters under cover of UFGA-8111 on 13 March 1963. Based on DIR 26430, no further LCFLUTTER is planned at the present time. Transmitted as attachment “A” to this dispatch is PARMERS’ report on his training of the AMTRUNK group; transmitted as attachment “B” are the results of the assessments of the AMTRUNK group; and transmitted as attachment “C” is the training report for the week of 25 March.

II. AMTRUNK Mission Objective

The Project AMTRUNK mission objective is to overthrow the existing Cuban government by means of a conspiracy among high-level military and civilian leaders of the government, culminating in a coup d’état which will oust both Castro and
