OSMA-24,112.

ought to be in the place of work where he is able to do the most. “Until now, I have always done and have always gone where the revolution sent me...with my present limitation of criteria, I should not be here.” He repeated his conviction that he is wasting his talents and doing nothing for Cuba in the position of Charge in comparison with what he could do elsewhere. “I believe that with which I am best able to serve my country is in the control of industry...I put myself in an industry and I see if things are being done well or if they are being done badly because I have knowledge and because I arrive at my conclusions through the accounting...look, here I am wasting my presence and my resources when I am able to be useful to production in another position.”

By the end of this 4 July report, RUIZ had exhausted all his combativeness and appeared very depressed.

4. RUIZ is due for home leave in Havana the first part of August. There have been indications scattered throughout the QUDOZE and QUTIMID Reports of the last month or two that he might not return. The information given in Paragraph 3-D above seems to make this possibility even more likely and is a development that Station Madrid will watch closely.

5. The arguments ended inconclusively. Neither man could afford to carry the battle to the ultimate conclusion of an open break. GALLO has tried to make some pro-forma gestures acknowledging RUIZ as head of the Mission and RUIZ will soon be going on home leave. However, the former close association noted upon RUIZ's arrival is gone and they are more distant and cool. GALLO at one point in this same 4 July QUDOZE Report mentioned how he had looked forward to working with RUIZ and QUDOZE had shown an initially close working relationship between them with daily discussions of the problems of the Mission and the events of the day. Now, their relationship is cool, correct and business-like. The personalities of the two men have also come into sharper relief. RUIZ with his quick temper, shouted and used harsh, coarse language and in the end got nowhere; GALLO did not raise his voice, although his language was no improvement over that of his boss, and tried to sound reasonable but never gave in an inch on any of the points over which they quarreled. In the end nothing was resolved except possibly to clear the air of some of the tension between the two men for in a 10 July QUDOZE Report, RUIZ was still complaining about GALLO's friendship with Emilio ROMERO and saying that GALLO only wanted to be out meeting people and not preparing written memos on his work!

Jane D. ASTRAHAN
