Election, Declination, or Waiver of Life Insurance Coverage. Important agency instructions on back of original. Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program.

To complete this form:

1. Follow these general instructions:

Read the back of the “Duplicate” carefully before you fill in the form.

Fill in both copies of the form. Type or use ink.

Do not detach any part.

Fill in the identifying information below (please print or type):

Name: O'Connell James P. Employing department or agency: 009784. Date of birth: February 19, 1917. Location (city, state, ZIP code).

Social Security number: 104 03 8105.

3. Mark an “X” in one of the boxes below (do not mark more than one):

Mark here if you want both optional and regular insurance.

(A) Election of optional (in addition to regular) insurance. I elect the $10,000 additional optional insurance and authorize the required deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to pay the full cost of the optional insurance. This optional insurance is in addition to my regular insurance.

Mark here if you do not want optional but do want regular insurance.

(B) Declination of optional (but not regular) insurance. I decline the $10,000 additional optional insurance. I understand that I cannot elect optional insurance until at least 1 year after the effective date of this declination and unless at the time I apply for it I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of insurability. I understand also that my regular insurance is not affected by this declination of additional optional insurance.

Mark here if you want neither regular nor optional insurance.

(C) Waiver of life insurance coverage. I desire not to be insured and I waive coverage under the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program. I understand that I cannot cancel this waiver and obtain regular insurance until at least 1 year after the effective date of this waiver and unless at the time I apply for insurance I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of insurability. I understand also that I cannot now or later have the $10,000 additional optional insurance unless I have the regular insurance.

4. Sign and date. If you marked box “A” or “C,” complete the “Statistical Stub.” Then return the entire form to your employing office.

Signature: James P. O'Connell. Date: 12 February 1968.

For employing office use only. Official receiving date stamp. Beneficiary name. Office of Employee Benefit Administration. Office of Employee Benefit Administration. 89. February 15. KDE. 2. PRK. PH. 1968.

See Table of Effective Dates on back of original.

Original copy—retain in official personnel folder.

January 1968. For use only until April 14, 1968.
