c. Walter Joseph Mackem, separated from CIA on 31 October 1975.

6. Mr. Muldoon contacted Agency employee E. James McTighe on 22 May 1974. Mr. Muldoon told Mr. McTighe that he was nominal vice president of a Washington-based firm called “Security Consultants International.” He presented Mr. McTighe with a report containing the essential data he possessed concerning WER BELL and other members of FOA whom he had met on 17 and 20 May 1974 in Washington, D.C. According to Mr. Muldoon, WER BELL had hopes of establishing gaming casinos, hotels, and other tourist facilities in Abaco catering to the U.S. tourist crowd. As a consequence of some run-in with Prime Minister Pindling of the Bahamas, however, WER BELL was apparently persona non grata in the Bahamas; hence his ambitions appeared to be contingent on Abacan independence.

Mr. Muldoon reported that on at least two occasions WER BELL made a concerted effort to involve persons formerly affiliated with the Agency in the activities of the FOA in support of its independence. On several occasions, WER BELL introduced Mr. Muldoon and Mr. Roussos as active Agency officials, implying that either the Agency or the United States Government supported the aims of the FOA. WER BELL also proposed to Messrs. Muldoon and Roussos, in separate conversations, that they conduct a study involving a visit to Abaco to determine the feasibility of Abaco’s independence in political and economic terms. The study was to include interviews with citizens of Abaco prior to an alleged “plebiscite” on independence to take place in Abaco on 28 June 1974. In default of the collaboration of either Muldoon or Roussos, WER BELL hired Mr. Walter Joseph Mackem, a former Agency friend of both Muldoon and Roussos.

According to WER BELL’s file, Mackem later in 1974 contacted the Agency in an attempt to get an official policy on the activities of the FOA. Mackem was informed that the case came under FBI jurisdiction, that this Agency had no official involvement, and that all information we had on the matter had been made available to the FBI. He was advised at that time to report his contacts and any information he had to the FBI.

7. On 24 March 1975, Mr. Joseph P. Hayes, assigned to SE/PCH, reported that during the week of 9 March 1975, he talked with Mr. Wesley Dyckman. Mr. Dyckman is a former Agency employee employed by the Drug Enforcement Agency. According to Dyckman, former Agency employee Walter Mackem was employed in the Washington area as a private investigator. He was also involved with a paramilitary activity funded by some unnamed British source. The activity, which Dyckman referred to as
