13. Control and Motivation

Control and motivation are primarily based on two factors: ideology and financial gain. A secondary factor is the fear of reprisal from the local police should discovery occur.

14. Security

During the past project year there were no incidents which were beyond the capability of the personnel immediately involved to isolate and remedy immediately. One basehouse was closed for "cooling off" after a telephone company work party came to the basehouse to check the lines running to it. This party was stalled long enough so cut back the "tap" lines at the roof level and the house cleared of all compromising equipment and material. Later the work party entered and checked the lines which proved to be "dead" lines. The extra lines were then removed and the work party left the premises and there was further trouble. (Note: In Mexico City there is much "dead line" running throughout the city which causes no end of difficulty for the telephone company in installation and repair work. Therefore, the phone company assigns work parties to various areas to clean up the extra unused "dead lines" in order to bring a degree of organization to the telephone system. This work is now being pursued vigorously and is approaching completion in large areas of the city.) The basehouse involved in the above incident has now been moved to a different location and is back in operation.

At the present time the telephone company is making a general effort to modernize the Mexico City telephone system. This effort includes changing from overhead lines to underground cables, cleaning off the unused overhead "dead lines", and installation of new equipment throughout the city. These innovations will cause increasing security problems for the LIFEAT complex, but it is believed that the measures are not insurmountable. Part of the solution will of necessity involve the use of a greater number of base-houses to diversify the coverage and to reduce the number of lines running to any one basehouse. This will cause an increase in expense for the project, but is considered desirable and necessary. It may eventually be necessary for LIFEAT to enter the underground cables in order to provide access to selected targets and maintain the security of the basehouses. The LIFEAT personnel are continually working to devise (device) new methods as well as maintaining training in security so as to continue the high level of security enjoyed by LIFEAT in the past.

15. Training

Initial training of new personnel and continuing refresher training for experienced agents is handled primarily by the "outside" Case Officer, David H. WILSTED. Minor repair and maintenance of equipment as well as emergency security procedures are stressed and continually reviewed with the agents.
