Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions. For the administrative office: Consult current instructions for completing this report. For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee even under conditions specified in regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 90 days after the date indicated in item 8 of Section A below.

Section A. General.

Name: Christ, David L. Date of birth: 20 Jan 1918. Sex: M. Service designation: DT. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/TSS/APD. Official position title: PHY SCI ADM (D CH). Grade: GS-14. Date report due in OP: 16 November 1956. Period covered by this report: 5 November 1955 to 16 November 1956. Type of report: Initial; Manual. Reassignment/supervisor. Special.

Certification.

For the rater: This report has been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

A. Check appropriate statements: This report reflects my view opinions of this individual. If individual is rated “I” in CH on D, a pending letter was sent to him and a copy attached to this report.

B. This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors. I cannot certify that the rated individual agrees with the evaluation of his job performance because (specify).

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that I may show him where he stands.

This date: 17 Dec. 1956. Printed name and signature of supervisor: Henry C. Knutson.
