Personnel Evaluation Report.

Items 1 through 8 will be completed by the person evaluated.

Name of Person: David E. Morrisy. Unit or Division: ER-3. Position Title: Area Officer (EC) CD FI. Office or Department: To. Department: DEPT.A; DEPT.B. Period covered by report: 5 May 53 to 4 May 54. Initial assignment: Advert. Reassignment: Assignment of Supervisor.

Item 9 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

1. List your major duties in appropriate order of importance, with a brief description of each. Exit minor duties.

Present position is Chief, SR/3 (West Branch). Responsible to the Chief, SR Division for directing and planning SK operations in the western USNSE, BSSR and Ukrainian SSR. These operations cover the RI, 77 and PM missions of SR Division. Chief, SR/3 is also responsible for directing and coordinating operations directed at the above areas of the USSR mounted from Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the Low Countries, France, Italy and the Iberian Peninsula. To implementing the latter, coordination is effected with the appropriate area desks of the FE and WE Divisions. In addition to these above responsibilities in the operational field, Chief, SR/3 is responsible for directing counter-evasion operations arising from RIS action against enotre groups with which we are in contact and our positive operations.

2. List courses of instruction completed since report issued.

Course code: NONE. Name of course: None. Location: Australia. Length of course: 4 months. Date completed: May 1954.

3. Is any type of work are you primarily interested in?

If different from your present job, explain your qualifications, aptitude, knowledge, skills.

Planning and direction of RI and PP operations aimed at the USSR and its European satellites.

Date: 25 May 1954. Laud S. Murphy. Signature.

Item 11 through 13 will be completed by the Supervisor.

1. Assess disclosure of this person's performance on all messages dated under Item 7 above.

In all ways this officer has been enthusiastic, enthusiastic, and forceful in demonstrating the duties listed. He has demonstrated true qualities in devising and implementing his operations, and in addition has demonstrated great technical competence personally on an operational officer. His-Marination and entry are boundless, and in this regard serves as an example to fit subordinates.
