Field Information Report.

Grading of source: A, completely reliable; B, usually reliable; C, fairly reliable; D, not usually reliable; E, not reliable (applied to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence); F, reliability cannot be judged (applied to untested or insufficiently tested sources).

Appraisal of content: 1, confirmed by other independent and reliable sources; 2, probably true; 3, possibly true; 4, doubtful; 5, probably false; 6, cannot be judged.

Country: Haiti/Cuba. Report No. CSDB-31201605-6c. Subject: Further Developments in Plan for Action Against the Haitian Government. Date of report: 17 May 1986. No. of pages: 2. Date of information: 27 April–6 May 1986. Place and date acquired: United States, Miami (11 May 1966). UPG-8288.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are Dept. E. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: A member of a group of Cuban émigrés (enigres) trained in the techniques of information collection. The group has provided useful reports since 1961.

1. On 27 or 28 April 1966, in New York, Rolando Masferrer Rojas, former Cuban senator who has been involved in plans for action against President François Duvalier (Francois Duvalier) of Haiti, received a letter from the Haitian who is heading the operation against Haiti. The Haitian instructed Masferrer to send a trusted person to the office of Bill Harris, 7150 N.W. 27th Avenue, Miami, Florida, to talk with Vernon Johnson, a Negro. The Haitian described Johnson as a trustworthy person who would be in charge of getting arms. Under no circumstances was Masferrer’s emissary to talk with anyone else.

2. Antonio Rojas Masferrer, Rolando Masferrer’s cousin in Miami, contacted Johnson, who said that he had in the Miami area all the equipment and arms needed for the operation and was only awaiting the orders to release them.

3. Rojas and Enrique Masferrer Rojas, Rolando Masferrer’s brother, asked a son of Cesar Caracho Coventi, who was Minister of Justice in Cuba under Fulgencio Batista y Zaldívar (Fulgencio Batista Kilió Zaldivar), to investigate Johnson. Caracho’s son, who conducts private investigations, reported later that Johnson is an arms runner who also deals in military equipment. Rojas said he had also been able to learn that although Johnson dressed in a suit and necktie, he lived in a small, cheap room in one of the poor, Negro sections of Miami.
