Japanese of Central America because they're the tough workers. Also there is a considerable amount of Salvadoran capital (Salvador-anian) that is in various industries throughout Central America, which is an interesting thing to me. The comparison to the Japanese seems to be very appropriate in this situation.

I think that the real focus of trouble, if there is going to be any, would be either the labor unions or, I think more particularly, in the university. My feelings about Central America generally are that your revolutions do not come from the campesinos, or they do not even come from the lower classes. They generally are the middle-class groups or the low-middle-class groups. I think in Havana, for example, Batista was overthrown, not by the campesinos but by the middle classes; and then the campesinos came in afterwards because there was very little doing outside of Havana. Even in the Sierra Maestras (Sierra Madres), there was only Castro with a small group of people. When Batista really fell is when he had so damn much trouble inside of Havana. He fled and left because he was having problems of sabotage in Havana itself and not because Castro was seriously threatening him from the Sierra Maestras (Sierra Madres), for he had actually withdrawn about a month before, if you recall.

I think with respect to the situation in Santo Domingo, here again Union Cívica Nacional was made up by the intellectuals and by the middle classes and not by the campesinos. As a matter of fact, Trujillo had tremendous support and adulation among many of the campesinos, and his real basic political strength was from the low economic groups. As a matter of fact, the secret police was recruited from the lower barrios, where he had the toughest little juvenile delinquents you could imagine as a secret police, and this was a real force. The interesting thing is that right after Trujillo died, the first big mass meeting that his son had was in the poorest barrio in Santo Domingo because he knew that's where Trujillo still had basic strength.

I think the same thing is true in San Salvador. I don't think it will be the campesinos that will give you the trouble; it will be the students. With respect to the student situation, I think they might borrow a leaf from PRI's book in dealing with the students. I think the government ought to make a very strong attempt to form a liaison with the universities and whenever they get some apt pupils, to give them a job in the government, to bring them into the various positions within the government, and the same thing with professors, to have them as economic advisors.
