Contract for On-Line Commitments

Date: 5 March 1965.

To: Chief, Finance Division.  
TIA: Contract Approving Officer.  
From: Chief of Station, “Mexico City.”  
Subject: Inherent of UTAU/US as Independent Contractor.

1. The proposed: The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under Project ( ) and is chargeable to LIMAVE. The effective date of the oral contract is 1 July 1965, subject to termination by OVOAS upon 20 days’ actual notice.

2. Security approval: The appropriate security approval for subject’s use has been obtained. Type: P.O. in process. Date: ______.

3. Citizenship: Subject (X) is ( ) is not a foreign national.

4. Commission: The subject will be paid $5,000 per month. The approximate equivalent of this amount in PARIIL currency is 120 dollars. Subject (X) will ( ) will not receive a Christmas bonus equivalent to one month’s pay. Other comments in the nature of bonus commitments, gifts, paid reactions, etc., include: Still Christmas, birthday gifts may be given. No commitment.

5. Taxes: Subject (X) is ( ) is not subject to federal income taxes. If subject to federal income taxes, payments and/or deductions will be made in the following manner:

6. Current and/or due: (a) Subject (X) will ( ) will not be furnished quarters and/or substance allowances. (b) The following commitments have been made regarding additional compensation to accommodate increased cost-of-living and quarters expenses: None.

7. Operational expenses: (a) Subject (X) will ( ) will not be reimbursed for operational travel. (b) Subject (X) will ( ) will not be reimbursed for operational expenses. State nature of any operational expenses for which subject will be reimbursed: Any minor operational expense approved by the Case Officer, such as transportation to military site. Note: Subject has never submitted a claim for any such expense to date.

8. Contributions: The following have not been promised the individual but may have to be met by OVOAS. Give reason for each contingent obligation: Subject may have to be provided safe haven if government aware of his activities for OVOAS. This does not imply that he has a plan or a program.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

10. Comment: This MDC submitted because subject’s salary was raised from $5,000 to $5,000 a month effective 1 March 1965. Authority: DM 89922 (W 655) of 5 March 1965.

Signed: Case Officer.

Approved: [Signature]. Field Contracting Officer (GCS).

Note: Contract Approving Officer.

Distribution: 3 authentic copies to Eos. 1 file P 6079. 1 Support.
