The countries whence the refugees flee, NCFE could also ignore the presence of the refugees in the West. This, however, is no longer the case.

Fundamentally, any NCPE interest in the European refugee situation is an aspect of the general NCPE relationship with exiles. In the changed European situation in which this interest is and will be manifested NCPE should reconsider its basic instruments for such relationships: the National Councils. Their exceptions, gaps, and shortcomings should be carefully analyzed and the conclusions drawn therefrom. The inadequacy of the National Councils as a basic instrument in the changed situation in Europe will be indicated in this report. Certain adaptations of this instrument and the creation of new ones will be required if NCPE is to carry out its functions and realize its potentialities.

II. WHY NCPE IS CANCELLED IN THE EUROPEAN REFUGEE PROBLEM, AND HOW THIS CONCERN ARISED BY PROPERTY ARE ACTIVELY MANIPULATED.

A. The Extent of NCPE's Concern to Date:

In the past NCPE has not directly concerned itself with the over-all problem of refugees from behind the Iron Curtain. This policy of NCPE has manifested itself in the following ways. NCPE has consistently made it clear that its chief interest lies in what it regarded as the political and intellectual elite of emigrations from the various Iron Curtain countries. Certain elements of this political and intellectual elite, however, realized the necessity and the importance of channeling some of their activities toward the mass of their respective emigrations on a national basis. This realization was dictated either by humanitarian or strictly realistic political principles, or by a combination of the two. Accordingly, these elements of the elite approached NCPE with their proposals for NCPE material and moral support of such activities. These proposals differed widely and were implemented at varying periods over the last three decades, with the result that presently NCPE is indirectly supporting refugee activities on a national basis at an annual amount of £118,168,000, and with the further result that these activities are confused, haphazard, erratic, ill-coordinated and unjustly and inexplicably disproportionate. Some nationality groups, as for instance the Hungarians, have been receiving relatively large amounts for refugee activities, with other groups, as for example the Poles, who have a large emigration, receiving nothing.

The vehicles for the channeling of this support have also differed widely. Originally, NCPE's theory in providing support for such activities was based upon the existence of National
