4. With respect to page 23, certain operational responsibilities should pass from DD/R to DD/P upon completion of research and development; however, a study should be made to determine whether the many fully integrated operational activities, such as OXCART and some fully integrated ELINT operations, should not be permanently under DD/R, who is to have both operational and research and development responsibilities.

Considerations of OXCART

1. Responsibility for all phases of OXCART are to follow the direct supervision of Sec/Def and DCI. By agreement with the OD, Charyk as AR/Sec Def. will be executive head of NRO, DD/R will be his deputy, and by assignment will be responsible for all phases of OXCART.

2. Details of operations, as contrasted to R&D, will be worked out at a later date.

3. NSC directive agreed OXCART tasks are the responsibility of the Special Group, and the question of augmentation is a matter for the Special Group, not CIA, to decide.

4. DD/R should be charged with the responsibility of mobilizing and utilizing all necessary resources of DD/I, DD/P, DD/S, and General Counsel in performance of DD/R's assigned responsibility as Deputy Director NRO and manager of the OXCART project.

5. The question of use of Air Force officers versus civilians must be decided by higher authority. Likewise, the question of operational responsibility between that of CIA or DD/R, or personnel seconded from the Air Force versus direct Air Force operation, must be decided by DCI and Sec/Def and the President after careful consideration of all issues and problems relating to this matter.

6. Because of the imminence of commencement of test flights, immediate careful attention should be given to all aspects of the cover story, as certain information concerning the plane will become known when it is observed in FAA (that other) radar.

V. National Indications Center Watch Committee

1. Appointment should be made next week for General Carter and myself to visit the NIC and the DLA Centers, observe the Watch Committee operations, make a judgment as to whether this organization is properly set up and efficiently operating, and resolve differences between Mr. Coyne and USB.
