TSA 598

II. Description of Area

The subject site building is located in a modern, middle-class apartment development known as Summit Hills Apartments, along a main thoroughfare of Washington, D.C. (eta Street) and Route 101 East-West Highway. The subject site building is located in Montgomery County, Maryland.

To the south of the subject site is another apartment building known as 2400 6th Street, Summit Hills Apartments, located approximately fifty yards south of the subject site building. Between 2400 6th Street and the subject site building is a large parking lot. Access to this parking lot, which is parallel to the east wing of the subject site building, can be gained from either East-West Highway, Route 101, by proceeding in a westerly direction, or from 2400 6th Street, a divided highway, which allows entrance to the parking lot for southbound vehicles only.

West and north of the subject site building are additional apartment buildings and certain areas. To the east of the subject site building is 2400 6th Street. The subject site building is laid out in the form of a cross, with wings extending north, south, east, and west. The subject site is located in the extreme southeast corner of the east wing of the subject site building.

D.C. Transit bus service is available along East-West Highway, and at the parking lot located in close proximity to the subject site is a bus stop for D.C. Transit. This parking lot is located directly north of the east wing of the subject site building. Taxi cab service is also available. Complete personal services are located approximately one-half mile away in Silver Spring, Maryland, which can be reached by traveling east on Route 10. A bulk of parking area for automobiles surrounds the subject site building.

III. Description of Site

No interior inspection of the subject site was conducted. The subject site may be entered through the main entrance and from outside the entrance located midway on the south side of the east wing of the subject site building.
