International Student Assemblies

We are going to name separately the labor accomplished by the Section of International Relations in the international student assemblies, for it results of great importance. The IDE has sent delegations to three great student assemblies: IV CIAE (Congreso Latinoamericano de Estudiantes), III CEUCA (Congreso de Estudiantes Universitarios de Centro America), and X CIE (Conferencia Internacional de Estudiantes). A delegation was also sent to travel through several countries of Africa (Senegal, Ghana, Kenya, Egypt, Marruecos, Nigeria, Argelia, and Tunisia) in order to establish contacts with the Student Unions of Africa in preparation for the CIE.

a. IV Congreso Latinoamericano de Estudiantes (IV CIAE)

The IDE sent a delegation to the IV CIAE—the most important Latin American student assembly—composed of Luis Fernandez Rocha, Luis Boza Dominguez, Joaquin Perez, Jose I. Rodriguez Lombillo, Antonio B. Abella, and Eduardo Muniz.

The report on the labor accomplished by this delegation in the IV CIAE—a delegation from the BEU of Cuba was present at it also—has already been presented. But we will only list the following resolutions which were taken in the assembly due to our rigorous action:

Condemn the executions of students in Cuba.

Demand freedom for Alberto Miller and the other imprisoned students.

Proclaim the 27th of November day of duel for Latin American students, in memory of the Cuban students that have been executed.

Ask the Comision de Estudios e Informacion (RIC), organism of the International Student Conference, to perform an investigation on the situation of Cuban students.

b. Congreso de Estudiantes Universitarios de Centro America (III CEUCA)

The IDE sent a delegation to this assembly, held in San José, Costa Rica, led by Rogelio Helu and composed of delegates of the IDE in Costa Rica. The celebration of the III CEUCA did not finally take place because the unions controlled by Communists asked that the Cuban Revolution be given a vote of confidence. Mexico, Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Honduras opposed this petition. At this critical situation, the democratic delegation retired, finishing thus the assembly and leaving the Communists unable to reach their objective.

c. Conferencia Internacional de Estudiantes (X CIE)

In the X CIE just held at Quebec, Canada, the IDE delegation obtained the greatest success ever in the assistance to a student assembly. This delegation was composed of Jose I. Rodriguez Lombillo, Rafael Trenols, Joaquin Perez, Lourdes Casals, Rogelio Helu, and Eduardo Muniz. Their assistance at the assembly turned out to be a great success owing to the efforts of the delegation. The assembly condemned, with only one vote of opposition from India, the executions and imprisonments of Cuban students and the suspension of the publication of the newspapers of the University by the Totalitarian State.

Copies of this resolution will be sent to all Student Unions of the world, to the United Nations, and to the government of Fidel Castro. The report on the X CIE will soon be delivered.

d. The Delegation sent by the DRE to Africa

On the last days of May, 1962, the IDE sent a delegation to Africa composed of Jose I. Rodriguez Lombillo, Raul Gonzalez Simon, and Lourdes Casals. They traveled through these countries: Senegal, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Egypt, Marruecos, Tunec, and Argelia. They established contacts with the leaders of Student Unions and distributed among them extensive information on the actual situation of Cuban students, translated to English and French.
