France.

f. France — The delegation was initially divided into functional units; on 27 December, a sort of truce was worked out and there was no overt trouble. Prominent members of the delegation were Roger PR-PRAY, a left-wing university lecturer; Jean-Pierre VIGIER, [Faubourg Raymo], brother of Alain KRAIGER; [Faubourg de la Croix]; and Marie-Claude PAGNAUD, the mistress of Abderrezak-Ben [Abderrezak-Ben had jin-] (Algeria, living in Paris).

F — French. France. Citizenship: Algeria.

g. West Germany — The delegation was composed primarily of unidentified militants of the Socialist German Student League (SDS). The group took a very left-sectarian position and joined with the PSC from Britain in openly refusing to give full support to Al Fatah (Al Patah). On the other hand, the Germans played the role of observers, speaking only briefly in the Political Commission.

Associate of Abderrezak Benharj.

h. Spain.

i. Switzerland.

j. Netherlands — Kees Wagtendonk (Wag tendonk) and Bertus Hendriks, who came from Amsterdam. Source comment: Wagtendonk said that he was still a member of the Pacifist Socialist Party; Hendriks described himself as a Marxist-Leninist.

k. Scandinavia — Included Sweden, and perhaps two other Scandinavian countries. Source comment: The small Scandinavian group, which came as observers, was guided during the proceedings by Smerl of Uppsala, who resides at 31 Nytorck, Stockholm. He is an Arab journalist who claims to write for Lebanese and Syrian publications and who had attended the Vietnam War Crimes Tribunal in Stockholm.

l. Algeria.

m. Palestine.

n. United States — Delegation as follows:

(1) Herb Block, of the Ad Hoc Committee for a Marxist-Leninist Communist Party, who led the delegation.

(2) Mrs. Block, wife of Herbert Block. Source comment: The Blocks announced that they were attending the Congress under the pseudonym of “Douglas.” Mrs. Block even went to the length of wearing a reddish wig and dark glasses. Neither Block played any significant role.

(3) Eldridge Cleaver, Black Panther Party leader, now residing in Algiers.

Don Elnu, a Negro from Chicago who accompanied the Blocks (Blacks) and who claimed to be a member of the Black Panther Party.

SCC Beguenier of the Communist Party of the USA in Chicago.

Sex: M. Citizenship: USA.
