Economy closer aim and continuing deterioration of economic structure in Czechoslovakia.

b. Believe methods aimed at forcing postponement or abandonment should be confined to suggestions and left to the discretion of the populace. Possibility of rebuttal campaign and dissension needs to be seen if plan abandoned following unloading of cash and huge belligerent agreement.

h. On Friday 6 January 1952, OIC cabled Munich (MT 97623):

“Suspend action outlined reference pending instructions which follow soonest.”

5. On 5 January 1952 this suspension was amplified as follows to Frankfurt (OUT 91048), with copy to Munich:

“While considerable evidence currency reform may develop, do not wish to embark on operation until more certain of facts and know more about your plans for handling it. Advise any additional information you are able to obtain on possibility of currency reform and send outline of contemplated operational program, including channels of dissemination and taxes.”

6. On Monday 7 January 1952, the following cable was received from Munich (IN 11613):

a. Reference too late. Program began 0500, 7 January.

b. Instruct.

7. On 9 January 1952, at the request of RF Division, we called Mr. Wabcol, Assistant Director of RFE in New York, who advised that he had had no instructions to suspend the Czech currency program. He said that Mr. C. J. Jackson had cabled to RFE, “Munich on Saturday, 5 January 1952, to go ahead with the program if they were satisfied it was a bona fide them and would not backfire.” At our request, Mr. Wabcol sent the following teletype message to Munich, RFT:

“Did you continue Czechoslovakia currency (program) beyond January 7th as outlined teletyped program contest P.A. Our friends advise—one—considerable doubt on part information gathering friends here that it happened or will happen. Two—that information gathering friends advised Munich representative to tell RFE Munich to hold off. Assume you only want ahead 7th on Munich information gathering friends advice and sky.”

To the foregoing
