American Embassy Section — ca. 1953–June 1955

Information was also received according to Nosenko from the network of Soviet chauffeurs, cooks, language instructors, and other agents in the Embassy; permanent and roving surveillance patrols outside the Embassy; fixed observation posts next to, across from, and near the Embassy; advance notification of intent to travel by the attaches and their itineraries; and reports from outside Moscow, including surveillance, agent networks, the Militia, and the military. The point of collecting and assimilating this information, Nosenko said, was to be able to know what the military attaches were doing in Moscow and thereby to control their intelligence collection activities. Far less important was the goal of recruiting military attaches; Nosenko knew of only a few instances when this was attempted, and all of these efforts allegedly failed.

The KGB’s principal interest in control rather than recruitment has been Nosenko’s explanation for knowing little about the backgrounds and personal lives of his targets—such information, he stated, simply was not pertinent to the primary mission of control. He has also used this explanation to support his assertion that there were no recruitments of American military personnel during this period.

Comment: Nosenko’s assertion that the KGB’s mission was to control rather than to recruit American military attaches is contradicted by the emphasis KGB tradition and doctrine place on conducting operations against the United States, the “main enemy,” in KGB parlance—in this case, American officials with access to classified information who were residing in the Soviet Union.

In the USSR, especially in the early 1950s prior to the U-2 reconnaissance, the Service Attache travel program was the primary means by which the U.S. Armed Forces acquired intelligence information on the Soviet Union’s military-industrial complex. The prevention or inhibition of this collection activity fell consequently to KGB components concerned with the security of military-industrial installations.
