ARTICLE VI. Retirement.

The employee obtains a separation with the Union, without notice, if the Government requires it, and the employee agrees to leave the United States with all his property, liabilities and other charges, except those of service.

No notice is given in writing of this kind to the Government until the end of the year in which the order of separation is given, and no notice is given at all before that time.

ARTICLE VII. Medical Care and Post-Retirement.

In the event of illness or injury to the employee requiring hospitalization, no further payment shall be made by the Government for such medical care, unless specifically authorized by law or regulation, and no payment shall be made by the Government for any expenses incurred in the line of duty while the employee was on active duty.

The Government may pay for medical expenses not covered by insurance, but only up to certain limits. If the employee has been on active duty for less than two years, then the Government may pay for one year's worth of health insurance. If the employee has been on active duty for more than two years, then the Government may pay for three years' worth of health insurance.

If the Government pays for an employee's medical care, then the employee must be given a physical examination before he can be placed back into active duty. This means that the Government will have to pay for any necessary inoculations, or vaccinations, or the expense thereof will have to be paid by the employee.

1. In the event of the death or disability of the employee, the employee or his dependents shall be afforded the benefits of the United States Employee's Compensation Act of 7 September 1914, as amended.

ARTICLE VIII. Equipment.

The employee may be furnished technical equipment and supplies to enable him to perform his duties in the performance of services hereunder, including an automobile where necessary. The employee shall be responsible for such equipment and supplies issued to him by CI/ in accordance with CIA Property Regulations. All such material shall remain the property of the Government regardless of any presently conflicting ownership or the manner of registration.

ARTICLE IX. Salary.

The employee shall receive a basic salary of $7,720.00 FSS-3 per year in accordance with section 15 of the Foreign Service Act of 1986. In addition, bonuses shall be granted to the employee in accordance with Section 15 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Any increase in salary shall be approved by the AD O.

ARTICLE X. Continuation of Pay and Allowance.

If the employee is determined by CTA (CIA) to be absent in a state of "inability," "marched in action," "interiorated in a central country," "centered by an enemy," "separated," or "preserved," he shall be permitted to return to his place of employment as early as possible, but he shall not be entitled to receive or to have credited to his account the same sum and allowance to which he was entitled at the time of separation. Continuation of pay and allowance as provided above shall be precluded from the "Militia Persons Act" of 192 (US U.S.C.A. ch. 1, §15, 7 March 1921).
