9. After having been thrown out from the Lycée Hoche, David was sent to a communal school in Viroflay (Viroflex), some three kilometers away from their home. He was given money for the streetcar; however, he did not take the car. He used the money to buy what he needed for his silly things and acts.

10. At the end of the term David was taken back to the Lycée; his mother probably had asked for this and had given some money—one can do everything with money. He remained in this school until they moved back to Paris, to Vanves.

11. David's contact with Jean Adam continued up to the beginning of the war. David has never abridged himself to him. He followed many plans of Jean, although he was sure that he could have made better plans. The parents of David and Jean had nothing in common, although they knew one another. However, it happened that Jean always lived somewhere in the vicinity of David, and when the Tzitzichvilis (Tzitzichvili-s) moved to Paris, Vanves, Jean lived near the Porte Françon (Parte Françon).

12. In Vanves David was sent to Lycée Michelet. After six months he was thrown out. They were served some vegetables in this college at lunchtime. Once a plate with vegetables was caught by a pupil when it was about to fall down, and the catcher was glad. David, however, took the plate and deliberately threw it to the floor and broke it. The supervisor came and asked how this had happened. David told the truth, and was thrown out of the school.

13. Then David, 13 or 14, was sent to a communal school. There he had to take a test to get the “Certificat d'Études.” He took the first, written part of the test, and afterward, during lunchtime, he became so fascinated by a bricklayer's work that he started to help the man, also because he was promised 10 francs for this. When he later inquired about the time, he learned that he was already late for the oral part of the test. So he did not go for it; he continued to work to earn the promised pay. However, he was paid nothing, and he was thrown out of the school.

14. The parents sent him to another communal school in the same area. There he had a fight with another pupil who threatened him with a knife. David forced the knife from him and threw it away. The knife stuck high in the wall of a house. The other boy reported the case, making David look guilty, and he was thrown out of this school as well. He remembers that in this school there was a pupil who had a device in his mouth to adjust his teeth, and the boy used this device to make queer noises.

15. Then David was sent to a professional school, “Art et Métier,” in Chalon-sur-Marne. At this time his parents were living somewhere to the east of Paris. There David remained for 1.5 years and, again, was thrown out because, instead of going to classes, he went to the attic of the building and practiced there.
