"Unescorted Entry into KGB Building with Visitor's Pass: In describing his first day at work, Nosenko (NOSENKO) said that he went from the Pass Office, where he obtained a visitor's pass, to the 4th entry of Building No. 2, where his pass was checked by the guards, and then went unescorted to Kobulov's (KOBULOV'S) office on the third floor. Challenged on this point, he said he was sure that it was possible to enter without an escort. In fact, it was absolutely impossible to go through any entry of Building No. 2 without an escort if you did not have a properly stamped KGB (MVD) identity document (see below).

KGB Identity Document: Nosenko (NOSENKO) was asked to describe the KGB identity document that he received when he first entered the KGB. He was then asked if there was anything unusual in connection with this document at that time. He replied that he knew of nothing unusual. He was then reminded that after Stalin's (STALIN'S) death and again after Beria's (BEREIYA'S) arrest it was necessary to have special stamps placed in the identity documents to validate them. Without the right stamp it was impossible to enter the KGB building. Nosenko (NOSENKO) was ignorant of this and was unable to recall anything about it despite a number of hints and leading questions. Actually, during the period of upheaval following Stalin's (STALIN'S) death and again after Beria's (BEREIYA'S) arrest, all KGB identity documents were temporarily withdrawn in order to have special validation stamps placed in them, and it was literally impossible to get in the KGB buildings if one did not have the right stamp. This was the subject of numerous anecdotes at the time and is hard to believe that an officer who served in the KGB at the time could have forgotten it completely.

Gastronom: Asked to describe the sign in front of the KGB Club, Nosenko (NOSENKO) said that he did not remember any sign (there was one in 1953) but mentioned that there was a Gastronom (food store) next to the KGB Club. Asked when the Gastronom was opened, he said firmly that it was already there when he started to work in the KGB. In fact, this Gastronom was definitely not there as of 1954. It was opened sometime between 1955 and 1957, as Moscow directories show. The KGB Club is in entry No. 1 of Building No. 12, Dzerzhinskiy Square, and Nosenko (NOSENKO) would have had to pass it every day he went to work.

Chief Directorate of Militia: Asked where the Chief Directorate of Militia of the USSR was located in 1953-54, Nosenko (NOSENKO) replied that he did not know, and knew only that later it was located on Ulitsa Ogareva. Actually, in 1953-54 it was located next to the main KGB building at Dzerzhinskiy No. 2. A staff officer in the counterintelligence directorate would have frequent occasion to deal with the Chief Directorate of Militia.

K.I. (Committee of Information): Asked where the Intelligence Directorate of the MVD was located in 1953, Nosenko (NOSENKO) replied that it was scattered between Dzerzhinskiy No. 2, the Agricultural Exhibition, the K.I. building, and Kiseiniy Pereulok. This is a confused and incorrect answer. Asked for clarification, Nosenko (NCS-ENKO) said that he had never visited either the K.I. or the First Chief Directorate building at the Agricultural Exhibition. Thus, Nosenko (NOSENKO) seems to be unaware that the K.I. has not existed since 1951, and that the K.I. building and the building at the Agricultural Exhibition were one and the same place.
