Director, Domestic Contact Service  
Attn: Operational Support Staff

WAS-247-68

27 May 1968

Chief, Washington Field Office

Washingtonian Howard L. Burris Begged to Accept Chairmanship of Commercial Bank of Haiti

Reference: Especially WAS-602-67, dated 5 September 1967; but also WAS-707-68, dated 21 December 1967.

1. Contact Specialist R.K. Oakley of the Washington Field Office on 21 May 1968 received a telephone communication from Howard L. Burris, 1725 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., a wealthy Texas oilman currently engaged primarily in real estate development in this area. Considerable background is afforded in the memorandum under reference but, briefly, Burris (Colonel, USAF retired) is a former chief of Air Force Foreign Liaison and later was attached to the White House staff prior to his retirement a few years ago. His social contacts in Washington at present reach well into both Kennedy and (President) Johnson circles. The US citizen of Haitian origin mentioned below is the same as that referred to in the earlier memorandum under reference. He is said to travel “freely” between his home in New York City and Port-au-Prince (Port au Prince).

2. Burris recently had a visit from Louis A. Brun of B. & B. International Corporation, 13th Fifth Avenue, New York City, a US citizen of Haitian origin whom he has known for several years. Brun brought a letter from Cleland Joseph Charles dated 6 May 1968 in Port-au-Prince (Port au Prince). A copy is attached but in essence it says he, Charles, was illegally imported for ten months but now is released. As President of the Commercial Bank of Haiti in Port-au-Prince (Port au Prince), Charles professes great interest in the patriotic duty of developing his country economically. He states that the bearer, Mr. Brun, is charged with presenting usually a proposition from him, Charles. He also asked Burris to deliver a letter addressed to Vice President Humphrey. (Burris declined and suggested it be sent through the mails.)

3. About a year ago Brun approached Burris in Charles’ behalf, urging Burris to buy at a low price, stock in the Commercial Bank of Haiti, and to accept a directorship if not the Chairmanship of the Board. On the latest visit Brun persuaded Burris to buy 50 to 51 percent of the stock at a “nominal fee, probably US$1.00 and other considerations” and definitely to accept the Chairmanship. Burris is not interested.
