Report 351 (continued)

Royalties from the song throughout the world, which have been calculated at between £750,000 and £1,000,000, and although this amount will have to be divided among many things, something would fall to them.

Ruiz says to work abroad they have to or should send people of the greatest trust, otherwise it is better that they remain in Cuba. If there isn't complete confidence it is a constant struggle with the capitalistic life, money, the stores, the easy life. They mention De la Nuez, and Ruiz says if he's gone he's gone, but the interesting thing would be to know what motivated him; his wife, his son, or money. He says that it has caused a great impression here, and that no one even imagined such a thing. Only two days before he had been in the study circle with all of them.

A girl that is in this meeting with Ruiz says that De la Nuez's daughter is married to Juan Antonio GARCIA, who is Head of Government..., that he has been proposed for ambassador (Ruiz says that they will now have to reconsider this), and what they all three agree on is that De la Nuez was not to blame.

Ruiz mentions the letter from De la Nuez's son in which he says that his father has betrayed them. They also mention an ambassador who has left (for Cuba-?) and took watches as gifts to everyone in the Ministry. Ruiz thinks that some of them will remain here in Spain as they have a great deal going for them there.

Report No. 352

26 June 1970

Ruiz is very displeased. He speaks to Horacio about how badly some of the comrades speak of him when they return to Havana. He asks him if he remembers the name of one of these comrades that spoke badly of him last summer when he was there on vacation. It was someone named COLON and another one that soon left. After what COLON said they wrote him a letter calling his attention to the criticism. Ruiz is very worried about his recall to Havana. He tells Horacio that he doesn't think it is about his work, and Horacio says they are doing things there that are super-human, that without the necessary means at hand they are resolving difficult problem of various kinds. Ruiz mentions contacts that he has had in Spain with different people, and he never has committed an error, and has always handled everything with great tact and in favor of his government, even when he has had to deal with Falangists.

Ruiz says that he is very sensitive and that things have got to the point that he can't just let them go by, things they are accusing him of in Havana. But, there is no one that has the courage to tell him directly to his face so that he could justify himself, and if they are things that he cannot handle then for them to call him back, and relieve him of the post because "Comandante Guillermo Ruiz cannot resolve them, but the thing is
