Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 101775.

Section A—General. Name (first): William P. Date of birth: 10/22/1900. Sex: M. Grade: GS-15. Service designation: OC Intelligence Officer (Contact). Career staff status: Not eligible; pending. Member: declined; deferred; denied. Report type: initial; annual. Reassignment/supervisor; reassignment/employee. Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1959. Reporting period: from September 1958 to March 1959. Special: specify.

Section B—Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Rating scale: 1. Unsatisfactory. 2. Barely adequate. 3. Acceptable. 4. Competent. 5. Excellent. 6. Superior. 7. Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Management of a domestic field office. Rating: 6.

Specific duty No. 2: Analysis of assigned area for intelligence potential. Rating: 6.

Specific duty No. 3: Planning and carrying out effective intelligence collection. Rating: 6.

Specific duty No. 4: Obtaining cooperation of non-governmental sources in his area. Rating: 6.

Specific duty No. 5: Liaison with Federal and local agencies and officials in his area. Rating: 4.

Specific duty No. 6: Support of other elements of CIA in his area. Rating: 3.

Section C—Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements. 2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects. 3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements. 4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements. 5. Performance in every important respect is superior. 6. Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Section D.
