Who would know LILIANA. TOMEU affirmed Osiel was previously with MEROTO (Menoyo) Otieterro (Gutiérrez) in the second Front of Escambray. Osiel was under asylum in the Brazilian Embassy (sic, Argentine Embassy?), when TOMEU gained political asylum. When Osiel finally received his safe conduct from the Embassy, he went to Puerto Rico, and TOMEU postulates that Osiel is now again with MEROTO in either the United States or Puerto Rico.

6. Two snapshots (to be returned) were provided by TOMEU of himself and six other individuals who were in asylum at the same time. He identified these, in the photograph in which Monsignor Eduardo Boza Masvidal (DOZA Maavidal) is seated, as, from left to right: Manuel VILLAMANAN, Oliverio TOMEU, Nila DIAZ (believed to be in US), Public RUIZ, (US), Jorge Del VALLE (Mex?), and Osiel GONZALEZ (US or Puerto Rico?).

7. Upon completing the debriefing, Stroud and TOMEU “exchanged small talk” for a while until TOMEU finally stated that he still wished there was something more he could do to help free Cuba, and asked, “What do you think I should do?” Stroud replied that no person could really make that type of decision for another individual, and countered by asking TOMEU what alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the US Army as a career military officer.

8. TOMEU replied that, of course, he was once an agriculturalist, but that there were few job opportunities in which he could apply his past experience. His sister had also asked him if he felt he and his family would want to live with her in Spain or Mexico, but he didn't think too much of this idea. He then stated that he had been asked by Manuel ARTIME to take a job as an instructor. Without indicating any association or even awareness of ARTIME's activities, or of ARTIME's contact with TOMEU (as indicated in TOMEU's 201), TOMEU was asked what he thought of ARTIME's proposition. TOMEU stated that he would no longer follow any man as an individual or as a leader, because a man's ideals, outlook, and objectives change with time. For example, the people of Cuba followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated. When Fidel took over, his accomplishments gradually became quite different from the ideals he had espoused. TOMEU continued by saying he would “no longer follow a man. One could only trust his ideals or an organization which followed those ideals, since a good organization would be less likely of being controlled by a single man.” When asked for an example of the type of organization he had in mind, TOMEU replied he was most favorably inclined towards the ideals and goals of the JURE. (The JURE or JRC is an organization created by Manolo RAY Rivero around a nucleus of former 26 July Movement leaders. See memo and attachment dated 23 July 1963 from John Hugh Crimmins, Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, ARA, Department of State in TOMEU's 201-283206.)
