Approximately in 1940, Subject enlisted in the Foreign Legion. He was accepted in Paris and sent via Lyon–Marseille–Port St. Jean to Sidi-bel-Abbes. From February to August 1940 he was stationed in Tunisia (Susa).

From Subject’s narrative it may be assumed that he was not a bad soldier and that he actually liked to serve. He said that he had been suggested for officers’ training but that this did not materialize, possibly because France was occupied in the meantime. Subject’s highest rank was that of a Pfc. (or equivalent thereof). According to him, this rank has some prestige in the Legion.

In the same unit with Subject there were about 12 Georgians, a number of Armenians, some Spaniards, and Jews. Subject knew of a so-called Georgian Company which subsequently was encircled by the Germans; however, he did not belong to this company. The occupation of France in April/May 1941 ended his military career. He was demobilized and returned to Paris.

During World War II

After the discharge from the Legion, Subject felt a great desire to fight for France. He told us that he loved France and that he wanted to do something for his chosen homeland. However, it seems that he never got around to doing anything about this ambition. He said jokingly that members of the resistance were not listed in telephone directories, and therefore he did not know how to make contact with them. On the other hand, it appears that he did not try very hard and that his love for independence (personal independence) was greater than his wish to join any collective resistance activity. Thus he decided to act on his own.

He told us that at this time there was some recruitment of labor forces in France for Germany. He decided to enroll as a laborer. He went to a certain office in Paris and was sent in due course to Germany. For a while he worked in a synthetic gasoline plant in Beelitz near Berlin. Subject said that this was the only time that he was actually steadily employed. Because the Georgians were rather esteemed by the Germans, he had certain freedoms. For a while he lived with a married German woman and, generally speaking, it appears that he had a couple of other girlfriends on the side. For some reason or other he also worked in a munitions plant. When playing, as he told us, with a small hand grenade, one of his fingers was crippled.

It is obscure how he obtained another job in Germany, but it is probably a fact that he worked as a driver for the HSK (National Socialist Party Motorized Corps).

It is felt that Subject actually went early into the black marketing racket. He told us that he had traveled extensively and had been in occupied Poland (Lodz, for example). He described these travels as “fun” because he had enough money to spend through the black market. It might also be possible that he traveled in conjunction with the forged-documents business he had begun.

It is not quite clear what prompted him to start forging passes into and out of Germany. During the interview he claimed that his aim was to help imprisoned French citizens get back to France. Nevertheless, although this was a plausible reason—it was mentioned that he wanted to help France—it is felt that the ulterior motives might still have been a love of excitement and a wish to make money. Technically speaking, Subject must have been an accomplished forger. He told us that his past studies in cinematographic technique had given him valuable techniques to be applied to the photomechanical forging of documents, stamps, and cachets.

It is felt that he must have had associates. Nevertheless, he claims that he did not work with the French Resistance, although it might be possible and probable that they gave him some order or other to fill. At a certain point Subject asked about working through intermediaries and cut-outs. Generally speaking, it still might be possible that he actually worked with the French Resistance but does not wish to tell us.
