2. FAR, Gen. Oca, the Primero de Mayo, the “Crazos” and other splinter groups—but there were, during the last six months, many senters filtering into Mexico, and this Mexican would have to come with extreme caution in his contacts with the revolutionaries. II.FS/3 told “Oca” that he felt this an opportune opening to relate his story of his life and did so briefly. Sra. Pereira commented that she first met Cruzco in Havana when she was very much involved there with Guatemalan revolutionaries. She added that she was favorably impressed with Cruzco and was surprised to learn only that he had inserted from FAR. She added that there was another FAR inserted in Mexico City even more important than Cruzco, in the name of “M. Balle” or “El Gutiyo,” whose true name she did not know.

Schreiber und Schaefer.

5. According to L/3, Sra. Pereira noted that she thought Frenk’s2 had acted properly with regard to Cruzco and agreed with him that he should attempt to retain friendly contact with Cruzco until he received a definitive reply from FAR as to the best course of action to take with him. She offered to introduce L/3 to several Guatemalans she knew well in Mexico City—not directly involved in the revolution but useful contacts in any case. In reply to L/3’s query, she stated that Ernesto Capuano was a reliable and intelligent person, but so exposed in Mexico City that he could not operate as freely as he would like. She stressed to L/3 that Capuano was closely watched and could be a contact that might considerably compromise L/3 in his future travels to Guatemala. She stated that she herself was being extremely cautious because of her past history in Guatemala as well as Havana, and had even gone to the length of paying a considerable sum to have her file removed from Gobernación, so that there would not be a trace of her travels to Cuba and Guatemala. She explained that after leaving Havana, she and her son went to Spain and managed to collect a small inheritance, about 7,000 pesos in value, and at the same time took out Spanish papers and was issued a Spanish passport, as a refugee. LI-RNG/3 explained to Rowton that Sra. Pereira had been born in Spain, but moved to Mexico many years ago, married a Guatemalan doctor, accompanied him to Guatemala where he worked under the Arbenz regime, and sought refuge in Mexico with him after the overthrow of the government. After her husband, either legal or common-law, died, she left for Havana in 1962, as I/3 recalls, with her son, Armando, who had been born in Guatemala City about 1950. I/3 continued that she became closely connected with the Guatemalan revolutionaries in Havana and represented Guatemala at the Tricontinental. I/3 stated that Sra. Pereira is a well-educated woman of about
