52-4-63, dated 28 April 1963, and Hs-276, dated 20 December 1963, describe a lenient series of contacts between “Parsa” HITL, an Ethiopian student in exile, and FORS P. K. D. (Kadim), Soviet intelligence officer.

Checks on Double Agents

Several of the Station’s double agents have been monitored through LIFAT while in contact with the Soviet officers, thereby enabling the Station to verify portions of their reports and hence providing means for establishing the veracity of the agents’ reports to the Station. All those monitored during the past year were LIBEL, LILINOW, LIHE, and LI STOCK-L.

Jewish Communist Activities

LIFAT coverage of the Jewish Communist leader, Aaron Jose PÉZEDA Marinos, has provided information on the decline of the Jewish Communist movement and the relative inactivity of PÉZEDA (PÉZESA) in Communist matters.

Coverage of the Jewish Communist leader, Samuel Goldin Magidin, confirmed the decline of the local Jewish Communist movement and the final liquidation of its headquarters. It also produced the names of the few active members who continue to act informally. It was of value in covering the arrest of one SIEBELA, a member of the Jewish Communist group, and the deportation of Jacobo PITTS Zender, known as a communist agent.

Further, LIFAT has established that the Life Popular Israelita, a Jewish Communist front organization, is almost defunct and quite inactive.

Hidden Microphone Operation

One HIC-type operation is presently active. It is directed against the residence of the Soviet Counselor of Embassy and has caused a great deal of concern with the technical problems of installing the equipment and recording conversations properly in order that acceptable production of operational data might be obtained. A TSE technician is presently at the Station correcting these deficiencies; and recent cable reports have provided valuable information which tends to confirm previous tentative conclusions that the Soviet Counselor of Embassy is a suitable target for a concentrated defection approach. The Station is currently making the necessary plans to approach the agent, having already received headquarters’ approval.
