VI. 17 Nov 76

PCC Leader Accuses U.S. of Intervention in L.A.

Havana Domestic Service in Spanish, 0000 GMT, 17 Nov 76 FL

PCC Central Committee member Raul Valdes Vivo, who is participating as a guest in the opening conference of autumn courses of the School of Economy of the National Autonomous University of Mexico, said in a lecture he gave today that the United States has intervened in Latin America with troops and capital.

This year's autumn courses of the Mexican university deal with the topic “World economy and social changes.” In his speech, the chief of the PCC Central Committee Foreign Relations General Department pointed out that Mexico as a people and as a country has always defended the right of the Cuban people to choose its own path.

Valdes Vivo said that Cuba is building true socialism since it began to follow a process different from the one being followed to date by the other countries of the continent, a process which makes the right to self-determination a common cause for the rest of Latin America. Internationalism and its practice, Valdes Vivo said in his speech, has always been directed at—from the days of the Paris Commune to the Spanish Civil War and to the Angolan conflict—giving support to peoples who struggle with their own strength for the continuation of their own history and against forces that have come from abroad sent by the enemies of those peoples.

Valdes Vivo affirmed that revolutions cannot be exported; nevertheless, the United States has intervened in Latin America with its troops and its dollars and has taken part of the territories of some countries, as in the case of Mexico.

Government Has Support of the Masses, Says Ovalle

Mexico City INFORMEX in Spanish to ANSA Buenos Aires, 2131 GMT, 16 Nov 76-PL

Mexico City, 16 Nov (ANSA-INFORMEX)—“The Mexican state does not control or manipulate the worker, peasant and popular sectors; on the contrary, it only has their support and that is why the government is not afraid of Francoism,” affirmed Ignacio Ovalle Fernandes, secretary of the presidency of the republic, who asked all Mexicans to stop listening to the rumors that are being spread throughout the country.

In statements made prior to the opening ceremony of the first international conference on the family, which is being held in this capital, Ovalle Fernandes warned that, in view of the consolidation of the popular base, any aggression of the minority classes will not have any possibility of success in Mexico.

$1.99-Billion Trade Deficit Reported

Mexico City INFORMEX in Spanish to ANSA Buenos Aires, 8110 GMT, 15 Nov 76 PL

Mexico City, 15 Nov (ANSA-INFORMEX)—Mexico's trade balance experienced a $1.99-billion deficit in the first 10 months of this year. This is contained in an Industry and Commerce Secretariat study which also discloses that growth in importations was similar to that during all of 1975.

As far as exports are concerned, the drop experienced in sugar exports should be pointed out. Sugar sales during the first 10 months of 1975 amounted to 1,979 billion pesos, while the figure was only 1,656 billion pesos for the same period this year. The increase in importations is based primarily on the acquisition of nondurable consumer goods, including condensed and evaporated milk, cereals, pharmaceutical products and alcoholic beverages.
