favor of Onassis in their own private battle. It was this mutual concern of the United States and Niarchus that set the stage for a joint venture. Niarchus supplied the money, personnel, and documents; the Agency furnished the communications, courier facilities, and direction in the form of our Commo channel, pouch system, and the NEA Division's expertise and guidance.

5. Spyridon Catapodis, a Greek broker, who had an ax to grind against Onassis as a result of being manipulated out of a handsome commission he believed due him for his intercession with certain Saudi officials to secure oil rights for Onassis, spearheaded a campaign to publicize Onassis' high-handed methods of operation. This triggered off all sorts of international litigations which erupted into suits and countersuits by all parties concerned. Of particular note was the case of Catapodis vs. Onassis, which suit was filed in New York State. While Niarchus was being examined before trial by Onassis' attorney, he claimed Government privilege in answering certain questions. This fact was challenged by the attorney and pursued to the point that eventually it was recorded in the briefs filed by both the plaintiff and the defendant that CIA was, in fact, the Government agency of interest. Close coordination was maintained during this period with Justice and State. At our request a representative of the U. S. Attorney's Office in New York monitored all of the hearings. Mr. Houston is intimately familiar with the actions in this case, and copies of his memoranda pertinent to it are contained in his files.

6. The security file on Subject contains a Covert Security Clearance issued 16 August 1954 at the request of NE/2, Att: William Miller, for Maheu's use on Project TWIXT. Other interested DD/P personnel were identified as William F. Rowland, Acting Chief, NEA Division; George Prussing; Walter Snowden; and Charles Williamson.

7. Mr. Maheu was contacted to determine whether the Committee had been in touch with him. He stated he was not aware of their interest in him. When the Taggart conversation was mentioned, he promptly replied that it must be the Onassis operation they are looking into. He recalled that he had Onassis' New York office "covered" sometime during the period. John Frank, a
