Dispatch.

To: Chief, KUWOLF; NEC A J D; COS, London; Chief, WJ; Chief, KUDESK; COS, Rome; CIR.

From: Chief of Station, Paris/LCPIPIT.

Subject: DTDORIC/Operational GRPREY/OREBONY/QREDONV/1's new contact, Carole Piña.

Action required—references.

1. We are manifesting reports and correspondence concerning QREDONY/1's new contact, Carole Piña, an American, age 31, born in New York City (possibly Bronx County), whose father's last name was Appel or Appell. Her husband's name is Carlos Piña (Mexican), but she is separated from him and he is seeking a divorce. She holds US passport No. D633873, issued 5 August 1963 in New York; it comes up for renewal in August, at which time she expects to be in Rome. She is afraid that her having traveled to Cuba in 1964 with a Progressive Labor delegation will hurt her chances of getting a renewal of her passport.

2. Subject had been having a series of political and amorous affairs during her stay in Dar, and was in serious trouble when Q met her. After rejecting Dennis Phombeah's advances, she was in serious danger of being declared a prohibited immigrant; Q befriended her, and he and Colman Ferrer of the Cuban Embassy, who had been having an affair with her, saw that she got out of Dar safely. Q was to meet her in Cairo, but in fact had no intention of doing so, and later caught up with her in Rome. She indicated a desire to work with Q, without quite knowing for whom she would be working—he hinted rather broadly to her that he was in cahoots with “our friends in the East,” but it will be noted that in one of her letters there is this disarming phrase: she warns him about how to deal with certain persons and adds: “Be cool with them—do not show your true colors (whatever they are).”

3. Q seized on the opportunity of using subject as an unwitting informant and eventually agent on the same basis. She submitted to an interview on tape in a Rome hotel room which lasts about 2-1/4 hours, in which Q debriefs her on her knowledge of every Tanzanian, liberation movement, or bloc personality with whom she had contact, and in view of her attractiveness and willingness she knew quite a few. She had some amusing run-ins with ODYOKE personnel in Dar, which we shall edit out of the tape only for a fee.

Distribution: KUWOLF; KUDESK; COS/London; COS/Dar; COS/Rome; COS/Cairo; C/NE; C/WE; C/AF.

Cross-reference to dispatch symbol and number: OFLA-3638. Date: 30 March 1966. Headquarters file number: 200-124-156/3.

31 March 1966
