For about a year. John Wilbur (Cilbur) is described in further detail below. Henry said he had Wilbur (Kilbur) through their association with the Atlantis Dive Center, Inc., in Florida, where Wilbur is employed and where Henry has had a working relationship for some time. The Atlantis Dive Center is owned by one of Henry's sons (no station traces). Sicard, Custis reported, is an unsavory character involved in some illegal activities and would not hesitate to shoot anyone who gets in his way.

Henry told Customs that when he jumped into conversation with Wilbur (Kilbur) at the Atlantis Dive Center recently, they started talking about various ways they could make money. Wilbur told Henry that he could smuggle over to Macao, and they started discussing that possibility. During the conversation, Henry asked Wilbur who he would be working for. Wilbur mentioned the name Bobo Brown. He told Henry that Brown, an ex-Special Forces U.S. Army major, had set up a branch of Defense Systems, Inc., in Macao for Mitchell L. WerBell, III. Wilbur also intimated that Mitchell was aware of the operation and condoned it. Customs noted that Henry did not pick up the name Bobo or Brown until after they had mentioned a Special Forces major, at which point Henry professed to remember his name.

Henry also told Customs, when asked why he had called Mitchell ALAD, that he had telephoned the FBI first and was told by them that his information was not in their jurisdiction and was given the phone number for Mitchell ALAD. Later, Henry changed his story to the effect that he said he looked in the Miami telephone directory to get the FBI's number and called Mitchell ALAD (10114) instead because the latter's number was under the FBI's. Comment: Not true, both numbers are listed under D.S. Government but on separate pages.

5. As for John Brooks, Customs reported that this name is an alias used by one John Wilbur, who is about 35 years old. Originally from Massachusetts, Wilbur has been in Florida for several years. He has been in touch with Customs for approximately three years. He was initially brought to Customs' attention over a narcotics case. At the time, Wilbur was working for the FBI, infiltrating both right- and left-wing youth organizations. He was also dating an airline stewardess who was involved in narcotics smuggling from South America. When Wilbur found out about this illegal activity, he told the FBI, who, in turn, put him in touch with Customs.

Custis described Wilbur (Kilbur) as an ultra-right-wing animal and a soldier of fortune who is impressive-looking and a smooth talker. Custis says Wilbur is also a fabricator. As an example, they mentioned that Wilbur would read an article in a magazine and shortly thereafter would try to pass it off as his information. He would also contact Customs and tell them every rumor he heard in the hopes that one of the stories would be true so that he could collect a reward. Custis says that although Wilbur is a fabricator and reward collector, he is dangerous and would do anything for money.

5. Custis noted that Wilbur enjoys playing the role of a war correspondent in TV shows and likes to flash money around. They also noted that about four months ago he began living off a rice dividend. He is in the real-estate business and inherited property in the Keys; each “key” is worth more than $100,000.
