13 September 1961

General

On 7 September 1961, the subject, David TZITZICHVILLI, and Case Officer Dan N. were met by the reporting agent at Union Station in Washington, D.C., at 0900 hours. At this time, the case officer explained to the subject that the reporting agent would have in his possession documents for the subject and two thousand dollars in cash, which was to be given to the subject after their arrival in Frankfurt, Germany. The subject executed a signed receipt for the money and documents, and this receipt was kept by the case officer.

The subject and reporting agent departed Union Station, Washington, D.C., via Pennsylvania Railroad Train #174, the Colonial, and arrived at Trenton, New Jersey, at 1300 hours, 7 September 1961. The subject and reporting agent then proceeded by taxicab from Trenton, New Jersey, to McGuire Air Force Base, Wrightstown, New Jersey.

The subject and reporting agent departed McGuire Air Force Base via Military Air Transport Service EKA 31 at 2000 hours and arrived in Frankfurt, Germany, at 0830 hours at Rhein-Main Airport on 8 September 1961.

After arrival at Rhein-Main Airport, the subject and reporting agent proceeded by taxicab to downtown Frankfurt. At this time, the money and documents were given to the subject. He executed a signed receipt for this material, which is attached to this report as Exhibit #1. After the subject received the documents and money, he departed the company of the reporting agent at the train station in Frankfurt, Germany.

During the course of the trip to Germany, the subject stated that he would possibly remain in Germany for a few weeks and that he was also contemplating moving to Switzerland or returning to the Congo. The subject seemed well satisfied with the termination agreement and at no time displayed any dissatisfaction concerning his treatment during the past several months.

The reporting agent departed Frankfurt, Germany, via Pan American Airlines Flight #73 at 1400 hours, 11 September 1961, and arrived in Washington, D.C., at 1930 hours, 11 September 1961.

This flight covered a distance of approximately eight thousand miles, and the flight time was approximately seventeen hours.

Attachment: Exhibit #1

JCI-2 33477
