9. Preference for next assignment (continued)

C. Indicate your preference for next assignment by inserting numbers 1, 2, and 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in the boxes below:

Return to my current station, after a one-year extension of my present tour.

Be assigned to headquarters for a tour of duty. With respect to possible assignment in headquarters, indicate choice of component:

1st choice: CTR  
2nd choice: Cover Group  
3rd choice: Office/Personnel

Be assigned to another field station. With respect to possible reassignment to another field station, indicate choice of geographic area or specific station, based on qualifications:

1st choice: Geneva  
2nd choice: Brussels  
3rd choice: New Zealand/Canada

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments?

Indicate number of work days: 25.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents who will be travelling or moving with you:

Wife, will be 37 in 1965; two daughters, 15 and 12 in 1965.

11A. Indicate any change in your personal or family situation which should be considered in determining your next assignment:

Next post should have high school facilities teaching in French or in English.

12. Signature: Complete item No. 5-1, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form.

To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training:

Chief, External concurs in subject's wish for one-year extension and return for second tour after home leave in the fall of 1965. However, subject's wish as expressed in 9.A. of having case officers working under him is not feasible at this time.

14. Signature: Complete item No. 5-2, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form.

To be completed by appropriate career service officer or personnel officer at headquarters.
