Later, returning to the same subject, Pope says, “The last new people (that have arrived?) are alcoholics? But if you only know, things are better, at least with regard to us, peace and charity.”

10 February 1970

Item 18. The second tape begins with part of a conversation between Piloto and Cuca around dinner time. Cuca says that her mother is 55 years old and her father is 57. Her mother, she says, has had six children. Piloto mentions the difference in age between him and Cuca; he says 12 years is a lot. Piloto says he continues to lose weight.

11 February 1970

Item 3. Conchita calls Nida. She says that the place where she bought the radio is called Barroso and is at Lavapies 145. Nilda (Nida) talks to Alicia. She says that she had a very nice time in Havana, but that the weather was very bad; it rained a lot and it was cold. Nilda was with Alicia’s children in Havana. She says that they got very good marks in their studies, that the little one can read, and that they are very happy. Nilda also spoke with Alicia’s mother-in-law. She is suffering from la presión (high or low blood pressure) and has not been able to get the necessary medicine.

Then Nilda speaks of her own son. She says he is very tall and thin and that he is working in tobacco. She says he is in Guane (phonetic), and, as she could not make the trip because it was two and a half hours long, they sent the boy to her house and she was with him for a few days. She says the boy is very happy, is a serious type, and causes no problems. Apparently, Nilda’s mother is ill, according to her remarks. Alicia says it is better that Nilda’s boy is in Cuba, because there he will become a man and solve his own problems.

Item 8. Villarroya (Villaroya), of Construcciones Azagra, calls Ruiz. He asks Ruiz about the project. Ruiz says that the news is good in the sense that it has been accepted in principle, and he believes everything is going along fine. But they will have to wait. Ruiz thinks they will have a definite answer in about two weeks. He adds that they have great interest in this matter and that he would also like to know definitely.

Item 20. Someone remarks that Piloto “is seldom in the embassy in the afternoons.”
