Fitness Report.

Note: Supervisor or Reviewing Official may assign a higher classification if Confidential is not adequate for the report when completed.

Section A. General Information.

Employee number: 025658. Name: Piccolo, Joseph S. Date of birth: H Dec 35. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13. SO: D. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDO/WH/5. Current station: Rio de Janeiro.

Type of appointment: Career, Provisional, Contract, Special, Reserve, Temporary, Annual, 21-month, 30-month, Reassignment, Special.

Type of report. Reporting period (from-to): 1 Aug 72 - 12 July 73. Date report due in O.P.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: As Deputy Chief of Base, sharing in supervision of the whole Base (including direct supervision of two NOCs) and serving as acting Base Chief during the COB's absence. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Serving as senior FI/CI case officer for the Base and as consultant on ALSOBER/ALPALOOKA matters for other Bases and Station. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 3: Providing informal guidance to the case officers concerning operational and other related problems. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 4: Development of new operations: spotting, selection, development and recruitment of new assimilates. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 5: Operational and intelligence reporting and correspondence. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 6.

Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account
