Section A. General.

Date of birth: 30 January 1924 (80 Jan 1924). Sex: M. Grade: 03-14. Service designation: DX. Official position title: Tokyo Sta/SR.

Career staff status: Initial, annual. Reassignment/supervisor; reassignment/employee.

Date report due in O.P.: 1 April 1959–26 June 1959. Special: 1 April 1959–26 June 1959.

Section B. Evaluation of performance of specific duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

1—Unsatisfactory. 2—Barely adequate. 3—Acceptable. 4—Competent. 5—Excellent. 6—Superior. 7—Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Chief, Soviet Branch, responsible for activities of 26 staff and 6 contract employees. Rating: 6.

Specific duty No. 2: Responsible for station SR planning, budgeting, and operating activities. Rating: 6.

Specific duty No. 3: Representing the station at varied levels in all SR matters. Rating: 8.

Section C. Evaluation of overall performance in current position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee’s overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
5. Performance in every important respect is superior.
6. Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Section D. Description of the employee.

In the rating boxes below, check X the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee.

1. Least possible degree. 2. Limited degree. 3. Normal degree. 4. Above average degree. 5. Outstanding degree.
