Section XXIV: Additional Information.

1. Do you advocate or have you ever advocated, or are you now or have you ever been a member of; or have you ever supported or been associated with any political party, individual or organization which advocates or teaches violence to the Government of the United States by force, violence or other unconstitutional means or seems by force or violence to deny persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States? Yes. No.

2. If you have answered “Yes” to the above question, explain.

3. Do you use or have you ever used enthusiasms? Yes. No.

4. If so, to what extent?

6. If so, to what extent?

3. Have you ever been a member of, or supported, or has any connections with a foreign intelligence organization or its activities? No. If answer is “Yes,” give complete details.

4. Do you use or have you ever used marcotics?

5. If you use or have you ever used enthusiasms?

6. If you use or have you ever been a member of, or supported, or has any connections with a foreign intelligence organization or its activities?

7. Do you use or have you ever been a member of, or supported, or has any connections with a foreign intelligence organization or its activities?

8. If your knowledge, any of the above have conducted an investigation of you, indicate the name of the agency and the approximate date of the investigation. NA.

Note special instructions: If your answer is “Yes” to the following Questions 10, 11 or 12, provide the information requested for each question on a separate, signed sheet and attach the sheet to this form in a sealed envelope.

10. Have you, or to your knowledge was your spouse, ever been detained, arrested, indicted or convicted for any violation of the law other than a motor traffic violation in the United States or abroad? If so, state name of court, city, state, country, date, nature of offense and disposition of case in accordance with the special instruction above. Yes. No.

11. Have you ever been arrested, court-martialed or otherwise punished under military law or regulation? If so, describe incident and provide date(s) of occurrence on separate sheet in accordance with special instructions above. No.

12. Are there any unfavorable incidents in your life not mentioned above, which may be discovered in subsequent investigation, whether you were directly involved or not, which might require evaluation? If so, describe incident(s) and provide date(s) of occurrence on separate sheet in accordance with special instructions above. Yes. No.
