Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Analyze or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. WIGREN has shown intelligence, initiative and originality in his approach to various assignments. He has calmly accepted heavy working pressures and has efficiently carried out research and administrative matters requiring the careful disposition of manpower and time. He has willingly accepted responsibility and made decisions on his own when the need arose.

It is recommended that Mr. WIGREN take a course on the Communist Party and one on management.

During the sixteen months that he has been under my supervision Mr. WIGREN has capably carried out assignments of a progressively more difficult nature. And he appears to have the potential to assume greater responsibilities.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 16 January 1959. By employee. Signature of employee: Signature.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 16 months. By supervisor.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days.

Other (specify).

Date: 16 January 1959. Official title of supervisor: Chief, SAS, FI/D. Typed or printed name and signature: Albert P. KERGEL.

By reviewing official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I could have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 19 January 1959. Official title of reviewing official: ADC/FI/Division: D. Typed or printed name and signature: Signature.
