Set up for POA. Expedite indices: ECAT 1909. Case No.: 284658. Set up for CA. Special inquiry. Parent name sheet: Canada / Québec.

Use: Issue operational approval; request green list. Issue provisional operational approval; request results F1/D dossier review. Extend POA for days until; review F1/D collateral information. Reinstate POA for days until; request results technical interpretation from Security Office Division. Forward attachment to Division; review Security Office report at CI/DA. Forward to Security Office: approved. Review Security Office concurrent memo at CI/DA. Cancel per Division memo dated (no notice to Division). Review at CI/DA; FBI report LCF/LUTTER report. Cancel per CI/DA notice to Division (reason checked below) or see previous. Request review of attached reference: advise CI/DA of nature and significance. Request retraces; file. Request operational and Division talk; tickle. Request field traces; notice first, second, final. Request: Pro I; order notice to Division. Pro II.

POA expired. Please submit #J 11. If within 30 days, so further interest in subject has been indicated. POA will be immediately cancelled. Failure to submit Pro II as required wars COE ID 10-5 or to indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational use of subject.

Remarks: 50% — Please bring study to POA/OA investigation up to date based on 1985 file. If any new data already in your file. 21 and Div lines are up. Any current field lines will be forwarded. May need to be currently employed in Caribbean at the Office of the Consul General of Commerce Affairs, until得到 advance notice. Also, we should have started a procedure for POA in 1980.

Note: If file, call us Barbra PCRIN, then she can ask about POA file. Check this later. She came back and said something along the line like “ask to be able to send someone with me,” but I did not get an answer. So I asked and got one:

Barbra: “I was sorry that I didn't get back to you earlier. My computer was broke and I couldn't do anything else until it was fixed.”

She finally returned to find her files still missing from my office. It turned out that we both were using the same files. So I asked Barbra to pass them over again. She said no problem now.

Barbra: “OK... Thanks for your help.”

This is just a summary of what has been done so far. The rest will depend upon your approval.
