Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Christ has been under my direct supervision for about six months, during a difficult period of growth, expansion, and change in the Office of Research and Development. During the process of reorganization of the Office, Mr. Christ has emerged as acting group leader of both the Radio-Physics and Audio-Physics areas of effort, which comprise about 40% of the effort in the Physical Sciences portion of the Office.

Considering his geographical location for the previous three years, Mr. Christ has done a remarkable job in organizing the Radio-Physics effort and in developing a new effort in Audio-Physics which promises to be one of the major programs in the Office. All of this required that he exercise considerable initiative and judgment in the delegation of responsibility for existing projects and in the formulation and organization of new projects with an extremely under-manned staff.

Mr. Christ was extremely imaginative, vigorous, enthusiastic, and responsive in the performance of these difficult assignments, and demonstrated very clear ability to manage programs and develop teamwork against these continuing and new objectives. In the development of the organizations necessary to implement these programs, Mr. Christ has demonstrated a high degree of cost consciousness by organizing personnel of the two groups so that with a limited staff they could operate in both programs, and by vigorously combining the country to locate the best contractors to implement the program and to seek advice as to appropriate sources for such procurement.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: April 23, 64. Signature of employee: J. L. Christ.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: six. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Assistant Director ORD/DD/S&T. Type or printed name and signature: Robert M. Chapman.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

I am quite familiar with Mr. Christ's performance during the rating period and am in complete agreement with the supervisor's rating and analysis. He has done the tremendous job of organizing our research in the brand new area of audio physics. This program has a very high priority, and he has done a superior job of launching it in a very short time and with very modest resources.

ACOM TINH. No. Hd 20 7 DEC 84. Date: 31. APR. 1984. Official title of reviewing official: Acting AD/ORD. Type or printed name and signature: Edward B. Giller.
