“This is okay, but when are you going to teach me to chase women?”

The Department did an odd, little-publicized thing; it suddenly revoked licenses to export munitions to the Cuban government of President Batista.

General Batista had long been one of Washington’s favorite clients, but Cuba was racked by internal disorders. The State Department had decided, as a political gesture, to curtail the flow of arms to him. By 1960, the official U.S. line on selling firearms had become completely confused. An old friend would be suddenly denied a paid-up munitions shipment, an ostensible outcast; in, say, the Middle East, he would be suddenly invited to bid on some coveted hardware.

The great corporations were hampered by the State Department’s violations. Independent ordnance salesmen moved into the vacuum. Less troubled by red tape and day-to-day policy changes, they were prepared to make deals and deliver goods swiftly. A new prototype of global gun merchant emerged—the successful munitions manipulator. He came wearing custom-made English tropicals and a platooning-handed watch. He talked in the vernacular of the British officers’ mess, adopted by the whole international firearms fraternity.

M.M.’s cover a broad spectrum. They range from the officially licensed, entirely respectable WerBell to a mysterious Hungarian-born munitions salesman, whose lifelong skill in using false documents is believed to have inspired the Continental underworld term Han-dertpader, i.e. man of a landed passport.

With some exceptions, successful M.M.’s seem to share an upper-class or military background. They often arrive at the munitions business through years of devotion to firearms, as gun collectors or tinkerers. Mitch WerBell was still a gun hobbyist who planted and shipped tropical fruits for a living when he developed—in his home workshop—what is today considered the finest muzzle silencer on the international market.

Sure political instinct and diplomatic skill are essential in the successful manipulation of munitions.

Andrew McNammon, son of Canada’s most distinguished military dynasty and a former RAF squadron leader turned arms dealer, explained: “The fellows who got somewhere in this business all started out with a common insight. The big corporations had grown used to dealing with governments, but the independents, who were a lot smaller and quicker on their feet, recognized that it was easier to deal with government departments.

“Someone, say, had a nice order for machine guns . . . from, perhaps, a group of Kiwisish freedom fighters who carry their handheld dollar bills rolled as thick as a telephone book. Then he had a nice offer from, say, an arms firm in Hamburg to fill the order: MG-34 machine guns, almost as good as new—better than some—a spare breech loader in for $220 each, labeled ammo with it, master-sped, $25 per thousand rounds—everything very nice. Except that to move the shipment out of West Germany and around the world, you needed a quiet little key from Washington. Why? Because that’s the way modern big politics works. I suppose, anyhow, you went to Washington, clean-eyed land-trading, and the State Department said, ‘No.’

“Now the big corporation might pay a little wire-pulling. It might getcha ‘No,’ if you need it for a while. But the independents had money, didn’t they?” he said. “If he got a ‘No’ from the State Department, you could go to the CIA, or the DIA, the military and big-time establishment, and get a Yes—provided you were small enough and safe enough to do it quietly and risk no furniture on the way. Of course, it is a bit riskier this way, learning the trick. You have to charge more. But then you also make a bit more too.”

This seems to be a point on which most M.M.’s agree. Charles Mevs, a philosophic Haitian (dissolved, but never convicted, my friend!), put it this way: “Everyone knows that small countries are changeable. They have many subsequent governments. A lot of the big corporations had learned to live with that. But the small independents appreciated something else—that big powers tend to have many semidecentralized governments.”

Mevs grinned a huge, white, triumphant grin. “It’s the same East and West. Think not Russia? England? France? No difference, my friend. Remember last year the Moroccan government went to the French Foreign Office trying to trade one of their exiles, Ben Barka? Yes? And the French Foreign Office said, ‘Non, non, our traditions of political asylum . . . the sacred freedom of choice . . . and paternity, and patate.’ So the Moroccans went to the invisible government, to French Intelligence. And they made a little deal. And French Intelligence just said, ‘How d’you want this Ben Barka delivered?’”
