Continuation of Dispatch.

2. Agent Contact and Communications

During the reporting period, GERENDE was seen 54 times in regular operational meetings by the undersigned and on 5 occasions by the Headquarters' AMROD operations officer, Thomas G. UREHART. All meetings were regularly rotated among eight selected sites. No basic departures were made from the standard meeting modus operandi; however, new contact arrangements for meetings under emergency conditions are being worked out with GERENDE.

3. Accomplishments, Progress, Achievements

a) Summary — Throughout the reporting period, Project LIEMTY continued to provide the vast majority of the operational photographs and physical surveillance reports used in Mexico City Station's operations targeted against the LIMERICK installation and personnel. This activity is in direct support of, and in consonance with, the current RC as approved for the Station. The LIEMTY coverage has proved to be a most reliable tool for following the daily movements of LIMERICK personnel; providing leads to, and confirming the identities of, LIMERICK staffers and their visitors; verifying the relative rank and specific intelligence service connection of various LIMERICK officers; keeping the Station abreast of construction changes of the LIMERICK physical plant; and verifying reports of Station access agents. During the period under review, the LIEMTY basehouses produced 4,212 photographs (149 rolls) as well as 680 pages of fixed surveillance reports covering this target.

b) LIENTRAP — Throughout this period, the LIENTRAP mobile unit was targeted against leaders and meeting sites of the local communist parties as well as other targets of opportunity. Specifically, LIENTRAP provided up-to-date photographs of numerous communist officials, which are of value to both the JETIGER program and the Station's penetration/recruitment program. The LIENTRAP unit and personnel also regularly serviced 21 postal accommodation addresses used by Mexico City Station, Headquarters, and other field Stations. The LIENTRAP unit provided a total of 404 operational photographs.

c) LIMITED — During the reporting period, the LIMITED basehouse provided 1,412 frames (54 rolls) of operational film and daily observation reports covering the arrival and departure of LIMERICK personnel and visitors at the front gate of the installation during the afternoon and early evening hours. In addition, LIEMTY-6, the LIMITED basehouse keeper, served as the radio dispatcher on several LIMBRACE surveillance operations. The value and need of the LIMITED fixed-radio dispatching base has been explained in detail in previous LIEMTY Progress Reports.

d) LILYRIC — During this period, the LILYRIC basehouse produced 1,542 frames (54 rolls) of operational photographs, covering the same area and targets noted in the LIMITED section, but during the morning and early afternoon hours. In addition, LILYRIC prepared a weekly report on the comings and goings of each LIMERICK staffer and contributed the majority of this project's physical surveillance reports.

e) LICALLA — Throughout this period, the LICALLA basehouse provided photographic coverage of the garden and patio area of the LIMERICK installation, an area where many of the officers, their families, and visitors congregate. In covering this area, LICALLA produced 1,258 individual photographs as well as regular reports on the activities of various officials of special interest to the Station.

f) LIEMTY-4 — All the above-noted operational film (155 rolls, 4,616 frames) provided by the basehouses and the LIENTRAP unit was developed and printed by LIEMTY-4 at the LIEMTY photo processing base. As noted in reference A., much of the LIEMTY photographic lab equipment was scheduled to be replaced during this period. With the advice of the local KIERT representative, both the LIEMTY lab's film washing system and strip printer were replaced. In addition, a new semi-automatic drum-type print dryer was ordered by the Station for installation in this base during February 1965.
