Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 027630.

Section A — General. Date of birth: 27 May 1919. Sex: Male. Grade: GS-11. SO: D. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/S.A.S. Current station: JMWAVE. Type of appointment: Special — Promotion. Reporting period: 6 May 1963 to 5 September 1963.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: To effect security screenings of PBRUMEN refugees arriving in the JMWAVE area from PBRUMEN in joint collaboration with ODENVY representatives. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: To interrogate PBRUMEN security suspects, surfaced by the above screenings and other means, in conjunction with representatives of the KUJUMP interrogation center. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: To supervise the interrogation efforts of three KUJUMP interrogators connected with the JMWAVE/KUJUMP KUDESK debriefing program. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 4: To prepare and present to
