Source, Operational Data, and Comments:

The fact that the Communist Party of Cuba would take the measures described in the attached report is not considered surprising. As can be seen from a study of Embassy dispatches and from our past reports on this subject, the FSP is finding itself in an increasingly worse position, politically, financially, and psychologically. The greatest strength of the FSP comes from ignorant laborers who are, by US standards, at least, exploited. The conference-reported reports by anti-communist elements—one-half million—employed in Cuba. It is only logical, therefore, that communist strength remains, at present, in the field where Marxist ideology has always been used to the best advantage, that of the ignorant workers. It is probable that the FSP, as a political party, will no longer carry the weight and respect it has in the past, at least until economic conditions in Cuba grow much worse, or until the present East–West tension diminishes considerably.

Until recently, two possible solutions to the FSP’s present predicament lay in its uniting with the Ortodoxo Party or with the PAU. Concerning the Ortodoxo Party, it is known that the leftist groups within that party—Vice-Secretary AMEZ, FAU RADA, N.A.I.R., and others—are militating for a pact with the communists (see copy of recommendation from E. T. CRAIG to the Ambassador, dated January 23, 1952, copy of which is attached), but, so far, have been checked by the anti-communist elements within the Ortodoxo Party.

Until recently, conservative anti-BATISTA electives in Cuba stated with conviction that BATISTA would join with the Communists in a selfish attempt to gain the Presidency. However, BATISTA, in two articles appearing in Cibagi (Cibagi [OCR: Cibagi]), issues 2 and 13, 1951, closed the door on more of this kind by stating the only way the FSP and the PAU could unite would be if the FSP would publicly state that, in case of an international conflict, the FSP would side with the United Nations and against Russia.

An interesting sequel to this statement, and possibly connected with it, was a leaflet distributed in the streets of Havana in early January entitled, “To the Workers of the PAU and to the People of Cuba,” signed by Cdbulic-FARlanez VELIZ (Payari), leader of the Bloque Obrero del PAU, which is known for its leftist and pro-communist sympathies. In the leaflet, FARlanez claimed that BATISTA had tried to destroy him and expel him from the Bloque Obrero, purportedly because FARlanez had tried to defend “the interest of the working classes and of the Bloque Obrero within the PAU, a real and decided opposition line to the government,” and is determined that a united oppositionist front be formed to defend.

From: PD/71. Recd. No.: FEB 1984 01:09.
