Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or expand ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mail Room.

Mr. Vitale continues to do an exceptional job in assisting his office on a most complex project. His longevity on the project, coupled with his continued objectivity, makes his services increasingly valuable. This is in contrast to many of his colleagues who have transferred because of the many extreme demands and frustrations caused by this extraordinary project. Mr. Vitale continues to be a most loyal, cooperative and willing worker, getting along well with all hands. His maturity and many years of experience in his field, in addition to his great general knowledge, make him a most valued employee when compared to colleagues of similar rank. It is because of this that I have again rated Mr. Vitale very high. In addition, and fully realizing his limited potential as a senior operations officer, I feel he is still undergraded and should be promoted to the next higher grade at the earliest opportunity.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: July 23, 64. Signature of employee: Gerry W. Vitale.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 34 months.

Date: 15 July 1964. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/SA/MOB/PM. Typed or printed name and signature: Calvin W. Hicks.

3. Comments of Reviewing Official.

Undersigned concurs in the ratings of the specific duties and performance in current position of Mr. Vitale. Mr. Vitale has been concerned with the Cuban effort for several years and his personal knowledge of past events is extremely helpful.

Date: 28 July 1964. Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/SA/MOB. Typed or printed name and signature: Colonel Arthur A. Maloney.
