Section A.

I. Name (Last, First): McCORD, James.  
B. Office/Division/Branch of Assignment: OS/Security Research Staff.  
2. Date Report Due In-Op: 22 August 1957.  
3. Grade: GS-14.  
10. Type of Report: Initial.

Section B.

1. For the matter: This report has been shown to the individual rated.

A. Check appropriate statements:

This report reflects my own opinions of this individual.

This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors.

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where he stands.

If individual is rated “T” in C or D, a pending let-timer was sent to him; a copy attached to this report.

I cannot certify that the rated individual is not more or less than his job performance because (specify):

D. This date: 28 August 1957.  
C. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: HARLAN A. WESTRELL, Chief/Security Research Staff.

2. For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

Signature: [Signature]. Date: 10/6/57.  
[Signature], 10/6/57.  
[Signature], 10/7/57.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

A. This date: 3/25/57.  
B. Typed or printed name and signature of reviewing official: C.T. HENRY.  
C. Official title if reviewing official: Executive Officer.

Job Performance Evaluation.

I. Rating on General Performance of Duties.

Directions: Consider only the productivity and effectiveness with which the individual being rated has performed his duties during the rating period. Compare him only with others doing similar work at a similar level of responsibility. Factors other than productivity will be taken into account later in Section (d).

Insert rating number.

1. Does not perform duties adequately; he is incompetent.  
2. Barely adequate in performance. Although he was not specific quantity or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities.  
3. Performs most of his duties acceptably, occasionally reverts some area of mistakes.  
4. Performs duties in a competent, effective manner.  
5. A fine performance, carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well.  
6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equalled by other persons whose supervisor is.

Comments:
