was used in inducing the Mexican Government to deport Mario Sosa Navarro and thus provided the station with the means to test one of its more potent sources as well as check the accuracy of his progress reports.

5. Narciso Bassols. Bassols is a leading collaborator of the Soviets in Mexico. Coverage of his traffic showed him in contact with his Soviet case officer and gave details of interest on Mexican political matters and one important Communist front, the Círculo de Estudios Exteriores, of which Bassols was the intellectual author though not a member.

h. Asa ZIMZ Dolinsky, American Communist mentioned above.

1. Headquarters of the Liga Popular Israelita, Jewish Communist front. This coverage reflected that the Liga was almost defunct.

J. Fernando Alberto Milia, Argentine Naval Attaché, who was covered briefly in connection with the proposed defection of a Soviet official with whom he was in contact.

14. Microphone Phase

LIFEAT Project also includes the LICOOL phase. Reference is made to ITEM 006 which describes a current LICOOL installation directed against a Soviet official.

15. Summary

In summary, LIFEAT constitutes one of Mexico City Station's chief assets; and it is the belief of COS Mexico that this operation, which is wholly MILHAU'S and has no liaison or other service involved, is by far the best operation of its kind in the world.

a. Accomplishments

On a general average over the past year LIFEAT has consisted of twenty-two (22) to twenty-three (23) simultaneous coverages, each of 24 hours per day. The targets covered have included major coverage of all those which rank highest in the Station's R&D (Soviets, Poles and Czechs) as well as a large number of selected targets of opportunity. Approximately 15,000 pages of summary text have been obtained from the project. This information, though fragmentary at times and at times difficult to understand, is nevertheless documentary in nature. In detail, average coverage of the targets at the station has been as follows:

Soviets: 8 lines. Czechs: 2 lines. Poles: 2 lines. American Communists: 3 lines. Remainder: 8 lines.

Attachment to M1-4-7063

5 June 1957
