Section D. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

In the past six months the compartmented nature of Mr. Wigren's work has brought him more directly into the DC/CLOPS cognizance rather than the Chief of the R&A component as has previously been the case.

I think Mr. Wigren's strengths and weaknesses have been winnowed thoroughly in previous reporting. He is a recognized expert in his topic and as such he represents a considerable capital investment by the Agency in that kind of expertise. He can write and he can speak with unusual fluency on his specialty and in consequence is a key man in the ongoing research and study of sensitive Soviet intelligence and security organizations and operations, particularly penetrations and disinformation. This statement is backed up by production, in the form of briefing papers, memoranda, and other production, which goes outside the Agency. I have found his work to be extremely satisfactory, and more particularly, it is if he is given the time and specifications which are ingredients of his meticulous and thoroughgoing approach to his work. Mr. Wigren could carry on in his specialty at a very high level of competence in any other part of the Agency, or for that matter anywhere in Government where there is any interest in Soviet intelligence and security. I am firm in the view that he merits the overall grading of "Strong."

Section E. Certification and Comments.

By Supervisor. Monthly employee has been under my supervision. Date: 11 JAN 74. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief, CI/OPS. Typed or printed name and signature: Raymond C. Rocca.

By Employee. Date: 11 Jan 74. Signature of employer: James Angleton.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the rating officer's comments above.

Date: 11 JAN 74. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, CI/OPS. Typed or printed name and signature: James Angleton.

By Employee. Certify that I have seen the entries in all sections of this report.

Date: 11 JAN 74. Signature of employer: James Angleton.
