Designation of Beneficiary.

Information Concerning the Employee:

Name: Shaw, Robert Tyler. Date of birth: 6-18-25.

Department or agency in which employed: Department of State. Country: Foreign Service. Division: Mexico City.

I, the employee identified above, canceling any and all previous Designations of Beneficiary heretofore made by me, do now declare the beneficiary or beneficiaries named below to receive any unpaid compensation due and payable under existing law after my death. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary relates solely to Unpaid Compensation as defined in section 2 of the act of August 8, 1950, Public Law 630, and in no way will affect the disposition of any benefit which may become payable under the Retirement Act applicable to my government service. I further understand that this Designation of Beneficiary will remain in full force and effect, unless or until canceled by me in writing, so long as I am continuously employed in the above department or agency.

Information Concerning the Beneficiary or Beneficiaries:

Beneficiary: Janet Lee Shaw. Address: 909 N. Campbell Ave., Tucson, Arizona. Relationship: Wife. Share to be paid: All.

I hereby direct, unless otherwise indicated above, that, if more than one beneficiary is named, the share of any deceased beneficiary to be so directly predeceased shall be distributed equally among the surviving beneficiaries, or entirely to the successor. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary shall be void if none of the designated beneficiaries is living at the time of my death.

I hereby specifically reserve the right to cancel or change any designation of beneficiary at any time in the manner and form prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, and without knowledge or consent of the beneficiary.

3-27-63. State of residence—month, day, year. First Signature of Beneficiaries. Wife's Signature. Male last name, middle initial. Male first and last names. Signature of decedent.

Print or type name and address of employee.
