Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and future greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, reasons given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

His native Russian language facility is of tremendous assistance to the section and the agency. His rapid scanning of Soviet documents for his own purposes turns up valuable bits of information on other subjects, which he is always careful to refer to the proper persons. He is always ready to assist with language problems and if he doesn't know the answer he exhausts all possible means to find the right one. It is called for special branch or division projects involving reverse translations, and he has held a number of TOY assignments requiring spoken Russian. The morsels of intelligence gleaned for his own reports from the masses of material which he scans are briefly and tersely stated. Is a systematic worker, keeps good files, and avoids duplication. Plans and organizes his activities carefully so that he always manages to complete a project well ahead of the target date. Has constant informal contact with all his consumers and goes to any length to give them what they want, provided that their request is reasonable and justifiable. If they ask for something which he knows is of no value or which has been duplicated elsewhere, he has no difficulty in persuading them to cancel the requirement, since they have learned that they can trust his work and his genuine desire to help. It is not hard to discern that he sometimes gets berated with the monotony of his work, but an occasional tour of TOY is generally sufficient to revive his enthusiasm for another year at his desk. Has an uneven temperament, sometimes gloomy and sometimes bantering, but only rarely does this affect his working relationships.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report. Date. Signature of employee.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 52. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Employee on TDY. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify).

Date: 25 October 1960. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Materials and Industry Section, USSR Branch. Typed or printed name and signature: T. Knicke & H. Deutsch; Rosamund L. Deutsch.

3. By Reviewing Official. I should have given this employee about the same evaluation. I should have given this employee a higher evaluation. I should have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official. Date: 28 October 1960. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, USSR Branch. Typed or printed name and signature: Talbot Bielefeldt (Bieleraфт).
