6. CHANTINS — Subject is an intelligent, alert, imaginative, and considerate man, and it is believed that he will make a valuable contribution to the work of the unit. He participates actively in classroom discussions and field exercises and made a real contribution to both. In exercises where he was in charge, he got along well with those working with him, and his planning and execution of the exercises clearly indicated that he is able to apply the lessons learned to practical work. CHANTINS (CHANTRS), it is believed, will develop a real interest in security work and will, after some experience, become an effective operator. It is believed also that he would be able to supervise others in such a way as to cause them to work together effectively as a team. His written exercises were well prepared, indicating that he not only learned from classroom reading and discussion but also spent considerable time on them.

5. SALINAS — Subject seems to possess an average aptitude for security work. Like the others, he was always punctual and took an active part in the field exercises, but was somewhat less aggressive in classroom discussions. He prepared his written exercises in an acceptable manner. Assuming that he should develop a real interest in security work, it is believed that he would make a worthwhile contribution to the work of the unit. He got along well with the others, including on occasions when he was in charge of exercises.

6. MARGAIN — Like SALINAS (SULINAS), Subject is capable of intelligent work and gets along well with his fellow workers. His usefulness to the organization, it is believed, will depend on the interest he develops in security work after the unit begins operations. As in the case of CHANTINS (CHANTRIS), MARGAIN in discussions and field exercises seemed to give more consideration to the security plan involved in particular actions than did the others. Many of his questions in the classroom were related to security factors involved in recruiting and handling agents, the operation and conduct of surveillance activities, and the possibility of compromises that might result in compromise to the sponsor. It is believed that he gives careful consideration to any proposed operation from a security point of view before execution in the cases involved. His written exercises were well prepared, indicating that he gave them considerable time and attention.
