Section C. Narrative Comments.

In one or more of his or her responsibilities demonstrated in the current position, keep in mind the proper perspective their relationships to overall performance. State suggestions for improvement in this regard. Give recommendations for training. Specify on further knowledge needed, if required for current position. Also, specify any limitations given in Section D so provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Provide a complete statement of any recommendations, modifications, or supervisory duties and cost consequences in the case of personal performance, equipment, or funds. Include a brief statement of philosophy. If this space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Hicks continues to perform with exceptional proficiency. In April 1972 he was granted a Quality Step Increase in recognition and as proof of the high esteem in which he is held by his supervisor in the Clandestine Service.

Mr. Hicks' services have been particularly valuable during this reporting period because of DDP's increased concern regarding the strict maintenance of operational security in the dissemination of its intelligence information. Mr. Hicks has been instrumental in referring many reports when in the opinion of his officers, the authentication statement and the manner in which the report is written would help to pinpoint the source of the information if the report fell in unauthorized hands. Mr. Hicks' notations on the IW log cards which record the action taken on each report indicate the seriousness in which Mr. Hicks approaches his daily tasks and his contributions in reminding Divisional personnel about the essential elements of good reporting and the need to comply with the prescribed format.

The exercise of good judgment in referring or consulting on an Intel Cable prior to its dissemination to the Intelligence Community is an essential element in the proper functioning of this office and upon which depends to a certain extent the Agency's reputation.

With the retirement and reassignment of several IW officers during this reporting period, Mr. Hicks is now the IW officer with the most experience and continuity on the job. This together with his maturity of judgment and ability to withstand the rigors and pressures inherent in an around-the-clock activity, make Mr. Hicks a distinct asset in the unit.

The assignment carries no supervisory responsibilities and does not require any significant demonstration of cost-consciousness.

Section B. Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have been Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 16 October 1972. Signature of employer: Calvin W. Hicks.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 38. Date: 16 October 1972. Official title of supervisor: C/FI/INT/IW. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation of this reason. Typed or printed name and signature: Joseph A. Procaccino.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I can add nothing to this evaluation. I share the rater's high opinion of Mr. Hicks' work and characteristics. Date: 24 Oct. 1972. Official title of reviewer's official: C/FI/INT. Typed or printed name and signature: Thomas F. Thiele.
