Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 006198.

Section A — General. Name: WIGREN, Lee H. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13. Status: D. Official position title: Instr Intel. Current station: OITR/SIC, Hqs. Type of appointment: XX Career Reserve Temporary. Type of report: Initial; Reassignment Supervisor; Annual; Reassignment Employee; Career-Provisional; Special (Specify).

Date report due in O.P.: 31 January 1967. Reporting period: 1 January 1966–31 December 1966.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W: Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A: Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P: Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S: Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O: Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Instructs in Introduction to Communism, USSR Survey, and CT courses. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Conducts covert tutorial training programs for foreign nationals. Rating letter: B.

Specific duty No. 3: Participates as guest in programs of other U.S. government agencies. Rating letter: B.

Specific duty No. 4. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 5. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 6. Rating letter.

Overall performance in current position. Take into account everything about the employee
