4. Taking the initiative, A-5 asked Guillermo why he...

3. According to A-5, the meeting with Sulliver, Fidel Castro, was frank and friendly, though reserved. Early in the meeting Guillermo bluntly queried A-5 as to the reason he had requested contact. A-5 followed the scenario previously agreed upon in Miami. He clearly explained that circumstances in Miami and for him personally were much different than when they had met in Spain several years ago. He said that he and all his friends had been terminated by Black, that his mother was now dead, and that he had personally lost hope that Cuba could be liberated. He pointed out, however, that he still opposed Fidel Castro and now merely wanted to help negotiate the release from prison of his friends.

Guillermo was not surprised or disturbed by this approach. Guillermo countered with the statement that the Cuban revolution had succeeded and the entire matter of retaining prisoners was under consideration in Havana anyway. As conversation continued, Guillermo said that while he naturally would have to discuss the offer of cooperation of A-5 with AMGHOST-I, he felt quite certain that the release of Fernando de Rosas Peniche, a relative of A-5's, could be arranged either immediately before or shortly after Christmas, but that the release of persons such as Comandante Guin was not convenient at this time.

To this, again keeping with the prearranged scenario, A-5 said that Fidel was an ingrate since Guin had given Fidel much help in Mexico prior to the initiation of action against Batista. Guillermo repeatedly bristled when Fidel was attacked. Only when Fidel was attacked did the meeting take on a less than friendly tone.

5. Taking the initiative, A-5 asked Guillermo why he...

6. Sulliver told the secret status of the circumstances in Miami that were threatening Fidel Castro and that if his parents were returned to Europe, Fidel would be allowed to live there freely, so that his mother can remain with her. The secret meeting will be over in some seconds. The planning may be broken in advance by the presence of Amigo de Rocha, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is expected to arrive in French Camp soon to disseminate A-5's plan to hire Guillermo.
