Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 036130.

Section A—General. Name: Flores, Daniel. Date of birth: 4 August 1935. Sex: F. Grade: S-16. Office or board of assignment: Ops Officer. Office or board of assignment: DDP/WR/3. Current station: Guayaquil. Type of appointment: Career Reserve Temporary. Type of report: Initial. Career-Provisional (see Instrument No.—Section C). Special (specify). Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: 1 October 1970–30 April 1971.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory. Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal. Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient. Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Case Officer responsible for a Base project targeted against the subversive left. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Case Officer responsible for a sensitive technical operation including the selection of intelligence resulting from the operation. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 3: Development of new agent assets. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 4: Preparation of dispatches, intelligence reports and other correspondence pertinent to his area of responsibility. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 5.
