Found a safe place and slept until dark. I started off on foot from Batumi and followed the seashore until I reached the old shooting range about 1 1/2 or 2 km to the south. Here I entered the water at about 2200 hours, after destroying my passport (the rest of my documents were left at home) and burying my clothing and bag. I knew from previous study of a map at home that I had to swim some 18 km to Turkish territory. I swam all night and was not sure if I had reached Turkish soil, but being exhausted, I came ashore at about 0300 or 0400 hours.

The point where I stepped out was on the gradient of a steep slope. There I saw the silhouette of a hut and went in. There was an old discarded electric motor in the hut. From the Russian description on the motor, I understood that I was still in Russia. I hid in the underbrush nearby and spent the rest of the night and the following day there. When it was getting dark, I climbed the slope to observe the area. I walked for a while hearing voices in Russian coming from the shore. I saw a dark object on the sea which resembled a submarine.

I continued walking near the shore and around 2200 or 2300 hours I entered the water and started to swim 3 km offshore and then parallel to it. When I came into the range of a searchlight which swept the sea, I submerged. When I came to the surface the searchlight swept over me but nothing happened and I knew I had not been discovered. I continued to swim until I was completely exhausted, and several hours before dawn went ashore and hid in a cave opposite two big rocks in the sea near the shore. I remained there until morning.

The next morning I climbed up the slope where I saw a stone structure resembling a grave. I went in and observed the land around me from a small opening. I saw a large village which I later learned was Kemal-Pasha. I thought at first that a minaret was an observation tower. I also presumed that this was the village of Sarpi, still on Soviet territory. I was very thirsty and climbed down the hill to a nearby stream to drink water. I met an 11- or 12-year-old boy whom I addressed in Russian but the boy drew away from me.

Being still not sure as to where I was, I walked in the stream for a while to hide my footprints. Then I hid in the underbrush until it grew dark. I came out and went around the village to its opposite end. There I entered the town and knocked on the door of a house situated on a hillside. I called out in Russian. Even though I heard voices and footsteps in the house nobody opened the door. I climbed on the roof of a sort of stable in the courtyard and spent the night there. Early next morning I was awakened by
