Subject: Gold Shipments

Place Acquired: Panama City, Panama. Evaluation: C.

1. G-E reported that on 7 May 1950 a B-26 type bomber arrived in David, Panama, from Brownsville, Texas, due to a low gasoline supply. The plane was loaded for Tocumen Airport in Panama City and carried the following crew, according to G-E:

Frank ORGEL, U.S. citizen, pilot  
O. MARTINEZ, U.S. citizen, co-pilot  
Steve MURRAY, U.S. citizen, mechanic  
Mauricio CASTRO, Panamanian, passenger

A tire blew out at David, and Mr. John LERCAS, civil aeronautics technician at Tocumen Airport, was instrumental in getting a spare tire to them.

2. Mr. LERCAS advised this office that he had met Steve MURRAY in Havana in April 1950 in company with a fellow named ZORRILLO, who claimed to have some connection with the Secret Police. In Mexico, LERCAS described MURRAY as an adventurer who had been in the Philippines and the Far East and whom he suspected of gold-smuggling activities. LERCAS said that MURRAY was pilot of the plane, and he thought it was unusual that so fast a plane as this, and as expensive to operate, was being used when it had comparatively little cargo space. In May 1950, when MURRAY was in Panama, he told LERCAS that he was buying orchid bulbs.

3. On 16 June 1950 the following information was received from the Civil Intelligence Section, Panama Canal, regarding this matter:

“It has been reported that very frequently a B-26 airplane (N5546N—Martin Marauder (Manaudor)) makes trips between Tocumen and David, R.P. It is piloted by Steve MURRAY, and at least two other Americans ride on the plane, which is sometimes met at Tocumen Airport by either Tito, Harrodito, or Toni ARIAS. On landing at the airport it goes directly to a hangar, and allegedly the only ones who visit it are the ARIAS brothers, PASTOR Ponce, Chief of the Airport, and one (fnu) LERDES, Chief of Customs at Tocumen.

“Informant stated that it was believed at first that the plane was engaged in arms contraband, but later it appeared more logical to assume that it was involved in another type of smuggling, possibly drugs.

“Virgilio RAMIREZ, then Chief of the Control Tower, is said to have stated that the plane came and went without being registered at the airport under orders of the POLICE Airport Manager; that the plane lands without signaling.”

Report No.: 764  
Date of Information: May–July 1950  
Date Acquired: June–July 1950  
Date of Report: 10 July 1950
