Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Although designated as Chief of Operations, WAVE, during the entire period that Mr. has been under my supervision he has been occupied with a highly sensitive special operation controlled by HQS, and has not been able to execute his normal duties. I have been able to closely observe his work, and can more than attest to tremendous drive and energy and this all-around professional capability, attested to in previous fitness reports. Mr. is a truly exceptional operations officer and is best utilized in that role, rather than in an administrative or supervisory capacity, although his own administrative responsibilities are always well handled. Perhaps his greatest contribution to the Station during the reporting period has been his vast background and knowledge of the complex PBRUMEN picture which he cheerfully and unstintingly makes available to all Station officers, many of whom are without previous WHD experience.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 5 May 1967. Signature: Alfred T. Cox (JSM).

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Other (Specify). Report made within last 90 days.

Date: 5 May 1967. Official title of supervisor: COS, JMWAVE. Type or printed name and signature: Alfred T. Cox.

By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I do not DOGE these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

Date: 5 May 1967. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, TFW. Type or printed name and signature: William K. Harvey.
