Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 059090.

Section A — General.

Name: Christ, David L. Date of birth: 01/20/18. Sex: M. Grade: GS-16. SO: R. Official position title: Rgs Scien Res Ch. Office/division/branch of assignment: DD/S&T/ORD Rgs. Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Initial; Annual. Special: Special (Specify). Reporting period: 1 April 1966–31 March 1967.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

M — Weekly performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Initiates and develops complex intelligence program areas. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Acquires, develops, and integrates scientific and technical personnel into an effective Division. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 3: Provides advanced planning, programming and budgetary reports. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4: Prepares and gives technical program briefings and presentations.
