Training Evaluation.

1. The official to whom this report is entrusted is personally responsible for it, although he may, within his discretion, show it to other members of his staff. The report should never be shown to the student whom it concerns.

2. The report summarizes the findings, observations, and opinions of the various instructors during the course listed only, with no reference to other facts or findings about the student. More complete data is available in the files of the training division and may be examined after contacting the Records and Scheduling Officer.

Student's name: Goodpasture, Ann. Date of report: 1 May 1951. Division: FDT/OSO. Grade: GS-9. Training period: 16–28 April 1951. Projected assignment: Admin, Ass't—Monterrey, Mexico.

Performance Record. The following grades show the achievement of the student in class problems and examinations. The total possible score is broken down to indicate the relative weighting of various factors. The overall adjective rating is based on the following scales: 0 to 59% unsatisfactory; 60 to 79% satisfactory; 80 to 89% excellent; 90 to 100% superior.

Headquarters and Field Problem: possible score 100, achieved score 86. General Exam: possible score 100, achieved score 89. Total achieved score: 175. Overall adjective rating: Excellent—87.

2. Trait Characteristics Record. The following indicates the various personality traits as observed by the instructors during the training period. The observations include the student's participation and conduct in training as well as his reactions to various problems and situations. A scale of 0 to 10 is used, 0 indicating that the trait has not been observed, the lower numbers indicating below average, the higher indicating above average.

(1) Ability to get along and work with people. (2) Ability to grasp instructions: See Comment. (3) Enthusiasm and interest in work. (4) Industriousness. (5) Practical intelligence. (6) Astuteness. (7) Adaptability. (8) Effectiveness. (9) Stability. (10) Initiative. (11) Imagination. (12) Ability to handle and direct people.

3. Comment. To be used only in cases of outstanding strengths and weaknesses. This employee who has been with the Agency since 1944 and has had both Headquarters and Field experience exhibited outstanding cooperation, understanding and adaptability of the highest degree throughout the entire course.

Chief Instructor: William S. Renehan.

Approved: D. A. Shallcross, Chief, STR. Reviewed: J. E. Pringley. L. B. Shallcross.
