A basic organizational technique for the UP coalition has been the establishment of UP committees (CUP — Comité de Unidad Popular) — composed of newsmen who are militant members of parties belonging to the Government coalition or independent supporters of UP policies — in newspapers, radios, magazines, and journalistic bodies. The CUPs have been most active at the union level: demanding exorbitant wage increases, insisting that UP employees be given the right to express their opinion on editorial pages, disrupting legitimate union meetings, forming rump unions, and leaking internal company data to the leftist press and to the Government.

The goal of certain Unidad Popular militants regarding freedom of the press was most explicitly and revealingly stated by the organizing committee for a conference of leftist journalists held in Santiago in April 1971. The committee issued the following statement prior to the conference:

“We believe that we must fight for true freedom of the press, which will only be possible when there is true economic independence. We maintain that Chile will have true freedom of the press only when the means of mass communication are part of the area of social property, that is, when they belong to all Chileans. The press, radio, television, and the theater must be tools at the service of liberation and culture of our people and not a private business, an ideological battering ram of the national and foreign minority (the capitalists) as is presently the case.” (Underlining added.)

Another statement said, “The mission of journalists is to support and defend the People’s Government (the UP) together with all the workers.” The declaration also underlined the support of UP newsmen for “Viet-Nam, Cuba, and all the people that are building Socialism,” and threw a bouquet at Cuba’s Prensa Latina agency for its “objective” reporting of the Chilean phenomenon. Allende himself lent legitimacy to the mission of UP journalists in a speech kicking off the conference when he stated that “committed” newsmen must act as the “vanguard” of the revolution by “elevating the political level of the people.” Reiterating a theme expressed on many other occasions, Allende asserted that his Government would respect freedom of information while at the same time he lamented his Government’s “excessive tolerance” for the opposition media.
