This is just a message. There will be a couple of messages more.

I asked him if there was going to be a kidnapping attempt against Venezuelan diplomats. (An FBI informant reported a plan to kidnap the Venezuelan ambassador to the United Nations in March. The ambassador was informed and surrounded with extra security.) Bosch replied: “There are going to be a lot of things after I declare war. This is going to be a tremendous risk for me because I'll still be in jail. After the war declaration there are going to be a lot of bombings, a lot of kidnappings, a lot of shootings. We have to attack everything except their plane in the air. Their offices on land, yes.”

And what about the spectacular crimes that put the Cuban exiles in the spotlight?

Cuban government officials have told recent American visitors that Orlando Bosch was enlisted and paid by the Chilean junta to carry out the Letelier assassination. Bosch, they claim, ceased out the money to other members of CORU who actually blew up Letelier.

Bosch concedes that the Cuban exiles discussed Orlando Letelier. “Chilean officials told me many times when I lived there that they wanted him dead.” Bosch concedes that the Cuban exiles “discussed Orlando Letelier at theBMao meeting, and the fact that Letelier's campaign [to discredit the Junta abroad] was bothering some of our friends in Chile. Chilean officials told me many times when I lived there that they wanted him dead.” But Bosch denied knowing anything about the Letelier assassination. “Even if I did know,” he added, “I wouldn't tell anyone. I'm not a stool pigeon or an informer.”

According to a confidential intelligence report obtained by New Times, however, Bosch was not so confident about the Letelier case when questioned by Venezuelan authorities shortly after his arrest. The report states that Bosch told Rivas Vasquez, second in command of DISIP, that, while he had nothing to do with the Letelier assassination, “the Novo brothers are directly involved.”

Guillermo and Ignacio Novo are among the most militant and activist Cuban exile leaders in the United States. They were arrested in 1964 for firing a bazooka at the United Nations while Che Guevara was speaking there, but charges were dropped because they were not read their rights before they confessed. Guillermo Novo (or Bill, as he is known at the Chevrolet dealership in Union City, New Jersey, where he is a new-car sales manager) was sentenced to five years in jail in 1971 for possession of explosives. He served six months, and was given probation for five years. Under the terms of his parole he was not allowed to leave New Jersey. But Bosch told me of two foreign trips Bill Novo took—the first to Curacao and Chile, the second to Bonao. Bill Novo could be sent back to jail for these trips in violation of parole—which he denies making.

Bosch's story to Vasquez about the Novos' involvement in the Letelier murder correlated with a story that had been told to authorities by an FBI informant in Washington. (Contrary to reports in most American papers, no U.S. official has been allowed by the Venezuelan government to see Bosch.) On the basis of these two leads Eugene Propper, the Assistant U.S. Attorney in charge of the Letelier investigation, has called about ten Cuban exile leaders before a Washington grand jury. Bill Novo was called before the Letelier grand jury twice, and twice took the Fifth Amendment. The government has now begun offering limited immunity to some of the other Cuban exiles, hoping to force them to talk. Recently a friend of Bill Novo's was jailed after refusing to testify before the grand jury about Novo's travels to Curacao.

As for Bosch, his future is unclear. Venezuelan legal experts say the likelihood of convicting him in the airplane explosion case is not great. Ricardo and Lugo, the chief potential witnesses against him, have repudiated their confessions after being deported to Venezuela from Trinidad. In any case, confessions made in Trinidad are not admissible in Venezuelan courtrooms: The government has tapes of Ricardo's telephone calls to Venezuela, but these, too, are inadmissible, since they were not obtained legally. It is thus entirely possible that Bosch will be released.

If that happens, he will surely slip again into the violent, murky world where desperate men are alternately used and betrayed by the secret agencies of governments. It is a far cry from the life of a prosperous pediatrician, a family man, a pillar of his community, but “some of us,” as he told me, “have other rules to play.”

FLASH. The U.S. Air Force's jet fighter B-52 strategic attack aircraft, which for
