Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 036130.

Section A: General.

Name: Flores Daniel. Date of birth. Sex. Grade. SO.

Official position title: Translator. OPR division/branch of assignment. Current station.

Type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Temporary. Department/division/branch of assignment. Special (specify): Promotions. Promotion recommendation.

Type of report: Initial, Annual, Reassignment supervisor, Annual. Reassignment employer. Special (specify).

Reporting period: 10 June 1963 to 6 December 1963.

Performance evaluation: W — Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Translates material from Spanish to English and vice versa. Translates agent messages. Rating letter: B.

Specific duty No. 2: Performs name traces, analyses, extracts and summarizes obtained information. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 3: Prepares and initiates requests for operational clearances. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 4: Writes and prepares dispatches, cables and memoranda. Rating letter: A.

Specific duty No. 5. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 6. Rating letter.
