H04-1524 (9 Apr 58)

LEONOV

Having worked in the administrative section until late 1955, when his position began to appear as that of translator and interpreter, perhaps more clearly associated with the cultural section. Again, however, he may still be assigned to administrative work in the Chancellery, which overlaps with the cultural end.

LEONOV's contact with Samuel RAMOS as dispatched in H-64-A-4356 (19 March 1956) was reported again on 7 March 1956, when RAMOS called LEONOV (LECNOV) and the two discussed a chess tournament to which Soviet delegates were apparently to be invited. When LEONOV asked from where RAMOS was calling, he replied from his home. RAMOS stated he was now back in class “at the University” and so “we won't be able to meet at my house now.” RAMOS invited LEONOV to one of the tournaments the following week and also made arrangements to visit the subject at the embassy to give him the list of books “which we (want)...”

Unless LEONOV has something to do with consular affairs, we are at a loss to explain the following LIMERICK reference. On 10 November 1955, a man identifying himself as “your friend, Col. GONZALEZ” asked LEONOV if he had found out about some matter he had requested. It appeared that LEONOV had forwarded the “request” to the USSR and that the Mexican Ambassador to the Soviet Union was to notify Col. GONZALEZ. GONZALEZ stopped short after starting to ask what happened to that matter, explaining it would be better if they got together and talked it over. The two arranged to meet at the embassy. At the beginning of the conversation, GONZALEZ, in recalling to LEONOV's mind who he was, stated, “We were chatting about this project which I have to present to the Presidencia about the use of the waters from the Toluca volcano, Chinantecatl.” The Cia. Exportadora e Importadora Mexicana, S.A. (CEIMSA) had commissioned GONZALEZ to go to Chihuahua to see some farmers and therefore he was not able to contact LEONOV earlier.

Other than the two preceding LIMERICK references, which in themselves are inconclusive, we have no indication that LEONOV is engaged in RIS activities.

There are vague references suggesting that the LEONOVs may be leaving Mexico in April 1956.

Private Activities

During February 1954, LEONOV was hospitalized at the Sanatorio Calinde, where he underwent an appendectomy performed by Dr. Gustavo BAZ.

A LIQOOL-2 reference of August 1954 revealed that former Soviet consul MEHLINOV and his wife agreed that LEONOV played well, possibly a musical instrument or a ball game. During March 1955, after he had arranged a movie or given a lecture, two of the embassy wives remarked on how good LEONOV was. It is known that LEONOV has taken his turn at giving Political Information Class lectures. LEONOV also appears to enjoy athletics—he plays tennis, attends shooting matches, arranges football games with the Czechs, and plays volleyball. He takes some sort of lessons, not necessarily Spanish, in the embassy. As for LEONOV's feeling about American movies, he was heard to tell one of the Social Security delegates, “You can really run into trash in an American film.”
