May 22, 1969.

Contact Report

Subject: LIBACON-1 (P-4805). Date of meet: May 21 at the Paris-Mexico Restaurant.

1. This meet was held in lieu of the one scheduled for May 14, which L-1 postponed by phone. L-1 was at the pickup place 10 minutes before the scheduled time, but I was there still earlier, and I observed nothing suspicious in terms of stakeouts or surveillance. The meet lasted 75 minutes. Next meet: Wednesday, May 28, at the same pickup place.

2. As we met, L-1 stated that he cancelled the last week’s meet because he was seized by one of his nervous crises of hysteria followed by depression (sic). He immediately added that he prepared nothing for me because, in his condition, he was not able to do any work.

3. In the restaurant, he kept on describing what effect the nervous crisis has on him, and he added that he still felt depressed. During his description, he did not indulge in dramatizing the matter.

4. I asked him what happened to the lunch he was supposed to have with LOGINOV, and he repeated what he told me by phone on May 8 and added that LOGINOV was to call him but did not do it. He added that if LOGINOV had called during the past eight days, the phone would be answered only if his wife was home. I told him that this fact was a reason for him to ring up LOGINOV because, as we discussed and agreed on the last meet, it would serve no good purpose to L-1 if LOGINOV would characterize him as a not desirable person from the Soviet point of view. He commented that he believed LOGINOV was a friend of his to the extent that he would not do such a thing to him. I countered by stating that he insisted on considering LOGINOV to be his friend, but whatever LOGINOV asked from him, he turned him down with a no; to preserve the goodwill of a person, it is necessary to meet some of his requests, and the best is to do it when it does no harm to anybody and at the same time does not get L-1 involved in any of LOGINOV’s schemes. He agreed with my reasoning, as he did at the last meet, but it is to be seen what he will do about it.

5. To change the subject, I asked L-1, Karel W., return. He said
