Section II: Motivation and Control.

1. Estimate subject's motivation. (Be detailed; if possible, cite evidence. Do not use stock comment such as “anti-Communist.”)

Subject is highly motivated toward PERMINE and the West. He is anti-Communist.

2. Indicate what control, if any, exists over the subject. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control, explain.)

Station Mexico could reveal subject's activities to the Mexican government.

Section III: Cover.

1. Cover used by subject and case officer in their meetings.

Subject and case officer meet clandestinely in darkened areas of the city at night.

2. Cover used by subject in obtaining his information and is continuing this information.

Subject, as an employee of the PERMINE Embassy, obtains his information from his fellow workers and contacts.

3. Indicate service for which subject thinks he is working.

Subject knows he is working for Permune Intelligence.

Section IV: Intelligence Connections and Training.

1. Explain subject's known past or present connection with any other intelligence service. Indicate the extent of connection known overtly.

Subject is not known to have had any contact with any other intelligence service.

2. List other individuals (agents, relatives, friends) and name of subject's present intelligence activities.

Dolores CUETAS de EICENNE. Subject's brother, local, resident in Mexico. Jose CARRAL Escalante. LITANIL-3 probably suspects subj is in contact with CO.

3. Explain any training subject has had in clandestine operations.

Subject has not had any normal training in clandestine operations, but he is canning and intelligent and has made great strides on his own since first contact with his case officer.

Section V: Collaboration Potential.

1. Indicate other foreign power subject would be most likely to collaborate with because of his ideology or past associations. Explain.

Subject would probably collaborate with an anti-Communist Cuban regime. If it should come to power, the page ends.
