Hide any ... we might have been carrying “under the pretence” since the military would search the bus. Just then we saw a ... at a rather high-speed car recognized the Consul in the driver's seat. Idem A's ... joined him again and he showed into by hand his Guatemalan (Gueretalen) passport and a few other local papers. I quickly put them into my pocket and told ... that I would not be searched.

“Then we reached the control point,” we said the Consul, by then wearing a side-arm, leaning against his car, waiting for the arrival of the bus. As soon as we stopped, he spoke to a nearby soldier to have the Colonial Commandant come out. Then the soldier refused, saying that it was more proper for him, the Consul, to go to the office of the Commandant. The Consul insisted in a rather stern voice. Finally the soldier disappeared and returned in a few minutes with the Commandant, a young officer of excellent appearance, left a few minutes later with the Consul. The Commandant entered, and Idem 1, 2, and myself got out of the bus. The driver then returned our fare and was allowed to proceed on to Huehuetenango (Euchuetenango), after we had removed our luggage. We then found ourselves surrounded by soldiers and escorted into the “El Table” compound. There we were assigned to different prefabricated huts and questioned separately. At an opportune moment, when the soldier guarding me through the window of the hut went off to get me some water, I managed to squeeze the passport of Idem A and his other papers through a crack in the floorboards where I felt sure that they would not be discovered.

“The Commandant, who was fairly polite and even gave us coffee, asked me the purpose of my trip and how well I knew the other two. I replied that I was simply sightseeing and that I had known Idem B in Mexico City since he was a well-educated ... at the University, but that I had run into him at San Cristóbal. With regard to Idem A, I alleged that I did not know him and had simply run into him by chance at the Immigration Office and had joined him and Idem B on the bus to save money in traveling to Huehuetenango (Euchuetenango). The Commandant then asked me to open my valise and he proceeded to search the contents carefully. He was particularly attracted to a clay bell which Idem A or B had placed there without my knowledge. I later found out that they had stolen three bells from the hotel at San Cristóbal in a spoof and had put one on my valise. I told the Commandant that I did not know the bell was in my valise but recognized it as one sold at the tourist stand of the Hotel in San Cristóbal. I subsequently realized that they thought that the bells were some sort of recognition signal and wanted to get to the bottom of the apparently perplexing matter.
