Department of the Navy  
Office of the Chief of Naval Operations

Washington, D.C. 20580

In due reference to OP-922Y3D/djs, Serial: 0202P92

14 February 1987

Memorandum for Mr. N. Scott Miler

Via: Director of Central Intelligence

Subject: Expression of Appreciation (U)

1. (D) I hereby express my appreciation for service of the highest degree of excellence provided to my office during the past several months. You displayed professional competence that can only be described as exemplary in nature.

2. (U) It is unfortunate that the work on which you performed is of such a nature that it precludes a specific description herein, but that need not detract from the significance of this message of approbation. Of all the attributes displayed, the two most worthy of note are your use of imagination and persistence. These two qualities enabled you to produce results which others had not been able to obtain. Near failure was transformed into success.

3. (U) Not to be ignored is your administrative ability. The marshaling of resources available to you and coordination of the efforts of your available personnel contributed materially to the degree and quality of results obtained as well as the expeditious manner in which you proceeded. Also, selflessness was manifested by your willingness to ignore assigned working hours and press on as long as any hope existed for obtaining results.

4. (C) As you are aware, the results achieved by you have significance beyond the boundaries of the Navy. The full import cannot be completely evaluated at this time, but it is known that the lives of many persons will be enriched by your efforts. It is regretted that all persons affected will not have the opportunity to express their thanks to you in person for the part you have played.

5. (E) On behalf of all persons who will benefit from your efforts, and on behalf of the Navy and myself, I again express my deepest appreciation and say to you a most hearty “Well done.”

6. (G) If it is consistent with the policy of your Agency, it is requested that a copy of this letter be made a part of your official record.

L.B. Fluckey

E. B. Flockey

Rear Admiral, U.S. Navy  
Director of Naval Intelligence
