Russians: No, no, the question is what do you think personally about Communism? What are your own beliefs?

Diddle (getting the wind up at this point): Primarily, I must be described as a nationalist.

One of the Russians was very tall, brunette, wavy-haired, aged about 38, with thick hair, not obviously Russian in appearance, and very good-looking. The other was of middle height, with deep lines running from the corners of his nose vertically down his cheeks, not so handsome, and aged about 42. Diddle has not seen them since, although he has kept an eye out for them, cursing himself for not having their names. The conversation was in English, which is about all Diddle has, other than Farsi (Fani) and some German (Gorman). He believes he would be able to identify them from photographs.

Diddle's point in reviewing this film was not to let me know that there were Russians looking him over—we were both well aware of that—but to point up Mrs. Gonzales (Gonnales)'s role as a spotter. He does not think that she could have been unwitting of the role she was playing, and has avoided her since.

Regarding Andreyev, he suggested that I cultivate him, and on being told that I plan a dinner on 8 January, to which Diddle invited about 18 people, he commented that it would be an excellent opportunity to ask Andreyev as well. Doubtful, of course, that he would accept, but no opportunity to continue his exposure to us should be overlooked. He made the usual comments concerning Andreyev's differences from his colleagues, adding only that A had told him that he was basically internationalist in outlook. As others, he senses something wrong in A's relationship with his wife. (Comment: I did not, as yet. She did not appear comfortable in a large group of people she did not know, dancing to music she clearly did not like: twist, frug, et cetera, but they seemed to be on good enough terms. He was pushing her to join in, but not impatiently.)

Diddle asked for EEIs on the tri-continental congress; a number of Chansians will be transiting Mexico on their way to and from Havana. He specifically mentioned Banderonceno, whom he described as an anti-
