Separate cover attachment to: OEPA-892.

Arrest and Expulsion from Switzerland

Brigue, 20 Jan. 1968.

The Milan-Geneva TEE reached the Swiss border at Brigue at about 1030. It was evident that the Border Police were expecting me—the usual lone civilian inspector of passports was accompanied by a uniformed policeman. I was taken, with baggage, to the station immigration office. My wife went with me, but was apparently not covered by the ban on me. When the official in charge of the office phoned Lausanne and Berne, he was informed that I was to be expelled immediately and that they did not want to interrogate me.

Great effort was made by the official in charge of the office to be polite, especially when I made a rather vigorous protest at the expulsion, claiming that I had never been informed of the ban on my entry in Switzerland, said to date from 16 Dec. 1963, and that, in any case, I had visited Switzerland on numerous occasions since 1963 without interference. Moreover, I was a professional journalist accredited to the United Nations and was indeed on my way to Geneva to visit the U.N. Office there, I said. The official seemed somewhat baffled by this, because he had been informed I was en route to Lausanne, but I showed my tickets valid to Geneva. Nevertheless, with the greatest of apologies, I was escorted—this time by a plain-clothesman—to a train back to Italy at 1130. My wife could have stayed in Switzerland, but I asked her to return with me.

During my detention, my wife phoned Gilbert Etienne in Lausanne, informing him of the situation, the Associated Press office in Geneva, speaking to a Mr. Atkins, and the U.S. Press Attaché, Mme. Steiner, in Berne. Actually, I had told her to phone as many wire services as possible, but she assumed I also wanted to get the Press Attaché to protest on my behalf. In any case, the shortness of time between trains prevented her from making more calls.

When given the attached formal notice of the travel ban by the Swiss official, I refused his request that I sign it and warned that the expulsion was a violation of Swiss agreements concerning the freedom of access to the U.N. Office in Geneva, which I fully intended to protest formally and bring to world attention.

Later, from Verona, I spoke myself with Gilbert Etienne, who was convinced—quite correctly, I believe—that his phone is tapped and that my arrival was immediately communicated to the Swiss Federal Police through a phone conversation I had with Etienne from CS COPY.
