Comments (continued).

Like the shortcomings referred to in the report, are due largely to my "style") has repeatedly been called an innovative ground-breaking experiment. During the past year the Division has sent COS's and officers from other stations to Brussels to study and, presumably, to emulate applicable parts of it. This structure was created since the preceding fitness report, but the present one mentions only a "lack of progress" (which is moreover not defined and is not clear even to me: What is "progress on the part of a NOC component"?) If progress or lack of it is represented by the number of cases turned over to NOC handling, then it is worth noting that this Station works on the principle, not accepted everywhere, that all cases will be handled by NOC officers unless there are overriding reasons to the contrary. So far we have turned over some 35, another 15 turnovers are imminent, and others are delayed only because turnover to NOC now would be premature and potentially damaging. Since we have had to spot and recruit every source which could be turned over to NOC handling, it might be forgiven that we have not yet provided full case loads to ten active NOC officers, most of whom arrived at about the same time a year and a half ago. We are trying hard to produce new sources, while at the same time reducing the excessive number of NOC officers. If "lack of progress" means that our experimentation with different modes of communication, command, and administration of NOC units has not yet developed a final form or doctrine, the comment is valid, but our very active experimentation continues to identify false avenues as well as to reveal promising perspectives; in this we have been encouraged by the Division. We have, also, managed to keep our NOC officers' morale quite high (more so than elsewhere, I am told by LPGLOBE people), have kept them busy and productive, and have integrated them into the Station, without loss of security, to a degree I think unmatched elsewhere. Among the ways we have done this are by grouping them together and delegating authority to a NOC unit chief (although the report says that I have failed to delegate authority properly), and by assigning them their own areas of operational responsibility and having them do the Station's operational planning in those areas. This has been productive: it has identified promising areas of possible action which have led to recruitments, and has eliminated less promising areas, thereby avoiding waste motion on the part of the Station as a whole.

The last six lines of paragraph 2A of the fitness report are unclear to me. If the "possible loss of leadership" of the NOC component refers to the impending retirement of its chief, this is manifestly not due to any failure to delegate.

MYBAT
