Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement at this time. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Also explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject continues to be one of the strongest officers in the Base and will undoubtedly be a solid leader, acker and number three officer under the new staffing pattern. His judgment is considered and sound; his operational savvy, experience, and talent are invaluable. His supervisory functions have changed somewhat since the last evaluation, and he now handles two active NOC officers, rather than one NOC and one inside case officer, who in turn handle a variety of operations, including government as well as CP and terrorist penetration. As we have noted in past fitness reports, he is an intelligent supervisor with a capability for lighting fires under his charges when necessary. His thorough knowledge and understanding of the ALSOBER and ALPALOOKA fields has earned him the respect of all his colleagues.

Like the rest of us, he is not perfect, of course. His performance over the past year has been less strong on the operational development side, and he should shift some of the emphasis of his efforts in this direction in order to achieve a better-balanced performance. This will not be easy because at present he is unavoidably saddled with some serious and complex operational problems, not of his own making, and the demands of his NOC supervision are heavy. However, he is capable of adjusting his time and putting out the necessary effort and we have.

Continued.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 2 Aug 1972. Signature of employee: /s/ Joseph S. Piccolo.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 13.

Date: 2 Aug 1972. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Base. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ David B. McGrath.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: The rating of Strong is deserved. This is a really fine officer, very cerebral, experienced and skilled in the basic craft of our business, linguistically talented, tough-minded, and aggressive in agent handling and exploitation. His lack of development/recruitment activity during the reporting period reflects to some degree a deliberate decision to keep a low profile in the Mission and in the city due to the particularly sensitive nature of ongoing projects handled. This still applies to some degree, but we all now agree that during the remaining months of his tour an effort can be made to exploit this officer's considerable talents in the crucial area of creating new assets. I strongly endorse the recommendation for promotion.

Date: 2 Aug 1972. Official title of reviewing officer: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ W. D. Koplowitz.
