5. Questions: What is planned to eliminate the duplication in caseload of the two agencies?

Duplication in caseload between the various voluntary agencies participating in the Escapee Program has been eliminated to an appreciable extent. It has existed principally in the case of two agencies in Germany dealing with the Soviet problem—the Tolstoy Foundation (Tolotcy Foundation) and American Friends of Russian Freedom (American Friends Dr. Russian Freedon). This, however, was resolved on December 7, 1953, at a meeting of the two agencies with the Chief, Escapee Program Division/USCM. At this meeting, the Tolstoy Foundation was given principal responsibility for all cases which have a resettlement potential. AFRF was given all cases which had limited or no resettlement potential and must, of necessity, be settled locally in the German economy. The supplementary care and maintenance was divided after a thorough discussion with each agency by mutual agreement. This action resulted in establishing a caseload in Germany of 79 cases consisting of some 100 people for TF, and 102 cases with approximately 300 people for AFRF. New registrants (Now registrants) by either agency will be referred to Escapee Program field representatives in Germany, Munich, for a check against current card files. After a dossier has been fully developed on the case, a determination as to the appropriate agency will be made according to the case's resettlement potential.

4. Question: What are the criteria for accepting a Soviet escapee as a relief recipient and what office or regulations determine same?

There is enclosed the basic provisional guide concerning eligibility, together with subsequent clarifications issued to the field on the Soviets. This is the criteria under which a person is extended, and declared eligible for, Program assistance. These regulations were adapted from a general policy issued by the U.S. Department of State. Within the framework of these regulations, the Escapee Program conducts a security investigation which establishes a man's eligibility from a security point of view. Simultaneously, the man is counselled in an effort to determine his needs from a sociological and economic angle. The results of these investigations determine the course of action upon which the Escapee Program proceeds. However, in the majority of cases, humanitarian assistance is extended to individuals pending the complete security investigation, or until material sufficiently regurgitative to deny eligibility is discovered. Attention should be directed to paragraph 7 of the eligibility guide, which enables USEP to confer eligibility on any individual or individuals of interest to other U.S. agencies, regardless of normal eligibility criteria.

5. Questions: What is the source of the policy which maintains that there must be a leaning-over-backward to avoid the risk of any political implication in applying the USEP program?

The Escape...
