4. Creation of new private banks for the development of handlooms and industry;

5. Reorganization of the Supreme Court of Accounts upon such basis as shall guarantee its most complete autonomy;

6. Organization of the Department of Finance, integration of the Finance Inspection Service and the Audit Accounting within the General Accounting;

7. Complete reform of our fiscal legislation by means of measures able to modify the structure of finances so as to attain a better orientation of the economic and financial policy of the country;

8. Remodeling our Code of Commerce in order to give more guarantees to local and foreign creditors, and to adapt the law to the requirements of internal exchange.

If the strengthening of our public finance is of primary importance, production and equipment are likewise necessary. Therefore, in the execution of the 25-year development plan submitted and within the priority order to be laid out by the National Planning Committee, serious consideration shall be given to the following revenue-producing and infrastructure projects:

a) Colonization and transformation of the rural centers through the integration of the agricultural sector in the economic, political, and social life of the country in order to obtain better economic and social results, and to attain the following primary objectives:

I. Increase production.

II. Build villages in order to avoid the dispersion of the rural groups and thus better use the working force of the community;

III. Raise the rural living standard; and

IV. Assure to the rural laborer a permanent living upon the economic lot through an adequate agrarian reform; fight the peasant's inclination to migrate to the towns and thereby protect agriculture.

All of this implies that problems shall have to be solved in various fields such as Education, Public Health, Housing, Transportation, Agricultural Credit, Agricultural Extension, Agricultural Equipment, Irrigation, Drainage, Reforestation and the control of erosion, Mountain roads, Professional and Handicraft Schools, Rural Police, Electric Power, Hygiene, Sanitation, Creation of Cooperatives, transformation of our 550 Rural Sections into Villages where the priest, the doctor, the sanitation inspector, the agricultural agent, the teacher, the judge, the tax collector, the minister, the mayor, and the natural leaders of these villages shall join together toward mutual action, including mainly the improvement of the dairy, the organization of sound corporations, a modification in the usual behavior of the peasants with regard to the problem of their family and the community to which they belong.
