Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections D, C, and E to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

During the rating period Mr. Piccolo has been performing tasks that are normally assigned to personnel who hold a minimum GS rating of 7. Without exception he has performed each of his assignments expeditiously and thoroughly. In addition to his normal administrative functions Mr. Piccolo has been acting as a case officer on certain sensitive and complicated clandestine operations. He has performed these duties in a superior fashion. It is my unqualified opinion that Mr. Piccolo should receive at least a two-grade promotion immediately. However it is recognized that this is contrary to current Agency policy and therefore it is strongly recommended that he be promoted to the grade of GS-7 immediately. Mr. Piccolo is intelligent and extremely industrious. He has worked long hours performing a variety of important tasks. It is my opinion that Mr. Piccolo has the attributes required of career personnel working in the Foreign Intelligence area and that he should be permitted to have his career designation changed to FI. Mr. Piccolo should also be given the opportunity to receive Agency training so that he might be better qualified to perform tasks in this area of activity. There is no question that he would become a professional case officer. The Section C rating has been given after careful consideration of the rated individual's grade and grade level performance.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 16 June 1960. Signature of employee: Peter D. Piccolo.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 4 1/2.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days.

Report made within last 90 days.

Other (Specify):

Date: 16 June 1960. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief, WH/4. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert Reynolds.

3. By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this
