T 966208. EIA243. TOR: 2405342 APR. 75.

Kissinger's visit in Venezuela, which would tend to discredit him and the President of Venezuela.

As a result of these reported discussions, the source had been led to believe that possibly these plans might result in an assassination attempt on Kissinger when he was visiting in Venezuela.

Sturgis explained that this source was unable to furnish any other details in connection with this information and no other members of the group were identified. Sturgis understood that the source had obtained the information about the alleged plans for creating an international incident involving Kissinger thirdhand. The wife of a man who was connected with a member of this group had overheard her husband talking on the telephone about Kissinger's visit to Venezuela and had reported this information to the source.

Sturgis advised that now that Kissinger's visit to Venezuela had been cancelled, he understood that all plans “had been aborted” and that there was no immediate danger or concern, although no definitive plans of the group were known. Sturgis understood that the group had only discussed possible plans for an incident involving both Kissinger and the President of Venezuela during such a visit in order to discredit United States-Venezuela relations.

Sturgis pointed out that the Cuban exiles are always talking, conspiring and planning some sort of anti-Castro actions, but it is primarily idle and hopeful gossip and rumors that come to nothing.

Sturgis stated that although he felt there was no imminent danger in these alleged threats, he had promptly reported this information to an acquaintance of his in the U.S. Customs Agency, Miami, Florida. This U.S. Customs agent had advised Sturgis that he would promptly report this information to the U.S. Secret Service, Miami, which agency had protective jurisdiction for U.S. Cabinet members. Accordingly, Sturgis understood that this matter was being appropriately handled by the U.S. Government.

Sources familiar with Cuban groups and activities in the
