9. Preference for Next Assignment (continued).

C. Indicate your preference for next assignment by inserting numbers 1, 2 and 3 (for 1st, 2nd and 3rd choices) in the blanks below:

1. Return to my current station.

2. Be assigned to Headquarters for a tour of duty. With respect to possible assignment in Headquarters, indicate choice of component: First choice; second choice; third choice.

3. Be assigned to another field station. With respect to possible reassignment to another field station, indicate choice of geographic area or specific station, based on qualifications. First choice: NB. Second choice: N. Africa. Third choice: VN.

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments? Indicate number of work days: 30.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents who will be travelling or moving with you: Wife — 34; Son — 5; Son — 3½.

11A. Indicate any change in your personal or family situation which should be considered in determining your next assignment: Child due 1 July.

12. Signature; complete Item No. 9-1, Transmittal Sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form.

To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training:

I strongly endorse Subject's request for return on another tour to the Saigon Station. His rich experience in the paramilitary field, detailed knowledge of Indo-China and the leading personalities in the area, and his fluent French make him an invaluable asset of the Station.

14. Signature; complete Item No. 9-2, Transmittal Sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form.

To be completed by appropriate career service officer or personnel officer at Headquarters.

15. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training.

16. Name of career service officer or personnel officer; date; signature.

For use of Career Service.

17. Employee has been notified of planned H/C & New Tour.

18. Reference. Dispatch (C/SPATCH) No. E1SS 369. Cable No.

19. Typed or printed name: Larsen El in Oldenburg.

20. Title: F.V./R.S.E.

21. Date.

22. Comments: CNC approved by William F. Caply 12 Sept. 1963. Concurred by H. Shupron 5:0.
