Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Field Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters.

To the Field Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate if practicable, with his previous supervisors (if applicable) to prepare a report that accurately reflects his current supervisory evaluation. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, he have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that he knows where he stands.

Posted Pos. Control PAS 29 NOV 1955.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is required to be filmed upon.

Reviewed By PUD ALLR 1/21/55.

Section I.

Leave blank—for headquarters use only. Date of birth: 20 Jan 1924. Sex: M. Name: Jacques Richardson. Grade: GS-22. Station designation (current): USSR Base, Tokyo. Due date of this report: 30 September 1955. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 17 February–30 September 1955.

Section II (To be completed by field supervisor).

Current position: Chief, USSR Base, Tokyo. Date assumed responsibility for position: 19 February 1955.

State the specific assignments or tasks which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency).
