Attachment A.

Question: State whether constant management of projects is against the present system of hands-off control. Is it possible because of regulations? If the matter lies with you, how can you change the regulations, and if it does not lie with you, who should do this? What are the risks?

Question: Is involving itself or its staff in the actual implementation of projects or in voluntary agency operations, USEP maintains a continuing scrutiny and review of every project and contract into which it has entered. Information developed by field officers in the course of this review is passed to the Chief of the Escapee Program Division concerned, who evaluates the material and discusses it, when appropriate, with the local agency director. Subsequent to this evaluation and discussion with the agency, the material is forwarded to CFSEP, which makes a second analysis and, if indicated, discusses it with the agency's European Director. There is no policy of hands-off until the end-use audit is made. End-use audits are an integral part of the review of projects in order to determine whether or not the supplies and services are reaching the escapees.

In light of the preceding paragraph, the latter part of the question becomes academic; however, USEP will, in this respect, be flexible and can be adapted to any situation warranting a modification of procedures.

2. Question: Is the interpretation of “local settlement,” if a man is earning a distinctly extraneous income, that it means an unhealthy and unhappy existence? Is this to be an entirely separate matter, or who calls the shot on this, USEP or the agency?

Local settlement is not predicated solely on the basis of one factor. Rather, local settlement depends upon a variety of conditions obtaining in the case of a particular family. Consideration must, of necessity, be given to the age of the principal wage-earner to determine whether or not they are earning in an adequate area most suitable to their desires, background and ability; to their wages to determine whether or not their earnings are sufficient to meet the needs of their family; to their housing to determine if it is adequate; and to other factors which must be considered in connection with a family's firm integration into the local community, including its own attitude toward such integration. It is not the policy of USEP to place a man or a family on an ineligible or inactive list as a locally settled case if he is earning a distinctly extraneous income. The decision of local settlement is made by the Chief of the Escapee Program Division concerned and only after a careful analysis of the situation obtaining in each particular case. Usually the Division Chief's decision is based upon the recommendation of the voluntary agency as analyzed and evaluated by USEP officers in the field.

3. Questions.

Copy of 8 copies, 1961–63 (1)
