Attachment #4

Subject: Jesus Beltran (DELTRAN) (materiel unknown), DSE and CR member, installer-repairman for “Area Special” of the Telephone Company.

Source: Lizarro, Armando Hernandez; Perez. DPOR: 17 December 1957, Arcoita, Pinar del Rio Province. Alien Registration FA17-405-510.

1. Hernandez met Beltran during 1956, when they were both Cuban Telephone Company employees in Havana.

2. Hernandez claims knowledge that prior to 1959, Beltran was an active 26th of July Movement member in Havana.

3. Hernandez claims knowledge that prior to his (Hernandez’s) arrival at the Cuban Telephone Company, Beltran (date unknown) was a Cuban Telephone Company employee.

4. Up to circa 1952, “Beltran” was an installer-repairman of telephone equipment at “Area Norte” of the Telephone Company at 19th Street, corner of B Street, Vedado, Havana.

5. In circa 1952, Beltran was assigned to work as repairman and installer of telephone equipment for “Area Special” at 19th Street, corner of C Street, Vedado, and since then it was known that Beltran was a DSE agent, as was every other “Area Special” employee.

6. Beltran wears military uniform, showing no rank, most of the time and is always side-armed, even when wearing civilian clothes. He also brags about being a DSE agent.

7. In early 1956, Beltran was elected to become a member of the Cuban Communist Party in an assembly to elect new CP members at his place of employment.

8. In the performance of his job, Beltran installs and repairs telephone equipment at the Office of Ministers, DSE offices, military headquarters, offices and homes of 600 personalities, army trenches when needed, etc.

9. Hernandez saw Beltran for the last time during February 1957 at “Area Norte” of the Telephone Company.

10. Mestral: Integration. DPR: Circa 1931, Havana, Havana Province. Cuban Constitution. Straight grayish-black hair; green eyes; male; round face; good teeth; 5'0" in height and 150 kg.; slender. Married, names unknown. Sided at address unknown, Lima. DSE and CR member, installer-repairman of telephone equipment for “Area Special” of the Telephone Company at 19th Street, corner of C Street, Vedado, Havana.
