On 28 October, HALFRIE had to use the telephone exchange at C915 B, where he asked to be connected with LAGARDO FEMA in Prague, No. 67034. The partner in Prague being absent, the call was postponed to the afternoon; it went through at 1640 hours, and a certain Mr. Stein announced the call on the number indicated. HALFRIE talked in Spanish, announcing himself as Professor Homarise HALFRIE from Mexico. He explained that he was a friend of Louis Arnold, with whom they had accidentally met last year at the shop of Mr. Porta Arenards. At present, he was staying in Lugano and waiting for the visa to go to Prague. There, he would like to find his friends, the Stein family, when his partner should also know. He then wanted to know when Louis would arrive in Prague from Mexico?

Probable identities:

FEMA Lasare: Trade Union Secretary of Cuba; Vice-President of the Cuban C.P. and member of the Executive Council of WFO.

Louis Arnard Visconti, born 16 July 1936, Mexican citizen.

Marie-Cecile, Artistes, Villa Obregón 51; trade union leader; member of WFO; member of the press direction of the Executive Committee and General Council of WFEV.

Dr. Armande Porta: no record.

On 29 October, the HALFRIE couple left Lugano at 0904 hours by train for Zurich. During their sojourn in Lugano, they had no contact with strangers; they went for walks at random in town or in the vicinity, bought papers and periodicals by the dozen, but did not receive any mail or telephone calls.

At 1253 hours on 29 October, they arrived in Zurich, went to the Hotel “Schwöizerhof” (Schweizerhof), and later to the Czech Consulate General. At 1550 hours, the subject inquired at the KLM airline agency about refunding the tickets to Tel Aviv, but the agency had not received directions from Amsterdam yet.

On 30 October, the couple again went to the Czech Consulate General at 1035 hours and remained there for 75 minutes. At 1215 hours, HALFRIE inquired at the Dutch Travel Agency about tourist visas to Prague (Pragoe) and was given the necessary forms to fill in. He returned these to the agency at 1410 hours together with the passports.
