HOLY SITUATION

My wife was rather hostile to my news about my contacts with the Chinese comrades. She said she was sorry I couldn't work something out with Metropolitan Features. I hadn't done enough work for them because I was lazy, she said. She said if I weren't careful I'd be treated by the Chinese just like? What future was there in that? She asked. Anyway, she added, I ain't really give a dam about the Chinese.

She pointed out the situation was difficult for us. The landlord in London was trying to evict us and we had no idea where we were going. I had no substantial funds from the Chinese and was still living on the generosity of the Americans (Metropolitan), she said.

Moreover, she was tired of being a grass widow. I was keeping secrets from her, she had been certain for some time, she said. She had had enough trouble with my "secrets" in the past, she said.

However, she liked the idea of . . . reports, but was sorry about the "objectivity" and the 50 copies only limits. There was no reason, if I could get some help from the Chinese, that I couldn't make a success of the newsletter and really be independent, she said.

I emphasized to her that I had had contacted with the Chinese without Hils' knowledge and that she should on no account ever mention the matter with him. She said that showed how the Chinese treated people. Nobody was more honest than Hils, she added. What was happening to him now would happen to me one day, she said.

However, she was genuinely pleased with the newsletter and spent some time trying to collect material for the dummy I was preparing. She wrote herself a piece on xC.A.R.D. (I haven't the feeling that a lot of her resentment would be dissipated if she would allowed to handle most of the business involved with the newsletter.)

The housing problem remains a serious one and we may have to move. A temporary furnished flat in London would cost us at least £25 to £30 a week today — at present, we pay £12-12-0 per week. We have given the case to a lawyer, but, because it is a furnished flat, we will probably have to get out sometime soon.

The other important question to be settled is that of a mailing address for the Report. Should I get a London mail drop and run the risks of running into the Home Office or should I get a lawyer and set the thing up legally, perhaps under my wife's (British subject) name? In that case, I could take a one-room office somewhere around Fleet St., and my wife could take care of the mail with an occasional office temporary during my absence.
