(American Embassy Section—circa 1953–June 1955)

Develop. Nosenko has described some of these agents in general terms, but for all but a few he recalled neither their names nor personalia concerning them.

KGB Files on Shapiro, Gilmore, Salisbury and Whitney

On the day of his acceptance into the KGB, Nosenko stated that he was taken directly to the offices of the American Embassy Section. There he met the section chief, V. A. Kozlov, who told Nosenko that he would take over the work of the departing case officer, Captain Anatoliy Tormozov, in operations against American correspondents in Moscow.

When Nosenko reported for work the following day, he found a desk in Room 615 and, “There were three other guys sitting there. At first I was running traces, and at the same time I was reading the files on journalists... I think there were seven files in all, and I didn't see any other.” Nosenko listed these files as those on Henry Shapiro, Eddy Gilmore, as well as ones on Gilmore’s wife Serebryankova and her sister Chernysheva, Harrison Salisbury and Thomas Whitney.

Nosenko identified Shapiro as an “old agent of ours.” He said that Whitney “worked for us while he was in Moscow and gave us some material, but he refused to work for us when he left the country.” Gilmore, Nosenko said, was an active recruitment target in 1953 and 1954, but Nosenko did not know whether he was recruited. Likewise, he did not know the status of Salisbury as of 1953.

Nosenko stressed that the files he was given to read during the early period of his KGB service were developmental files (delo formulyar) rather than the operational files of the agents. The developmental files were less sensitive, and from them “you would never be able to figure out whether he (the subject of the file) is an agent or not.” Nosenko explained that, once a person became an agent, another file is set up, and these agent files were held by the chief of the section, Kozlov. Nosenko stated that he read the files on the seven persons “slowly and made some extracts for myself in my personal log—such things as
