Information not available to Golitsyn.

The detailed interrogations of Nosenko concerning his claims to KGB positions between 1953 and 1964 did not take place until many months after Golitsyn made his statements, and they were based upon all collateral information known relating to each phase. None of the results of these interrogations was made available to Golitsyn, so he was not aware of the countless points on which Nosenko contradicted known facts and revealed his ignorance of activities which were carried out by the KGB during his alleged tenure in these departments.

3. Comments on Golitsyn

Several factors influence the evaluation of Golitsyn's statements on Nosenko:

First, as stated in Part VIII.I., it is concluded that Nosenko did not serve in the KGB positions he claimed. Golitsyn's testimony verified this conclusion insofar as Nosenko's claims about service in the U.S. Embassy Section of the American Department in 1960-1961 are concerned. Moreover, in 1962 Golitsyn concluded that the KGB "letter-writer" (actually Nosenko) was under KGB control in submitting information to American Intelligence. At issue, therefore, is the evidence from Golitsyn to the effect that Nosenko was an officer in the American Department (until 1957 or 1958, whereas Nosenko said he was reassigned from the department in 1955) and in the Tourist Department subsequently.

Second, Golitsyn made no comment about or identification of Nosenko prior to the public announcement of the latter's defection, despite many previous opportunities to do so (e.g., in discussions of GUK, Churanov, and Kashcheyev) and despite Golitsyn's proven excellence of memory for names and tasks of KGB personnel. Golitsyn gave little detail on the circumstances of his encounters with Nosenko, and he has not been questioned further about them. Nevertheless, as indicated in the foregoing remarks on the circumstances in which the two men could have met, it seems apparent that any contact would have been brief, infrequent, casual, extra-official, and
