Section D. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Explain ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable.

Extra space is needed to complete Section D; attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Piccolo's wide experience in LA Division and Cuban operations, his inquisitive instincts, his activist style, and his keen analytical skills superbly qualify him to serve as the senior CI Staff coordinator for LA Division. One obvious measure of his strong, continued effectiveness is that in any given week he receives more requests for guidance, CI file reviews, and other forms of CI support than any of our other area division coordinators. On the other hand, because of his in-depth, across-the-board knowledge of LA's operational activities, he represents a unique resource to C/CI when the latter has to respond knowledgeably and rapidly to inquiries from the DDO level on LA-related matters. On that score alone, C/CI has commented on his deep satisfaction with Mr. Piccolo's impressive performance.

During the year, Mr. Piccolo led the team which conducted an in-depth CI and Operational Security Survey of Brasilia Station and its two Bases. The final report was well received by the Division and the Station, which began implementing certain of the team's suggested recommendations before its return to Headquarters. As with other CI survey reports, the Brasilia study was forwarded to the DDO and the DCI for their information. Mr. Piccolo is one of the more experienced survey officers, having participated in or led five station survey exercises in AF and LA Divisions.

Section E. Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 14. Date: 10 Dec 1979. Fithian. Patterson Profile. Official title of supervisor: Chief, CI/OG/OC. Typed or printed name and signature: Stephen F. Creane.

2. By Employee. I have or have not attached a statement concerning the supervisor's evaluation of my performance. Date: 10 Dec 79. Signature of employee: Signature.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official:

Mr. Piccolo is a very competent, serious and ambitious officer. As the senior CI coordinator for LA Division, he has represented the Staff extremely well and, more importantly, has ensured rapid, professional and informed follow-up on counter-intelligence problems and leads in that active area. He knows his client division well, his advice and support are regularly sought, and he has an unusual ability to penetrate to the essentials of a given operational matter. All with whom he deals in LA Division hold him in high esteem.

Official title of reviewing official: C/CI/OG. Typed or printed name and signature: Jack Friedlander.
