In Los Angeles and ten senior case officers and an intelligence analyst in San Francisco, all generating significant operational activity requiring substantive guidance, management, and organizational initiative of the highest order. In any other Division, the back-stopping of an element of this size and complexity would involve an entire branch and all the supervisory responsibility that goes with it rather than a single officer and an intelligence analyst. In the FR Division, the decision was made to keep the Headquarters complement small and to do a job with carefully selected, experienced, and skilled senior operations officers who, based on their own field and personal experience, are able to press the right buttons to evoke appropriate responses from the various area divisions and staffs and to provide practical guidance on their own.

In exercising this function, Mr. Randall has continued to demonstrate those critical qualities of energy, loyalty, and dedication. He cares. He is concerned with end results as well as the means by which the end is reached. He is.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 9/2/72. Signature of employee: Fredric E. Randell.

By supervisor: Months employee has been under my supervision: 11. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Official title of supervisor; type or printed name and signature; date: 9 February 1972. Chief, FR/B1, CLAUKE 6 Bown.

Comments of reviewing official: I think the narrative portion of the above rating is a thoughtful and accurate account of a conscientious officer's performance. However, I believe the letter grades are a little on the high side, as I feel a precise letter description would be in the overall “S-” or “P+” category. Since I have great confidence in the rating officer, I am prepared to defer to his judgment as stated above. I think it might be noted that Mr. Randall has indeed come along very nicely in his present assignment. I believe he is eminently well qualified to perform his current job. I believe that his talents and experience are better utilized in his current assignment than they would be in a more direct operational, i.e., agent handling and.

Date: 10 February 1972. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, FR Division. Walter L. O'Brien.
