Office of Personnel.

12. In what respect is this person's performance or attentive job most noticeably good or outstanding? He has demonstrated that he possesses to an extremely high degree the ability to analyze and evaluate problems often times on an emergency basis and to respond quickly to action or to act on the basis of very sound judgment. He has also demonstrated an advanced ability in the field of administration at all levels (continued below—Item 20).

13. On what aspects of performance should this person concentrate effort for self improvement? By familiarising himself as far as possible with problems in the Divisional administrative and policy making fields with a view to analyzing for his own knowledge high level approaches and solutions.

14. Comment on this person's ability to handle greater responsibilities now or in the future. Mr. O'Connell has the present potential of handling greater responsibilities. This ability should constantly develop in degree to the point where his future potential would be increased.

15. Are there other duties which better suit this person's qualifications? (Recommend appropriate reassignment, if possible.) Mr. O'Connell's abilities are such that it may be observed that at this point his assignments may be regarded in terms of his abilities being utilized where most needed.

16. What training or rotation do you recommend for this person? Agency training and rotation in the field of management and, generally, training which will provide Mr. O'Connell with more specific and detailed knowledge of the administration and problems of other components of the Agency.

17. If performance during report period was being satisfactory, there is attached copy of memorandum notifying this person of unsatisfactory performance.

18. This personnel evaluation report has been discussed with the person evaluated. Additional comments including comment on Items 7, 8 and 9, are shown below under Item 20.

Date. Signature of Supervisor.

19. I have reviewed the above report. (Comments, if any, are shown in Items 7–9.) Date. Signature of Reviewing Official.

20. Comments: with which he has been concerned. His approach in this respect is from a general overall standpoint with considerations and actions taken which indicate his ability to consider problems in terms of their general implications to the Division rather than to his specific operation. More specifically, his performance has been noteworthy because it demonstrates a comprehensive knowledge of security problems and the administration of the Security Office. Constantly he is called upon to represent the Division and SO in negotiations and conference with representatives of other components of the Agency regarding specific operational problems. He has handled such assignments with a high degree of tact and good judgment demonstrating a definite public relations ability.
