Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 525798.

Section A: General.

Name: Wilcott, James B. Date of birth: 27 Sept 1931. Sex: M. Grade: GS-05. Service designation: SF. Official position title: Fiscal Acct. Asst. Office/division/branch of assignment: Tokyo Station. Career staff status: Not eligible, member, deferred, pending, declined, denied. Type of report: Initial, reassignment/supervisor, annual, reassignment/employer, special. Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1961. Special report: 27 May 60 to 31 Mar 61.

Section B: Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1 - Unsatisfactory. 2 - Barely adequate. 3 - Acceptable. 4 - Competent. 5 - Excellent. 6 - Superior. 7 - Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Station cashier responsible for the day to day receipt and disbursement of cash. Rating No.

Specific duty No. 2: Consolidates all station cash transactions to one voucher and verifies balance daily. Rating No.

Specific duty No. 3: Summarizes all station transactions for off-base housing and vehicle expenditures into monthly accountings and maintains appropriate subsidiary records. Rating No.

Specific duty No. 4: Polices individual housing and vehicle advance accounts and audits related accountings. Rating No.

Specific duty No. 5: Maintains statistical records on all private rentals by individual house and cost center. Rating No.

Specific duty No. 8: Performs other related duties as assigned by the Finance Officer. Rating No.

Section C: Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based
