Section XI Financial Status.

1. Are you entirely a resident of this state? No.

2. If your address is in the above state, cities or other income. Wife's income.

1. Ranking indicates with which to have accounts. Name of person; address (city, state, country): The Bank of California, N.A., 330 S. 37th St., San Francisco; Union Trust Company, Portland, Oregon; 15 and H Streets, N.W., Washington, D.C.

2. Have you ever been on petition for immigration? No.

3. If your answer is “yes” to the above, give particulars including date and date.

4. Give three credit references in the United States. Name; address (No., street, city, state): General Motors Acceptance Corp., 1310 S. Market Street, Portland, Ore.; Gulf Oil Corporation, P.O. Box 726, Atlanta, Ga.; Made Furniture Company, 917 Carolina St., Frederickburg, Virginia.

7. Do you receive an annuity from the United States or District of Columbia government under any retirement act, pension or compensation for military or naval service? Yes. No.

8. If your answer is “yes” to the above, give complete details.

9. Do you have any financial interest in, or official connections with, any of the following corporations or businesses, or in or with U.S. corporations or businesses making substantial foreign interests? Yes. No. All amounts '75' through details in separate show.

Section XII Marital Status.

1. Present status (single, married, divorced, or annuitant). Specify marital status.

2. State date, place and reason for all separations, divorces or annulments. NA.

Wife, husband or fiancé. If you have been married more than once, including annulments, use a separate sheet for former wife or husband giving data recorded below for all previous marriages. If marriage contemplated, fill in appropriate information for latter. Name (first, middle, last): Dorothy A. Moran; Arlene Annott; Eloisa.

9. State any other names used. Indicate circumstances, including length of time, under which any of these names were used. If legal change of name occurred, list name and place of change. Use extra space if necessary. Dorothy A. Moran
