3. Attention was continuously drawn to the popularity of Orwell’s “1984.” Hence the outlet asks whether it would be possible to make up from broken numbers single stapled copies of “1984,” recalling that this had been done for them in the case of “Animal Farm” and other articles.

5. The outlet operates through an apparatus of couriers to all universities of the Soviet Zone. Universities are supplied by as many as four and an average of three different couriers, unknown to one another. Leipzig, Halle, Jena, Greifswald, Dresden, and Rostock are thus covered. There are a large number of delivery contacts at Humboldt University. There are also contacts to the “Landes Hochschule” in Potsdam, which is designed especially for training SED functionaries, teachers, and key occupations. Couriers from other academic institutions and circles are also supplied, as well as a number of nonacademic circles of significant strategic value, as described below.

5. The following examples are cited:

a) At a recent four-zonal meeting of evangelical student-ministers from all zones, fifteen copies were distributed to several S2 delegates. More could not be furnished because of lack of supplies at that time. The recipients subsequently expressed such interest that regular delivery with a large number of copies has been established. The Karl Jaspers article was considered popular in this circle, and strong curiosity was expressed regarding “1984,” which was being discussed in the zone.

b) A professor of journalism at one Soviet-Zone university approached a contact for two copies, promising to make good use of them. He asked that they be supplied regularly and sent a student from Leipzig to confirm this and pick them up. Both students and professor were checked upon and the delivery made.

c) A group of liberal and social-democratic students organized in the SED cooperate in a closed working committee recognized by the university as an academic activity of the faculty to which these students and professor belong. Honar articles are read and discussed and then translated into nongerman languages and passed on as reading matter to trusted students in other sections of the Philosophical Faculty.

d) The CDU executive in a city in Saxony receives the magazine, using it as discussion material regularly at closed educational forums for training party functionaries. Three weeks ago, the article “Tito contra Stalin” was discussed.
