11. Preference for next assignment. 11a. Describe specifically the type of work you would prefer for next assignment if different from that indicated in Item No. 9 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choice.

Desire assignment commensurate with past training and experience.

11b. Indicate if you desire to extend your current tour by checking the appropriate box. Also indicate preference for next assignable assignment by inserting 1, 2, and 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in remaining boxes. Complete all alternate choices and options in all cases even though you are requesting an extension of your tour.

Extend your 16 months at current station to July 1968.

Be assigned to headquarters for a tour of duty. Indicate your choice of division, staff, or office. 1st choice; 2nd choice; 3rd choice.

Be assigned to another field station. Indicate choice of geographic area or specialization. 1st choice: North Africa. 2nd choice: South America. 3rd choice: Europe.

Return to my current station: America.

To be completed by field station.

12. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee and his preference for next assignment, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training.

Strongly concur in this officer's request for extension. COS personally suggested such action to him.

To be completed by appropriate headquarters office.

13. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee, his preference for next assignment, and the staff requirements of this component, indicate your component's recommendation for his next assignment and training.

FZ Division concurs in Mr. Corwin's 16-month extension to July 1968. FZ is notifying Subject by dispatch, subject to SED concurrence.

Case: 16 Feb. '67. Title: GFE/Personnel. Signature: Mary T. Boulger. For use by Career Service (Careful Service).

14. Approved assistant.

15. Employed activity by dispatch to Cadet No. Date: (Redacted).

Cardinal Department reported (Redacted). Date: (Redacted).
