Dispatch. To: Chief, WE. Reference: Chief, KUDESK; Chief, AF; Chief, FE; Chief, LCPIPIT; Chief of Station, Algiers; Chief of Station, Paris. From: Chief of Station, London. Subject: STEBOHY KUDESK Q&PRESY cover possibility for STEBONY/1.

Action Required—References.

1. During a recent meeting, STEBONY/1 called my attention to the book Political Africa, by Ronald SEGAL (OCR: honald SEGAL), published in London in 1961 by Stevens and Sons, Ltd. STEBONY/1 used the book to look up a brief biographical squib on, as it happened, Patrick Duncan. He commented that the book, although out of date and far from objective (one of the collaborators was Rosalynde AINSLIE), was extremely useful to him.

2. I subsequently got a copy of the book, and find it useful. Nonetheless, it is far out of date. It would appear that there is a great need for an updated version, more comprehensive and more objective. STEBONY/1 might be the ideal person to work up such a book (he could even put some of his wife's talents to work in such a project), and, in turn, such a project could augment nicely his cover for, say, a year.

3. For Headquarters consideration then, the following suggestions: Contact Praeger (who published Political Africa in the U.S.) or another appropriate firm, and lay on a commission to compile such a compendium of facts, figures and faces on the African scene. Have them in turn commission STEBONY/1 to do the job, and provide him with enough of an advance to help cover his needs for a period of a year, say, starting after STEBONY/1's summer in Algiers. Alternatively, of course, STEBONY/1 could be instructed to come to Praeger with such a proposal, which we could encourage Praeger to accept. This could run concurrently with STEBONY/1's newsletter, if it materializes, and without any apparent conflict. It could also afford him additional cover for travel and interviews, as well as funds. And a useful reference tool could result.

4. This is just a suggestion, but we'd like to know what you think of it.

George H. KATZENBACH.

Distribution: Chief, WE; Chief, KUDESK; Chief, AF; Chief, FE; Chief, LCPIPIT; COS, Algiers—Best Pouch; COS, Paris.

Cross reference to CS copy.

Date typed: 11 May 1965. Date dispatched: 13 May 1965. Dispatch symbol and number: OKLA-43, 110. Headquarters file number: 201-306052.
