Waiter, “W... will you have?” he asks graciously.

Two reporters had figured breakfast was probably a ruse, so they think about food for the first time. It is a struggle. Rothchild’s stomach is filled with embalming fluid. He feels queasy looking at the menu. Branch asks only for coffee and an order of toast. Rothchild follows suit. Morales looks disappointed and urges them to eat more heartily. Inclán orders eggs and Morales looks pleased. He orders a sumptuous breakfast for himself. It arrives promptly.

“Well,” he asks grandly, “who do you think will win your election, Carter or Ford?”

The reporters exchange the look, familiar by now, that signals their agreement that absurdity has reached new heights. They mumble offhand answers as Morales listens intently.

“You don’t really have much choice, do you?” he asks. “I mean, you have two guys who don’t have any ideas and don’t have any backbone, right? And neither one of them can command anything or stop anything, so it doesn’t make any difference, right? At least that’s what I get from Time magazine.”

Inclán tries to change the subject. She asks Morales about his position in the DISIP and gets no response. She mentions Morales’ nephew, whom she knows in Miami, and Morales parries the remark. Suddenly a cloud comes across his face...

“What’s the matter with you?” he demands. “Why aren’t you eating?” He points down at the dry toast, which Branch and Rothchild have been picking at like wafers at Communion. “Aren’t you hungry?”

Branch nods yes; Rothchild nods no.

“You told me you hadn’t gotten any breakfast, so I give you breakfast,” Morales declares angrily, waving his arms. “If you are not hungry, you are liars! What’s the matter with you?”

The reporters are exasperated. “We are afraid and confused,” says Inclán, “because nobody will tell us why this is happening to us. I am a reporter like all the other reporters down here. I want to interview Orlando Bosch like I did once before...”

“Never heard of him,” interrupts Morales. He gives us an exaggerated shrug and a quizzical look.

Inclán shakes her head in despair.

“Oh, come on. You testified against him eight years ago in Miami and now he’s the most famous prisoner in Latin America. He’s in your jail.”

“Did he make Time magazine?” asks Morales.

“Yes,” says Branch.

“I guess I missed it,” says Morales.

He pauses, then turns to Inclán. “You should not be running around asking so many questions,” he says eternally. “You are a woman. Women should be at home having babies and making their men happy. Nothing else.”

Inclán is ruffled. “I can work as well as most other reporters,” she says.

Morales shakes his head vigorously.

“No you can’t. You are a hundred miles away from reality.” He looks off and says again.

“I don’t think so,” says Inclán. “I think you are.”

“No,” says Morales, “You are a hundred miles from reality, and I am a hundred years from reality. You understand the difference?”

“I don’t know what I understand,” says Inclán. “I know something about you. Taylor says he talked to you about your background in Miami and you talked to him like a friend. He says you were nice and now you are...”

“I am not nice,” snaps Morales. “You know what I used to do in Cuba when I was a kid? I sent anonymous death wreaths to my friends. All the time. Is that nice?”

Branch does not like this subject or the faintly homicidal look he sees before him. He decides to make another stab at levity.

“Look, Ricardo,” he says, “I’m upset that you and your men have kept me from seeing anything about the last game of the World Series last night.”

“The World Series,” he says, his eyes opening wide. “Let me tell you about the World Series. It is just like the world everywhere: the Reds are winning and the Yanks are losing!”

Morales breaks into laughter. Something snaps in the reporters and they laugh, too, uncontrollably. Fear floats out of their mouths and they feel better.

Branch wades in to reestablish
