7. The message to AMCHALK-5 follows:

M.

We arranged to meet “PUSHKIN” recently but you apparently called the meeting off. We can understand your hesitancy to meet with us in that place and at that time. We do, however, wish to meet with you anytime, any place of mutual agreement via any secure channel of your personal confidence. As you can see, in this instance, we have selected an officer whose loyalty to you is unquestioned. We intended to tell “PUSHKIN” of possible pitfalls in your path. We still wish you to know of these dangers. We realize that you are a true revolutionary in every sense of the word. We have no quarrel with you as a true revolutionary nor with the system that has established itself over the years. We will not countenance nor do we believe that you will countenance continued foreign intervention in your system wherein lies the major danger to your future. We would also like to make you an offer which would be difficult for you to refuse. To contact one of our reliable officers concerning this opening or a two-way channel of communications, contact or have your selected man contact DIAZ in which you showed some interest in 1967 and he will then contact us. He will then relay the time and meeting date to us, and we will then open our dialogue using only trusted personnel.

Greetings,

L.

8. I believe that our chances for success in this operation are reasonably good for the following reasons:

(a) AMCHALK-5 is sufficiently courageous to meet AMWOLF-1 in the Cuban Ambassador's office in Madrid, if necessary;

(b) AMWOLF-1 is a trusted colleague and follower of AMGHOST-1. For this reason and in the belief that AMGHOST-1 was awaiting the message, he would find a way to deliver the message unopened to AMGHOST-1;

(c) AMGHOST-1 from all available reporting, background material, SI traffic, we have reason to believe that AMGHOST-1 is not held in the confidence of the Soviets nor does he respect their presence in Cuba, a presence which can only be interpreted as promising difficulties for AMGHOST-1; and

(d) Bona fides for the originator are contained in a copy of a letter from AMGHOST-2 to her relatives which she signs with the name “PUSHKIN.”
