EXPOSED Miss Marie Antonia LOPEZ  
523 S W 11th Ave.  
Knox, Mo.

First page missing.

I am going to place the communication abroad in Sofi's hands; no one better. What I need is that you explain to us better how to make the contact from here over there, that is, how and where to see SARAHIA, the contact which you said you had with Mr. Sofi. She knows him but doesn't know where she can see him. Remember that Sofi is already being checked because Etoeban's wife knows her and asked about her. I am going to try to have the treasurer be a friend of Sofi's who knows where the money is. He is a fully trustworthy boy called Alejandro.

Tell Dr. LAZAGA that I don't write to him about the affair because it is easier for me to write to you, but that he and this boy should have relations, and I will call him and with you.

To give the support to LAZADA together with the Executive, because it would be impossible to only one person, and for the case it was left in our hands. You see that the executive ever there is fully answerable to us and that way there will be no problems.

We don't know anything about my namesake. So far all the contacts have failed. Let's see what we can clarify.

Tell Thomas that the man I sent him about Don Dios was through a contact which I made with our brother-in-law D. He is willing to work and has people in his area, and also in the coast. I believe that a lot can be done up there. Besides, Soto left now a terrific contact also at that coast, when we have to put in contact with D. Tell Thomas to let him work also in that area, which is mine and of my people, and that if he gives authorization that we can send a guerrilla band to work with them. Also, of course, this guerrilla chosen by us to avoid their sending people of the J. I can call and have them take command away from us. You know how that is.

Write to our other brother-in-law in the embassy and find out when he leaves because I know that he is already leaving but to come back to no immoderate. Let's see if he leaves, takes a fast training, and comes back. Have them got much map reading and man-to-man combat with bayonets which is very good at night and no one here knows anything about that.

You must explain the thing a bit to Soto so that he will gain enthusiasm. If he sees that the thing is serious and has real support he will come. The only thing that can do is go to him needs support for his family. Explain everything to him and I think he will come. He leaves tomorrow and I gave him your phone. If he needs money for his
