This fact, and would appreciate whether it is contained in the files.

7. With regard to Victor I. RANCS P. (or A.), there is little to be said which was not mentioned in Attachment A 1. His calling card had the following telephone numbers printed: 46-77-13 and 46-15-78; on the back was written 32-09-95. I am not inclined to take at face value LOG's statement that he knew nothing about RANCS, especially in view of the fact that RANCS ought to have been attending the IICRC for some time to be able to speak some Russian, and pronounced it well. L-1 is willing to make the translation RANCS wants if he finds no difficulty in handling the terminology.

8. LOG's reaction to RUROZ's plan to show the Soviet film at the CP center at Versailles appears to be interesting.

9. L-1 was again puzzled by LOG's hints that L-1 should do something for the Socialist cause. L-1 genuinely dislikes the idea of getting involved in KGB work. I told him that I also did not want him to get involved in spying for the KGB, but I did not want him to be cast aside by Soviet officials; there will be things L-1 can do to show goodwill, and what he does earn amounts to nothing, as is the case with the showing of the Soviet film. The most important thing is that he does nothing without checking with me.

10. According to L-1, LOG had never before revealed his political way of thinking as much as he did in his statements concerning the excessive freedom in the USSR and other Socialist countries.

11. In answer to my question, L-1 stated that he brought up the question of not being invited by LOG to his apartment because, at the previous meeting, I asked him whether he had ever been in LOG's house. This is correct, and I asked L-1 this question with the filling out of the FAQ in mind. I saw in L-1's agenda under August 8 LOG's address plus 1900 hours. I told L-1 that if he is received by LOG as a friend, it will be necessary that he (L-1) give a formal dinner for LOG at his place. As a matter of fact, before breaking up for the evening, L-1 should ask LOG and his wife on which date in September they would be able to come to L-1's house; he will add that he would appreciate it if LOG brought along one or two Soviet couples. If LOG knows who else would be there, L-1 will state that he did not mean having someone else, but if LOG wishes, he will be very willing to invite anyone LOG suggests.
