The city of San Francisco, California, looms largely as the background of films we saw during the week, and very nice it looks, too, although a friend of ours who once lived there complained bitterly of the fog—and he was a Liverpoolian, at that.

In Three Husbands (Tres Esposas), Emlyn (Emily) Williams, for his first Hollywood picture, if we are not mistaken, abandons his predilection for playing psychopathic murderers as in Night Must Fall and pathological coal-miners as in The Citadel and breaks out as a polished Oxonian who oozes charm all over the place. What he was doing in San Francisco isn't made quite clear in the copy, but he has a very modern establishment and entertains handsomely. He is very friendly with three married couples and has a cardiac condition, which is medical for a weak or diseased heart. As is not infrequent with such patients, he dies suddenly, but as he is a tireless prankster he leaves with his lawyer three letters, addressed to each of the husbands of the couples with whom he has been friendly, to be delivered to the addressees on the day of the funeral. In these letters he makes the simple statement that the relations between himself and the wives have been more than just simple friendship, and the film deals with the effect the news has on the husbands. We are shown in flashbacks that Mr. Williams had innumerable opportunities for developing the relations at which he hints.

It is all played with great skill, and the ladies concerned, Miss Ruth Warrick, Miss Vanessa Brown and the incomparable Miss Eve Arden, are provocatively charming.

The dialogue is entertaining and bright. Mr. Emlyn Williams is undoubtedly the type for whom the ladies wouldn't mind leaving home, and the picture is very nearly perfect. He has possibly not had a tougher job to tackle than her part in Storm Warning.

The other side of life near the Golden Gate is portrayed in Shakedown. Extortion, where Mr. Howard Duff turns up as a taker of pictures for the newspapers. Funny the professions these Duffs get into. We know of only two others, and one is a bank manager and the other an insurance man. Perhaps Howard Duff is in the most respectable business. It's practically a certainty that he rakes in more shekels for his efforts.

In the course of his freelancing, Mr. Duff gets one or two shots that are really good news pictures, and is hired by a paper, despite the fact that the editor, Mr. Bruce Bennett, doesn't care for the Duff fellow as a type. In the pursuit of his reportorial duties, Mr. Duff obtains some more pictures that would definitely incriminate one or two of the local gang leaders if they were published. These he holds on to and approaches the gangster with proposals that amount to nothing else but blackmail. One thing leads to another and he eventually finishes up.

“Try and Get Me,” New Film, Released in Santiago Today

The important paper of the motion picture industry, Showmen’s Trade Review, published the following comments about the film Try and Get Me (La Justicia Injusta), which opens today at the Florida Theater of Santiago city, through United Artists release:

“This is an encroaching, realistic melodrama; a fast-moving, exciting, suspenseful story that deals with mob violence and the terrible effect of lawlessness on all people. Splendidly acted and directed. It has an emotional grip from start to finish, and since no effort has been made to glamorize either the people or the surroundings, it is startlingly real. Frank Lovejoy (Loveloy), as the unacquainted man caught in the web of circumstances because of his inability to get work to support his family, scores in a performance that not only riles some but wins sympathy. Lloyd Nolan, so right on the talk line, goes to court the mob, gets an extremely versatile job and thus excites the curiosity of others who want him to play the role of an effective ability. Kathleen Roberts Stroman deserves plaudits by any standard, is very good in a characterization that calls nearly for direction by Mr. Irving Bels, we think, though we wouldn't swear to that name on oath.”
