Classified message. Action. Info. Date. File. Routing. To. Info. Cite.

XIXEX ZURC 0227, page two, number money. Renteria later told subject that he had heard from Jordan that Lavarello receives one thousand U.S. dollars for each Peruvian recruit sent to Cuba, but apparently keeps money himself. Per instructions, Renteria and subject made contact in Mexico City with Carlos Acevedo, born circa 1926, Mexican citizen, employee of Prensa Latina, residing at Marti 10-B Tacuraya, Mexico City. Renteria and subject stayed with Acevedo until 5 April, when they flew to Havana. At Acevedo's apartment, they met another Peruvian, true name Juantlopez, born circa 1933, who went with them to Cuba. In Cuba, Lopez adopted the alias Carlo Suarez. Renteria and subject, accompanied by Acevedo, who handled all matters while they were in Mexico, went to the Cuban Embassy only on one occasion, where they were interviewed by FNU Rogelio.

E. On 5 April, subject, Renteria, and Lopez flew to Havana and stayed at the Riviera Hotel until 8 or 9 April. Then, until 13 May, they stayed at a villa on Seventh Avenue in Marianao, near a golf course on which an army unit was bivouacked. There they were immediately joined by a fourth Peruvian, alias Ivan Menendez, born circa 1933, ethnic Chinese, former taxi driver from Lima. Eventually, two other Peruvians joined the group: alias Enrique, born circa 1940, and alias Odom, born circa 1945. The Marianao villa seemed to be only a staging area. They received no formal instruction, but were given books on Marxism and guerrilla warfare. They were restricted to the house and garden. One Cuban lived in the house with the group, alias Francisco, born circa 1943.

F. On 13 May, the subject's group was sent to Las Villas, precise location concealed from the group, where they were incorporated into a Cuban Army battalion of approximately 500 men known as “LCB,” “Lucha Contra Bandidos,” which was engaged in fighting anti-Castro guerrillas. The group was to observe the battalion's anti-guerrilla tactics. The group's cover story was that they were Paraguayan students at Havana University. The Cuban instructor who accompanied the group was alias Bernabe, born circa 1942. The battalion commander was known as Caballo de Mayaguara, true name Lieutenant Gustavo Castillon.

G. On 2 June, the group returned to Havana, to another villa on Seventh Avenue in Marianao several blocks from the earlier site, for training in the following subjects. All instructors were Cubans.

(1) Weapons theory: .22 rifle, M-1, M-2 carbine, M-3 submachine gun, Thompson submachine gun, Belgian FAL, Springfield, Mauser rifle, .45-caliber pistol, BAR, and .30- and .50-caliber air-cooled machine gun.
