Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Explain foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Hidalgo joined WHPOA in November 1961 and took up those responsibilities listed above. However, Mr. Hidalgo's performance of duties was interrupted on two occasions by serious illness, 9–27 March and 15 April–31 May 1962. He was twice hospitalized. From 25 June–9 August 1962, Mr. Hidalgo was on TDY for WH/3 as escort officer for Latin American trainees. Although beset by health and other personal problems, Mr. Hidalgo seized upon each new assignment with his customary energy. He proved particularly adept in working as interpreter and escort officer for Latin American trainees, and demonstrated high interest and proven competence in counterintelligence work. His excellent memory and quick perception were distinct assets in these undertakings.

It is recommended, however, that Mr. Hidalgo's next assignment not carry responsibility for submission of finished papers or staff studies, but be one entailing duties commensurate with his ability to work effectively with indigenous personnel and to pursue CI leads through records investigation.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 18 Sept 62. Signature of employee: Seth, L. Tidally.

By supervisor. Date: 18 September 1962. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/PO/A. Typed or printed name and signature: Clark H. Simmons.

By reviewing official.

Comments of reviewing official: I have had insufficient personal contact with Subject to make any meaningful comments.

Date: 13 September 1962. Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/OPS. Typed or printed name and signature: Verne L. Gresham.

Date: 18 September 1962. Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/OPS. Typed or printed name and signature: Verne L. Gresham.
