Didn't know how, and the institutionalizing of it was really directed by these Trotskyists. There was Pablo, Harbi, a French lawyer named Matthieu from Grenoble who had been involved with the FLN, and he began sort of legal adviser of Biens Vacants, which was vaguely under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, which was at that time under Omar Usgan, who is now Minister of State and Director of Revolution Africaine at present. He replaced Harbi.

Harbi is deeply resented by the army elements which are pro-Egyptian. However, the Army, despite its religious inclination, had its socialist bias and would like to see more centralization, more on an Egyptian model. In other words, they would like to see much more control from the center than this confused type of regional or local control. They feel that in the long run the business of private collective ownership is going to cause trouble. It's all right if you are in a rich one, but what happens if one is a poor one? You don't split profit, you split a deficit. Obviously, according to the Yugoslav model, the state intervenes. The State taxes the rich ones and then distributes subsidies to the poor ones, but this is a debate that is still going on in Algeria, and curiously enough these Trotskyists have been in contact, very close contact, with the Yugoslavs. As you recall, the campaign, the so-called campagne de labeur, the ploughing, was made possible only by the delivery of 563 Yugoslav tractors, which turned out to be the great deception, some of the Algerians discovering them not to be Yugoslav but American tractors put together in Yugoslavia under license.

(This is getting us a little bit far afield.)

This is Harbi and this is the group. Harbi represents the leading within the FLN spokesmen of this sort of Trotskyist-leaning Left group, and his post is still very high, even though he is no longer Director.

(When was he dropped?)

Usgan (Uusan).

I think last summer. I'm not certain. With Hennem it has become much more the word Socialism appears in Arabic because it is felt that Socialism in French doesn't have the same meaning as it has in Arabic. It's very sort of silly, second, represents the very muddled mind that Usgan has. He is very much split between his religious inclinations, and Usgan is a full member of the Communist Party of Algeria but he left for formalist reasons when they refused to support the rebellion, and joined the FLN. His wife is supposed to be fanatically religious and has made him more religious than he was.
