JMWAVE Cover Facility.

A. Name: Ace Marine Survey, Inc.

Office address: Room 214, 2525 S.W. 3rd Street, Miami, Florida.

Mailing address: P.O. Box 1337, Main Post Office, Miami, Florida.

Location: Office of Attorney Norman S. Pallot.

B. Type of facility: This is a Florida corporation established by and under the control of JMWAVE and certified to do business in Florida. Ace Marine Survey, Inc. was formerly known as Ace Cartography Company, a corporation which had been certified to do business in Florida on 11 July 1962. This corporation was amended on 4 November 1966 to its new name, Ace Marine Survey, Inc.

The President of the Corporation is Alfred J. Moran of New Orleans, Louisiana. Mr. Moran is a very prominent businessman in the New Orleans area. He is head of Kalvar and has investments in a variety of businesses which include many oil interests. He is known to Headquarters representatives particularly in Logistics.

C. Ostensible business: Ace Marine Survey, Inc. is engaged primarily in marine research, including the study of marine life and testing of marine equipment. However, its general provisions permit it to perform almost any corporate function.

D. Use: JMWAVE use of the Corporation is to provide cover for a maritime vessel, the M/V SONORA. The Corporation provides status cover and payrolling of the agents assigned to the M/V SONORA and the safe area or berthing site from which the vessel operates in the performance of its ostensible business.

E. Funding: Method—This account is funded through the Bank and Hall covert account at the First National Bank of Miami by the following method: A check in the total amount of the deposits is drawn on this account. A credit ticket is obtained by our cleared contact from the cash vault. This credit ticket, together with the appropriate deposit slips for the various corporations, is then turned over to a teller, where it is combined with all other transactions which are processed by that particular teller on the given business day. Since the number of transactions handled by a given teller may go as high as 250 to 300, there is slight chance of the deposits being attributed to the particular credit ticket which accompanied these deposits.

Overt attribution or source: Offshore Navigation Company, 3503 Fern Street, New Orleans, Louisiana.
