Revolutionary music which neither Communism nor Nationalism have polluted (e.g., the Marseillaise, Sorban chutzuk song, Bringer zur Sonne nur Pre湖北t, whose Russian version was sung by generations of revolutionists and illegal words of which are still sung without being disseminated today among Soviet troops—I’ve seen an actual leaflet). These songs need not be in the least provocative or an incitement to anything—except to a deep feeling that freedom is one and indivisible. These songs can be recorded in RFA or BBC European studios well in advance of the meeting, and can be piped over loudspeakers at the Reichstag meeting, with the crowds joining in. This technique was successfully used with the hustle and bustle last of the aforementioned songs at the Reichstag rally of September 3, 1948. It is very simple and effective. Radio listeners get the impression that several hundred thousand people are singing, if the acoustics are handled right. No songs should be used to which exception can be taken on the ground that it is aimed against any particular existing regime. There is no reason to do so. Whatever is known, except themselves, the good old stuff applies by implication—and it is an implication which the adversary cannot admit. Can only shut its ears. Remember howvesvcs/undergoes.

The right use of music at the Reichstag is essential to the success of the whole. It is a vital part of the overall production. Its importance for broadcasting purposes can scarcely be overestimated. Gives the whole show the lift and the universal lift that is needed.

V) THE POLITICAL LINE

1. Freedom is one and indivisible. It concerns all men everywhere. Everybody deserves it. There are no crocodiles, nations or continents. There is only man.

2. This is not Europe defying Russia. On the contrary, it is Europe reaching out north, south, east and west to all its children, including the Russians, and summoning them in the great crusade which must go on until all are free. Russia—if the Soviet rulers want to turn their backs on Europe, that’s their business. The Freedom Congress and the Rector of Berlin will assume that the Russians want very much to be a part and parcel of Free Europe. This is the only approach which divides the Politburo not only from the common people, but from a decisive segment of the upper party, intellectual and army command of Russia.

3. European Union: Free Europe versus Slave Russia is the road to World War III. Let’s play away from this at all times.

4. Free Europe, including the Russians, versus the Politburo and the Cominform, is the only way to make the Burnham thesis work—or at least give it a fighting chance. This must happen! It is at last worth a good test run from the Reichstag steps in connection with this project. Involves no risk, except the use of a little imagination, and its cost is very slight indeed.

VII) SECURITY AND SURPRISE

The impact will be lost if the approach leaks out through press conferences or other channels. There should be no press conferences until the actual curtain goes up in Berlin. In no event should the Russians be tipped off as to the approach. Let them.
