Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in Item 8 of Section A below.

Section A: General.

1. Name: Rahadall, Frederick C.

2. Date of birth: Djakarta. 3. Sex: Intelligence Officer (FI).

7. Grade: G3-12. 8. Date report due in OP: June 1957–June 1958.

10. Type of report: Annual. Assignment/Employee.

Section B: Certification.

1. For the rated: This report has been shown to the individual rated. Individual has returned to ZI.

A. Check appropriate statements:

This report reflects my own opinions of this individual.

If individual is rated “I” in C or D, a rating of “I” has been minimized; a copy attached to this report. I cannot estimate that the rated individual, under his hire, will be evaluated as his job performance because (specify).

This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors. Has left this post.

I were discussed with this employee as his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where he stands.

Date: 8 July 1958. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: Valentine O. Goodell. Supervisor’s official title: Chief of Station.

B. For the receiving official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

Section C: Job Performance Evaluation.

1. Ratings on General Performance of Duty.

Duties: Consider only the productivity and effectiveness with which the individual being rated has carried out
