Attachment.

August 26, 1969.

Subject: Jimmy SAMORI (P-13,830), report on his meeting with AEDIEHARD (P-11,712) on August 25 at Samborne-San Angel at 2000 hours.

1. The meeting was prearranged and lasted 90 minutes. There were no changes in the pattern of the meeting, and A arrived on time.

Their next meeting: September 10 at the same place at 2000 hours.

S was invited to come on Saturday at 1030 hours to the French Club with Josephine. S was not sure he would go.

2. A apologized for not going to Cuautla on August 16. He said many nice words about thinking about S and Josephine all day on that rainy day.

3. A had a surprise for S. A few days ago, he received orders to remain in Mexico at least five more months (sic). When S asked whether he was not pleased with the order, A stated that he was practically packed up and had made plans regarding the places he wanted to visit. He said it was a pleasure to unpack and that he liked the idea of canceling his plans much less.

S asked several questions about A’s wife, and A gave normal answers. At no time did A belittle his wife, and he stated that she was 40 years old.

4. S handed A a written report on what he had accomplished with the Chinese. A thanked him and told S to get the article published by all means; to do everything possible to obtain the advertisement from the Luau Restaurant; to keep in touch with WONG or TANG, but to make sure there was a bona fide reason to visit them—for example, to tell them that the advertisement had been obtained, show them the script of the article before it was published, and similar matters. A told S to be very careful because the Chinese are highly suspicious people.

5. Then A asked S why TANG was not listed in the diplomatic list. S stated that it was evident from TANG’s calling card that he had just recently arrived there. A accepted the explanation and told S that WONG was listed in the diplomatic list as a counselor, and that he, A, had confused TANG with WONG; WONG was the one who spoke Russian.

6. At this point A handed S an envelope containing $500.00 and told S he wanted him to have the money for incidental expenses.
