Notice of Conversion Privilege. Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act of 1954.

An employee is entitled to convert to an individual policy when his group insurance terminates because of separation from an agency, transfer or appointment to a group excluded by law or regulation from insurance coverage, expiration of 12 continuous months in a nonpay status, or entry into the military service of the United States and acquisition of coverage under the Servicemen's Indemnity Act of 1951.

An employee whose group insurance terminates as indicated above may, under provisions set forth in his Certificate of Group Insurance, purchase an individual policy of life insurance without medical examination. The individual policy may be in an amount not exceeding the employee's group life insurance and will be issued at rates applicable to the type of policy purchased and to his current age and class of risk.

If you are entitled to convert group life insurance to an individual policy and wish to exercise this privilege, you must:

1. Ask the agency identified below to give you a completed Agency Certification of Insurance Status.
2. Follow the instructions printed on the Agency Certification of Insurance Status, and mail it to the Office of Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance, 330 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y. That office will promptly mail to you detailed information on how to apply for conversion.

Important. The time in which an employee may convert is limited. The completed “Agency Certification of Insurance Status” (not this form) must be mailed to the Office of Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance within 31 days after your group insurance terminates, or within 15 days after the date of this notice, whichever basis gives you the most time.

Under certain conditions, life insurance is payable if death occurs within 31 days after an employee's group insurance terminates, even though he has not applied for conversion. If death occurs within this period further information concerning possible benefits may be obtained from the agency named below.

Mr. Joseph S. Piccolo. Date of this notice: September 8, 1954.

Instructions to employing agency: Fill in the name and address of the office which issues this notice. Fill in the date this notice is issued, and note this date in your records for possible future reference. Give this notice, as required, to every employee on the date his insurance terminates, except by waiver.

Name and mailing address of agency: Federal Insurance Department, Room 6-101, Unit 1A, Department of Justice, Washington 6th, D.C.

U.S. Government Personnel Office.

May 19, 1954
