E1:2038

They should take advantage of the invitation which the Soviet painters had made for 1957. The Soviet painters could not receive the exhibition this year because of lack of space and other expositions being presented. MARQUEZ indicated that they would like to have the exhibition go to the Soviet Union, and he would like to talk with both KOLOMYAZOV and the Ambassador concerning this matter.

b. MARQUEZ called MATVEYEV on 7 September, and told him that the committee of the Frente Nacional de Artes Plasticas, of which he is a member, had received a letter from the Union de Artes Plasticas in the USSR and he would like to talk with the Ambassador concerning it. He was told to take the matter up with the Cultural Attache first. Later arrangements were made for MARQUEZ to see the Ambassador at 10:00 a.m. on Thursday, 13 September. MARQUEZ wished to bring all the committee with him, because of the importance of the matter, but was told to bring just one other person.

2. Motion pictures:

a. Gaston GARCIA Cantú (of previous record) contacted MASYUKEVICH to ascertain if he had any photographs of the film “Viva Mexico.” MASYUKEVICH replied negatively, but added that they did have a photograph of “Sergio” and he would look for a copy.

b. On 15 September MATVEYEV conferred with Mario (Marió) CALVO to see if he had received the new Soviet films. CALVO said they had received the following: “Las Damará”; a short entitled “Memorias Historicas (Memorios Historicos) del Kremlin (Kronlin)”; “El Cullito de la Cresta de Oro”; a short, “Antilope de Oro”; “Kashtanta”; and “La Baga,” of which they had a previous copy. Later the same day a man from CALVO’s office contacted BOLESNAOV to see if he could come by the film “Cerilla Busca,” which was to be used for a matinee showing to the Sindicato de Cinematografistas (Motion Picture Union), who had requested it. The man was told to come by the Embassy and ask for Boris KURGANOV.

3. Dance–Theatre:

a. On 12 September, SAÚEZ Arriola asked MASYUKEVICH if Juan TOLEDO had to ask authorization to put out publicity on the ballet. MASYUKEVICH said he only had to make some arrangement with the Soviet Embassy so as to be in agreement about the publicity, but he believed they could publish what they wanted.

b. KOLOMYAZOV confirmed to Juan TOLEDO on 19 September what they had previously said, and stated that they were supporting his idea. TOLEDO said that it was only a matter of consultation.
