104-10069-10260

NO-173-65

Chief, Contact Division  
Attn: Non-Sov Bloc Area

Chief, New Orleans Office

The Information Council of the Americas, 620 Gravier Street, New Orleans, Louisiana 70130

Ref.: NO-152-65, Support Branch (Richardson) memo of 20 April 1965, NO-161-65

1. The Information Council of the Americas (INCA) of 620 Gravier Street, New Orleans, Louisiana, was recently opened as a source of foreign intelligence information on the radio broadcasting industry in Latin America. The current program of INCA is primarily concerned with the dissemination of taped recordings of anti-Communist material, called Truth Tapes, to certain radio broadcasting stations in Latin America and North America for use as a weapon against Communist penetration in the Americas. Its headquarters are located at 620 Gravier Street, New Orleans, Louisiana 70130. You will find the names of its officers, directors, and consultants given on the enclosed letterhead of the organization.

2. We have been in recent contact with Edward Scannell Butler, Executive Vice President and Staff Director, and have received his assurances of whole-hearted cooperation in our agency's mission. Yesterday we examined all of the files of correspondence between Mr. Butler and personnel of various radio stations in 16 Latin American countries. In order to build up a market for the Truth Tapes program in Latin America, Mr. Butler first obtained from the appropriate consul in New Orleans a list of the radio stations in operation in his country. He next wrote the administrative personnel of these stations about the anti-Communist purpose of INCA and offered to supply each station with Truth Tapes. Those stations requesting them were then provided with a series of the tapes. One or two years later, Mr. Butler sent the participating station a questionnaire designed to elicit information about audience response to the Truth Tapes program. Copies of the first questionnaire and of a revised one are attached for your information. Judging by the responses we read, the INCA correspondence files will provide a limited amount of information, dated 1964 and 1965, on the identification of radio stations in Latin America which are broadcasting Truth Tapes, their addresses, the names of key personnel, the identification of stations not responding to the INCA offer, sizes of audiences, and their responses. In the case of Uruguay, the exchange of correspondence between Mr. Butler and Dr. Martin Migueo-Narancio contained information about the political orientation of key radio personnel in Montevideo (NO-10671). This example, however, is an exception, since the files contain virtually no detailed political information of significance.
