Lynch, Grayston L. T for Emp.

DOB: 14 June.

Military Experience.

Oct. '38–Oct. '41: Enlisted service, 2d Infantry Division, 23d Infantry Regiment and 2d Reconnaissance Troop.

Dec. '41–May '45: Enlisted service, 2d Infantry Division, 2d Reconnaissance Troop, Platoon Sergeant, wounded in Belgium.

May '45–Sept. '47: Patient, United States Army Hospitals.

Sept. '57–June '48: Civilian—sold insurance and managed a Naval Officer's Club, Houston, Texas.

June '48–Sept. '50: Platoon Sergeant, 2d Armored Division, Ft. Hood, Tex.

Sept. '50–Oct. '51: Entered active duty as 2d Lieutenant, sent to Korea. Saw combat as Platoon Leader, 2d Reconnaissance Troop, 2d Infantry Division.

Oct. '51–Sept. '53: Company Commander, Reception Center, Ft. Sam Houston, Tex.

Sept. '53–Sept. '56: Instructor, 7th Army NCO Academy, Munich, Germany. Instructed in tactics, weapons, leadership, and engineer equipment.

Sept. '56–Oct. '60: 7th SF Cp (abn), Ft. Bragg. Attended SF Officer's Course in 1956; served as Air Operations Officer and Team Leader of a Special Forces Operational Team. Trained team in all subjects of unconventional warfare, including training in all weapons, both American and foreign; demolitions and sabotage; escape and evasion; guerrilla and anti-guerrilla tactics; supply and administration; medical subjects; intensive study of selected target areas; language of target areas; and political, economical, and military situations of target areas. A one-year study of Southeast Asia, with particular attention to guerrilla warfare operations in this area. Conducted training in radio communications work, air resupply, and air infiltration of denied areas. Twenty-five percent of this training was in classified subjects. Has had training in intelligence nets and allied subjects and has been an instructor in all the subjects covered. Also led his team on a six-month classified mission in Southeast Asia, where very valuable training was received in an actual area of operation.

For a little more information on subject, see 201 file.
