3. ATEACH

a. Quintero cannot get into the University of Mexico before the regular school year starts next February. He will have trouble getting in then unless he spends some time in Mexico to make his own arrangements. The only way he can get into Mexico is to have been accepted by a university in Mexico and to prove financial security. The only university he can get an acceptance from in time is the University of the Americas (formerly Mexico City College), a five-year degree-granting institution run on the U.S. quarter system and accredited by the Southern Association of Secondary Schools and Colleges. He has applied as a special student (non-degree candidate) for the Fall Quarter only, and I have worked out a program of studies with him for that period. This will give him a scholastic record and a transcript, none of which he now has, which will meet the documentation requirements for admission to the University. He can also go in person and take care of his admission, visa, and other problems. He will have a chance to get acquainted with the city, to meet the case officer who will handle him there and get an idea of his operational requirements, and to find himself suitable quarters. School will be finished mid-December, and he can return to Miami, pick up his family, and get moved and settled in during January. He will then be ready to go to school and to work on a regular basis starting in February. If, for some reason, he cannot get enrolled in the National University, the worst that will happen then is that he must continue in the other school for his first year. This is not lost time, as the credits he earns are transferable to U.S. schools.

b. Inocencio Alonso Banires, the fifty-one-year-old former Police Chief of Pinar del Rio Province, is the man who has handled the internal operations of the MEZ for the past three or four years. He was detailed a few months ago to go to Mexico as the MEZ representative there and had a Mexican visa issued to him which has expired. He is trying to get a new one issued and believes he will be able to do so. He is the man who helped Wav's in debriefing refugees, whom Cláudes says is top-notch. He also controls the passage of support to dependents and survivors inside through the Spanish Mission. Quintero strongly recommends him as a valuable asset to our Mexico City program, working with him or directly with our Station officers.
