And Subject told him that he would be taken and work with two American businessmen who would arrive on Sunday. Subject added that they would bring a tennis hat for LOG (they did). LOG said that he would want to visit Josephine ABAYAGA, probably on Thursday, July 10, but would phone him to arrange for a meeting before coming to his and Josephine’s apartment. LOG also reminded Subject to prepare for him a written report on the opinion of Mexican government officials about the Interamerican Economic Conference at Port of Spain.

3. After returning from the apartment, Subject told F that LOG had phoned Josephine and told her that he would visit them on Thursday a little after 2000 hours and that he would bring Josephine two bottles of vodka.

5. Subject then asked F when he should arrange for a meeting with LOG, because in front of Josephine they did not speak about politics. F told Subject that the logical thing to do would be to take advantage of the social gathering with LOG to make arrangements for their next meeting. Subject agreed and asked F whether our security people had decided to give him the directory for passing it to LOG. F told Subject that he had messed up the matter by bringing into the picture a nonexistent Patricia whom we were not able to produce. Therefore, the first step was getting rid of Patricia, which meant getting to the point of her first instruction: Subject really had no close friend or contact in the U.S. Embassy and was willing to develop one if LOG insisted on getting the directory; Subject was willing to follow LOG’s instructions regarding how to go about it. With regard to “Patricia,” Subject would have to state that she did not return from her leave and that he did not know why.

6. At that point, Subject and F were already at the Diana Circle, and Subject suggested that they stop for a drink in Insurgentes (Insugentas) at Samboros, which was only a couple of blocks from his office. F agreed. They remained there about 50 minutes.

7. Subject stated that the directory had become a problem. F.
