Undertaking Regarding Obligations and Secrecy

In consideration of arrangements being made by the Central Intelligence Agency for my future employment and welfare, I freely acknowledge that I have no outstanding claims of any nature against the Central Intelligence Agency. I further acknowledge that there are no commitments to me on the part of the Central Intelligence Agency which remain unsatisfied arising out of any of my prior associations with the Agency. I fully understand that the current arrangements between myself and the Central Intelligence Agency are intended to completely encompass all obligations of any nature whatsoever made to me by the Central Intelligence Agency.

I acknowledge my desire to serve the interests of the United States by fulfilling the obligations which I have accepted in the current arrangements with the Central Intelligence Agency. I assert under oath, as indicated by my signature below, that I have completely, totally and permanently severed any and all relationships with any other government, its agencies, organs or functionaries including the Communist Party; that I will not in the future advocate, teach, or become a member of or become affiliated with any organization which advocates or teaches opposition to all organized government; that I will not in the future become a member of or become affiliated with the Communist Party or any other totalitarian party; and that I do not now nor will I in the future advocate the economic, international, and governmental doctrines of world communism.

I understand fully the need for secrecy regarding my past, present and future relationships with the Central Intelligence Agency and I agree to keep forever secret these relationships and my arrangements with the Central Intelligence Agency including all information which I may obtain by reason of any associations with the Central Intelligence Agency, with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject me to criminal prosecution under the espionage laws (18 U.S.C. 793, 794) and other applicable laws and regulations. I understand that this is a solemn and permanent undertaking which I must observe even after termination of any contracts or other arrangements with the Central Intelligence Agency. In addition, I understand that I may not discuss with or disclose to any person not authorized to hear it any information concerning the Central Intelligence Agency, its activities, or intelligence material under the control of the Agency. I understand that the burden is upon me to ascertain from the Central Intelligence Agency whether or not information is classified and if so, who is authorized to receive it.

I take the obligations set forth above freely, without any mental reservations or purpose of evasion.
