V. Contents

A. Communist and Pro-Communist Groups:

1. On 6 September, Jose F. Castro, calling from the Sindicato de Trabajadores de Producción Cinematográfica de la Nación, Section de Autores y Adaptadores (Sindicato of Motion Picture Workers of Mexico, Section of Authors and Adapters), attempted to contact GABRIELASO.

2. On 19 September, Rosa Castro, pro-Communist journalist, and MASYUKEVICH held a friendly conversation. Hasty Kevin (HASTY KEVIN), who had been meaning to call her but had had a great deal of work, indicated that his wife had seen Rosa in the Regis. Rosa mentioned that she was writing an article on a place she had visited and was afraid the dimensions were wrong because she had two different sets of data. MASYUKEVICH said he could not help her. Rosa invited him out to eat, and he indicated he would call her early the following week to set the time.

3. Juan Rejano, Spanish Communist, contacted MASYUKEVICH on 27 September and said that he would like to see him for just a few minutes. MASYUKEVICH, who appeared glad to hear from him, stated that he had to go out for ten minutes but that if REJANO wanted to come by in about twenty minutes, he would be back.

B. Contacts of Special Interest

1. MONTES y Bradley — On 3 September, MONTES y Bradley contacted First Secretary Lev ZHUKOV, who asked if he had something so they could get together for lunch the following day. MONTES replied that he wanted to invite ZHUKOV for 5 September and said he would go by the Embassy for him. However, on the fifth, ZHUKOV suggested meeting at a bar. On 13 September, MONTES contacted ZHUKOV and explained he was unable to call him on the day they had agreed upon, for he had been out of town and had just returned three days ago. Arrangements were made to meet at the Embassy at 10:00 a.m. the following day and lunch together afterward. MONTES' phone number, 21-96-07, was listed in the 1956 Mexico City telephone directory under the Hotel Apartamentos Dolores, Sonabreros 9. On 27 September, MONTES talked to ZHUKOV and indicated that he had not been able to do some work, as he had been very busy. MONTES suggested they have coffee together, and ZHUKOV said he would phone him about the hour.
