Country: People's Republic of China. Report No. 00-3-24/16221-73. Subject: Background Information on Frank Coe, Sol Allar, and Dr. Eans Mueller. Date distributed: 13 June 1973. References: DC3 Case 56,929. Date of information: May 1973. Place and date acquired by source: May 1973, Peking. This is unevaluated information. Source: U.S. citizen; businessmen who have visited relatives who reside in China.

1. Frank Coe has received a promotion within the rank of the Ministry of Finance; however, the specific position to which he has been promoted is unknown. When the U.S. devalued the dollar, Coe determined Chinese policy regarding the devaluation. It is speculated that the People's Republic of China (PRC) will be taking a more active role in the world money market and that Coe will be in charge of that operation. He recently was given a new home that is extremely large and beautiful. It contains approximately 25 rooms with two large courtyards. The interior is beautifully decorated with paintings and artifacts. The house is comparable to the home of Madame Sun Yat-sen, which would also tend to indicate that Coe has become a person of prominence.

2. Sol Allar, who has acted as a financial advisor to the PRC for a number of years, had a lung removed in 1972 because of cancer and he is making a satisfactory recovery. He has been able to work only a few hours since his operation, but outwardly he appears healthy once again. He recently traveled to East Taiwan with Dr. George Bates to inspect the island, but it was mostly a rest trip for Allar. Allar's wife, Pat, is teaching higher education at the University of Peking.

3. Dr. Eans Mueller, head of the Medical School, University of Peking, was granted a visa from the Japanese Government to travel to Japan with his wife. Mueller's wife is Japanese and she has been permitted to travel to Japan, but it took ten years before they could travel together. They brought her mother back to Peking with them and she is now living with them. Mueller stated that there is continuous pressure on him to increase the production of medical doctors, and he is finding it difficult to find qualified students to enter the medical school; this means qualified educationally and by Party standards. He feels a cut in curriculum time would be detrimental rather than beneficial, so he continues to advocate a five- to six-year course of study.

File in 201-169934.
