Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance. Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. Wigren's performance during the past 12 months has been outstanding in every important respect. Despite great pressure and frequently difficult assignments, he has directed his section in a calm and mature manner, which has enabled it to meet deadlines on his research despite the relative inexperience of its personnel. His potential for development is excellent, and the responsibilities of his section are being expanded to enable it to produce even more of its high-quality products.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date. Signature of Employee.

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify).

Date: 13 September 1961. Official title of supervisor: C/32/C1. Type or printed name and signature: Edward W. Knowles.

3. By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. X I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. Cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

While I quite agree with Mr. Wigren that he has done a very fine job, I consider that the ratings in Section E are overly generous. I base this on the fact that I know of no other highly competent officer who has received 7 ratings on two-thirds of his specific duties; and I do not believe that Wigren's performance is better than any other officer I know. There is no question in my mind that Wigren's performance in this job has been superior to any previous experience.

Reviewing Official. Type or printed name and signature.
