PERSONNEL

(b) Make periodic reviews and medical reevaluations of contract personnel when requested to do so.

(5) DEPUTY DIRECTORS AND HEADS OF INDEPENDENT OFFICES will ensure directorate uniformity of contract administration in matters such as qualifications determination, compensation, allowances and other benefits, personnel record keeping, systematic cost accounting, performance evaluations, cover determination and training, terminations, and security and medical approval processing requirements.

(6) THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING will provide appropriate training courses and facilities for contract personnel.

(7) THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE will

(a) Administer pay, leave, and allowance entitlements of contract personnel consistent with contract provisions and cover requirements;

(b) In coordination with the Covert Tax Board, administer a secure system for the settlement of Federal income tax and social security tax obligations.

d. AUTHORITIES

(1) The Director of Personnel, his Deputy, and the Special Contracting Officer (Chief, Contract Personnel Division) are, upon request of a Deputy Director, an Operating Official, Head of Independent Office, or a duly appointed contract approving officer, authorized to execute, amend, renew, and terminate contracts with contract personnel.

(2) Deputy Directors and Heads of Independent Offices may designate Contract Approving Officers to approve contracts when payment is to be charged against funds under their control.

(3) Authority delegated to Chiefs of Station and Base under the provisions of FR 20-31 is subject to the following limitations:

(a) All contracts executed in the field will be subject to review by the Director of Personnel.

(b) Deputy Directors may limit the exercise of the authority granted to chiefs of field installations to any extent they deem desirable.

(c) Contracts prepared by headquarters will be amended only by, or with the prior approval of, headquarters. Contracts executed in the field may be amended in the field, but all such amendments must be forwarded to headquarters.

(4) All contracts written under the authority of this regulation will be subject to legal review by the General Counsel under such conditions as he may prescribe.

e. PROCEDURES

Requirements and procedures concerning personnel records, personnel actions, security approvals, cover, cover salary, medical evaluations, compensation, qualifications determination, training, and processing of contracts, are set forth in HHB 20-12.

54. AGENTS. This paragraph sets forth policy, responsibilities, and authorities concerning the engagement and the management of agents.

a. GENERAL. Agents are witting manpower assets, unique to the Operations Directorate, who carry out espionage and covert action tasks on behalf of the Agency. Agents are not employees of the U.S. Government. They are self-employed individuals whose services may be acquired or terminated at any time. Care must be taken to distinguish between agents defined herein, and independent contractors, defined in HR 20-53a(2).

Revised: 23 February 1973 (733)

PERSONNEL

b. POLICY

(1) Agents cannot Government em- with normal per-

(a) Initial appr- commitment an agent.

(b) Agents will commit- and a manu- and control-

(1) No com- pensati- at a rat- maximum This li- does no

(2) No com- fits, wit- benefit normal expen-

(3) No con- will be mit- met Operat- Secur-

(c) Engagement controls.

(d) In general,ards. How to provi- be carried.

(e) Agents wh- the United their asso- tax liabil- 20-35.)

(f) The use o- will be go-

(2) All commit- Formal Agree-

(a) A Formal an author- tiated wh-

(b) A Memora- ment, sign- agent. Use those cau- agent's si-

(c) An agent- randum o-
