A Resume of the Use of a “Notional Cover” Employment

Harold L. Hoen

10 April 1960

1. The following “notional cover firm” was established in April 1957 and backstopped mail-cable-telephone checks:

Public Surveys Institute  
General Polling Service  
Riverside 1-3674

532 Fidelity Union Life Building  
1511 Bryan Street  
Dallas, Texas

A few hundred business cards were printed up both in Washington and locally in Havana, Cuba, for my use. It was agreed that stationery would be printed up and some correspondence should be initiated from Havana. The business cards were first used in May 1957 in Havana, renting an apartment, purchasing furniture and an automobile, and among friends and acquaintances. It was later used as a developmental recruitment approach with known communists in Havana—details set forth with each case reviewed here.

2. Generally, it is believed that this cover held up well with Latin Americans in Cuba, Mexico, Costa Rica, and Panama. It was received with some curiosity by some Americans living abroad in these countries, and I was often quizzed, “Well, what do you do?” Actually, my university background in economics made it possible for me to answer and converse professionally. The only difficulties ever encountered were with two persons who were in a position to appeal to my firm for services. This, of course, made it obvious that I had to be prepared at all times to actually render some service or provide a valid technical reason for not being able to do so. To my knowledge, this cover firm has never been compromised as such, and it has only been seriously challenged on one occasion. This was a newsman in the Sierra Maestra in Cuba and will be set forth in detail.

3. It would be impossible, of course, to remember and record every “brushing” acquaintance that has been given this business card. But the well-known and more important ones are listed for Cuba as follows:

Bernardo ALAIEZ:  
Calle 64 No. 908, Ap. 2  
Almendares,  
La Habana, Cuba

Spanish Cuban, about 50 years old, a former “Prio man” (Carlos PRIO Socarras). Was a police lieutenant and anti-communist strongarm man. Also worked for the Military Attaché (US) in Havana. Was recommended for recruitment as a spotter in 1955, but not favorably received because “new blood” was sought.

Angel BOAH Acosta:  
Present address unknown.

Met in Guatemala in February 1954. Cuban exile. BOAH was a news and radio announcer in Guatemala, not a communist, but enjoying entrée with them. Was later encountered in Havana in 1956 and in 1957, employed by our station as one of the AMPHODARCH project. He was later terminated and now believed to have been reactivated in Havana.
