Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in agency personnel management. Coded indicates that the application of these instructions will provide: 1. The agency selection board with information of value when considering the employment of an individual for membership in the career service; and 2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report.

To the Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns direct and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate with his previous supervisor to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory function by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

For Control: By you this week.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is to be filmed in order to be returned by the period being rated.

Section I (To be filled in by Administrative Officer).

1. Name (Last). First: C. Middle: D.
2. Date of birth: 28 Oct, 1926.
3. Sex: Male.
4. Career designation: SD:BI.
5. Date of entrance on duty. B. Office assigned to: DDP/YES-5 FB.
10. If field, specify station.
11. Grade.
12. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): August 1954 to Present.

Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item.

Section III.

I certify that, during the latter half of the period covered by this report, I have discussed with the rated individual the manner in which he has performed his job and provided suggestions and recommendations wherever needed. I believe that his understanding of an evaluation of his performance is consistent with an evaluation of him as applied by this Fitness Report and I have informed him of his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness. If performance during the report period has been unsatisfactory, there is attached a copy of the original notification stating his or her unsatisfactory performance.

This report is / has not been shown to the individual rated.

This date. Signature of Ratee (Employer-Candidate Supervisor). A. S. R.
