b. Manuel (Garcia) Sanchez is a close friend of A/14 and is uncle of A/14's wife. Can be used for operational support, a car, and safehousekeeping. Was formerly a lieutenant in Oriente under Calixto Garcia but no longer in the army. A/14 believes he is now an administrator of some type of industry in Havana.

c. Maria Josefa (Isalgue). Subject is aunt of A/14 and can be used as safehouse keeper. She is single, lives alone except for ten cats. Does not have a car. Was formerly a teacher but now has a pension and does not work.

d. Gonzalo (Lopez) de la Torre. Subject is a relative of A/27 and can be called on for ops support or safehousing. Subject has a car, is married, no children, is in his sixties.

e. Bebo (Orozco). To be recruited by A/14 as his principal agent in Havana. Subject and A/14 previously worked together in the underground. Orozco was in the Sierra with Castro and also fought in Camaguey. He resigned from the army in February 1959, although he has maintained many contacts within the army. Was one time active in the Movimiento Democratico Martiano and was a friend of Captain Bernardo Corrales who was shot by Castro in Pinar del Rio. Subject came to PBPRIME in April 1961 with A/14 to obtain arms and remained there 10 days, infiltrating back into Cuba without his absence having been known to the authorities. Was responsible for safehousekeeping (Vargas Gomez) for nearly one month when authorities were searching for him. Will be used for intelligence collection and spotting on defectable army officers. He is also known to A/27, but not well. A/14 was last in touch with Orozco by letter about two months ago.

f. Ramon (Guin) Diaz. Subject to be recruited by A/27 as principal agent. Would be used for operational intelligence and spotting among disaffected army officers. Would be kept entirely compartmented from Orozco. Guin is an army comandante, now managing a large INRA farm complex outside of Havana. He is known to A/27 and A/14, both of whom believe he can be contacted safely. He is anti-Communist and is one of the group of Camilo Cienfuegos officers contacted by A/27 in early 1961 to join in an overthrow of the government.
