24. Service within the United States or territory of the United States, or in any of the following countries: Denmark, Sweden, and Switzerland, if you are not a resident of any of the countries.

Full names: Mr. Harry Schwartz; Phyllis Theodorou Moran; Mr. Herbert Heuldermen. Present business or trade addresses: 113 Remacy Ave., Cazanovia, N.Y.; 11 Windham, Wey, Dayton, E. Business or occupations: Teacher; Personnel; Fiscideire.

25. May indicate if you are a present employer regarding your character or qualifications, if any. Answer: Yes.

26. Are you a citizen of or do you owe allegiance to the United States? Answer: Yes.

27. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party U.S.A. or any Communist organization? Answer: No.

28. Are you a known or have you ever been a member of a Passtest organization? Answer: No.

29. Are you known or have you ever been a member of an organization, association, group, or combination of persons which advocates the expertise of our constitutional form of government, or of an organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which has adopted a policy of advocating or approving the collection of acts of force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or seeking to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means?

If your answer is “Yes,” list all such cases under Item 39 below. Give in each case (1) the date; (2) the nature of the offense or violation; (3) the name and location of the court; (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If imposed, your fingerprints will be taken.

30. Since your birthday, have you ever been arrested, indicted, or summoned into court as a defendant in a criminal proceeding, or committed, judgment issued, imprisoned, or placed on probation, or have you ever been ordered to deposit bail or collateral for the violation of any law, police regulation, or ordinance, excluding minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $20 or less was imposed upon you?

If your answer is “Yes,” list all such cases under Item 39 below. Give in each case (1) the date; (2) the nature of the offense or violation; (3) the name and location of the court; (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If imposed, your fingerprints will be taken.

31. Have you ever been discharged or forced to resign, for misconduct or unsatisfactory service, from any position?

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 39.
