10. In Stettin David met a MEDIA man, but again refused to join this organization, and he traveled to Berlin, met there some Georgians, spoke of going to Paris, was asked and took some letters for delivery in Paris, and took the train up to Aachen (Achen).

9. In Aachen (Achen) he asked a Frenchman how to get to France. He was advised that the German GESTAPO was giving necessary permits.

10. How David falsified his leave permit, changing the validity date from 2 to 12 June, and went to GESTAPO. The falsification was not detected. However, he was not allowed to travel to Paris because his leave and travel document showed only Berlin as his place of destination, and he was ordered to return to Berlin.

11. Instead of returning to Berlin, David took the train up to within two kilometers of Eupen (Eupel), in order to pass the Eupen-Malmedy (Eupel-Malted y) border in the Eupen-Malmedy (Eupel-Halted y) area clandestinely. He asked somebody for advice on how to cross the border, and he was sent to a man who agreed to take him over during the nighttime.

12. David had only 50 German marks. He told this to the guide and asked how much he would have to pay him. The man asked 20 marks. During the night the guide took him to a place, indicated a direction for David to follow to cross the border and arrive at the railroad station on the other side of the border. This was all he was offered for the 20 DM.

13. David waited until the guide left. Then, fearing that the guide could have directed him into a trap, he took a direction 90 degrees to the right of the advised direction, followed this direction for about half an hour, and then turned 90 degrees to the left, thus into the old, advised direction. Originally he had had in mind to turn later once more to the left and thus to come back to some spot on the original direction just opposite the place from which he started his walk. However, when he had reached a road, he noticed a man on a bicycle approaching him. He hid himself in the culvert, and when the man was quite close, he, David, jumped out, frightened, and stopped the man, then asked whether he was a good Frenchman. Receiving a positive reply, he then asked how to proceed to the railroad station. The man showed him the direction to the next farm and advised him to ask for further information there—it would have been too complicated to advise him all the way. David thanked him and left for the farm. The man, glad to escape from his chaser, offered him some cigarettes.

14. David found nobody at the farm. He thus proceeded on his own and finally reached the railroad station. Before boarding the train, he went to a barber to shave and clean his
