Declaration of Appointee.

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty. Answer all questions. Any false statement sent in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal after appointment. Impersonation in a criminal offense and will be prosecuted accordingly.

1. Name or address (street and number, city and State).

2. (A) Date of birth. (B) Place of birth (city or town and State or country).

3. (A) In case of emergency please notify. (B) Relationship. (C) Street and number, city and State. (D) Telephone No.

4. Does the United States Government employ, in a civilian capacity, any relatives of yours (related by blood or marriage) with whom you live or have lived within the past 24 months? Yes. No: X.

If so, for each such relative provide name, post office address, position, department or agency in which employed, temporary or not, relationship, and marital status.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing “X” in proper column.

5. Are you a citizen of or do you owe allegiance to the United States? Yes: X.

6. Are you an official or employee of any State, Territory, county, or municipality? No: X.

If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 10.

7. Do you receive any annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service? No: X.

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 10 the reason for retirement, that is, age, optional disability, or the reason for voluntary or involuntary separation after 3 years’ service; amount of retirement pay, and under what retirement act, and rating, if retired from military or naval service.

8. Since you filed application resulting in this appointment, have you been discharged or forced to retire, for misconduct or unsatisfactory service from any position? No: X.

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 10 the name and address of employer, date, and reason in each case.

9. Have you been arrested (not including traffic violations for which you were fined or less, or forfeited collateral of $12 or less) since you filed application resulting in this appointment? No: X.

If your answer is “Yes,” list all such cases under Item 10. Give in each case: (1) The date, (2) the nature of the offense or violation, (3) the name and location of the court, (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If appointed, put An- B.
