Diary

15th August 64.

Hedges and MacKinnon arrived at lunchtime from Luxembourg. Their first mission has been a miserable failure so far.

Two Harvards took off yesterday at 1340 to blast the rebels at a point outside Lusaka. They are threatening to overrun an important AU training establishment where we understand the AU have run away and left us unable to equip them. Then, approaching this morning, Kingman came on with the wind and piled up the Harvard on the dirt at the side of the runway, breaking one wing and a wheel and jerking off two of the guns in their nacelles.

Gerry then sent Hedges and Mac back by Air Congo and stayed behind with Kingman to complete the mission today in the other Harvard.

Surrendered to the Palace at 1300 hrs. Mobutu arrived at 1335 and gave him the pre-mission contract we had prepared for the enterprise.

Ushered into the presence at 1500 hrs. Present: Mwanguo, Tahombe, Mobutu, Lindaka (Security Minister), Julia, and myself. Tahombe said, “To hell with Julia. Why does it take five visits to get the smallest thing fixed?” etc. Julia answered him back.

Finally put a straight question to me—was I satisfied with the Katanga contract of 1000 lbs or so? I said yes, but owing to the cost of living expected higher rates. Tahombe pointed to the index clause and said that took care of the devaluation of money. I insisted on a written contract, which they drafted out and signed there and then.

Have rights. Next, Mobutu very agitated. Said to me, “Why was I not in Katanga here? Gua Zobozo was waiting for us, and why were the South African men not there as organised today?” Explained.

I am a bombshell from Tahombe. “So how long would it take to bring one thousand men?” “1000.” I said a month. “Get them assistance, if possible.” Outlined tactical position. “Must crush the rebels, now, now,” as he smacked his fist on the table. Mobutu then did tap on table and showed the position. Took a piece of paper and wrote down my orders.

First—Mwanguo, Kongo, Albertville, Uvira. Next Sibanda. Next Stan. Gave me 8 Group Mobile units, 200 in each unit, AU, asked me to keep one of my units with each group. “Can it be done by myself?” “Relieved, yes, if you give me the material and force assistance.” Agreed to everything.

Stayed and had supper with Tahombe. Told him how Churchill had called Kinglete and told him to conquer Burundi—“You are my man of death,” said Churchill. “No, you cannot do that. I will give you the Congo. I am your man of death.” He is going to meet and shock him personally by the hand to end this by the only means possible.

Tahombe said, “You will succeed. If I am wrong, confidence in you. I expect you.” I was deeply moved by the fate that should have chosen an insignificant man such as me to be their instrument to rewrite the Congo’s story, a task on Africa for many a decade. Poor little boy left free of education and all I
