Question: What is the main objective of the counterrevolutionary groups?

Answer: The main objective of the counterrevolutionary groups was to prevent the return of Batista and to stop the tyranny.

Question: Do you see any links with us?

Answer: Yes, there are.

Question: What were these bullets prepared for?

Answer: These bullets were prepared over there in Cuba. (Cuban—thoracic.) This means that an organization called CIAT (CIAT) asked to provide them, in spite of the fact that I know nothing about it. For instance, on June 2, to make sure of the death of the individuals against those leaders. It was made, but they were for specific attacks.

Question: What plans were made in the United States or among the counterrevolutionary circles, and what is the main objective sought?

Answer: Well, the physical elimination of the leader of the Cuban revolution, Fidel Castro.

Question: The physical elimination of Fidel Castro?

Answer: Yes, sure.

Question: Those counterrevolutionary groups which operate from Florida, primarily, do they have the approval of the North American government for their actions?

Answer: Almost entirely. For example, the most important acts were armed cells to obtain dollars from assistance by the U.S. Department of State, but then there were close links among all the organizations, and with the Central Intelligence Agency. We have, for example, the date of 10/17/65, which corresponds to 19—who is the agent?—and the name of the CTA (CIA), etc. and so on. And so on. In this way, by using it as a CIA intelligence agency, that is to say, for the dissemination of information of the CTA (CIA) in Cuba, actions against relevant organs are to be taken, and are limited to the CIA.

Question: Do you say that you had a real, factual situation with bullets prepared for specific attacks or like?

Answer: Yes, sure.

Question: I would like to clarify something. What specific actions against whom were done by those actions to be made after the fall of the regime?

Answer: This question has two parts. First, finance the most presumed future of the revolution according to existing circumstances as far as possible; secondly, the individuals who were going to participate in the war. Specifically, it is to be a proper list of the names of revolutionaries able to take part in the war; then the list of the revolutionists will be identified.
