Routine Followed in Recruiting Prospective Campaign Managers

1. I explained to them that I was not investigating anyone but that I was seeking their cooperation on a confidential basis. I asked that they give me their word that they would keep the subject of our conversations forever confidential and told them that I had a very good reason for them to sign. If receiving their request, I pointed out to them that we were interested in getting the cooperation of people with grassroots political experience who would be willing from time to time to give briefing sessions in political organization to foreigners visiting this country under our agenda. I explained that the briefing should be all-inclusive, from the conception of an idea, the organization of a political grouping, to the actual mounting and holding of an election. I pointed out to them that from time to time they might also be asked to do this for people who were working on our staff but were planning to go abroad. If they gave a positive answer to the idea, and still existed today, I then suggested that on occasion we found it necessary to ask our consultants to go abroad to do much the same type of thing on the scene.

2. Their reactions were extremely favorable. They all had the same questions, etc., that have arisen in previous recruitments.

3. I made a great point of stressing to them the extreme delicacy of this type of operation, pointing out that unless all governments expected people to be engaged in espionage and made very little fun over what went on, merely paying diplomats, or in cases where the outcome did not have diplomatic immunity, imposing them for a short time. The fact is that we were actively aiding in the building up of political organizations considered much more delicate and for this reason they should take very seriously any injunction against speaking of their association with us or the subject of our conversations to anyone.

4. I then went on to point out that we were approaching a number of people of different races, creeds and language qualifications as I felt that it was necessary to be prepared for a number of eventualities. I pointed out that if, after talking to me, the individual changed his mind or did not desire to participate in my program, I would understand why and that there would be no hard feelings as long as our conversations were kept secret. I also pointed out that if in the future the individual was called upon to serve, it was fully appreciated by me that one or two matters might preclude cooperation at that time and that the situation would be fully understood.

5. As far as the pay was concerned, I told the individuals that a regular contract would be provided for them to serve as consultants to the government; and that they would be paid in accordance with a standard contract which provided for $50 per day, not to exceed $265 per week, plus all expenses. If and when they were called upon to go outside the US, a
