UR

Movimiento Unidad Revolucionaria

My shipmaster and I have requested political asylum from the United States because we are convinced that Cuban support of the Communist war in Vietnam is wrong and we refuse to run the risks of transporting war material to North Vietnam.

All Cuban ships have orders to carry cargo to North Vietnam to help the North Vietnamese war effort. The Cuban Embassy in Japan is acting as the coordinator for all shipments of war material to North Vietnam via Cuban ships from Communist ports in Asia. The Cuban Embassy in Tokyo had secretly arranged for the Aracelio Iglesias (Iglosias) to take a shipment of war materials from North Korea to North Vietnam. In order to hide their intentions, the Embassy arranged that the Aracelio itinerary (itinorary) be kept up in the air until the last possible moment; then to fool the crew and the Japanese they gave the story the ship would return to Japan to load tin cargo at Yahata and then proceed on route to North Vietnam. In reality, we were to receive instructions on itinerary while in North Korea telling us to proceed directly to North Vietnam after loading the war supplies.

At the last moment, however, the Embassy was informed that the port of Chinnampo was blocked by ice. The Cuban Embassy then hastily arranged for us to pick up a shipment of arms in Shanghai previously scheduled for another Cuban boat about the end of January.

Logistical support to the North Vietnamese is one of the two tasks assigned to Mr. Manuel Jorge Cuervo, the new Cuban Ambassador to Japan. His other function is to erase the bad effects on Japanese-Cuban trade caused by the defection of the former trade Counselor to Japan, Gilberto Alemany. The Cuban government is very concerned about the prospect of declining trade since already some companies that formerly traded with Cuba, will no longer do so openly.

In general, I may say that members of the Cuban merchant marine live under unbearable conditions. The treatment we receive is so bad that no one feels like cooperating with the marine purposes of the regime, even in the few cases where there might be no ideological incompatibility involved.

As examples of this treatment I may mention the constant spying on board by members of the “G-2.” For some reason, the “G-2” man on board is usually the radio and telegraph operator. In the “Aracelio” we had one by the name of Eduardo Sánchez who was a notorious spy. Aboard we had another man called Manuel Rida Rodríguez who was imposed as the Fourth Engineer, even though he had no training or ability to perform such duties. As Captain of the “Aracelio,” I was ordered

10 SE 9 St., Miami, Florida

Telefono FR 3-8033
