Dispatch. To: Chief, MOVIEW. Info: COS, London; Chief, EUR. From: Chief, LCPIPIT. Subject: DTDORIC/Operational; QREBONY/Salary Raise for QREBONY/1. Action required—references.

1. At the time of his recruitment in June 1965, QREBONY/1 was told that his $600 monthly tax-free salary would be raised to $800 once he got a job in a target organization, which of course was the goal of his planned summer activity in Algiers.

2. Through no fault of his own, the Algiers assignment (and other possibilities, such as Djakarta) evaporated shortly thereafter. Meanwhile, WOFACT changed its signals and eventually decided to base QREBONY/1 in Europe targeted against individuals and groups in various countries.

3. From the beginning, QREBONY/1 has proved more than satisfactory as an agent. He has carried out assignments given to him with knowledge and tact and the proper spirit, has used his own initiative as much as our guidance, and has not violated our instructions. No one will argue that he hasn't proved to be better than we collectively thought he would be, and in terms of his own abilities—apart from targets which may or may not be accessible to him—he is getting better all the time.

4. Last year, about a year later than QREBONY/1 might have expected his salary to go up from $600 to $800, we raised it to $700. He was pleased, and he has not complained as much as he used to about a shortage of funds. (Presumably QREBONY/1 is responsive to the generally good treatment he has had, to the respect for him as an individual and the appreciation of his services; probably he is carried along as much by his own personal satisfaction in knowing he is meeting requirements and continually breaking new ground.)

5. Nevertheless, LCPIPIT believes the time has come to raise QREBONY/1's salary to the promised level. We can all agree that we are still getting his services cheap; QREBONY/1 receives no quarters, living allowance, or educational allowance for his children. His increased gratitude, the relief he will undoubtedly feel at being able to reduce his present financial worries, are more than worth the extra $100.

Continued.

Distribution: -3-C/MOVIEW; 2-COS/London; 1-C/EUR. Cross reference to dispatch symbol and number: OEPA-090. Date: 21 February 1967. HCS file number: 200-126-156. Date: 24 February 1967.
