24. References. List three persons living in the United States or Territories of the United States who are not related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which you are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Item 18 (Experience).

Full name: Restmore Wilcox, Jr. Address: [illegible] William St., New York City. Business or occupation: [not provided]. No.

Full name: Robert G. North. Address: 3947 Fremont Avenue, Hollywood, California. Business or occupation: [not provided]. No.

Full name: Maj. J. K. Singley. Address: [illegible] Building, Washington, D.C. Business or occupation: [not provided]. Yes.

39. Are you an official or employee of any state, territory, county, or municipality? If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 39. No.

36. Does the United States Government (e.g., a Republican, Democratic, etc.) have enough capacity any relative of your killed, wounded or mortgaged with whom you lived or haven’t lived within the past 24 months? If your answer is “Yes,” show in Item 39 for each relative: (1) full name; (2) present address; (3) relationship; (4) department or agency by which employed; and (5) kind of appointment. No.

Special Instructions for Claiming Veteran Preference.

A. If you are claiming preference as a peacetime veteran who has been awarded a campaign badge or service pension, or as a disabled veteran, or as the widow of a war or campaign veteran, submit Veteran Preference Claim, CEC Form 14, together with proof specified thereon.

B. If you are a wartime veteran claiming disability preference, you should not submit your discharge with this application. Preference will be tentatively credited to you and, if approved, you will be required to submit to the appointing officer, prior to entry on active duty, official evidence of separation from active service in the armed forces of the United States in time of war.

Question 1: Yes or No.

May inquiry be made of your present employment regarding your character and qualifications (e.g., are you a union member)?

Are you a citizen of, or do you obtain assistance from, the United States?

Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party, U.S.A., or any communist organization?

Are you now or have you ever been a member of an organization, association, movement, group, or committee of persons which acts upon the outcome of our Constitution, Government, or an organization or association with respect to the commission of acts of force or violation of law or other orders under the Constitution of the United States, including murder, treason, larceny, or [illegible]?

If your answer is “Yes,” list all actual cases under Item 39 below. Give in each case: (1) the date; (2) the nature of the offense or violation; (3) the name and location of the court; (4) the penalty imposed, if any. On other departments of the court, if appointed, your fingerprint will be taken.

37 (A). Were you ever in the United States military?
