Uruguay

A. Actual situation of the Delegation

Though the DR Delegation (DR Deliberates) in Uruguay, Mario Garcia and Armando (Irmando) Frias, have been in Montevideo for scarcely one and a half months, they are beginning to carry through a very positive labor which promises to bear splendid fruits. It must be kept in mind that anti-Castrist propaganda has widely circulated throughout Uruguay. Up to the present, a great number of public acts have been held, and it is difficult to move public opinion on the Cuban problem, since it is somewhat exhausted. Nevertheless, the plans which have been worked out will strengthen public opinion on this aspect.

During my stay in Uruguay, the voting campaign for the elections which will be held next November was being carried through. Thus, it was rather difficult to turn the attention of public opinion towards the Cuban problem. However, in order to reinitiate the work, the Delegation has worked out a plan which will last for one month and end with a great public act. While I was there, 100,000 leaflets (leaves) of propaganda exhorting the people to express their protests against the presence of Russian troops in Cuba were distributed throughout the city. Also, a manifestation which took place on the 8th of September in front of the Cuban Embassy was organized.

The Delegation will shortly begin to edit a news bulletin which will be sent to the press, radio, TV, and political, civic, and religious leaders. Also, a trip throughout the different cities of the country in order to strengthen the contacts we already had there is being planned.

In the student field, the Delegation is striving to work to achieve unity in the groups opposed to the FEUU (Federation of University Students of Uruguay) by creating a common front and thus moving out the Communists who fully control the leading position of the FEUU.

B. Deficiencies

The deficiencies of the Delegation in Uruguay can be considered as little important due to the fact that it has been functioning for only a few weeks, and this does not permit one to see things clearly and judge them as they really are. In general, the Delegation is at present in a process of consolidation and self-securing, for which reason its deficiencies cannot be fully observed.

C. Future possibilities

The DR Delegation in Uruguay has huge possibilities which we believe will be determined during the next few days. In addition to the news bulletin and the trip through the different cities of the country, a one-hour radio broadcast and new public acts are being planned. Besides
