Designation of Beneficiary. Unpaid Compensation of Deceased Civilian Employee.

Important: Read instructions on back of duplicate before filling in this form.

Information concerning the employee: Name (last, first, middle); date of birth (month, day, year); department or agency in which employed (department or agency, bureau, division).

I, the employee identified above, canceling any and all previous Designations of Beneficiary heretofore made by me, do now designate the beneficiary or beneficiaries named below to receive any unpaid compensation due and payable under existing law after my death. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary relates solely to Unpaid Compensation as defined in section 2 of the act of August 5, 1950, Public Law 636, and in nowise will affect the disposition of any benefit which may become payable under the Retirement Act applicable to my Government service. I further understand that this Designation of Beneficiary will remain in full force and effect, unless or until canceled by me in writing, so long as I am continuously employed in the above department or agency.

Information concerning the beneficiary or beneficiaries:

Pamela A. Richardson. Address: 5 Villa Madrid, 92 Neuilly, France. Relationship: daughter. Share: one half.

Michelle D. Richardson. Address: 5 Villa Madrid, 92 Neuilly, France. Relationship: daughter. Share: one half.

I hereby direct, unless otherwise indicated above, that, if more than one beneficiary is named, the share of any deceased beneficiary who may precede me shall be distributed equally among the surviving beneficiaries, or entirely to the survivor. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary shall be void if none of the designated beneficiaries is living at the time of my death.

I hereby specifically reserve the right to cancel or change any designation of beneficiary at any time in the manner and form prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, and without knowledge or consent of the beneficiary.

Date of execution: January 12, 1972.
