Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution

Origins

The monthly publication “Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution” is the successor to “African Revolution,” which was the monthly English digest of the Algerian weekly “Revolution Africaine.” “Revolution Africaine,” which is published in French, first appeared in February 1963 with the declared aim of helping to build socialism in Africa. In order to increase its effectiveness, it began to publish a monthly edition, “African Revolution,” consisting largely of material selected from previous issues of “Revolution Africaine.” The editorial office of “African Revolution” was established in Lausanne, Switzerland, by March 1963, and the first issue appeared two months later.

2. When the first editor of “Revolution Africaine,” Jacques Mansour-VERGIER, was replaced by Mohamed HABRI in May 1963, he left Algiers and took control of “African Revolution” in Lausanne. After two issues had been published, the connection between it and “Revolution Africaine” was covered, and “African Revolution” became “Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution.” In December 1963, the editorial board moved from Lausanne to Paris, and the publication now appears monthly in English and French, although the two editions are not identical. The former is printed in Switzerland and the latter, which carries the title “Revolution,” is printed in Paris.

Editorial Policy of “Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution”

3. The Editorial “Europe too . . .” in issue No. 8 (December 1963) urged the European working-class movement to take up the revolutionary struggle. Thus, “Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution” made it clear that it intended its message to have a worldwide application. At first, however, it had directed its attention to the destruction of colonialism in Africa and the establishment of national independence and socialization, and had later acknowledged the logic of its arguments by changing its title to “Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution.”

4. To begin with, “Africa, Latin America, Asia Revolution” did not give the impression that it was advocating any particular brand of socialism. The Editorial on “Ideology” in issue No. 3 acknowledged the existence of various types of socialism in Africa and recognized that they were based on the “profound logic of experience.” In time, however, it became increasingly apparent that the publication was lending its support to the Marxist-Leninist theory of revolution, and the Chinese Communist interpretation of it. The principal article in issue No. 7 (November 1963), which had the anodyne title “Third World? Which Third World?”, was largely an exposition of the Chinese Communist attitude towards the national liberation movement, drawing material and inspiration from the Chinese Communist Party’s document “A proposal concerning the general line of the International Communist Movement.” This was the letter, dated 14th June 1963, from the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party to the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union; it is a major document in the ideological dispute between the two parties. The article contained the following quotation from the Chinese letters:

“The various types of contradictions in the contemporary world are centred in the vast areas of Asia, Africa and Latin America; these are the most vulnerable areas under imperialist rule and the storm-centres of world revolution dealing direct blows at imperialism.”

As if . . .
