June 29, 1966.

0/5 — 9:40 to 18:15 hours.

From #1 to #3, voices in the distance.

At #39, voices in the distance which sound like a telephone conversation, to #61.

At #104, Basurto and Chung are commenting on the Coca-Cola problem in Mexico.

At #137, Basurto heard saying: “But there are people who went to Santo Domingo: Fico Galán, Luis Suarez, Renato... They earn 1,000 pesos per week.” Adds something else which is not understood.

Chung: “And where does ‘Siorpre’ get all this money?”

Basurto: “It is a front business. The government gives them money.” Basurto makes some remark that they take easily 3,000 pesos per month.

Chung asks something and mentions a name which sounds like “Victor Alba.”

Basurto says no.

Chung says: “100 pesos per hour.”

Basurto: “It verifies.”

There is much noise and the conversation cannot be heard clearly.

Basurto: “I think much more than that.”

They talk about some cousin of Basurto’s. Basurto names his cousin to tell him everything. Chung says he is a very important cousin.

Basurto: “I saw him yesterday.”

Chung: “Is he a student?”

Basurto: “I don't know, I don't like to play in other people's private lives. But he told me himself that he was going, that he was going to be in Mexico only two or three weeks and that he was going to stay there for good. We won't see him anymore.”

Chung: “Where is he going?”

Basurto: “To Cuba, has a relation to become Cuban by naturalization. He already has work and everything else over there. Has a chance to be a citizen of a country.”

Words are not understood. Mr. Basurto continues that he does not like the hot sun and prefers the cold weather. “Did you see that SUELA A photos?” He passes the film out. Something about their being going to make them now in three hours.

There is much noise and the complete conversation cannot be understood.

From #305 to #312, Chung and Basurto continue talking but are unable to be understood. At #320, Basurto says: “He has a big house, a numerous house in San Anselm. His way of life is very high, he lives like a king. Just the subsidy he gets from the government”—a few words are not understood. “That's why they call it ‘paid opposition.’”

Chung makes some remark and Basurto answers: “85,000 plus compensation.”

There is much noise and the voices cannot be heard clearly. Basurto maintains the conference in Cuba about Marxism and the Cuban Revolution. He also mentions the Mexican political parties “PRI” and “FTS,” but there is much noise and the complete phrase cannot be understood.

At #330, voices in the distance are talking in Chinese.

At #333, Basurto mentions the blackouts in Tijuana and Ciudad Juárez and how they have harmed the storm.

At #417, voices in the distance are talking in Chinese.

At #444, someone answers a phone. Someone speaks on the telephone from #592 to #600.

At #627, television is heard up to #33, followed by a strange sound like rain. At #930, television continues up to #1010.

Sound off at #1129, which is the end of the recording.
