Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 106198.

Section A — General.

Name: WIOREN Lee H. Date of birth: 12-1-23 M OS-12. Sex: M. Service designation: D. Official position title: Op Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/SR/CB. Career staff status: Not eligible; member; deferred. Type of report: Declined; denied; annual; reassignment/supervisor; special (specify); reassignment/employer.

Date report due in U.P.: 31 Jan 61. Reporting period: From 1 Jan 60 to 31 Dec 60.

Section B — Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1. Unsatisfactory. 3. Acceptable.

Specific duty No. 1: Supervises and reviews work of Section including 8 research analysts and 2 clerks. Rating No. 5+.

Specific duty No. 2: Plans and implements divisional research program on Soviet Intelligence. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 3: Directs dissemination of CI studies and reports on RIS to appropriate U.S. and foreign consumers. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 4: Gives lectures and briefings to Agency and foreign officials as required. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 5: Effects coordination with CI Staff, OS, OIR and others on CI research matters. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 6: Establishes divisional criteria for records and methods of information processing required for CI research. Rating No. 5+.

Section C — Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
5.
