Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil

José Antonio Echeverría: Con tus ideas en marcha

Situación de la R.E. delabatientе en su sepolo

The case of the O.R.I. Delegation at São Paulo (Sao Paolo), which is composed of Raúl González Simon and Antonio Vega, can be considered an exceptional case inside the Latin American plan. In São Paulo (Sao Paolo), I had the opportunity to hold deep conversations with Raúl González Simon, and we reached the following conclusions.

1. In one whole year the ORE delegation at São Paulo (Sao Paolo) has not any aim to account for and specify the purposes of this second delegation, nor has the ORE published one single article of the delegation's appearance in the press. Not one single word of the delegation, not one of the communications and instructions by the section of International Relations, has been carried through. Summing up the genuine words of the ORE delegate at São Paulo (Sao Paolo), Raúl González Simon, to other states: the conversations held at my arrival at Miami with Antonio Vega, another member of the delegation at São Paulo (Sao Paolo), we reached the following conclusion.

2. During one year no effective labor has been accomplished in the city of São Paulo (Sao Paulo) on the Cuban problem.

3. Time has been wasted uselessly to obtain only as a result a standing failure.

The motives for this failure can be outlined as follows:

1. The ORE delegates in São Paulo (Sao Paolo) have been submitted to the arbitrary direction of Mr. Vladimir (Vlatimir) Lydoskem, director of the S.E.I. (Service of Inter-American Studies), who during the whole year prohibited the delegates from working in the name of the State, submitting them to a labor system which had nothing to do with the Cuban problem. It would be wise to point out that for the Chancellors' Conference held at Santa Del Monte, special funds had been dedicated to the Cuban cause, but Mr. Lydoskem did absolutely nothing about this, remaining thus دون laication of such fund.

2. The ORE delegates did not take in time the decision of working independently in order to accomplish something useful, and consequently continued submitted to an entirely disrespected or unism which is the S.E.I.

Future Possibilities

Beta Mr. Raúl González Simon and Mr. Antonio Vega are willing to continue working with the S.E.I. For such end, Mr. Gonzalez Simon and Mr. Antonio Vega are preparing numerous and detailed reports which will openly disclose the attitude taken by Mr. Vladimir (Vlatimir) Lydoskem, for what he has used the
