General

At Cheverly, Maryland:

On 17 May 1961, a live address was established for Gladys O. DAWBRUPT at 5611 Jason Street, Cheverly, Maryland, through the cooperation of Dr. Edward A. SALLOOM, householder at that address.

On the same date, Mrs. SALLOOM's daughter, Patricia, and son, George, were briefed to the effect that they should accept any cables, letters, telegrams, or telephone calls for Mrs. DAWBRUPT. In the event any inquiries were received concerning Mrs. DAWBRUPT, they were to advise that Mrs. DAWBRUPT was residing with them but that she was not available at the moment. They were to determine who was calling and the purpose of the call. If the call was from the cable or telegraph office, Mrs. SALLOOM or Patricia was to call back later as Mrs. DAWBRUPT and receive the message and request delivery of the written cable or telegram. In the event the inquiry was from any other source, they were to contact the Reporting Agent immediately.

The same individuals were further briefed, in general, as to why Mrs. DAWBRUPT was supposedly residing with them and why she was expecting some form of communication. They were informed that Mrs. DAWBRUPT was the mother of Margaret H. DAWBRUPT, who was being held a prisoner by a foreign government. The mother had sent a cable to her son asking how he was, whether he needed anything, inquiring if there was anything she could do for him, and asking him to please communicate with her. She was now awaiting and expecting some form of reply from him.

On the following day, 18 May 1961, Dr. SALLOOM was contacted. The above information had been related to him by Mrs. SALLOOM at the request of the Reporting Agent. Dr. SALLOOM was requested to notify the Cheverly and the Hyattsville Post Offices that Mrs. DAWBRUPT was residing at his home and any mail received for her should be delivered to his address.

On 22 May 1961, Dr. SALLOOM was again contacted and he advised that he had personally called the Postmistress at the Cheverly Post Office regarding delivery of Mrs. DAWBRUPT's mail and had requested.

Dr. SALLOOM was also contacted and he advised that he had personally called the Postmistress at the Cheverly Post Office regarding delivery of Mrs. DAWBRUPT's mail and had requested.
