Personnel Evaluation Report. Items 1 through 6 will be completed by Administrative or Personnel Officer.

Name: Moore, James. Grade: GS-13. Position title: Intelligence Officer. Office: Contact. Station: Houston. Staff or division: Houston. Branch: Contact. Period covered by report: From 6 Dec 52 to 5 Dec 53. Reassignment: Reassignment of Supervisor.

Items 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

List your major duties in approximate order of importance, with a brief description of each. Cut minor duties.

1. Contact of officials of US business concerns, scientific, educational, and religious organizations to establish sources for and to obtain information of intelligence significance.

2. Handling of general work in Houston, with emphasis on shipping, contacting of missionaries, particularly from the Far East, and exploiting University research. In addition full coverage of our work in Ft. Worth, Waco, Abilene & part coverage of Dallas, necessitating approximately two field trips a month.

3. On instructions of the Chief of the Houston Office, handle certain special and sensitive operational projects originated by other branches of the Agency.

4. Have, on occasion, answered telephones to Washington, signed correspondence & similar matters handled by the Chief or his Assistant when they are not in the office.

8. List courses of instruction completed during report period. Name of course: CIA Indoctrination Course. Location: Washington, D.C. Length of course: 9-13 Feb 53. Date completed: 13 Feb 53.

9. In what type of work are you primarily interested? Collection of foreign intelligence from domestic sources. 17 Different from your present job. Explain your qualifications (aptitude, knowledge, skills).

10. 5 January 1954. Date.

Items 11 through 18 will be completed by Supervisor.

11. Briefly describe this person's performance in the major duties listed under Item 7 above. This officer has continued to exercise exceptional judgment & tact in capably carrying out his primary mission as a C/S. His past experience in many fields of intelligence activity has given him a background of valuable assets. This experience, coupled with his resourcefulness and energetic exploitation of his contacts, has resulted in high quality and valuable reporting.
