Problems with the lobster (LORSTER) exports

Upon my arrival here I was surprised to learn the extent of the detailed information possessed by ALIMTEX REVOLUTIONARIA and its Economic Research Bureau. This information is accurate and I am able to add more information to that known by the U.R.

Cuba had been exporting lobster through Sam Beiner, of the Montreal firm “World Seafood Distributors.” These exports were made by the Cuban concern ALIM-PEX to “World Seafood,” and the latter re-exported the lobster to European firms such as the Belgian “Hallowick” and the British “Young Seafood.”

When ALIMTEX was replaced by CUBAEXPORT, the new Cuban concern tried to grab the European lobster market from Beiner and his Canadian firm. This was the objective for which CUBAEXPORT Director Rodolfo Shening was working during a recent European tour, and, to this end, he made contact with the British firm “Young Seafood,” the French firm “Jacques Fourchtein et Cie.,” and others in Western Europe. CUBAEXPORT was to a large extent successful in this effort to cut out Beiner.

The troubles of CUBAEXPORT and of all other Cuban foreign trade enterprises with free-world firms are due to the fact that Cuban concerns have no respect for international trade ethics. They take recourse to all sorts of maneuvers, as selling is their only concern; this in the long run alienates customers. In the case of the lobster exports, lack of quality has been apparent. Through my office in London I learned of complaints of improper cooking, packing, and even crating of lobster exported to France, Poland, and England. Hundreds of cases have been rejected by health and customs authorities and by the importers themselves. The problems Beiner has encountered in Canada have been duplicated in Europe.

Naturally, the poor quality of the lobster has been the cause of probes by Canadian, French, and British health authorities. Even the authorities of Communist countries such as Poland and Czechoslovakia have been forced to look into the matter. These countries have returned lobster to Cuba as “unfit for human consumption.” This merchandise, however, was subsequently placed in the Cuban domestic market, a practice that has been followed not only with the lobster, but also with all other exports that have been turned down by Cuba’s customers abroad.

Perhaps less serious cases, but which also illustrate the regime’s contempt for the Cuban people, are good instances of this policy. I refer to products which, although not quite unfit for human consumption, do not meet foreign quality standards, such as fruit preserves that have been turned down abroad because of their excessively high contents of sugar, and rum that was returned because of impurities. These items were retailed to the Cuban people after being rejected abroad.

There also are complaints about the presentation of the product and the packing, all of which has caused stern protests by the affected free-world firms, such as “Jacques Fourchtein et Cie.,” which complained to ALIMTEX last year and to CUBAEXPORT this year.
