Provisional Guide No. I (continued)

Criteria for Priority Assistance Under ESCAP Program

Assistance will thus be denied to or withdrawn from any person who:

A. Is a Communist agent.

B. Is a former Nazi or Nazi collaborator seeking to escape just punishment for crimes committed during World War II against Allied personnel or against civil populations.

C. Is a common criminal.

D. Has unreasonably refused resettlement opportunities.

E. Is recognized by the competent authorities of the country in which he resides as having the rights and obligations which are attached to the possession of citizenship of that country; e.g., German refugees and expellees, persons of Turkish ethnic origin from Romania and Bulgaria are excluded from assistance under this paragraph.

F. Has been satisfactorily settled locally.

6. Assistance will be extended, however, to these persons otherwise eligible under the provisions of this circular who defect from diplomatic, other official or semi-official missions or delegations while abroad in the service of their country.

7. Missions are authorized to make individual exceptions, regardless of dateline, when such exceptions are in the interest of the U.S. or when such exceptions are requested by other U.S. Government agencies operating in related fields. When requested exceptions are not favorably considered by the Country Unit, they must be referred to the Special Unit prior to final action.

8. A family group containing a person or persons who would not ordinarily be assisted due to nationality, e.g., RomanOVeO and Austrian Spanso, and who are otherwise eligible should be considered eligible as a unit.

9. Basic responsibility for determination of eligibility will rest with the Local Units. However, it is expected that they will devise ways and means of utilizing local facilities and officials to a maximum extent in order to assist the Local Unit in discharging this responsibility. In the event the local unit requires further assistance in reaching an eligibility decision, the Special Unit may be called upon by the Local Unit for information or advice.
