With the Vatican, to the point where it had an Ambassador to the Vatican and had celebrated some months ago some distinction accorded by the Pope to the Papal Nuncio in Havana by lighting up the churches at government expense. CICARD readily admitted that there were many “good Communists” in Cuba who were also good Catholics, even, he said, among people fairly high up in the government. He, CICARD, was a dedicated revolutionary, however, who did not give any part of his loyalty to the regime to any type of religion. CICARD went on to emphasize that the close CASTRO relations with the Vatican were a demonstration of the democratic nature of Fidel’s regime.

On several instances the undersigned joked about Raúl CASTRO’s recent speech which brought about the nationalization of every last small enterprise and further rationing in Cuba of such things as beer and soft drinks. On one occasion he also told CICARD that the latter’s country was at the end of its rope economically, with hard currency reserves at an all-time low since the CASTRO revolution. CICARD agreed that the “economic situation of his country was bad,” particularly as far as hard currency reserves were concerned. He naturally attributed this in part to the so-called American blockade and in other part to the efforts that had previously been made by the government to buy as much machinery as possible to go on with its plan of industrial expansion.

When the undersigned mentioned shortages of meat, fruit, et cetera, CICARD readily admitted these were being sold to purchase badly needed equipment. As far as the sugar crop was concerned, he also admitted that the one of this year would not match that of last year, but he would not agree that it would not go over 5,000,000 tons. He and his colleague, however, repeated time and again that they were convinced, as Fidel has promised them, that by 1970 Cuba would have a 10,000,000-ton harvest of sugar. As a matter of fact, the date 1970 came up in the conversation about other matters, as if that date were that from which Cuba would have no more economic problems.

Someone in the group mentioned to CICARD that there had been rumors in the press of rapprochement between Cuba and the United States. CICARD said he did not think so because, he said, relations between the two countries were at present “very bad.” The undersigned jokingly asked CICARD about Cyrus EATON’s visit and the purpose of it. All CICARD would say was that EATON had a meeting with Fidel (photographs of EATON and CASTRO appeared in the local newspapers). As to the reason for the trip, CICARD rather
