Office of Personnel (used with permission).

Directions:

a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties you are performing during the rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include any other important duties.

b. Rate performance on each specific duty, considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.

c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty. Do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only.

d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.

e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are: oral briefing; has and uses area knowledge; conducts interrogations; giving lectures; develops new programs; prepares summaries; conducting seminars; analyzes industrial reports; translates German; writing technical reports; manages files; debriefing sources; conducting external liaison; offers radio; keeps doors; typing; coordinates with other offices; drives truck; taking dictation; writes regulations; maintains air conditioning; supervising; prepares correspondence; evaluates significance of data.

g. For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

Descriptive rating number:

1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty.
2. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty.
3. Performs this duty acceptably.
4. Performs this duty in a completely satisfactory manner.
5. Performs this duty in such a manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.

Specific Duty No. 1: Assist in the development and coordination of all counterintelligence programs. Rating number: 5.

Specific Duty No. 4: Analyze and evaluate results of a…
