Fitness Report (Part II), Potential.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor and to appropriate career management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is not to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision for at least 90 days. If less than 90 days, hold and complete after the 90 days have elapsed. If this is the initial report on the employee, however, it must be completed and forwarded to the IT no later than 30 days after the due date indicated in Item 8 of Section C below.

Section E. General.

Name: McCORD, James W., Jr.

Office/Division/Branch of assignment: OS/Security Research Staff.

Official position-title: Acting Deputy Chief, Security Research Staff.

Grade: GS-14.

Date report due in C: 22 August 1957.

Type of report: Initial; Department-Employer.

Section F. Certification.

For the rater: I certify that this report represents my best judgment of the individual being rated.

This date: 28 August 1957. Type or printed name and signature of supervisor: Harlan A. Westrell. Chief, Security Research Staff, OS. Harlan A. Westrell.

For the reviewing officer: I have reviewed this report and noted any difference of opinion in attached memo.

This date: 28 August 1957. Type or printed name and signature of reviewing officer: CHENY C. F. Heene. CHENY C. F. Heene. Officer.

Section G. Estimate of Potential.

Potential to assume greater responsibilities.

Directions: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee's potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

1. Already above the level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

2. Has reached the highest level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

3. Making progress, but needs more time before he can be trained to assume greater responsibilities.
