Section B. Narrative Description.

Awards for Merit Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was act voluntary? Describe why act was outstanding and why it was more than normally expected. If an aerial or marine operation, describe the type and position of craft, crew position of individual, and all unusual circumstances. State the result of the act. Enclose unclassified citation.

Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance: State the character of service during the period for which recommended, including complete descriptions of administrative, technical, or professional duties and responsibilities not covered in Section C, with dates of assignment and relief. Describe what the individual did that merits the award and why this was outstanding compared with others of like grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances. If appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other persons or units, obstacles encountered or overcome, and results of achievement, service, or performance. Include references to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other supporting documentation already on file. Enclose unclassified citation.

Mr. Tennent H. Bagley, currently Chief of Station, Brussels, is recommended for the Intelligence Medal of Merit in recognition of his outstanding service of 22 years as a Clandestine Services officer.

For personal reasons Mr. Bagley has elected to retire effective June 1972.

From the beginning of his CS career, Mr. Bagley's exceptional abilities were clearly recognized and he received assignments of ever increasing responsibility in the Soviet operations field. Following a highly successful tour as a senior operations officer in Switzerland, Mr. Bagley was assigned to Headquarters as Chief of the Counter Intelligence Branch of the SR Division. In this key and demanding post, Mr. Bagley showed managerial skill combined with knowledge in depth of the complexities of counter intelligence work. His outstanding performance resulted in his promotion to GS-16 in June 1965 and his subsequent appointment as Deputy Chief of SR Division in September 1965 at the comparatively young age of 39.

In addition to the full duties as Deputy Chief of an active division, Mr. Bagley continued to carry heavy responsibilities throughout this period in the field of counter intelligence. He was one of

Continued on attached sheet.

Enclosures: Proposed citation.

Recommendation initiated by: Archibald B. Roosevelt, Jr., Chief, European Division.

Title and signature of employee making recommendation: A. Roosevelt.

Date: 15 May 72.

Section E. Recommendation forwarded through officials concerned for their information.

Head of D Career Service (career service of nominee). Title and signature: See Item 52.

Deputy Director of Career Service. Title and signature: K. Corkl Meyer k., Deputy Director for Plans.
