Do not join, or, if they make them join, then members against their will, do not pay the dues. Referring to the despatch of workers to Germany, he says the numbers were high because they offered them a good salary and food as well, but he has the impression that they were deceived, like the members of the Div. Azul. He does not know any more details.

Friction Between the Ruling Class in Spain. — In the army there is a group headed by Yague (Lague) and Queipo, who are opposed to Spain entering the war, and the Germans and Italians controlling Spain. He says that in conjunction with the Requetes (Requestes) and other individuals in the army, they were preparing a coup against Franco, and principally against S. Suner, who is the worst hated of all, but it was found out and no one knows what happened to Yague (Lague) and Queipo. General Espinosa de los Monteros also had something to do with it, but he does not know exactly what his part was. Referring to Yague (Lague), he says that he was dismissed from the Air Ministry when he made a speech in favour of releasing the prisoners. Queipo refused to allow the Italians to have any olive oil. The situation of the soldiers is very bad. They hardly eat at all, and are very badly clothed. It is pitiful to see them. They all wish to be mobilised as soon as possible. The ’39 draft has been demobilised and he thinks the first reserve of the ’40 draft as well. He thinks it is because they cannot keep them in barracks for want of food.

The People’s Resistance to the War and the Regime. — According to our informant the state of mind of the people is one of extreme hostility towards the present state of affairs, although it is not obviously shown. The Reds are in hiding. He says that the only people who are openly fighting against the Falange and the Regime in power are the Requetes. Besides the pamphlets we have referred to above, there often appear on the walls lampoons and posters against the Falange. He remembers one which said more or less: “Famine and Theft, that is the Falange.” There appeared another very like it, but he does not know what it said because they rubbed it out at once. He says the Requetes also accused the Falangists of being cowardly assassins who are only useful for doing mass assassinations (“dar paseos”).

The people take a sympathetic view of these actions of the Requetes. In the queues people speak against the Government and the Falange. There are many prisoners. When the “nationalists” first entered Santander they killed people in thousands. The Falangists held many “paseos.” They went on killing, only less than at first. The prisoners died of their harsh treatment; many were tubercular. He does not know if they give them organised assistance. Probably relations and friends. He does not know of any activity of the party, or the J.S.U. The Reds are very carefully watched. The only ones who do anything are the Requetes. In general our informant does not know any of our organisations because he was very young when the war began. The only thing he says is the Falangists are like those they used to call the F.A.I. They go to a house, steal, take a man, take him and shoot him, and then it is finished. He could not get any information about the Union Nacional, although he gives the impression that he does not know anything about it.

He has no ideas on the future prospects. He thinks that this depends on England; there is talk that the Requetes wish to set up a King who is not a Bourbon. He does not know anything about the restoration of Don Juan. The Falangists are enemies of the Monarchy and the people do not worry much about this problem. Referring to the attack on S. Suner, Espinosa de los Monteros, Ambassador in Berlin, had on one of his visits to Madrid a violent quarrel with Suner and in consequence resigned. He reports that then he was appointed Captain General of the Sixth Region, Burgos (Burgoa), and on taking over the post he made a speech in which he attacked the Falange. He reports that as a consequence he was violently dismissed. A few days later a son of the general who is a lieutenant in the army shot at S. Suner several times, he thinks in Madrid. Arrese was wounded in consequence. The press said nothing about it. They published a notice that the Secretary of the Party was undergoing an abdominal operation.

The Italian submarine which entered Santander was damaged in the Caribbean. A few miles from Santander, and in full view of everybody, it was attacked very near the coast by two English aeroplanes which all but sank it. He says it
