(Foundation of Nosenko's Claims)

When Smith did not come to the next scheduled meeting with Gribanov, Nosenko sought out the maid to find out what had happened. She reported that Smith was in a state of desperate indecision; he had paced his room all night as if his mood was alternating between despair and defiance. To increase the pressure on him, the KGB sent him threatening letters on each of the succeeding three days. Finally, on the third day, instead of meeting the KGB, Smith went to Ambassador Bohlen and reported the blackmail attempt. Smith was immediately withdrawn from Moscow and (as of 1962) he was “still in intelligence work.”

In 1964 and afterwards Nosenko denied that he had played any personal role in the case. He explained that as a junior officer in the American Embassy Section at the time, working on correspondents, he would not have taken part in so important an operation. He said that he had heard about the operation from V. M. Kovshuk, Smith's case officer. (On a later occasion Nosenko said that his only personal role was being assigned to a phone-watch to receive surveillance reports connected with the initial KGB approach to Smith.)

Golitsyn's Information

In February 1962 Golitsyn reported that in 1957 he had read a two-volume KGB study which gave examples of successful operations against the Embassy in Moscow. One case concerned an American, probably single, who was either the Security Officer or the counterintelligence representative in the Embassy. He had a dog, and lived in an apartment in the city or a country house outside Moscow. His Russian maid or cleaning woman was his mistress. The KGB concluded that the American would not succumb to ordinary blackmail and consequently the maid, a KGB agent, was instructed to confess to him that she had been recruited by the KGB against her will and would be arrested if she did not fulfill her KGB tasks. The American agreed to help her, and Golitsyn believed that he did not report this to his Washington headquarters. Golitsyn also recalled that the American first supplied only misinformation to the KGB, but when the KGB complained, he provided a mixture of truth and misinformation. Golitsyn said the case study he read was based on a true incident.
