Subject: Communist Influence in the FEU, University of Habana

Report No: HH-981  
Date of Information: 10–20 January 1955  
Place Acquired: Habana, Cuba  
Date Acquired: 28 January 1955  
Evaluation: 8-3  
Date of Report: 2 February 1955  
Source: Controlled American

1. Communist activities in the University, particularly in connection with Federacion Estudiantil Universitaria (FEU), Federation of University Students, affairs, have increased during the last few weeks. Almost daily informal meetings are being held by Raul FALDES Vivo, Carlos SANCHEZ, Leocan DE CHUEZ, AYMUCHENA, and Inf. BONNE Ramírez. Usually these conversations concern election campaigns in the various student organizations, and facilities for the preparation and distribution of propaganda.

2. Indicative of FEU attitude toward the communists, students Roberts FOSTER and Federico SADIZ de la Maza commented, “The present and former regimes of the FEU have been obliged to work with the red elements since those elements were better disciplined for combat against the government.”

3. On 10 January 1955 a crowd of a hundred or so students took part in a ceremony on the campus in honor of the Twenty-Sixth Anniversary of the death of Communist youth leader Julio Antonio Mella. Prominent in the ceremony were Jesús GUARTE, Andrés INAU, Leocán ALONSO, Alberto POLAND, Raúl FALDES Vivo, René UNILLÓ, Jose A. ECHAVARRIA, and Max Lasnick.

4. At the ceremony there was distributed a 19-page pamphlet entitled “Trinchera de Ideas,” purportedly written by Julio Antonio Mella. Although mildly against the Batista government, the bulk of the articles in the pamphlet are anti-United States and anti-capitalist, and in short typical communist propaganda.

Source Comment. Paragraph 2 is more true than the FEU leaders themselves would like to believe. The FEU, unflavored with the “red sauce,” has long been notorious for empty, loud-mouthed sessions and propaganda. The reds simply inject a little more organization and intellectual reality and thus create more student appeal. All Latin students have a streak, large or small, of anti-U.S. sentiment, but not all will follow any empty-headed jerk who gets up to scream about “imperialists.” A large percentage will respond to a subtle intellectual “realism,” particularly where if pinned down for their participation they can easily acquires out with the “intellectual autonomy” explanation.

Mission Comment. Diario Nacional on 11 January 1955 contains a photograph of the ceremony mentioned in paragraph 3.
