Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage laws. Title 18 U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or dissemination of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Cuba. Report No. CSCI-316/00699-64. Subject: Julian NOVAS Fernandez. Date of information: 1964. Place and date acquired: Washington, D. C., August 1964. No. pages: 2.

Source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Source gradings are definitive; appraisal of content is tentative.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality information provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

Source was shown a photograph of Julian NOVAS Fernandez and source identified him as a Cuban Intelligence Officer. Source saw NOVAS at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City in March 1964 and assumed he was a functionary there.

Headquarters Comments

1. Although source saw Julian NOVAS Fernandez at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City in March 1964, the records of this Agency reveal that source was probably in error in assuming that NOVAS was assigned to that Embassy and it is more likely that he was just passing through. The following traces by this Agency is the basis for this conclusion.

2. An official Jamaican source, in a report dated 24 March 1964, stated that Julian NOVAS Fernandez arrived in Kingston, Jamaica, on 18 March 1964, to take up his duties at the Cuban Consulate in Kingston as Commercial Attache. Source said that NOVAS has the appearance of an American and speaks excellent English. Since his arrival he has been especially occupied with girls. It should be noted that

State; CIA; Army; Navy; Air; NSA; XXX; OCA; FBI 2. Representative: CINCLANT, CINCSO, I&NS.

LX-1645. CSCI-316/00699-64. NO PROJECT (AMMUC). Coordinating. Releasing. WMK:LD:swk. CT/SW, 4/18R. SA FOR 1 NE 5/R. CI LIA. LUB CANADA. SA MORN 1 NE MADR. CI R&A. 2 IE/BRITISH.
