During this first meeting NOSENKO made no monetary request of CIA and asked only for reasonable assurance of a secure future in the United States. In this connection, he said, he would prefer to act as a CIA consultant, particularly on counterintelligence matters because he was a specialist in this field; he would be able to give CIA leads and assistance in spotting and recruiting other Soviets.

The next five meetings with NOSENKO were devoted exclusively to debriefings on the activities of the KGB Second Chief Directorate. Although his impending defection was mentioned, his reasons for taking this step were not discussed. In the meantime, NOSENKO's first CIA handler flew to Washington for discussions regarding the defection and, on his return, told NOSENKO that the CIA leadership had asked why, specifically, NOSENKO had decided to come to the United States at that time. The answer was that NOSENKO, "after coming back and seeing that there was no more chance to come to the West, or little more chance," felt that this was his one opportunity to come and make his life with the Americans. Therefore, he was going to seize the opportunity while he had it. Asked about this, NOSENKO confirmed that this was his reason, and added: "I may never have another chance, and in addition, I've had sufficient time since our last meeting here in Geneva [1962] to weigh everything and to consider everything." Later in this same meeting, NOSENKO again mentioned his lack of interest in money and his feelings about deserting his family: "I understand [that it will be difficult to adjust to a new life in America] and know that for some time I will be sick within. And I know that a certain period of time must elapse before this can heal. I even spoke to you bluntly about my [financial] security. I am absolutely unmercenary and have never had any appreciation for money or wealth...My most difficult and sorest spot of all is my family. This is the most basic and most difficult spot of all. And I know perfectly well that I must go through an illness over this. For this the only and the best doctor is time. I don't expect to have a new family there. Of course, I don't know--but at least I'm speaking from the way I feel now. I have a strong liking for children--not only for my own, but for all children and, losing my own, I am fully conscious how I must suffer through this. In time I will get used to it. I know one can get used to almost anything."

At this meeting, NOSENKO agreed to remain in place for approximately another week, and the tentative date of 8 February was selected for the defection.

NOSENKO's motives for the defection were not mentioned for five more meetings. Then, on 4 February 1964, he telephoned the Geneva safehouse to say he wanted to defect at once. Arriving shortly thereafter, he announced that he had been ordered to return to Moscow the following day and, therefore, had to leave Switzerland before morning. He stated his reasons formally in an asylum request, written at the time:

"This decision was made by me, not now, at the moment I write this request, but several years ago. Having worked for many years in the KGB and knowing more than the average Soviet citizen about the policy of the Soviet government, about the direction which this government has chosen to take, and about the law and order in the USSR, I have come to the decision that
