(American Embassy Section — January 1960–January 1962)

In 1964, at the second meeting with CIA, Nosenko (Nosенко) produced a handwritten note which he asserted listed all the microphones in the Embassy which were operative in the years 1960–1961. Nosenko (Nosенко) explained that at the end of 1960 or the beginning of 1961, he and Kovshuk met with Department Chief Klypin. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the possibility of releasing monitors from some of the Embassy microphones so they could be assigned to Vladimir Petrov, Chief of the American Department's Second Section for use against non-Embassy targets. (Petrov had earlier requested English-language monitors from the Second Special Section, but had been told that English linguists were engaged on priority targets.) At the meeting, Kovshuk and Klypin reviewed the microphone coverage of the Embassy chancery to decide which rooms offered information of little value, so that the monitors for those microphones could be released to Petrov's Second Section. Kovshuk used Nosenko's (Nosенко's) notebook in which to list Embassy apartments and offices then being covered on a full-time basis and to note those of lesser importance. Kovshuk decided to relinquish, temporarily, monitoring of Embassy apartments. He continued the monitoring of the code room, despite the limited value of the information obtained. At the end of the meeting Kovshuk gave or Nosenko (Nosенко) took the list, and Nosenko (Nosенко) retained it in his office safe until bringing it to CIA in 1964.

Nosenko's (Nosенко's) list showed that microphones were located in the following offices of the noted occupants:

Office of the Minister Counsellor, Freers.

Office of the Naval Attaché, Houghton.

Office of the Army Attaché, Urban.

Office of the Air Attaché, Neilsen.

Office of the Assistant Air Attaché, Windsor.

Office of the Assistant Air Attachés, Senio and Sachanen.

Office of the Assistant Army Attachés, Mason, Reitz and Wilson.

Office of the Political Officer, Gleysteen.

Office of Agricultural Attachés, Horbaly and Brown.

Military Code Room.

State Department Code Room and Teletype Office.

Apartments of Freers, Houghton, Urban and Neilsen.

Eighth Floor Bar (Marines).
