Guy Shirflot: 1001 Coleman St., Charlottesville, Va. Tel. 2-4302.

Orestes PADILLA: Miramar, B-5440. Office M-9721.

Roberto PUENTE Blanco: Tel. U-3857 and U-3231. Federación Estudiantil Universitaria (FEU). And mother, Pilar BLANCO, tel. I-9366.

Alberto HUBIERA: Translator on Bohemia magazine.

Juan BRAIDMAN: CMQ-TV, Havana.

U.S. Virginian, worked as a local technician in Cuba from 1954 to 1958. Guy is a fishing and family friend. No political interests in Cuba or U.S.

Cuban lawyer. Active leader of the 26 July Revolutionary Movement in Havana. Was given to me as useful contact and potential poster. Worked about four months in 1957 and assisted in setting up an escape route for him—or rather, one of his leaders—through the Costa Rican ambassador and the Brazilian embassy.

Both are AMPHODARCHES and are currently leaders in the Directorio Revolucionario (DR). I also met the brother, Pedro PUENTE Blanco, in Miami; he is currently an official in the FEU.

Cuban, about 28–30 years old, was secretary of organization (?) in the Juventud Popular Socialista (JSP) in Havana. The cover firm was utilized during a lengthy developmental approach. He originally engaged as my translator for a short story of mine, which was published in the 9 September 1957 issue of Bohemia. He was eventually approached about the possibility of working for a local survey on “economic” aspects of “labor supply” in Cuba. He resisted all approaches. He was later arrested by the Bureau of Repression of Communist Activities (Ebro de Repression de Actividades Comunistas [ERAC]) and interrogated. During a body search, my PSI business card turned up—he told the simple truth about our relationship, and to our knowledge nothing ever came of the incident. This was learned through our liaison contacts with Cuban BRAC.

White, Cuban, originally from Guantánamo, Cuba. Employed as a small-parts actor on CMQ-TV and was strongly indicated as a high-level intellectual crypto-communist. Traveled behind the Iron Curtain once. I cultivated BRAIDMAN over a long period and eventually used the “survey” pitch. He refused because the Cuban Bureau of Investigation had his residence under surveillance and was visiting or searching his quarters regularly.
