Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, showing in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improving work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify existing ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. (Mark one of performance or supervisory.) If applicable.

Subject has shown a decided proficiency in the supervision of the type of unit for which he has responsibility. His men respect him and follow his orders readily. He is resourceful, acts with initiative, and delegates responsibility. In his field he thinks clearly and is decisive and versatile in his actions. He is capable of handling larger units of personnel and assuming greater responsibility in the PM field. If he were required to accept duties of a broader nature in the intelligence field involving less supervision of his own activities, he would need to improve in the areas of written and oral expression and in his understanding of KUBARK requirements and responsibilities. In this regard he would need additional training and exposure to more extensive KUBARK fields as he has not had the opportunity for participating in such KUBARK activities. Subject does not have the proficiency of the language used.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

1. By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Signature of employer: /s/ Ir. Arg. G. DEMONO (signed in pseudo on Fld. Transmittal).

2. By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Months employer has been under my supervision: 17.

Date: 26 Nov. 1963.

Official title of supervisor: C/M Br., JMAVE.

Type or printed name and signature: /s/ Stanley R. ZAMKA (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.).

1. By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: See Attached Sheet.

Date: 26 Nov. 1963.

Official title of reviewing official: /s/ Andrew K. HEMTEMAN (signature).

Gujel of Station: Trans. Fld. Trans./1 piece on Fld.

Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, showing in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improving work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify existing ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. (Mark one of performance or supervisory.) If applicable.

Subject has shown a decided proficiency in the supervision of the type of unit for which he has responsibility. His men respect him and follow his orders readily. He is resourceful, acts with initiative, and delegates responsibility. In his field he thinks clearly and is decisive and versatile in his actions. He is capable of handling larger units of personnel and assuming greater responsibility in the PM field. If he were required to accept duties of a broader nature in the intelligence field involving less supervision of his own activities
