Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II—Operational Information.

Instructions to Case Officer.

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless the requestor furnishes answers to all questions in PRG Parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of FR 15-215, paragraphs 60, 8, 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-315.

3. Three (3) completed copies of PRG Part I, including a copy in the subject's handwriting if possible, and two (2) completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRG format in two (2) copies.

5. Fill in all items if information is obtainable. If an item is not applicable, write “NA.” If additional space is required for an item, use the reverse side of the page keyed to the appropriate item number.

CIGITON-4 (originally LITAMII-1). Pseudonym.

Section I—Contact and Development.

1. Indicate now, when, where, how, and by whom subject was first contacted or developed.

Case officer, Clyde K. SHERYOAK (g), made contact with LITAMII-1 on 21 Oct 59 (EXKI-4554). Case officer went to the business office of subject as a friend of Gustavo ARCOS y Bergues, who is presently Cuban Ambassador in Brussels, Belgium, and formerly a contact of case officer's while ARCOS was in Mexico prior to the downfall of BATISTA. Case officer made contact with subject in order to “feel him out” regarding his attitude toward the CASTRO regime.

Station, through LIFEAT, was able to evaluate subject well before the approach was made.

2. Indicate whether subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

Subject could be turned over to any case officer with a speaking knowledge of Spanish.

3. List other case officers who have handled subject or whom he knows or has known; give names by which they have been known.

None.
