4. On 11 March 1958 I went into the Sierra Maestra mountain range of Santiago, Oriente Province (Provinoo), on an assignment as observer with the Fidel Castro (Pidel CASTRO) 26 July Revolutionary movement. Castro (CASTAO) “cleared” me for this assignment and was given my business card. It was also considered operationally advantageous to “drop a hint” to Castro from another direction as to my true mission. During the period 11 March–1 April 1958, the following persons were either given a business card or informed of the cover firm:

Fidel Castro, commander, 26 July Revolutionary movement.

Ernesto (Che) Guevara (OUEVARA), second in command, commander, 4th Supply Column.

René Rodríguez Cruz (Rene RODRIGUEZ Crua), adjutant and chief of sabotage in Havana.

Celia Sánchez Manduley, staff secretary.

Haydée Santamaría Cuadrado (Raydoe SANTAMARIA Cu: rado), staff liaison.

Ramiro Valdés Menéndez (Raniro VALDEZ Menondes), second in command, 4th Column.

Civilian components:

Mrs. Herminia de Gregorio (Sra. Herminia de QREOO), civilian coordinator and secretary of finances in Santiago. Telephone: Santiago 2424.

Felipe Corrales (Felipo CORRALES), owner of the estate and sanatorium “San Juan Bautista,” located about 10 to 15 miles SSE of Manzanillo, Oriente. Corrales was a high-level official in the Manzanillo sector and managed a clandestine supply-personnel route to Sierra Maestra.

Ramón Fajardo (Ramon FAJARDO), owner of the finca La Candelaria and the bodega El Toro, Camino de Estrada Palma. About 30 miles SE of Manzanillo.

Newspapermen:

Andrew St. George, Time-Life photographer and freelancer. St. George made several trips of considerable duration into the Sierra and, in addition to his journalism, was debriefed by our organization and the State Department. He was a very shrewd photographer and an observing person. We became very close during those weeks, and he eventually drew me aside and told me that he wanted to bring me in contact with some friends of his in Washington who would like to talk to me concerning the military and intelligence aspects of Castro’s movement. While I do not think that he strongly doubted my cover firm, he seemed to recognize my approach as more for military intelligence than journalism or economics.
