Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II—Operational Information.

Instructions to Case Officer

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless the requestor furnishes answers to all questions in Parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of FR 10-215, paragraphs a, g, 12b and 12d. Thereafter, the usual method to document and complete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215.

3. Three completed copies of PR Part I, including a copy in the subject's handwriting if possible, and two completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PR format in two copies.

5. Fill in all items if information is obtainable. If an item is not applicable, write “NA.” If additional space is required for items, use the reverse side of the page reserved for the appropriate item number.

1. Cryptogram: AEPASC  
2. Pseudonym.

Section I—Contact and Development

1. Indicate how, when, where, why, and by whom subject was first contacted or developed.

Initially contacted by AEPADDLE on a spotting trip to France in early 1958. Subsequently contacted by Frankfurt and Paris case officers.

2. Indicate whether subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

Frankfurt Case Officer, Anthony H. FRIGANZA, is in touch with agent and presumably could arrange transfer of subject from France to Germany for further transportation to the U.S.

3. List other case officers who have handled subject or show he/she knows or was known; give names by which they have been known.

Anthony H. FRIGANZA (p), Frankfurt c/o. Alias used not indicated.

Patrick B. NEWENS (p), contract employee, Frankfurt. Alias used not indicated.

Francis M. BANKSHIRE (p), psychologist. Alias used “John.”

Paris representative, interpreter. Alias used “Paul.”
