Declaration of Appointee.

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty. Question S is to be answered in all cases; otherwise answer only those questions which require an answer different from that given to the corresponding questions on your application form. If no answers are different, write “NONE” in Item 10, below. Any false statement in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal after appointment. Impersonation is a criminal offense and will be prosecuted accordingly.

Present address (street and number, city and State): 5703 Hamilton St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Date of birth: 20 Jun ’88. Place of birth: Washington, D.C.

In case of emergency please notify: Mrs. Wilma M. Christ. Relationship: Wife. Street and number, city and State: 5703 Hamilton St., N.E.; Washington, D.C.; Roiners Heights, MD. Telephone No.: AP 3605.

Does the United States Government employ, in a civilian capacity, any relative of yours, other than by blood or marriage, with whom you live or have lived within the past 24 months? Yes or No.

If so, for each such relative fill in the blanks below. If additional space is necessary, complete under Item 10.

Name. Post office address. Position, temporary or not. Department or agency in which employed. Relationship. Marital status. Positions 1 through 10. Married.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing “X” in proper column. To space for detailed answers to other questions, write in left column numbers of items to which detailed answers apply. Yes. No.

S. Are you a citizen of or do you owe allegiance to the United States?

T. Are you an official or employee of any State, Territory, county, or municipality? If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 10.

Y. Do you receive any annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service? If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 10 reason for retirement, that is, age, optional disability, or by reason of voluntary or involuntary separation after 5 years’ service; amount of retirement pay, and under what retirement act, and rating, if retired from military or naval service.

G. Have you ever been discharged or forfeited to res
