Mercantile Marine were specifically advised, on each occasion and upon each voyage, by the Owners themselves, for the purpose of paying tax, the Authorities having been, and being, very strict in ensuring that no delay took place in submitting the Returns and paying Tax. Anyone can, therefore, see who is the first and biggest lawbreaker: obviously, the Greek Authorities first, and the Owners second.

As we said previously, fabulous profits have been made by the lawbreakers—the Owners (mostly the friends of officials, and mainly the Frangitas clique)—but such profits were partly shared by the Government through a higher tax percentage. If there was no illegal Cuban trading really permitted, these Greek ships would be employed in other trades, with small profits and less tax to pay.

We really feel that the USA is to be blamed because they were warned a very long time ago, almost soon after the lawbreaking had commenced, and several times afterwards, and through you, but nothing was done about it, and they allowed the comedy to continue. Officials almost openly say here that the USA did not really think that trading was stopped because the prohibitive law was passed in 1963, and that they knew that the law was passed only for politics and not to be enforced. Whether this is true or not, only the USA knows.

It is also said now that the Greek Authorities do not mind not starting to enforce the law, since Cuban trade has been restricted through the low price obtainable for sugar (about £14 per ton) and the economic difficulties of Cuba, thus also restricting imports into Cuba. Meantime, of course, millions and millions of dollars have been made from past trading and partly present trading, which enabled their chief partner and collaborators, the FRANGITAS clique, to build a vast empire of ships, so not much harm can be done even if they stop it now.

There is no doubt the USA have been very unfair and unjust to law-abiding citizens. The USA should either have demanded that both Greece and Lebanon (who made the laws in return, no doubt, for USA help to these countries) comply with their Agreement with the USA and enforce the prohibitive laws of their respective countries, or relieve them of the obligation and cancel the laws, so that all Greek and Lebanese Owners had the same chance of trading. The USA's attitude in doing nothing about it really makes them as guilty as the other two countries.

You will find, we are sure, that all the information we gave you in our previous and several reports was correct and substantiated. All we have to say now is that any charters which allegedly are still valid because they were made before the prohibitive laws are as fake as the investigations and punishments the Greek Officials are supposed to be making against the lawbreakers.

You will see how true also these will prove to be, unless the USA, if they want to, really investigate themselves the investigators, with all the precise details we have given you in past reports and the present. We repeat, if nothing else, the USA owe it to the law-abiding Owners to investigate the matter themselves, with their officials and top men (including the examination of all Income Tax Returns as we said above), and see to it that lawbreakers, all of them small and big, are punished, flags withdrawn, and all further trading stopped immediately.

It will generally do the USA good if they were to prove to the world, people and Governments, even their friends and Allies, that the USA sees to it that Agreements made with them must be kept and that they allow no double-crossing and deceit.

cc Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Washington.

U.S.A. Embassy, London.
