Dispatch. Processing: marked for indexing; no indexing required; only qualified headquarters of SA can do/indexing; abstract; not published. 10: Chief, WH. Info. From: Chief of Station, JMWAVE. Subject: TYPIC/AMSCROLL/Operational Progress Report, 1 January–31 March 1965. Action required: FYI. Reference: UFGA 19537, 1 February 1965.

A. Operational

1. During the reporting period AMSCROLL continued to function as Station JMWAVE's DIVIPER action and propaganda vehicle. Toward the end of March AMSCROLL also assumed the bulk of the heirloom operation which is now being taken over by a separate committee. Some of the more significant activities, which have been covered in other correspondence, were "black list" letters to specific firms in Japan and Greece, sent at the behest of and according to guidance from Tokyo and Athens Stations, AMBLEAK-1's "truth squad" tactics against the Japanese trade mission touring Latin America and the initiation of regular reports to Spanish officials, in a list provided by Madrid Station, on the anti-Spanish contents of broadcasts from Havana by the Cuban-Spanish Friendship Association.

2. Although there were some petty disagreements among AMSCROLL personnel, reported in detail by our unilateral penetration, AMFRAME-1, there was relative calm during the period, and occasional manifestations of esprit de corps were noted in AMSCROLL despite the general flagging of morale in the exile community at large.

3. The only change in the AMSCROLL executive committee took effect in March when the Secretary of Finance, Identity, resigned to take a position in an Ecuadorian commercial firm. Other personnel changes were made with only minor significance.

B. Production

4. Propaganda to Cuba (samples in Attachment 2) included the pony-sized monthly bulletin; a leaflet on personal security, this being a new issue showing that the greatest danger to self and family is to do nothing while Castro-Communism tightens its grip on the whole of Cuban

Attachments: continued. Date typed: 28 May 65. Date dispatched: Jun 9, 1965.
