Continuation of Dispatch.

b) Prior to GENERAL's departure, he was seen by the undersigned, Mr. D. R. Stockton, in regular, operational action on May 23d. After that date, Mr. Stockton was sent on to Mexico and served there as a photo-lab/photography supervisor until September 19th, when he was again sent back to Mexico and sent to his former post as a housekeeper and with the LIMERICK operator twice weekly. All acting times and sites were rotated regularly during the period under review, and no basic departures (other than noted above) were made from the standard modes of operation of the LIEMTTY project.

5. Accomplishments, Programs, Achievements.

Throughout the reporting period, Project LIEMTTY continued to provide the majority of the operational photographs and surveillance reports used in Mexico City Station's operations against the LIMERICK installation and personnel. This coverage has proved to be a most reliable and visible tool for following the daily movements of the LIMERICK personnel; providing and confirming the identities of LIMERICK staffers and their visitors; and verifying the relative rank and position as well as the specific intelligence service connection of various LIMERICK officers. During the period under review, Project LIEMTTY produced 160 rolls (3,833 frames) of operational photographs as well as approximately 700 pages of fixed, physical surveillance reports dealing with this target. In addition, LIEMTTY produced 203 operational photographs of other targets of interest to Station Mexico City. Specific examples of the contributions made by each component of Project LIEMTTY to the fulfillment of the relevant portions of the Station's Related Missions Directive follow:

a) LIMTRAP — Throughout this period, the LIMTRAP mobile photo unit was targeted against leaders (leapers) and installations of the Partido Comunista Mexicano (PCM), visiting communist leaders, and other targets of special operational interest. Specifically, the LIMTRAP unit verified the current addresses and provided up-to-date photographs of two prominent Heartburn Communists exiled in Mexico; photographic coverage of an agency (adgency) of interest to NUTURS/D for use in operational planning; and provided photos of the individuals and an installation linked with the local Spanish Republic Royalists. LIMTRAP produced a total of 203 operational photographs and regularly serviced seventeen postal accommodation addresses used by the Station and Headquarters.

b) LIMITED — During the period covered by this report, LIMITED produced fifty-seven rolls (1,072 frames) of operational photographs and regular surveillance reports covering the daily arrival and departure of LIMERICK personnel and their visitors at the front gate of the installation in question, during the afternoon and evening hours. In addition, LIEMTTY-6, the LIMITED basehouse keeper, served as the fixed radio-dispatcher for three LIMERACE surveillance operations targeted against LIMERICK IS officers as well as serving as the spotter and dispatcher for five LIMERACE surveillances directed against PBPRIME nationals who visited the LIMERICK installation (see MEXI-4247, MEXI-4248, and MEXI-4250, all dated 26 July, for details).

c) LILYRIC — During the reporting period, the LILYRIC base produced sixty-three rolls (1,652 frames) of operational film, for the same purposes as noted above in the LIMITED section, during the morning and early afternoon hours. In addition, LILYRIC prepared a weekly report on the comings and goings of each LIMERICK staffer and contributed the large majority of the project's physical surveillance reports. Finally, LILYRIC provided special reports on all commercial deliveries made to the LIMERICK installation.

d) LICALLA — During this period, the LICALLA base provided photographic coverage of the garden and patio area of the LIMERICK installation, areas where many of the officers and their families congregate. In fact, after LICALLA produced forty rolls (1,110 frames) of operational photographs which were most useful to the Station in determining or confirming the intelligence service utilization of various LIMERICK staffs, on 23 May 1967, Harvey C. HILLARD and Joseph M. HUDDLE made audio and audio tape from the LICALLA base in support of local and headquarters operational planning (see reference B. for details).

4. Security and Pactuality.

There have been no known incidents during the reporting period, such as.
