12 December 1967

Subject: Schlumberger Well Surveying Corporation  
(See Houma Munitions Bunker—Leased by Subject Firm)

Allegation:

Garrison has charged that the burglary of the Houma munitions bunker was “CIA-inspired.” He issued arrest warrants for Gordon Novel and Sergio Arcacra Srite charging them with the Houma burglary.

Source:

Enclosure 24 of CI/R&A memorandum of 7 August 1967.

CIA Connection:

CIA had no connection with the alleged burglary of the Houma Munitions Bunker or any connection with the bunker itself.

However, Pierre Schlumberger, president of the Schlumberger Corporation, was of contact interest in 1950 for routine exploitation as a foreign intelligence source. The FBI advised they had no objection to the Agency’s interrogating Pierre Schlumberger, who was an alien. In 1962 Daystron, Inc. was acquired by Schlumberger, Inc. The Agency had a contract with Daystron for an unclassified item ($49,000 contract for the production of Mark II limpet mines); Agency interest was classified Secret. Schlumberger, Ltd. is a Dutch firm controlled by French nationals. After the merger, it was determined that future relationship with Daystron must be governed by Agency policy not to place classified contracts with a foreign firm. In 1963 the same decision was reached concerning Agency contracts with Electro-Mechanical Research, Inc., a subsidiary of Schlumberger, Ltd. EMR dealt in all phases of telemetry. Contact clearances for other personnel of Schlumberger are set out below.

Of Indices Results:

The Schlumberger Company was the subject of a name check in 1947 because of a contract request, and it was determined that there are a number of Schlumberger corporations in Latin America which are dominated by French nationals. Schlumberger has a patented operation for an oil well “shooting” service which is subscribed to by various oil companies. The Schlumberger Well Surveying Corporation in Houston was controlled by Henri Georges Doll, a French national. He was of contact interest in 1956 and 1957. His wife is the daughter of Conrad Schlumberger.
