c. Refused to appropriate any money for the FEUE, but directed NCFE to transfer funds from other accounts, including that of the Crusade for Freedom, to the FEUE, authorizing NCFE to incur expenditures for three months at the current rate.

3. The intent of this Division in its recommendations to the PRC was to provide NCFE and the FEUE with the operating funds necessary to continue its activities in FY 1954 at the current rate. These funds were to tide NCFE over the first months of FY 1954, pending a thorough budgetary and program review and subsequent presentation and recommendations to proper CIA authorities in the month of August. At that time Whitney Shonardson will have completed his initial tour of inspection and can be on hand to defend his budget and our recommendations thereto.

The only exception to this procedure was the request for approval of RF's capital needs. This request was made after a thorough examination of proposals by this Division and General McClelland, Office of Communications, his technical staff, and RFE engineers. As a result, General McClelland authorized this Division to state to the PRC that the RFE proposals were technically sound. As far as these capital expenditures are concerned, the IO Division had completed its review and recommended their approval in order that there be no delay in getting this additional transmitter equipment in place.

4. I would strongly suggest that the meeting on Thursday not involve a general budgetary review. It should be confined, in my opinion, to a statement to Mr. Spencer Phenix and his budgetary officer, who should be the sole NCFE officers present, that CIA will conduct through the IO Division:

a. A thorough and detailed review of all current activities and new activities proposed by NCFE;

b. A financial review in the sense that all financial information necessary to support the NCFE program and budget is made available. Our study of this financial information will be confined to a general review to ensure accuracy, adequate explanations of uncertain items, and a general analysis to ensure proper budgetary procedures. I would like to point out and strongly emphasize that we have already received the utmost cooperation from the officials of NCFE in setting such program and fiscal information.

5. We cannot, in my opinion, having granted NCFE broad authority in the execution of its task, seek to impose our judgment for theirs in the details of their management of this project. Such matters as were raised at the PRC, i.e., whether the request for replacement of 32 trucks is based on Agency standards for truck replacement, have in my opinion no place in such a review. We can review management and fiscal policies in a broad sense to satisfy ourselves that they are
