Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law, Title 18 U.S.C. §§703 and 704, the translation or dissemination of which in any manner to a U.S. citizen may be prohibited by law.

Country: Cuba. Report No. CS CI 316/00643-64. Subject: Guillermo ARASTAGUIA. Date of info: 1964. Place: Washington, D. C. Date acquired: August 1964. No. pages: 2. References: CSCI-3/779,803; CS-311/00115-64. Field report no.

This is unevaluated information. Source readings are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality information provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

1. Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, pseudonym “Rene,” is the chief of the Department of Technical Operational Support (MI) in the Dirección General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI). He was formerly the secretary of Ramiro VALDES in the Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE), but ARASTAGUIA was a follower of Anibal ESCALANTE and because of a problem concerning ESCALANTE and because ARASTAGUIA was believed to be a homosexual, VALDES transferred him to the DGI. ARASTAGUIA went to the Youth Festival in Helsinki as a representative of the DGI and has traveled to Moscow three times.

2. ARASTAGUIA was born in 1934, is about five feet seven inches in height, has blond hair and green eyes. He is fat, has a chin that juts out, lips that are somewhat sunken, and has a rather high pitched voice and seems effeminate. ¹,²,³

Headquarters Comments

1. A report dated 6 October 1960, from an official Ecuadorian source, provided a list of Cuban Communists. One Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, aka “Rene,” possibly identical with Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, was included and described as a first lieutenant.

Liaison. CSC-313/00643-64.

GOCI: Echelon Two Intelligence and Foreign Analysis.
