8 September 1966

Subject: Contact Report, LICOZY-5 — P-2712

7 September, a few minutes, Sears, Ejercito Nacional.  
8 September, 1100–1200, subject’s office.

1. On 7 September at about 1100, the C/O made a routine call to the subject’s office to determine if the subject would be available that day. The subject responded that he was glad that the C/O had called because he had to see him urgently. In characteristic manner, the subject, trying doubletalk, told the C/O that he had received a telegram, that his old friend, Prikhodko, was back, and that he was going to see “the two of them,” Prikhodko and Loginov, at 1500 that day at the Flor de Mexico. The C/O was puzzled by the reference to the telegram and asked incredulously if the telegram had anything to do with setting up the meeting with his friends. The subject’s answer was ambiguous, and the C/O let it go at that because he arranged a brief meeting with the subject for 1230 at Soers Restaurant (Sears Restaurant), at Ejercito Nacional, where the subject was to be on his own business at that time.

2. Nevertheless, in considering the briefing instruction to give to the subject, the C/O had to allow for the fact that there might have been special circumstances in the Soviets’ arrangement for their meeting with the subject. Further, this was Prikhodko’s first meeting with the subject after returning from Moscow, where it is presumed he had taken up the subject’s case with his superiors and the line decided on how to deal in the future with their flagging, non-cooperative “agent.” A reasonable contingency expectation was that the Soviets might have a “hot” proposition to make to the subject, and the C/O decided to brief the subject to the extent that if the Soviets broached a really important operational assignment, which the subject was to judge, the subject would conduct himself so as to draw out the Soviets but stall on acceptance. If nothing of overriding importance came from the Soviets, the subject was to continue his “friends-yes; work-no” stance.

At 1230 the C/O saw the subject for just a few minutes, during which the telegram was explained. It was from Moscow, inviting the subject’s travel agency to participate in a seminar in Moscow 24–29 October 1966, with a detailed letter to follow. Further, the subject had learned from Prikhodko, when the latter had called earlier in the morning to make the appointment for the meeting that afternoon, that Prikhodko was aware of the invitation and would talk to the subject about it at their meeting. The C/O imparted to the subject the briefing outlined above, stressing that the subject must judge whether the Soviets were proposing something that was so important that he could not dismiss it out of hand—in which case he was to be noncommittal and stall on a decision.

3. The C/O had communicated to the Station the tack he was going to take and was later informed by the Station to reverse the planning of the subject’s attitude toward a contingency proposition of the Soviets to a flat, unconditional “no.”
