38. Do you (and if any) have the following delays in currently due to another ORS, name and dates of each delay: A. If no, is it new? B. If yes, is it give year and office of last payment.

39. Do you advocate or have you ever advocated, or are you now or have you ever been a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence? No. If answer is “yes,” give full details under item 37.

40. Have you ever been assessed or detained by civil or military authorities in the United States or in any other country (other than for minor traffic violations where the fine did not exceed $50)? No. If so, state under item 37 the name and location of the court, dates and details of proceedings, and disposition.

41. List three prominent and responsible persons in the United States not related to you by blood or marriage who are particularly qualified to supply definite information regarding your character and ability (do not give names of supervisors listed in answer to questions no. 28 or 29).

Name: Paul T. Torian. Address: Marine Corps Recruit Depot, San Diego, California; U. S. Motors, Los Angeles, California. Occupation: Major, U.S.M.C.

Name: Louis A. Hopkins. Address: Hopkins Pharmacy, Long Beach, California. Occupation: Druggist.

36. Mention here any special qualifications or achievements not covered elsewhere in this application, including such items as any books or articles you have written, special research work, technical skills, honorable or professional society memberships, and any other information you consider pertinent. You may include any pertinent religious, civic, welfare, or organizational activity which you have performed either with or without compensation, showing the number of hours per week and number of weeks per year in which you were engaged in such activity.

42. Use this space for completing answers to any of the foregoing questions, numbering answers to correspond with questions. Use extra sheets of paper if necessary.

Reserve status: U. S. Marine Corps Reserve, inactive (Lie Lt., Ch. 7506).

Draft Classification: L-A (Local Board #1, Washington, D. C.).

Presently serving under the provisions of the Civil Service Retirement Act.

Certification.

Please statement on this application is cause for dismissal.

I do solely affirm that the information contained herein is correct to the best of my thought and belief.

Date.

Name as usually written and will be used as official signature.
