The following are the statements made by the candidates in answer to questions提出的疑问：

30. Does the amendment here proposed extend also to the General Assembly? Yes. The General Assembly has no other authority than that of a law passed by its General Assembly. Is there any provision in this constitution which would prevent the General Assembly from passing such laws as it may deem necessary and proper, so long as the General Assembly shall have first determined upon such laws and such measures, and that these laws and measures shall not be obviated or abrogated in their operation by the action of any single person or persons.

31. Has the General Assembly in its capacity as the organic law-making body of the state, passed a law, or any part thereof, that conflicts with this constitution?

No. It has only passed a law which, when compared with the constitution as it now exists, is found to conflict with it; but this conflict does not affect the validity of the law as such, nor does it in the least degree disqualify the General Assembly for office, nor does it in any way tend to prevent the general election of any officer under this constitution, nor does it in any way interfere with the exercise of his powers, or with his duties as a public officer.

If the General Assembly, therefore, should pass any law which conflicts with this constitution, then the General Assembly would be guilty of a breach of its office, and should be held responsible for the same as before.

But if the General Assembly should pass a law which is in conflict with the constitution, then the General Assembly would be responsible for its act, whether the law was passed in conflict with the constitution or not. But if the General Assembly were to pass a law which is not in conflict with the constitution, then the General Assembly would be free to act without responsibility, unless the law were found to conflict with some other law.

If, therefore, the General Assembly should, in its own discretion, make any law which conflicts with the constitution, then the General Assembly would be responsible for its own acts, and should not be liable for the acts of the General Assembly which are not in conflict with the constitution.

In case of a tie, shall the tie broken by the decision of the General Assembly?

Yes. In case of a tie, the tie broken by the decision of the General Assembly.

What will be the effect of the General Assembly’s vote, if the General Assembly, after the passage of three months from the date on which the General Assembly shall have received its notice of adjournment, still has not adopted a law which they are required to adopt by law, or any other law which is not in conflict with the constitution?

As I am unable to say anything which will not place me in a position of great difficulty, I must, in my own opinion, take the liberty of offering an alternative which appears to me more safe and reasonable than any other.

First, by determining that the General Assembly, in the condition in which it now exists, has no other authority than the law passed by its General Assembly on the 27th day of March, 1849, and that the General Assembly has no other power than the law which it has passed at its last session.

Secondly, by adopting that the General Assembly, in the condition in which it now exists, has not any other authority than its own common sense, and that in the ordinary course of things, it is right and proper that the General Assembly should, in the absence of the General Assembly, appoint one or more person(ies) to sit as the General Assembly, and that such person(ies) should take office on the 1st of April, and hold office until the next General Assembly meets, and which cannot meet, if they meet not again before the close of the present session, shall end the term of office of such person(ies).

Thirdly, by determining that the General Assembly, in the condition in which it now exists, has not any other authority than the law passed by its General Assembly on the 27th day of March, 1849, and that the General Assembly has not any power except its own common sense, and that in the ordinary course of things, it is wrong and improper that the General Assembly should, in the absence of the General Assembly, appoint one or more person(ies) to sit as the General Assembly, and that such person(ies) should take office on the 1st of April, and hold office until the next General Assembly meets, and which cannot meet, if they meet not again before the close of the present session, shall end the term of office of such person(ies), and that the General Assembly, in the condition in which it now exists, has not any authority to appoint one or more person(ies) to sit as the General Assembly, and should not be liable for the acts of such person(ies) until such time as the General Assembly, in the condition in which it now exists, shall determine that it should meet
