Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 025658.

Section A: General.

1. Name: Piccolo, Joseph S. S.  
2. Date of Birth: 12/8/35.  
3. Sex: M.  
4. Grade: GS-11.  
B. SD: D.  
9. Office or Group of Assignment: Ops Officer WH/1.  
8. Current Station: Mexico City.  
9. Type of Appointment: Career; provisional; special: temporary.  
10. Type of Report: Initial; reassignment supervisor; annual; reassignment employer.  
II. Date Report Due in O.P.: May 1966–30 October 1967.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W – Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A – Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P – Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S – Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O – Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Agent handling and exploitation. Acts as case officer for a variety of operations including a double agent operation. Rating Letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Administrative management of project activities. Date: 12/12. Rating Letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Operational planning (target analysis, etc.). Date: 13. Rating Letter: H.

Specific Duty No. 4: Programming and handling.
