UFAA-1845

d. During the middle and late 1950s, Roberto had been a salesman for the Burroughs flour company and had stayed clear of the political picture in Cuba.

e. During the same period, Hector had been a student in the University of Havana, under Raul ROA, and had taken part in some revolutionary activities. He had been arrested and beaten by the Batista police for his anti-government actions and his father had sent him into exile in the US.

f. When Castro came into power, the father was a potential “war criminal” for his illicit dealings. AMMUG-1, who was in the police force in the initial stages of the revolution, states that he deleted an incriminating page from the father's dossier, showing he paid off the police to run his bolita operation, and thus saved him from prosecution.

g. AMMUG-1 continued to be close to the family, especially with Roberto, “whom I saw every day and ran around with.” Roberto never entertained the revolution. As late as 1962–63, “We used to talk quite openly and frankly. He was always against the revolution and the communists. He worked in the Ministry of Industry because his brother got him the job, but he had only one idea in his head: to get out of Cuba and come to the US. He was even plotting to get out by boat. He had a US visa for many years and had visited here many times.”

h. When AMMUG-1 defected, he lost contact with Roberto. But, about two weeks ago, a neighbor from Regla came to Miami on the Freedom Flights. Comment: This undoubtedly refers to Cuban refugee Segundo CASCUDO Gonzalez. Reference forwarded the AMOT debriefing of CASCUDO on Roberto. When AMMUG-1 asked about Roberto, the neighbor said that he understood that Roberto “was assigned in a foreign Embassy.” The refugee could not say what country Roberto was in.

i. This news prompts AMMUG-1 to comment: “This would be a most interesting person to talk to. I don't think that he has changed his original way of thinking. I believe he took the job to get out of Cuba, and because of the influence of his brother Hector. I know he will talk to me and there is no telling what this man is capable of doing if someone approached him.”

j. Roberto is (or was) married to: Zulema (lnu). DPOB: c. 1934 in Cuba. They had two children and the wife was even more anti-Castro than Roberto.

k. Hector, the other brother, was a rabid revolutionary when AMMUG-1 last saw him in c. 63–64. He had joined the Castro bandwagon at the outset due to his revolutionary activities during the Batista era and his closeness to Raul ROA. In c. 1960–61–62, Hector was closely aligned
