August 2, 1969

Contact Report

Subject: Jimmy SABORI (P-15,830)

Date of meet: August 1 at Restaurant INN Le Club and Bonaparte Bar, from 2000 to 2340 hours.

1. The meet was prearranged and S came on time. The main purpose of the meet was to fill out the PAQ on LOGINOV (P-11,712), which was accomplished to a satisfactory degree, i.e., 26 pages out of 55. Further, FERNALD wanted to check what S has done or prepared for his next meet with LOC, which is scheduled for Monday, August 4, at 2000 hours. This will be covered in the following paragraph.

Next meet: Tuesday, August 5, at the Restaurant-Bar Continental at 2000 hours.

2. On Friday, August 1, at 1400 hours, S called on CHIN-CHSIEN TANG, Minister Counselor of the National Chinese Embassy, at his office. The purpose of the call was to explain that the magazine La Mission goes to press no later than the 18th of the month and that it was too late to have anything published on National China. In accordance with the instruction S received from Pierre HUDEAN, S told TANG that, in publishing such articles, the magazine writes them according to the wishes of the embassy of the country about which they are written. Because embassies pay only the subscription, they usually see to it that at least half a page of advertising is included in the same issue.

3. TANG expressed understanding for such a practice and stated that he was interested in having an article on the Republic of China and probably one on Chiang Kai-shek (Chien-Kay-Shek), and that he would see to it that a proper amount of advertisements be purchased.

4. TANG went on to ask which embassies are subscribers of the magazine and which use it for publishing articles. S stated that practically all embassies are subscribers and almost all of them had their articles published at one time or another. TANG, apparently, was not satisfied with this answer, and he asked point-blank whether the Soviet Embassy was a subscriber.

When S answered affirmatively, TANG asked if he knew anybody
