**Nosenko:** Yes. Or maybe it was at a meeting. It is difficult to say. Maybe we went to report to Kovshuk in his room or maybe Kovshuk was writing in Klypin's study room. I don't remember.

Nosenko then described the purpose of the meeting: To discuss the possibility of releasing monitor positions from some of the chancery microphones and of assigning these released positions to Vladimir (patronymic unknown) Petrov, Chief of the American Department's section for work against American tourists and delegates suspected of being connected with American Intelligence; Petrov had earlier requested English-language monitoring positions from the Chief of the English-Language Section of the OTU's Second Special Department but had been told that all such interpreters were already engaged on priority targets. At the meeting Kovshuk and Klypin reviewed the microphone coverage of the chancery to decide which rooms offered information of little value and which monitoring positions could be released to Petrov. Kovshuk drew up a list of the Embassy offices and apartments then being covered on a full-time basis and indicated those of lesser importance. At the end of the meeting, Kovshuk gave the list to Nosenko, who retained it in his safe until bringing it to CIA in 1964. Nosenko has added nothing further on the locations of microphones in the chancery building, and much of his information concerning the quality and value of the production by these microphones came from this meeting.

Since his defection, Nosenko has spoken further on his responsibilities in connection with the daily transcripts received from the Second Special Department. He said on 14 May 1964: "All the materials after they were read and signed were returned to the Second (Special) Department of the Operational Technical Directorate. Some of the material from this was put in the individual file, but anyone who read it would never know where it came from. He wouldn't know that it came from mikes....Kovshuk and I read all of this. From this we gave information to those who needed it, depending on their interest. If there was something interesting, it was given to Klypin to read. If Klypin saw something interesting he could take it and give it to Gri-Banov. Tatyana Grishnyat (from the Second Special Department) came by car with this material. She went to Klypin. Sometimes she left them with me."

A protocol signed by Nosenko in 1965 states: "One of my duties as Deputy Chief, First Section, First Department, Second Chief Directorate, was to receive, review, and give to appropriate case officers the production from microphones in the American Embassy on a daily basis. I also maintained the control book (journal) for these transcripts. These transcripts were prepared by the Operational Technical Directorate of the KGB. Every day a female worker of the OTU brought me the transcripts of conversations in the Embassy from the previous day. I regularly returned all of the original transcripts to this female worker; they were usually in my possession for one day. In my absence this duty was performed by Kovshuk or Gryaznov."
