Office of Personnel.

Mail Room: Mailing this rating card.

Directions:  
a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties that you will be performing during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties.  
b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.  
c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty (do not rate a supervisor who supervises a secretary only).  
d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.  
e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

Mail Room.

1. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are: oral speaking; giving lectures; conducting seminars; writing technical reports; conducting external liaison; typing; taking dictation; supervising.  
2. May and uses approved knowledge, develops new programs, analyzes industrial reports, manages files, operates radio, coordinates with other offices, writes regulations, prepares correspondence.  
3. Conducts interrogations, prepares summaries, translates German, drilling sources, keeps doors, drives truck, maintains air-conditioning, evaluates significance of data.

Rating scale:  
1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty.  
2. Barely accomplishes in the performance of this duty.  
3. Performs this duty acceptably.  
4. Performs this duty in a competent manner.  
5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.  
4. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner, found in very few individuals holding similar jobs.  
5. Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Specific Duty No. 1: Deputy Chief of Station. Rating number: 5.  
Specific Duty No. 4: Handling agents and ops. Rating number: 5.  
Specific Duty No. 2: Liaison with Department of Investigation. Rating number: 5.  
Specific Duty No. 8: Reporting. Rating number: 6.  
Specific Duty No. 3: Contact and development of operational assets. Rating number: 6.  
Specific Duty No. 2: Reporting. Rating number: b.  
Specific Duty No. 4: Handling agents and ops. Rating number: 5.

Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Descriptions: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job.

Subject is an excellent Deputy Chief of Station. He is liked and respected by his co-workers in the
