in democrats and police during the neo-Nazi election. Riots occurred in Saarbrueck, Flensburg, Recklinghausen, and many other towns. A Civil Committee of Struggle Against Nazism has been formed. Demands have been made by organizations that the NDP has banned. The West German Federation of Employees is being the most recent to do so.

U.S. Communists in Cuba

The story of Camagüey shows concretely the boldness in the planning of construction and the mass undertaking in cadre training to be able to manage this undertaking.

Hails Cuba's racial equality

Just imagine a plan which begins with the daily output of 11,000 liters of milk, to be increased to one million per day. And what then? The creation of a milk-processing plant in which all kinds of dairy products will be developed.

Such is the approach in every field.

Of great beauty is that racist practices ended with imperialism, and among the many great lessons of this revolution is the equality established between black, white, and mulatto.

The cause of Cuba must become the cause not only of Communists but of all democrats, anti-imperialists, and radicals.

The story of Cuba must become known to the millions of our land. The economic blockade must go. This barbarity is the essence of U.S. imperialist policy. The people can and must compel the Nixon administration to put an end to this criminality.

Why wait ’til tomorrow? You can find out today’s Daily World.

Special to the Daily World

HAVANA, Aug. 28 — A U.S. Communist Party delegation, headed by national chairman Henry Winston, has returned here from the interior of the country, where it witnessed a tremendous mobilization in the drive to harvest 10 million tons of sugar in a year.

The delegates returned last week from Camagüey (Camaguey), one of the main centers of the sugar industry.

Greeted by Cuban leaders

The 10-million-ton goal is the main economic task set by the Cuban Communist Party and the Revolutionary Government for achievement by the year ending July 26, 1970.

Earlier, after their arrival in Havana on Sunday, Aug. 10, the delegation visited other projects in the Isle of Pines and the provinces of Las Villas and Camagüey (Camaguey).

Receiving the U.S. delegation on their arrival were Commander Ramiro (Hamiro) Valdez, 37, member of the Political Bureau of the Cuban C.P.; Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, member of the secretariat of the Central Committee; and Commander Jesús (Jesus) Montané.

Continued on page 11

HENRY WINSTON

[The delegation saw with its] own eyes how an entire people is geared to the accomplishment of the main task of realizing within one year 10 million tons of sugar.

Simply put, this means the achievement of 20 billion pounds of sugar in 12 months. That kind of production could give more than 6 pounds of sugar to each of the 3 billion humans on this earth.

The enthusiastic fight for this goal grips the people. What this means in terms of Cuba is helping to lay the foundation for the most rapid development of industry and agriculture, which will be based on the latest scientific techniques.
