Operational interest. They are:

a. Father (Padre) Alberto de Castro: He is a Jesuit priest presently located in Caracas, Venezuela, who had been a teacher of Fidel Castro during his youth. Castro was in Venezuela and saw Father de Castro there, during which time the latter criticized Fidel for some of his actions. In spite of the fact that this remonstration occurred in front of some of Fidel’s men, they later treated him with great respect. It was felt by Tichborn’s source, who chatted alone for an hour about this information, and by Tichborn, that Father de Castro undoubtedly has some influence over Castro. Tichborn suggested that it would be of value to determine whether or not Fidel has any regular contact with Father de Castro and, if so, what operational potential he might have.

b. Herb Mathews: He is a journalist with the New York Times and was the only American newspaperman covering the Castro story prior to his final success. While Tichborn was in Cuba, a front-page article appeared in Revolucion (the regime’s press spokesman) about Mathews. It was a sort of editorial and praised Mathews as a “real man” and one who understood the revolution and its aims. Tichborn feels that it might be to our advantage to contact Mathews since he appears to have the confidence of the administration.

c. Professor Rosco (Roscoe): The subject is on the faculty of the Universidad de Villamueva (Universidad de Villanueva) and is a contemporary of Fidel Castro. They were classmates and both were debaters, although according to Rosco, Castro did not make the Debating Society, of which he (Rosco) was the president. Once after the revolution, Rosco attended a speech Castro made and, after the oration, the latter asked Rosco what he thought of it. Upon hearing some criticism, he wanted to know how it could have been improved. Since Castro was leaving for Venezuela and the United States, he asked Rosco to accompany him in order that they could discuss the matter further. Tichborn feels that Rosco, a member of the opposition, likely has more influence on Castro than Rosco realizes and that this possibility would be worth looking into.

d. Edward R. Murrow: He produced a television program on Castro, and Tichborn feels that he might have established a rapport with Castro during this period.

4. One of the contacts Tichborn made in Cuba, the Director of Tourism, asked him if he knew of anyone who would be interested in coming to Cuba on an all-expenses-paid visit in order to write articles or other similar propaganda on present-day Cuba. Tichborn mentioned Clete Roberts, a popular radio and television commentator in Los Angeles, as a possible candidate. Tichborn also discussed this matter with Horace W. Davis. Tichborn will mention this possibility to Roberts upon his return to California.

5. While in Cuba, Tichborn accidentally met a young lady who later revealed to him that she was “an agent for the State Department.” He felt that this was a security matter and that it should be brought to our attention for that purpose. Mr. Toomey did not recognize the name; it is being further checked with the WH Division. The incident and the details will be made the subject of a separate memorandum for the CI Staff.
