Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper performance their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of manager or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

During the past year, this officer has continued to demonstrate his dedication and highly developed professional skills. Subject has been called upon to meet a variety of requirements. The spectrum of his activity has been so broad that it has run from the exploitation of his manual dexterity in installing technical devices to the most sophisticated and demanding agent handling. Throughout the year, Subject has demonstrated his awareness of the value of KUBARK funds, which he spends as needed but always conscientiously. His reporting on his activities has been especially commendable, and his mastery of tradecraft has been continually in evidence. Subject has now become Chief of PBRUMEN operations for Station Mexico. This slot was formerly held by a GS-15 officer. It is requested that Subject be promoted to the grade of GS-15, not only because of his present assignment, but in recognition of his fine past performance.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 3 June 65. Signature of employee: Robert T. Shaw /s/.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 3 June 65. Official title of supervisor: Operations Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: David A. Phillips /s/.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Para 2 of covering dispatch HETT 5493 in its entirety: “CCS is in complete agreement with this excellent report on Shaw and recommends that Shaw be promoted to GS-15. Date: 3 June 65. Official title of reviewing official: CCS. Typed or printed name and signature: Winston M. Scott /s/.
