Memorandum for: Chief, FI

Subject: Project LIPTAT Renovation

Headquarters Case Officer:

Name: J. E. Brady  
Date: 21st May 1959  
Text: 25th or 31st  
Date: 16 June 1959

1. It is requested that the LIPTAT project be renewed for the period 1 July 1959 through 30 June 1960 for a total of £15,145.00.

2. Attached is the Field's Project Review, together with a revised Project Outline, which clearly sets forth the present status of the Project. It is believed that the activity described herein continues to justify the time and expense involved, and hence merits renewal for the forthcoming year.

3. In March 1959 we asked the Federal Bureau of Investigation for their evaluation of the usefulness of information on American Communists which originated from LIFAT and whether they wished to continue receiving such information. On 2 April 1959, the Federal Bureau of Investigation replied that the information has been of value to them from intelligence and investigative viewpoints and they wish to continue receiving such information.

4. LIFAT was the source of information concerning the plans of Albert MALTA and his wife for their trip to Russia and behind the Iron Curtain in May, June and July 1959. Through LIFAT we learned that they were planning to try to contact Alfred Hoffman (Hoff) and his wife, Alice Dodd STARK and Harvard and Edith HALPERN, American Communists who fled behind the Iron Curtain during the last two years. Based on information made available through LIFAT, Headquarters has made arrangements for the MALTs to receive baggage searches and discreet surveillances at various points on their trip.

5. The Czech and Polish Offices in US Division and the appropriate desk in SR Division were asked to comment on the value of LIFAT to them. All desks agreed that LIFAT was a very valuable source of general background information on the Soviet, Czech and Polish diplomat and often provided information which could be obtained through no other source. The Czech desk commented that LIFAT was of cost value as a support asset to the station, providing leads which might be developed into operational assets by the station personnel. In May 1959 the Polish desk sent
