By NOSERKO (NOSENKO); and she described the documents which he turned over to the Americans as having come from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. She stated, therefore, rather than demonstrated, the point that “these were such important documents, important enough that...he was shot.”

During her second account of the CHEREPAKOV affair, sourced her information differently and added first-hand details which she had previously claimed having. She said that “In two days this man was arrested...In two months he was shot.” This is also at variance with NOSEKKO’s (NOSENKO’s) account of a KGB investigation of up to 20 or 25 days, followed by the KGB officer’s visit to CHEREPANOV (CHEREPAKOV) on 8 December 1963, CHEREPAKOV’s flight, and a seven-day search for him before his arrest.

b. The Compromise of PENKOVSKIY

Closely conforming in this respect to NOSENKO’s account of PENKOVSKIY’s compromise, replaced the date of initial suspicion of PENKOVSKIY at about October or November 1961. Her statements of the basis for this suspicion, however, differ completely from the reasons advanced by NOSENKO (and other sources). Her account is vague, in consonance with her claimed lack of any first-hand contemporary knowledge of the investigation leading to his arrest, and is colored by her expressed personal dislike for PENKOVSKIY the man and by the professional misfortunes of her husband which resulted from PENKOVSKIY’s arrest. C cited her KGB friend SVIRIN as the source of some of her information, as the source of the indirect warning to her husband to stay away from PENKOVSKIY, and as someone who knew about PENKOVSKIY’s trial and had been somehow associated with the investigation—thus confirming NOSENKO on SVIRIN’s participation in the PENKOVSKIY investigation.

c. Reports on KGB Personnel

Has named relatively few KGB officers who have figured in her career as a KGB agent or about whom she could report any substance. Of her KGB handlers:

CIA has been unable to identify one, Gennadiy Fedorovich, whose last name she did not know, her handler while she worked at the Embassy of Nepal in 1964. NOSENKO has not referred to operations against this Embassy.

Two KGB handlers were assigned to Leningrad—V. I. DEMIDOV and Georgiy PCHELIN. Both of these officers had previously been identified by NOSENKO as officers of the Leningrad KGB and have not been identified by any other source. They were two of the total of four Leningrad KGB officers named by NOSENKO.

Her KGB handler while she was employed by a Canadian correspondent in Moscow was Vladimir Ivanovich KOSTYRYA. Only NOSENKO has identified KOSTYRYA as the KGB officer who had been in the United States under the name Vladimir Viktorovich VLADIMIROV; NOSENKO considered this, as he said in 1965, his most important identification among KGB personnel.

KOSTYRYA was in the U.S. under Inturist cover; relationship with him was not related to her earlier Inturist work, however, but her connection with a foreign correspondent, which was KOSTYRYA’s responsibility after his return to Moscow.
