5 April 1968

Memorandum for: Secretary, CSPS/Section A

Subject: Recommendation for the promotion of Calvin W. Hicks (056361) to GS-14

1. I recommend the promotion of subject officer from GS-13 to GS-14. Mr. Hicks has been assigned to the Intelligence Watch, FI Staff since June 1967 where he serves on a rotating schedule with seven other officers doing identical work, five of whom are currently in grade GS-14.

2. Although Mr. Hicks has been with IT less than a year, his work both quantitatively and qualitatively is of very high caliber. He is alert and conscientious and never takes the easy way out in handling cabled field intelligence reports. Log cards which record the action taken on each report indicate the seriousness with which he approaches his daily tasks. These cards frequently indicate time spent by him in consultation with as many as three area divisions on occasion before issuing a report which will be disseminated to the intelligence community. The exercise of good judgment is an essential element in the proper functioning of this office, upon which the Agency's reputation to a certain extent depends. Since the finished intelligence information report is the face that the clandestine services shows to the intelligence analysts and the policy officers of this government, the performance of the watch officers is of paramount importance. This factor becomes extremely obvious when one notes that more than 80% of all cabled intelligence reports are disseminated by the Intelligence Watch.

3. Prior to his assignment to the Intelligence Watch, Mr. Hicks served with the WH Division and with the Cuban operation. He has an extensive background in paramilitary operations both in the field and at headquarters. All of his fitness reports for the six years preceding his assignment to the Intelligence Watch have borne the overall rating of “strong.” He has been described as “highly motivated, sincere and capable.” Also, “he works well with others and his knowledge and ability are respected.” Other supervisors during the years immediately prior to this assignment have described him as “serious, hard-working and dependable.” His performance in his present assignment has
