It was veiled criticism in the French issue, and he told me not to print that, for instance, in the English edition, his story being that he didn't want to embarrass the Chinese. He said that after all the Chinese were buying this and this wasn't their line with Algeria and they might be asked embarrassing questions by the Algerians—which has this sort of an unfriendly article.

The magazine, which has this unfriendly article.

(You mean the Chinese were buying?)

The Chinese at that time were buying 3,000 copies of the English edition.

The French. They didn't seem to mind about the 300 French.

In actual fact, the Chinese, so far as I know, never made any comment about the magazine or its contents. None whatsoever.

(Is China's willingness to go to Haspero and knock Verges and go to Andersson and knock Haspero—is this inconsistent with his pedantic Marxism?)

For him a lot of it is academic. It's not related too much to life, except that he is a plotter, a born conspirer. He loves to have ten people around him and to tell them what to do, how to maneuver. Of course, whatever he tells them generally turns out to be disastrous for them.

For example, the so-called pro-Chinese students inside of the UEC, the Union des Étudiants Communistes, at their congress last year—let's see, they've got one coming up—who was the one behind them, who was telling them what to do, their tactics and strategy? They had a terrible catastrophe.

(Laughing) In fact, the pro-Chinese students represent a negligible faction now inside the Communist students, the largest faction being the Italian faction, which is actually financed by the Italian Communist Party. The struggle has gone on for years between the French party and the Italian party, and it continues there. Then he had a group of youths called the Drapeau Rouge group. They put out, again, a four-page newsletter, which he promised to get money from Verges to subsidize. Verges had no money, as you know. One single issue came out.

Proletario, with Valdes, managed to keep on because Valdes had his own sources of income from the Spaniards who belonged to it, apparently. They kicked in quite a lot a month, you know, to keep it going. It wasn't too expensive. The main thing is finding a printer who will print it clandestinely in France. Because all these things that have come under French law, you're supposed to have a directeur-association who is responsible for it, and anything in a foreign language is exempt from the liberty of the press, from freedom of the press, in France. The only foreign languages that you can use are Basque and Breton and, I think, Alsatian dialect.
