e. WIROGUE described his abilities in demolitions, commando work, liquidations, air operations and navigation, and a general knowledge of “spy work.” He also said that he was an expert on documentation and that he liked to work making phony documentation, watermarks, etc. He also mentioned his telephone answering device, which he made for $8.00, and wished to go to Dortmund, West Germany, to attempt to market it.

f. During the course of the above conversation, WIROGUE showed LACKLEN several documents to substantiate his claims of employment by the Congolese Government, etc. LACKLEN decided that the documentation interest of the “Service” in these Congolese documents would be the best entry to obtain his passport. LACKLEN attempted to display a shallow, inflated interest in the watermarks and stamps on the documents as an Admin Officer who had had a one-week operational course and was really trying to get the documents to impress his boss. With each document, LACKLEN commented about their simplicity and easy forging possibilities and how much the documents people would love to get at their hands on this. WIROGUE loaned LACKLEN the following documents:

(1) Austrian passport, 090058.

(2) Return Sabena air ticket, 8096473, to Leopoldville.

(3) Congo divers permit.

(4) Carte d’Indemnité d’Etranger.

(5) Pass from MINSUP/Congo regarding technician status (civilian).

(6) Health certificate.

(7) Licences Passer No. 71-58, Congo pass from Leopoldville to Brazzaville.

(8) Licences Passer as major, Congo Army.

(9) UN pass, access to Royal Hotel, Leopoldville.

(10) Congo certificate of vaccination.

(11) Order de Mission, 17 May 1962, by Secretary General, Foreign Ministry.

(12) Order de Mission to Brazzaville to apprehend a man, signed by Joseph MATUBA, 26 March 1962.

(13) Attestation that he is attaché (technician), Congo Army, by M. Kalongo, Sec. Gen., Ministry of Defense, 28 December 1961.

6. LACKLEN asked if he could borrow these documents so they could be photographed, as he was sure they were of extreme value. LACKLEN said that inasmuch as these documents were WIROGUE’S property, if he insisted, he would have someone photograph the documents tonight and bring them back as fast as possible, but
