Fitness Report. Employee serial number.

Section A—General. Name: WILCOTT, James B. Date of birth: 27 Sept 31. Sex: M. Grade: GS-6 SF. Office branch of assignment: F/E Tokyo. Current station: Tokyo.

Check (X) type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Temporary, Initial, Reassignment Supervisor, Special (Specify), Career-Provisional (See instructions—Section C), Annual, Reassignment Employee.

Date report due in O.P.

Reporting period (From–To): 1 Apr GL–30 June 62.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W. Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Station cashier responsible for the day-to-day receipt and disbursement of cash. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 2: Consolidates all station cash transactions to one voucher and verifies balance daily. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 3: Summarizes all station transactions for off-base housing and vehicle expenditures into monthly accountings and maintains appropriate subsidiary records. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 4: Polices individual housing and vehicle advance accounts and audits related accountings. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 5: Maintains statistical records on all private rentals by individual house and cost center. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 6.
