Declaration of Appointee

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty. Answer all questions. Any false statement in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal after appointment. Impersonation is a criminal offense and will be prosecuted accordingly.

Instructions to Appointing Officer

The appointing officer before whom the foregoing certificate is made shall determine whether he or she considers that the applicant's physical condition is in conformance with the Civil Service Act, applies the Civil Service Rules and Regulations and/or the Constitution pertaining to appointments.

This form should be checked for holding of office, pension, stability in connection with any record of recent discharge or arrest, and particularly for the following:

(1) Identity of appointees — It is the duty of the appointing officer to guard against discrimination and to determine beyond reasonable doubt that the appointee is the same person whose agreement was authorized. The applicant's signature and handwriting are to be compared with the application and other relevant papers. If the appointment required a written commission, the name on this form should be designated by the signature on the commission sheet, which was signed in the presence of him. His physical appearance may be checked against the medical records. The appointment may be questioned on his personal history for existence with the previous statements.

(2) Age — If definite age limits have been established for the position, it should be determined that the applicant is not outside the age range for appointment. Until such determination is made, the appointment may not be consummated.

(3) Citizenship — The appointing officer is responsible for observing the citizenship provisions of (1) the Civil Service Rules and (2) the appointment act. Form 61 constitutes an affidavit for both purposes and is accepted as proof of citizenship status in the absence of conflicting evidence. In doubtful cases the appointment would not be consummated until clearance has been secured from the certifying office of the Civil Service Commission.

(4) Member of Family — Section 9 of the Civil Service Act provides that whenever there are directly two or more members of a family living under probationary or permanent employment in the competitive service, no other member of such family is eligible for probationary or permanent employment in the competitive service. The appointment of persons unrelated to veterans preferred are subject to this requirement. The members of family groups does not apply to temporary appointments. Doubtful cases may be referred to the appropriate office of the Civil Service Commission for decision.
