G. Sources Supporting Kosenko (KOSENKO)

1. Introduction

The preceding portions of Part VIII present an analysis of the Nosenko case without giving detailed consideration to information about him from Soviet sources reporting to CIA and the FBI. Because their evidence generally runs counter to the results of the foregoing analysis, it is reviewed here separately so that the concentrated examination of Nosenko would not be diverted by asides as to the authenticity and reliability of these Soviets. As indicated below, the CIA and FBI sources who have directly supported Nosenko's intelligence background are sensitive sources and the defectors and Golitsyn. None except Golitsyn claimed to know him personally or to have worked with him, and Nosenko contradicted Golitsyn by saying they had never met. Some of them, as well as Cherepanov, supported Nosenko indirectly through overlapping information on specific KGB operations, but this aspect of their reporting is reviewed in Part IX.

2. Corroboration of Nosenko's (MOSENKO'S) Intelligence Career

The statements of the sources confirm that Nosenko was a KGB officer with access to sensitive information.

Nosenko (NOSIENKO) was a KGB lieutenant colonel (later changed to captain), a friend and protégé of the head of the KGB Second Chief Directorate, Gribanov, who approved Nosenko's (NOSIENKO'S) 1964 TDY to Geneva.

Nosenko was a KGB “chief,” with access to details on KGB operations against the U.S. Embassy, and was most recently Deputy Chief of the Tourist Department. He also stated that Nosenko, with his information on U.S. Embassy microphones and KGB operations involving correspondents and tourists, was “more valuable [to American Intelligence] than Penkovsky.” Nosenko “could do tremendous harm to the KGB,” and moreover, the KGB “will not be able to operate normally for two years” (i.e., until 1966). He described the repercussions in the KGB caused by Nosenko's defection: new KGB regulations to increase security, the dismissal of many KGB officers including Gribanov, and the recall of many others.

Asked whether Nosenko could be a “trick,” i.e., a KGB provocateur, he expressed the conviction that Nosenko was not.

It should be noted that Nosenko had attended the GRU's Military-Diplomatic Academy (Nosenko has indicated he declined the opportunity to enroll in this strategic intelligence school in the early 1950s). Afterwards, Nosenko served in the GRU and then entered.
