13. AMBIDDY-1 has permitted himself to get snared in a web finely spun by a squad of hardened veterans of Havana's halfworld. This can be analyzed as a manifestation of rank immaturity. More difficult to explain is that AMBIDDY-1 has relinquished control over this affair to an extent where it now threatens his life's work. In AMBIDDY-1's P.R.O. II we predicted, more boldly than wisely, that he would not get caught up in female entanglements. While we did not underrate the power of sex, we probably overrated AMBIDDY-1's character and motivation.

14. In a project which may have vast consequence as regards the security of the United States (transcending by far its intrinsic value as an unconventional warfare instrument) we, of course, have to take into consideration the possibility that AMBIDDY-1 could be working for the other side—either now or later. We view this possibility as most unlikely, yet feel somewhat remiss in not having paid much attention to what transpired between the landing at Playa Giron and the Rose Bowl ceremony. There has been some talk about his having undergone marked personality changes during that period in his life, but we actually do not know whether and, if so, to what extent his psyche suffered damage.

15. AMBIDDY-1's aged parents live in Cuba. He possesses intense filial devotion toward his mother. Thus, Castro has in his power two valuable hostages. We have had some frank talks with AMBIDDY-1 about this subject and he knows that we are not unmindful of the purpose to which such hostages can be put. We have received no indications that pressures have as yet been brought to bear upon AMBIDDY-1, nor do we have any concrete reason for believing that such pressures would be of much avail.

16. AMBIDDY-1's intense love of country strikes us as unfeigned. In the light of his resistance record and feats of personal sacrifice, we doubt whether he could consciously bring himself to harming Cuba. His hatred of Castro stems in the main from the latter's betrayal of the revolution. AMBIDDY-1 frequently mentions Cuba's subservience to the USSR (USER) as the darkest betrayal of all, but also voices exception to either aspects of Castro's tyranny.

17. Can we take AMBIDDY-1's professions of faith in democratic principles and the Constitution of 1940 at face value? I submit that we not do so as long as we are unable

SCHMIT
