American Committee on United Europe, Inc.

April 27, 1951

Grants have been made to private groups in Europe working for European union. Groups have been selected which have, in the opinion of the American Committee on United Europe, concrete programs for (1) strengthening the Council of Europe as a political authority; (2) supporting basic aims of the Marshall Plan and the Military Aid Program within the Atlantic Pact; (3) inclusion of Western Germany in a unified Europe.

The major group receiving Committee support is the European Movement, an overall organisation composed of six organizations of private citizens in Europe, which claims to have helped influence the governments of Western Europe to establish the Council of Europe in 1949. The European Movement has initiated conferences and research on economic, cultural and legal questions bearing on union.

In the United States the Committee has published statements on European union by European leaders, a Newsletter with a circulation of some 2,500 copies, summaries of proceedings at meetings of various European groups, and public opinion polls.

The Committee also sponsored lecture tours by Paul Reynaud, Lord Layton, Sir Herbert Butler (Butlers), and Paul-Henri Spaak, and single lectures by Winston Churchill, Robert Schuman, and Paul Van Zeeland (Zeeleld).

The current program is as follows:

Continued fund-raising for support of European groups, particularly the European Movement as a center of work in Europe for a Union.

Publication and distribution of addresses, studies and reports, and sponsorship of meetings at which European statements may give Americans a firsthand account of the work abroad.

Personnel: The office and Board of Directors include the following: Chairman, William J. Donovan; Vice Chairman, Allen K. Dulle; Secretary, George S. Frenzel, Jr.; Treasurer, Bennett F. Connely; Executive Director, William P. Furkee.

Raymond B. Allen; Charles S. Cheston; Lucius D. Clay; R. F. Connely; B. P. Connolly; David Dubinsky; Arthur J. Goldberg; A. Crawford Greene; Charles R. Hook; David F. Lilienthal; Herbert S. Little; Robert H. Maguire (Macquire); Walter N. Maguire (Macquire); Stacy May; George Heboisine; Carl T. Nixon; Frederick Dobson; Kurt F. Pantzer; Robert P. Patterson; Walter Bedell Smith; Arnold J. Zurcher.

Members of Executive Committee.
