Incident Report

From: Building Security Branch

Date: 8 July 1970  
Time: 1330 hours

Name: Hester Roos de Alvarez (Alverez)  
Grade: N/A  
Office: N/A  
Temporary address: 4744 Kenmore Avenue, Alexandria, Virginia

Incident: Request for Assistance  
Time: 1115  
Place: Headquarters

Summary of Information: Subject came to the main entrance of the Headquarters building and asked the guard on duty to place her in touch with someone from the Office of Security. The undersigned responded to the main entrance and escorted Subject to the main reception area, where she was interviewed.

After displaying some reluctance to speak openly, Subject related that she had been employed on a contract basis by the Agency at the Embassy in Mexico City. She gave, by way of biographic data, that she is the daughter of a former Dutch embassy official stationed in Washington, that she was employed at the Dutch Embassy in Mexico City, and that it was there that she met her presently estranged husband, Ramon Alvarez (Alverez), who at the time of their meeting was also employed on a contract basis with the Agency.

She stated that both she and her husband renounced their former citizenships to become citizens of Mexico. After her marriage to Alvarez, she gained employment with the Agency and stated that her specific duties included, but were not restricted to, the monitoring and translation of tapes.

Subject stated that her husband was terminated from Agency employment for security reasons within the past year and received, at the time of his termination, six months' salary and the promise of $1,000.00 per month for 10 months.

She stated that, inasmuch as she is in the process of filing for divorce from her husband and could not substantiate her husband's salary in a court of law because of the termination agreement she had signed, the Agency has agreed to and is paying her the sum of $250.00 per month, which she is using to support her four children, of whom she has been awarded custody.

She stated that she is presently employed as a schoolteacher but feels that she cannot provide ample support to her children on her salary and the allowance furnished by the Agency.

(Continued.)
