Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

During the period under review, Subject managed to gain full-time employment as a senior executive of an HBSRITE government subsidized scientific publication at a time of economic slowdown when jobs were not easy to get. He did this without help from Headquarters or the Station. Such an achievement is a tribute to Subject's fluency in French, his ability to write, his general scientific know-how and his good business sense. Over half of his salary therefore is now paid by this company. In converting to full-time employment, a major adjustment, Subject's contribution to the Station operations in the MHARSH and TPFAST fields against which he is targeted temporarily decreased somewhat. Subject continued, however, to maintain contact with three local MHARSH officials and initiated contact with three others. He also continued to search for new leads to personalities in the priority areas assigned to him. Subject has the capability to call on local scientists or technicians of just about any nationality with the possible exception of TPFAST citizens. He has used this near-unique potential well.

Subject has had occasional difficulty switching from "professional" or intellectual subjects in his development of MHARSH personalities or access prospects to more down-to-earth interests necessary.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report and D.

Date: 9 June 1971.

Signature of employee: /s/ Thomas B. CASASIN.

By Supervisor.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 18 months.

Official title of supervisor.

Date. Handling officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Francis S. Sherry.
