Election, Declination, or Waiver of Life Insurance Coverage. Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program. Important agency instructions on back of original.

To complete this form: follow these general instructions. Read the back of the “Duplicate” carefully before you fill in the form. Fill in both copies of the form. Type or use ink. Do not detach any part.

Fill in the identifying information below: Name: Randall, Frederick Crawford. Date of birth: 10/28/26. Social Security number: 508 20 4068. Employing department or agency. Location: city, state, ZIP code.

Mark an “X” in one of the boxes below; do not mark more than one.

Mark here if you want both optional and regular insurance.

(A) Election of optional, in addition to regular, insurance. I elect the $10,000 additional optional insurance and authorize the required deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to pay the full cost of the optional insurance. This optional insurance is in addition to my regular insurance.

(B) Declination of optional, but not regular, insurance. I decline the $10,000 additional optional insurance. I understand that I cannot elect optional insurance until at least 1 year after the effective date of this declination and unless, at the time I apply for it, I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of insurability. I understand also that my regular insurance is not affected by this declination of additional optional insurance.

Mark here if you want neither regular nor optional insurance.

(C) Waiver of life insurance coverage. I desire not to be insured and I waive coverage under the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program. I understand that I cannot cancel this waiver and obtain regular insurance until at least 1 year after the effective date of this waiver and unless, at the time I apply for insurance, I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of insurability. I understand also that I cannot cancel or later have the $10,000 additional optional insurance unless I have the regular insurance.

Sign and date. If you marked box A or C, complete the statistical stub. Then return the entire form to your employing office. Signature: Jedediah Schmidt. Date: 11 March 1968.

For employing office use only. Original received date unknown. 03. 11. 77 9:01.

The following are the names of three individuals who completed the survey and provided feedback on the Employee Benefit Program Survey. The responses were recorded by a computer and do not reflect the true intent of the survey respondents. The opinions expressed in these statements are those of the individual(s) responding and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Company or its management.
