Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law, Title 18 U.S.C. Secs. 703 and 705, the transmission or revolution of which in our manner to an unauthorised person is prohibited by law.

Country: Mexico. Report No. CS-311/13134-66. Subject: Activities of the Mexican Communist Party in Nuevo Leon. Date acquired: 23 August 1966. Field report No. HMY-1262. Date of information: 17–22 August 1966. Place: Mexico, Nuevo Leon, Monterrey.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive; appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: A ranking member of the Mexican Communist Party in Nuevo Leon who has access to Party plans. He has reported reliable information on the Party for about six years.

1. The plenum of the Central Committee of the Mexican Communist Party (PCM – Partido Comunista Mexicano) will take place in Mexico City on 25, 26, and 27 September 1966.

2. The Campesino Congress of Torreon was attended by Oscar Guajardo Gutierrez of the Nuevo Leon State Committee. Guajardo will remain in Torreon until 24 August to attend the national plenum of the Independent Peasants' Central (CCI – Central Campesina (Camposina) Independiente), which is being held concurrently with the Campesino Congress.

3. Lino Medina Salazar, in his capacity as member of the Central Committee and member of the National Trade Union Commission, was in Monterrey from 17 to 19 August to participate in a meeting of the State Committee to discuss the Party's trade union activities, because so little has been done in this field which the Party has had difficulty in penetrating. It was agreed that the publication of Accion Sindical, which has been dormant for some time, would be resumed as an initial step in planning trade union activity and that a study of the labor situation should be undertaken. Medina, who was not pleased with the outcome of the meeting, promised to return and to personally follow the progress of the trade union program since he is the Central Committee member responsible for supervising the activities of the Party in Nuevo Leon (Nupvo Leon).

Distribution recipients: State, DIA, Army, Navy, Air, NBA, AIO, OCA, FBI #3, CINCOSO, USIA, LIS. Said distribution recorded by “T”.
