b. LACKLEN asked WIROGUE what he would like to do and what type of work he was interested in. WIROGUE replied in a 30-minute presentation that he liked outdoor work involving military operations, such as commando work. He liked to work in military uniform or civilian clothes. He hated desk work. LACKLEN asked him if he would like to work in Communist China, Russia, Indochina, or Germany. WIROGUE replied that it depended on the job. He wanted a challenge. He said, “Just give me a mission and I'll carry it out. Don't worry about his being arrested, killed, or whatever. Money was not important.” LACKLEN again emphasized that he had no job in mind but was simply trying to determine what WIROGUE was interested in, what his experience had been, and what he might be qualified to do. LACKLEN said that he would take this information back to his boss, who would have to contact Washington. We here in Frankfurt knew nothing about him and had no file of his experience.

c. LACKLEN asked WIROGUE, “Suppose there is no assignment for you? What would you like to do then?” WIROGUE continued discussing his interest in working for the “Service” and indirectly made it clear he was not interested in a normal job and life. LACKLEN asked him what country he was a citizen of. WIROGUE stated that he was stateless. LACKLEN asked him what country he would like to live in if he had his choice, and if he could have anything he wanted, where he would like to go and what he would like to do in a normal life. WIROGUE (WIRUGUE) replied that he did not know, but he hated Germans and beans and gave the impression that he was very content with his present status. At no time was it discussed, nor did WIROGUE mention, employment, entry, or citizenship in the U.S. He also stated he could not go back to France due to some trouble, which he then described as the bank robbery.

d. LACKLEN asked him if he was actually receiving a salary from the Congolese Government. He said he was making about 15,000 Congolese Francos per month, and this was not enough to live decently on. He said his job, in addition to the investigation he was conducting on the embassies, was that he was in effect the chief of the Congolese Air Force.
