Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. §§ 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Honduras. Report No. OO-B-321/33415-72.

Subject: General Lopez Arellano. Unwilling to Lead Coup d'etat at Present/Army Officers Being Trained in Peru/Zuniga's Stratagems to Retain Present Power.

Date of info: Late September 1972 and earlier. Place and date acquired by source: Honduras/1972.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: Naturalized US citizen who has worked and lived in Honduras for a number of years. He has numerous social contacts and business connections with officials of the government, the Armed Forces and the business community.

This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. The Honduran economy is in a deplorable state. Some young army officers are urging General Oswaldo Lopez Arellano to lead a coup d'etat to displace President Ramon Ernesto Cruz, and have offered to help him. Early in October 1972 a government official and several young army officers stated in a private conversation that Lopez Arellano did not believe it advisable for him to lead a coup d'etat until most of the following events took place:

a. A rally in the general economy of the country.

b. Improved diplomatic and commercial relations between Honduras and El Salvador. This improvement would further a better functioning of the Central American Common Market (CACM).

c. Completion of the Pan American Highway extending between El Salvador and Honduras. Completion would benefit both countries by giving access to new markets for their products.

d. Decreased corruption among government officials. Not only are some of them feathering their future nests with currency, but also permitting individuals to do likewise in return for something the government official desires the recipient to give or to do for him.

e. Enrichment of the Treasury so that funds could be made available for projects beneficial to the country and its people.
