Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 060389.

Section A — General. Name: Williamson, Earl J. Date of birth: 13 March 1915. Sex: Male. Grade: SS-1A. Service designation: D. Official position title: OPS Officer. Career staff status: MOT eligible; Member; Deferred; Pending; Declined; Denied. Reporting period: From 1 April–31 December 1961.

Section B — Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Rating scale: 1. Unsatisfactory. 2. Barely adequate. 3. Acceptable. 4. Competent. 5. Excellent. 6. Superior. 7. Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Deputy Chief of Station. Rating: 6.
Specific duty No. 2: Directs all liaison operations with Spanish services and supervises Station officers engaged in liaison duties. Rating: 6.
Specific duty No. 3: Personally conducts liaison with a number of top-level local officials. Rating: 7.
Specific duty No. 4: Develops and maintains contacts with nationals of another country for third-country operations. Rating: 6.
Specific duty No. 5: Supervises the operations of an outside shop run jointly with local security services. Rating: 7.
Specific duty No. 6: Develops, recruits and handles agents for independent operations. Rating: 5.

Section C — Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1 — Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2 — Performance meets most requirements but is deficient
