Subject: Apparent Russian Interest in Sanctions on Soviet Union, Moscow Telephone Lines.

Or more contacts with Volgin. Volgin stated that when Schroeder received a note from Volgin stating that he and his family were residing in Moscow, his wife could stay there, and the family would be returned (遣返ed) to the USSR. In order that his wife could stay with Schroeder, they moved to a different address. Incidentally, Schroeder's only other contact with Volgin was through his sister-in-law in 1962, when he met him in Copenhagen at a professional meeting.

6. Schroeder said that Volgin's phone calls to him were made to his home and usually appeared to have been made from pay phones. Schroeder said that his meetings with Volgin included lunches and dinners in Manhattan, socializing at a New York City R.R.E. meeting, theater, film entertainment, and visits to each other's homes. Schroeder claims that his wife accompanied him during most of his contact with Volgin. Other than his own family, Volgin never introduced Schroeder to any other individuals.

7. Schroeder claims that on a couple of occasions he turned over unclassified technical papers to Volgin, who claimed to be an engineer. Schroeder cannot recall whether Volgin specifically requested the information or whether he turned it over to him on his own initiative. At one point during their relationship, Volgin asked Schroeder to write an article on U.S. acoustics work for publication in a Soviet technical journal. Schroeder declined.

8. In retrospect, Schroeder admitted that he had been quite naive about his relationship with Volgin and expressed some concern that his security had not been more active in re-establishing his awareness of the dangers of developing relationships with Soviet government representatives. His view of his experiences now completely coincides with ours as a result of our discussion.

9. Another factor which obviously enters into Schroeder's R.I.B. picture is his wife's Bulgarian extraction. Schroeder claims that neither he nor, to the best of his knowledge, his wife have ever been approached by Soviet representatives in this country concerning his wife's family in Bulgaria. His wife's mother, Iwanilia Mensckik, immigrated to the U.S. in April 1960 and lived with Schroeder and his wife until November 1962, when she returned to Bulgaria, apparently because she was homesick and could not adjust to the new language and life in the U.S. Schroeder said that his mother-in-law's original exit visa request was rejected in 1958 by the Bulgarian government, but after he and his wife wrote several letters to the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry, she was finally granted permission to leave in 1960.
