Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C so as to provide both a basis for determining future personnel action. Mention any extra space is needed to complete Section D; attach a separate sheet of paper.

In the 8 months during which she was under my supervision, Mrs. Bustos has performed in that same hard-working, highly-productive style which has become her trademark over the years. She understands the intelligence process from start to finish and is personally experienced with each step along the way, save the agent handling aspects. She excels in each phase of the work.

As chief of the Branch SA and Cuban activities section, she has once again demonstrated her mastery over her assigned duties. She is a sound, dependable, yet imaginative and energetic operations officer, whose performance leaves little to be desired. While she had had little previous supervisory experience, she has in this assignment demonstrated exemplary supervisory ability. Notwithstanding her drive, tenacity and attention to detail, she is a popular co-worker, is receptive to guidance and is sensitive to, and responsive to the needs of her subordinates.

In her performance of specific duty No. 2, she has brought to bear upon her daily duties her broad experience, high intelligence and good operational sense, functioning with practically no need of close supervision. It is comforting to know that an assignment given to this employee is always done promptly, professionally and cheerfully.

Her adaptability was demonstrated in her specific duty No. 3. Despite the press of normal daily activity, she was often called upon to produce “crash” (continued).

Section E: Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C and D of this report. Signature: C. Austen.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employees, give explanation. Official title of supervisor. Type or printed name and signature. Date: 21 May 1973. DC/WH/1. Raymond J. Swider.

By Reviewing Official. The rater has written an accurate and thorough evaluation of Mrs. Bustos. I concur without reservation in the ratings provided subject. She is an exceptional officer. Her ability to perform a variety of assignments in Headquarters and the Field has measured up to an outstanding record. Her work with subordinates clearly indicate she is a good supervisor. Mrs. Bustos performs all facets of her work in an exemplary manner and in my judgement rates in the upper percentile in the A Category.

Date: 21 May 1973. Official title of reviewing official. Type or printed name and signature: John C. Murray.
