Dispatch form. Processing action: marked for indexing. Microfilmed, M/F 1.1968. Dog Micro. Ser. No indexing required; only qualified desk can judge indexing. Chief of Station, Buenos Aires. Microfilm.

Subject: KAPOK/REDTOP/BIOGENESIS.

Action requiring reference. References: A. BUENOS AIRES 9864, 25 January 1968; B. BUENOS AIRES 9879, 26 January 1968.

1. The Station has long been interested in the fact that but two Soviets reside outside of the Soviet “compounds.” In the fall of 1967 we began a unilateral investigation and casing of the apartment then occupied by Viktor FILIPPOV. Our unilateral investigation revealed that the lock on the door of this apartment was a Trabex—a lock which requires at a minimum several hours of picking. Simultaneous to our unilateral investigation we learned of FILIPPOV’s planned PCS departure. We also learned that the Soviets intended to keep his apartment and that it was to be occupied by FILIPPOV’s replacement. In mid-January we decided to send BIBAFFLE-3 to the apartment building in order to befriend the portero. We had hoped that the portero would be able to furnish us with a key to the apartment. On 25 January we learned that Ivan ALFEREV was arriving in Buenos Aires on 27 January. Unfortunately time had run out on us. We therefore decided to turn to BIOGENESIS.

2. There were several reasons for this decision. First of all, we do not doubt the operational value of having an audit’s installation in the apartment of an identified senior KGB officer. However, a unilateral installation is a difficult and at times risky operation. Considering this and matching it against the potential taking of the operation we felt that a joint operation would be more practical. Cost also influenced our decision. At the same time our experience with BIOGENESIS in the “Vista” operation showed that BIOGENESIS was perfectly willing to give us and only us the tapes from the audio installation.

Continued.

Distributions: (2) - C/SU; 2 - C/WH.

Originating department: 201-236701. Dispatch symbol and department: HADA-10,200. Date: 7 March 1968. Log file number: 4-2-8/3, 201-236671.
