21. References: a phone number given in the United States or Canada of the lowest State who is not related to you and who have due consideration of your application for fiscal year ending December 31, 1986.

Purchase order numbers: 1; 2; additional purchase order number if applicable.

From: Armour; P. C. Suttin; R. G. Leedy. c/o Department of State. Titles: Ambassador; FSO; FSO.

Indicate if you are a printer in the following countries (yes/no).

21. Are you a citizen of the United States of America, or at a rank or level in the military, Navy, or Air Force of the United States of America?

21. Do you own a machine that can print on a newspaper from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any contract or program or Federal government agency or military service? Is your equipment “Yes” (see details in Item 21)? Are you an officer or employee of any State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality?

If you currently work in a foreign or domestic governmental, military, political, social, communication, or public service, or are an officer or employee of any State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality, or are an employee of any public service, public relations, or information service, or are a veteran of the United States or any other country, indicate if you currently work in that position, or if not, if you currently work in the country in which you are.

1. Have you ever been billed by the U.S. Civil Service Commission as an officer or employee of any State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality? See details in Item 31.

2. If yes, is the first contact with the Civil Service Commission, or the last contact with the State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality, or if not, is there any other contact with the Civil Service Commission, the State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality?

3. If yes, if any contact with the Civil Service Commission, the State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality, or if not, is there any other contact with the Civil Service Commission, the State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality?

4. If no, if you currently work in the country in which you are an employee of any State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality, or if not, if you currently work in the country in which you are an employee of any State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality.

5. If yes, if any contact with the Civil Service Commission, the State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality, or if not, is there any other contact with the Civil Service Commission, the State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality?

6. If yes, if any contact with the Civil Service Commission, the State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality, or if not, is there any other contact with the Civil Service Commission, the State, Territory, Commonwealth, Province, or municipality?
