Report No. CS-311/02024-68. Date distributed: 1 March 1968. Country: Costa Rica/Haiti. Date of information: February 1968. Subject: Negotiations Between Ludwig Starke, Right-wing Extremist in Costa Rica, and Rolando Masferrer, Cuban Exile Involved in Plotting Against Governments of Haiti and Sa, with a View Toward Mutual Support for Projected Revolutionary Movements. Costa Rica, San Jose, 15–23 February 1968. Field No. HRS-4099. Source: A high-level member of the National Liberation Party (PLN) who has access to and the confidence of top leaders of his party. His strong identification with the PLN and the knowledge that his reporting will reach U.S. official circles probably cause him to present his reporting to the best advantage of the PLN. He has submitted reliable information during the past year, but he has been known to withhold pertinent information. He received the information from Daniel Ouber.

1. Field Comment: TDCS-314/01096-68 reported that Ludwig Starke Jimenez, a right-wing extremist who is the leader of the security forces of the Movimiento Costa Rica Libre (MCRL), anti-Communist businessmen's group, had informed Daniel Ouber Quiros, of the National Liberation Party (PLN), that he was making plans and seeking support for a possible move against the Costa Rican Government in the event that it should appear to be in danger of passing into the hands of leftists. To that end Starke was negotiating with sympathetic groups outside of Costa Rica. He was in indirect contact with Rolando Masferrer, a Cuban exile involved in plotting against the Governments of Haiti and Cuba, through Fernande Melé Fontanillar, a Cuban exile in Costa Rica who was in touch with a priest associated with Masferrer.

2. In mid-February Ouber said that he had contacted Melo, whom he had known for some time, in an effort to learn more about the negotiations between Starke and Masferrer, in which Melo had been acting as an intermediary. Melo said that the objective of the negotiations was to work out a plan whereby Haitian and Cuban exiles, with Starke's
