Answers to questions by placing “X” in proper column. Item No. Yes. No.

23. Are you a citizen of the United States or an American? (Mark one) Yes.

24. Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of the Communist Party, U.S.A., the Communist Political Association, the Young Communist League, or any Communist organization? No.

25. Are you now or have you ever been a member of any foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which is designated, organized, or subordinated, or which has adopted, or shows, a policy of advertising, promoting, or approximating the commission of acts of force or influence in order to sway other persons toward action under the Constitution of the United States, or by means of the form of government of the United States, by the institutional means specified herein? No.

26. Were you active to 1947 and/or 2003 above in “Yes,” state on a separate sheet attached to and made a part of this application the names of all organizations, associations, movements, groups, in combination of persons and dates of meetings. Give complete details of past activities and make any explanation you may have regarding your membership or activity. (See Instructions Sheet.)

27. Have you any physical handicaps, diseases, or other disabilities? Yes.

28. Have you ever had a nervous breakdown? Yes.

29. Have you ever had tuberculosis? Yes.

30. Were you active to 20, 25, or 30 above in “Yes,” give details in Item 39.

31. Have you ever been barred by the U.S. Civil Service Commission from taking examinations or accepting civil service appointment? (If yes, give date of first such bar, and reason for such bar.) Yes.

32. Does the United States Government employ, on a civilian capacity, any relative of yours (by blood or marriage) with whom you live or have lived within the past 24 months? Yes.

33. If same answer is “Yes,” give in Item 30 to 32, each relative (1) full name; (2) present address; (3) relationship; (4) department or agency in which employed, and (5) bond or agreement. No.

34. Do you receive or have you applied for the pension from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act or any pension or other compensation (see salary or naval service)? No.

35. If same answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 31. Yes.

36. Are you an official or employee of any State, territory, county, or municipality? Yes.

37. Were you active to 1947 and/or 2003 above in “Yes,” give details in Item 39.

38. Have you ever been discharged (sired) from employment for any reason? Yes.

39. Have you ever resigned (quit) after being observed that your employer intended to discharge (fire) you for any reason? Yes.
