July 2, '95

Memorandum

The National Committee for a Free Europe's policy in respect to Yugoslavia and Yugoslav exile activities may be summarized in the following statements.

1. The Committee does not now, nor does it plan to interfere, by radio or otherwise, with the domestic affairs of the Yugoslav people or of the Titoist regime.

2. In so far as our anti-Stalinist aims and activity coincide, we see no reason to obstruct such functional and mutually beneficial arrangements as may from time to time present themselves. Specifically, we have no objection to exchanges with Radio Belgrade, certain types of radio materials in respect to the countries under Soviet domination which might enhance the effectiveness of our radio programs or otherwise aid the work of the National Committee for a Free Europe.

3. As an anti-Communist organization dedicated to the concepts of democracy and of individual freedom, we feel it is entirely consistent and proper to extend aid to democratic Yugoslav exiles from their homelands, within the budgetary and other limitations under which we operate. To this end, a total of some 600 Yugoslavs are retained by the Committee and engaged in five types of work:

a) In Radio Free Europe, which has 40 Yugoslav staff (dock), 13 Yugoslavs have been engaged as information analysts, program advisors and translators because of their technical abilities.

b) In the Mid-European Studies Center, 31 Yugoslavs are engaged in research projects connected with the East European Inquiry, the Law Project and the East European Accessions list, and include 7 scholarship students.

c) In the Research & Publications Service, 9 Yugoslavs are engaged in analysis of the Yugoslav press and other sources of information and in the publication of factual, non-propagandistic studies and bulletins designed to keep the emigration and interested Americans informed on domestic events.

d) The Free Europe University in Exile has selected 13 Yugoslav students on the same basis of individual merit as students from the other European Communist nations have been granted scholarships to study at Strasbourg.

e) Finally, the National Council Division gives financial aid to three formerly prominent Poles in recognition of their past services to the cause of democracy.

In conclusion, the number of Yugoslavs thus supported by the Committee's various divisions represents 5.6% of the total exile staff.

SSW/bvb

Sent to State Dept. 28 July 1952
