Section XXIV. Additional Information.

1. Do you advocate or have you ever advocated, or are you now or have you ever been a member of, or have you ever supported or been associated with any political party, individual, or institution which advocates or trades with the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force, violence, or other unconstitutional means, or seeks by force or violence to deny persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States? Yes. No.

2. If you have answered “Yes” to the above question, explain.

3. Do you use or have you ever used intoxicants? Yes. No.

4. If so, to what extent? Occasionally.

5. Do you use or have you ever used narcotics? Yes. No.

6. If you have been a member of, or supported, or had any connections with a foreign intelligence organization or its activities? Yes. No.

If answer is “Yes,” give complete details.

Military Maison to J-7 SCS, Imperial Iranian Army, 1959 to 1961.

8. List below the names of government departments, agencies, or offices to which you have applied for employment since 1940. U.S. Army.

9. If, to your knowledge, any of the above have conducted an investigation of you, indicate the name of the agency and the approximate date of the investigation.

CSS 1943. U.S. Army 1956–57. BHU 1946. ACSI D of A 1959. OJD 1947. CIA 1948–49.

Note special instructions: If your answer is “Yes” to the following questions 10, 11, or 12, provide the information requested for each question on a separate, signed sheet and attach the sheet to this form in a sealed envelope.

10. Have you, or to your knowledge had your spouse, ever been detained, arrested, indicted, or convicted for any violation of the law other than a minor traffic violation in the United States or abroad? Yes. No.

If so, state name of court, city, state, country, date, nature of offense, and disposition of case in accordance with the special instruction above.

11. Have you ever been arrested, court-martialed, or otherwise punished under military law or regulation? If so, describe incident and provide date(s) of occurrence on separate sheet in accordance with special instructions above.
