Document Transfer and Cross Reference. Subject of document: Whittaker Chambers, Washington Post article dated 30 Nov. 1949, “Hiss Trial Note Hints Reds Got Ship Plans.” RI file no. 201-100-466-4-25-6. Analyst. Date processed. Source cryptology. Date of info. Evaluation. Disseminated in. Date. Document disposition: Cross referred to this file. Transferred to RI file no.

Pertinent information.

Datelined: New York, Nov. 29, (AP).

“A cryptic note hinting that the Russians obtained plans for two prewar American superbattleships was read today at an explosive session of Alger Hiss’s perjury trial.

“The Government also bared secret reports intended to show how a fantastic Soviet underground web was woven deep into Washington in the early New Deal days to influence United States Government policy.

“Both disclosures came in the form of reports by Government officials of talks with Whittaker Chambers, chief accuser of Hiss and former courier for a Russian spy ring.

“The battleship note, jotted by Assistant Secretary of State Adolph Berle in 1939, read:

‘Plans for two superbattleships—secured in 1937—who gave Karp—brother-in-law of Molotov—working with Scott Ferris got this released—now; naval architect working on it, why; Field was original contact. He introduced Z to Gompertz (Hedda)—Z relationship was casual—shall excuse?—where is Hedda Gompertz?—Z and Field supposed to have been both members of party.’

“The Z referred to an individual whose name was blacked out. Defense Attorney Claude B. Cross said he did not object to the document but thought use of the name would affect the reputation of a dead man.

“Molotov, former Russian Foreign Minister, now is Deputy Premier.

“A Hedda Gumperz (Gompertz) Massing is a former wife of Gerhart Kisler, who fled the U.S. last spring after being identified as the No. 1 Communist in this country.

“Mrs. Massing has been described as a ‘cooperative witness’ in post-war American spy hunts.

“There was no clue to the identity of ‘Field’ or the ‘Scott Ferris’ mentioned. (continued)”
