Field Information Report.

Grading of source: A complete evaluation of a source is possible only after the document has been read and understood. This evaluation should be based on a consideration of all available evidence, including any information provided by the source itself, for example, in a letter. It should also take into account any bias or other factor that may affect the reliability of the information.

Approval of content: 1. Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. 2. Probable. 3. Possible. 4. Doubtful. 5. Unlikely.

Country: Mexico/Cuba.

Report No. HOC-7366.

Subject: Comments of Victor Rico Galan on his recent trip to Cuba.

Date of report: 28 June 1963.

No. pages: 2.

Date of information: 23 June 1963.

Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City, 23 June 1963.

This is unverified information. Source: grad nos are confidential. Approval of content is tentative.

Source: Persons (B) in close personal contact with Rico Galan. Appraisal of content: 2.

1. Victor Rico Galan, Mexican Marxist journalist and head of the National Press and Propaganda Committee of the Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional (MLN—National Liberation Movement), rabidly anti-United States, pro-Cuba, Communist front, returned to Mexico from Cuba on 22 June 1963.

2. Rico Galan said that while in Cuba he spent eight days with Fidel Castro Ruz (Bus), Communist Prime Minister, and also spoke with the following Cuban Government officials: Osvaldo Portillo Torrado, President; Ernesto (“Che”) Guevara Serna (Guavara Sarna), Minister of Industries; Raúl Roa García (Rázn García), Minister of Foreign Relations; Francisco Wilfredo Blas Roca Calderón (Blas Roa Calderón), Secretary-General of the Partido Socialista Popular (PSP—Cuban Communist Party); Regino Boti León (Rotí Loen), Minister of National Economy; and José Ildefonso Cobel, director of the National Institute of Sports, Physical Education and Recreation.

According to Rico Galan, he spent five of the eight days with Castro at sea, and Castro discussed his visit to the Soviet Union and his talks with Nikita Khrushchev (Khruchchev), Premier of the Soviet Union. Rico Galan further said that the Cuban Government is now making an effort to improve its relations with the Mexican Government, which, according to Rico Galan, has been neglected. These efforts by the Cuban Government will be made not only at the diplomatic level but also “at higher levels.” Cuba will also try to improve its relations with Brazil, now that the Brazilian political situation is calmer.
