Memorandum for: Chief, FI

Headquarters Case Officer

Subject: Amend LIEMPTY Project to include a special benefit for Oliver G. SCANTLING (ps) and to include Louise J. MACRINO (ps).

Name: J. B. Brady. Room: 211 Barton Hall. Extension: 2555 or 3152. Date: 5 March 1959.

1. It is requested that approval be granted to give Oliver G. SCANTLING a special benefit of one year's salary to him or his assigned heirs in the event of loss of life or total disability if incurred in the performance of duty. This benefit was included in a contract prepared in the field and signed by Subject on 15 February 1957. The contract was not submitted to Headquarters for approval until December 1958. The Station and WH Division do not want to delete this benefit from Subject's contract at this time and we feel Subject deserves this benefit.

2. SCANTLING, a civil engineer, is a Mexican citizen who is 40 years old. He was granted an Operational Approval on 2 December 1954. SCANTLING began his employment with NUSARK as a footman on the LIPSTICK physical surveillance team and gradually became a driver of a surveillance automobile, then team leader. As team leader he was responsible for the operational deployment and administrative direction of the entire LIPSTICK team, three automobiles, four photographic and radio dispatching basehouses, and the attendant mobile and stationary radio equipment. He collated the fragmentary surveillance reports into finished intelligence reports for study by the Case Officer. SCANTLING developed into a fine investigator and has obtained information where other Station investigative assets have failed.

3. Almost all of SCANTLING's time now is spent following up leads obtained from telephone intercepts and photographic surveillances. From July through December 1958 he made approaches to individuals performing services for the Soviet Embassy and made a detailed casing report of the West German Embassy. In addition, he conducted many routine investigations and surveillances. The Station plans to have SCANTLING attempt to recruit the landlord of the proposed basehouse for a LINEUP (FI/D) operation. SCANTLING no longer handles the surveillance team and the Station plans to continue to use him as an independent asset. SCANTLING has in his possession official credentials of the Federal Security Police (DFS). He has used these credentials in making contacts with targets of various sensitive Headquarters' operations (i.e., LCNAYFOWL).

4. As a graduate engineer who has spent at least ten years in house construction in Mexico, he has been invaluable to the Station in submitting detailed casing reports, including detailed and professional plans of technical targets. He has been commended by TSS for the support role he has played for them. He has submitted several casing reports on the Soviet Embassy and is an unparalleled source of information to the Station for information about the Embassy's construction activities, modifications, and reasons for same.
