UFGA-24306

Wealthy, in his early 50s, well educated, and speaks Spanish, French, Italian, and English. He is deaf in his left ear. His daughters, who attended schools in Brussels, are also well educated and speak several languages. CASTILLO plans to return to Guatemala on 12 January 1966.

c. Cristina ALEJOS plans to leave for Guatemala on 15 January. For the past month her father has been training her on his properties in Guatemala, about which she is to give him a report after her arrival there. Her father is particularly worried about “his large farm which is losing money.” ALEJOS has indicated to Cristina that eventually she will take over control of all his property in Guatemala. She will stay with the CASTILLO Menocal family for three weeks, after which she will stay with her father’s brother Arturo in Guatemala City.

d. Roberto ALEJOS does not plan to go to Europe this year because of the uncertain status of his financial affairs. He often speaks of his concern about the tense political situation in Guatemala and the danger of a Communist takeover. He is also concerned about his daughter’s American boyfriend, Arthur GORDICK (phonetic), who has had some problems in Guatemala involving the police. ALEJOS has forbidden Cristina to see GORDICK, but she is not complying with his order.

2. Station index files have no traces on Cristina ALEJOS, Arturo ALEJOS, or Arthur GORDICK; nor are there any traces identifiable with Rafael CASTILLO Menocal.

3. RID, please index:

a. Name: ALEJOS, Cristina  
Sex: F  
DOB: Ca. 1946  
POB: ?  
CIT: Guatemalan  
OCO: See below

18-year-old daughter of Roberto ALEJOS Arzu (201-281383). Re conversation in Miami 6 Jan 68 with AMCLATTER-1’s daughter, her close friend, subject plans to leave for Guatemala 18 Jan. Eventually to take charge of her father’s properties in Guatemala.

b. Name: CASTILLO Menocal, Rafael  
NMX: M  
DOB: Ca. 1914  
POB: ?  
CIT: ? Probably Guatemalan  
OCO: Representative of Wayne Motorbus Assembly Plant, Guatemala City
