Classified message.

Date: 25 APR 64.

Operational immediate. Initials: PRU. S/S: 251419Z. Incoming number: 9590.

To. Info.

Priority DIR LAVE NEXI SALV TEGU SJOS CURT. Type KODESK. Reference OTTA 1608 (not sent TEGU SJOS) (IN 9563).

1. Following information is from Rodriguez, defected Cuban intelligence staffer now being deployed OTTA.

1. Intelligence advisers within DCI are Soviets and not from satellites.

2. Propose from WH area who go to Cuba for training, including guerrilla type, return to their countries via Prague and, on departing, carry two passports. One, which is Cuban under a false name, is surrendered to Czech security service Prague, which does not return it to Cuba (comment: and possibly retains it for only use). Other, from any Latin American country under same or another false name, is used for outward travel. Contact plan is arranged with Czech security for Cuban passport pickup, but Czech security service has no role to levy requirements or do anything else than to retrieve Cuban passport.

3. Cuban intelligence staffers include Irramir Vallalta in Prague; a man whose true name is not known, using Julio D'Amaso Vasquez, whose internal DCI pseudonym is Sergio and who has been trained for assignment to Central America in parachuting, SW codes and ciphers, and radio, but who until very recently was still in Cuba; a man whose true name is not known but who is deputy to Manuel Piniero in DCI and who is called Chain in the Ministry of Foreign Relations and is known under the pseudonym Augusto in DCI; and Rogerio LNM, whose DCI pseudonyms are Eduardo, Jose Antonio, and Casimiro and who is assigned to MEN.

4. Cuban intelligence agents while working outside Cuba include: FHO Sosa, who is a Honduran citizen trained by Cuban DCI in radio, codes and ciphers and is believed probably in Costa Rica now; Roque Dalton Garcia, with Cuban DCI training as above, who is Salvadoran, is now in El Salvador, and has the pseudonyms Juan Montenegro, Armando Camerera, and Jose Olivio Perez Colón, whose accommodation address for SW is Dafnasuscite, Est. Campesano, and who is assigned to Lake del Cambilo 22; Column Sainto totals 70%; 17. Texas, C.O.T.: José Ruiz Tobay Carrillo Calderon, Salvadoran, who uses pseudonym A. Varia Salguero; Réniro Cambillo Calderon, Salvadoran, N° C.A.; José Ramos Vargas Salguero; Juan Contreras and A/DRS, C.A.; Carpintera Vargas; A. Wágie Salguero; Juan Contreras and A/DRS, Salvadoran, N° C.A.; José Velasco, whose true name is that of a Salvadoran trained in Cuba in Cayenera; Alejandro Coney Montand, Salvadoran, now in Rándekir, who uses the pseudonyms Jose Rafael Saratía, Ramon Se
