Rated Officer's Name and Service Number.

Section II: Estimated Desirability in Various Capacities.

Indicate the extent to which you would desire the rated officer to serve under you in each type of duty described below. Place an X in the proper box. Consider each item in terms appropriate to the rated officer's grade and branch. Use the Unknown column only if the nature of your contact makes it impracticable for you to make an estimate of his probable usefulness in a particular assignment. Marking Unknown does not penalize the rated officer.

Rater: A. Command's unit. Serve as a staff officer. B. Specify? C. Work as a specialist, professional person, or technician. Specify? D. Conduct military instruction. E. Serve in a capacity involving contacts with other services, allied forces, or civilians—for example, joint boards, contract negotiations, reserve components, etc. F. Carry out an assignment involving mostly administrative duties. G. Represent your viewpoint in liaison activities. H. Make decisions and take action in your name during your absence—for example, act as your deputy. Rated: selected. I. Be responsible in an emergency requiring forceful leadership. J. Other. Specify? Rated: selected.

Comment on and/or clarify above ratings if necessary.

For technical and administrative reasons, or staff, interpret this to mean managerial responsibilities commoner with command.

Section III: Performance of Duty.

Considering only officers of his grade, branch, and about the same time in grade, rate the officer in performance of his duty assignment. Read all descriptions and place a heavy X in the box opposite the best description.

1. Facilitates any other officer I know in performance of this duty.
2. Outstanding performance of this duty found in very few officers.
3. Very fine performance of such a service that this officer is a distinct asset to the service.
4. Performs this duty in a competent, dependable manner.
5. Performs this duty acceptably.
6. Seriously inadequate in performance of this duty.
7. Inadequate in performance of this duty.

Section V: Over-All Value.

Rater: What is your estimate of the rated officer's overall value to the service? Compare him with officers of the same grade, branch, and about the same time in grade. Place a heavy X in the box opposite the best description.

Section IV: Promotion Potential.

Considering officers of his grade, branch, and about the same time in grade, what is your opinion of this officer
