Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management: 1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and 2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the field administrative or personnel officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters.

To the field supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent conferences of his own, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

Revise... Rad J/8/55.

It is optional whether or not this fitness report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I.

Name: William Vincent Broe. Date of birth: 24 Aug. 1913. Sex: M. Service designation: D. Grade: GS-15. Station designation (current): China Mission Headquarters (Yokosuka). Due date of this report: 30 November 1954. Period covered by this report: 23 June 1954 to 30 November 1954.

Section II — To be completed by field supervisor.

Current position: Deputy Chief of Mission, 0136.01. Date assumed responsibility for position: 15 December 1953. Specific assignments or tasks typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months: Deputy Chief, China Mission. Subject acts as general manager of the Mission Headquarters and in the absence of the Chief of Mission subject acts as Chief of Mission.

Authentication of report and signatures.

Name of rater (true): Desmond Fitzgerald (FITZGERAID). Name of reviewing official in field (true): Harvey E. Oversch.
