Chief Civilian

Subject: Claudard Joseph CHARLES

7. I met Mrs. Matlack in the lobby of the Hotel Willard shortly before noon, and a few minutes later, Mr. Charles arrived, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. de Mareschillat. He lunched in the restaurant in the hotel. Mr. de Mareschillat mentioned that he had been born in Russia, but during the Bolshevik Revolution had been taken to Poland as a small child. He had spent approximately 20 years in Poland prior to World War II and had served in the Polish Army. He also mentioned that he had been a member of an ICA branch in Yugoslavia in 1957 and while in Belgrade had met Gcesula, who was visiting Belgrade at the time. He had spoken to Gcesula and was invited to visit Poland, which invitation he had accepted. His home is in Dallas, Texas. He has a PhD. in geology and has had some teaching experience. Mrs. de Mareschillat was born in Paris, China. Her father was Russian and her mother French, and she is now or has been a fashion designer. Mr. de Mareschillat mentioned that he has known Charles for some time and that he is a partner with him in a medical business in Haiti.

8. Both Charles and de Mareschillat were candidates to arrange meetings with government officials in Washington. I mentioned to Charles that a meeting had been arranged for him at 8:15 and that a Mr. Green would meet him in the lobby. At 1410, Mrs. Matlack, Mr. and Mrs. de Mareschillat, and I departed, and Charles remained in the lobby waiting for contact.

9. In the course of the luncheon conversation, Charles had mentioned to Mrs. Matlack that he desired to see a Mr. Wies, AIB, to discuss U.S. aid to Haiti. Later that afternoon Mrs. Matlack called to state that she had called the State Department to pass along Charles' request. Mr. Lagaraki (State) had called her back to pass on the Haitian desk man's extreme displeasure that anyone in the United States Government should be in official contact with Charles. The desk man considered Charles to be close to the Duvalier Government, to have been involved in several shoddy financial dealings, and in general, to be an undesirable character. Mrs. Matlack asked whether the Agency had any interest in Charles which would dictate further contact with Charles.

10. Maye Sturgis checked with MI Division and determined that as a result of the meeting with Charles, the D/P Haitian Desk had no further plans to contact him. I told Mrs. Matlack that our interest seemed to have been satisfied and that I believed we should disengage ourselves as gracefully as possible.
