August 6, 1962

Contact Report

Subject: Jimmy SABOKI (P-13,500)

Date of Meet: August 5 at Continental Rest from 2000 to 2330 hours.

1. The meet was presarranged and S came on time. The purpose of the meet was to debrief S on his meet with LOG, which took place the previous evening, and proceed with the filling of the PAG, as well as to give necessary operational instruction. The purpose was achieved.

Next meet: August 18 at the same time and place.

2. The fact that LOG started the meet with a talk about books appeared to S to be curious. No doubt that LOG was peddling some Communist ideological tidbits, especially justification of Soviet international policy. Briefly, too much freedom is not good; Americans and their foreign policy are naive; they worry more about world opinion than about their national interest; if they want to do something, they consult everybody and everything to find out an ages-old act that nobody can satisfy everybody; Nixon's trip to Romania was outright a provocation aimed at the Soviet Union, except if it was a product of naivete.

3. S was really surprised to hear LOG giving up so easily on the matter of the U.S. Embassy phone directory, but he was outright disappointed when LOG stated that neither he nor any of the Soviet Embassy officials would want to meet with Kung. Further, S was surprised when he was directly told that he was to be a Soviet agent assigned to collect information about Red China and National Chinese policy concerning the Soviet–Red Chinese conflict from a Chinese Embassy official. Although he did not mention it to WELLD, it was obvious that S did not like at all the idea that big money was spoken of but there was no mention of money right now, i.e., during the period “S will be working on winning TAKE's confidence.”

4. I reminded S what I told him at their previous meet concerning his involvement in the Chinese matter and that it was just clear then what he meant. LOG spelled it out in clear terms. S consented that he did not want to go to see Kung before speaking to S, because he wanted to follow our instruction. This was said to please T on one hand and on the.
