4. As has been the case for the past six years, Dr. Henry King Stanford, President, and Dr. Eugene Cohen, Vice President and Treasurer, of the University of Miami, have extended their fullest cooperation concerning the Miami Station and overall CIA interests and it is anticipated they will continue to do so. However, we believe there is a practical limit to the amount of pressure they could stand from their trustees and from certain public quarters if there is a flood of publicity regarding CIA activities allegedly centered in or controlled from the Smith Technical Enterprises Inc., or its accused successor, the Holman Corporation. If such a situation arises, it is conceivable that Dr. Stanford would feel impelled to take some action aimed at dissociating the University of Miami from any contact with the Holman Corporation. Since the Holman Corporation is ostensibly the tenant of the University of Miami, although on Federal property, the resulting action might involve a request for the termination of the tenancy agreement.

5. Even if the above circumstances did not exist, we could remain concerned regarding the possible effects of the prosecution of the Masquerer group. Although no Station agents or persons with whom the Miami Station has contractual arrangements are among the persons arrested or those who will be prosecuted, it will be very easy for the defense to drag CIA Miami into the case. The defense has only to obtain testimony (true or perjured) from one of the defendants, or to summon as defense witness one or more disaffected former agents of the CIA Station, in order to begin a chain reaction surfacing much detail and rumor concerning CIA operations against the Cuban target. Given the sizeable reduction of infiltration and Covert Action agents during the past year, a general feeling of frustration and lack of support for Cuban freedom attributed to passive U.S. policy and reduction in CIA support in all sectors, the long standing animosity of certain Chile circles against U.S. Government, notably CIA, and the evaluation that CIA now is the most vulnerable of Federal Agencies confronting them, enforcers will be tempted to see an attack against CIA as accomplishing several purposes, that is, gaining acquittal, blackening CIA, and exerting pressure on the U.S. Government for a policy change.
