Section E — Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. Hicks has an excellent understanding of clandestine operations and has demonstrated an outstanding ability to be flexible enough to cope with an ever changing program. He has performed his duties in a superior manner at all times, exercising mature judgement and firm action. He has continued to keep his objectivity and make a fine contribution to a Project that has had more than its share of frustrations. It is believed that Mr. Hicks should be considered for promotion to Grade GS-13 at the earliest opportunity. He has continuously demonstrated his ability to perform the functions and assume the responsibilities of a higher level in an outstanding manner. Mr. Hicks has worked long, irregular hours, and without complaint, to get the job done.

Section F — Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 13 Feb. 1962. Signature of employee: Calvin W. Pekich.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 10. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify):

Date: 13 Feb. 1962. Official title of supervisor: Chief, WH/4/PM/Ops. Typed on printed name and signature: Charles S. Pekich.

By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

The above ratings are based primarily on duties performed prior to the assumption, in November 1961, of present duties by the reviewing officer. Since November 1961, Mr. Hicks has shown superior ability to adapt himself to new and changing conditions and has performed well.

Date: 14 FEB. 1962. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WH/4/PM. Typed on printed name and signature: Charles W. Matt.
