75/Sun/61  
28 August 1962

In Moscow, MD calling from Moscow introduces himself to Samokhin as Kalugin. Kal says that he is in the office that prepares material for Sun to turn over to the press. Kal wants to have better contact with Sun. Kal says that Sun has to give his preferences to Kal on the kinds of articles that he wants for the press. Kal will be calling Sun by telephone about two times a month. Then Sun can tell Kal what his preferences are in the way of articles.

Secondly, Kal wants Sun to be sure to be more observant in informing Kal what is being printed in Mexico, and that those articles be sent to Kal. Kal says “no,” so there is considerable material being printed in Mexico. But whatever Sun sends to Kal is sent very irregularly. Sun says that he always gave quarterly reports. Now Sun is being asked for monthly reports. It seems there is part of the conversation missing.

Kal says for Sun to send him a two-word cable saying when Sun wants Kal to call. Then Kal will call Sun. For instance, if Sun has anything to request, then he could send the cable. Kal asks if, for instance, Sun has any questions right now. Sun says yes, he would like Kal to send him material on the subjects. Sun wants general material by specialists. Kal says that much has been sent to Sun. Sun says unfortunately, no—not enough.

Sun says it would be well if Kal could get together articles by Nikolayev and Popovich themselves, with their signatures to the articles. For instance, a greeting to the Mexican reader, “and with their signature to the article.” Kal asks if Sun wants this addressed to the reader of their periodical. Sun says no, simply to the Mexican reader. This can be published in any periodical. Kal will do this.

Sun says he wants articles on the situation of education—the middle education, special education, and higher education. These articles should be based on specialists writing them, not popular articles. Sun wants information on middle, higher, and technical schools. “No one is asking for such material.” Sun would also like articles on culture and art. Articles not about some specific art or cultural matter, but about the problems in culture and art. Sun wants more specialized articles to be sent to him, articles for the specialized reader. Kal understands.

Sun then asks when his replacement will be coming. Kal cannot answer that. Kal says that he will call Sun on the 10th and will try to give Sun an answer. Sun says he would like very much articles by Nikolayev and Popovich. Sun wants photographs of them also. Kal repeats that he wants very much commentary articles. Sun says this is very difficult to do for the month, “because not so much is published.” Kal asks that nevertheless everything published during the month be sent. Kal asks Sun to send these articles by air mail. Very well. Kal says that these articles have to be answered. Sun asks Kal to give his regards to the comrades.

Sokolovskaya asks Samokhin if she can come over. Yes.

Samokhin asks Yegorov if there will be any mail today. Yegorov says no.
