Military alliance with the U.S.S.R. Now, a year later, his heart bleeding over his parting with Red China, and under brutal Soviet pressure, Castro's Nov. 7 speech inaugurating a hospital sounds like that of a “constructive” ruler whose concern is for the welfare of the people, and who asks that same people “to march up the (socialist) path.” He is no longer arrogant. He belatedly begs for the people's support.

“What About Latin American Communist Parties?” Castro dismissed the fact that China did not greet the reorganization and change of the Cuban Communist Party, but spite and concern were obvious in the tone of his voice. Castro knows that he has betrayed China. On the other hand, the Communist Parties of Latin America have not addressed Castro any congratulatory messages either, which indicates that they are beginning to turn their backs on him on account of his “purging” of the old guard. Under such conditions, Castro's subservience to Moscow is greater every day. Castro has entered the most insurmountable phase of his crisis.

November 10, 1965: “The Reason and Nature of the Economic Blockade.” From Castro's Nov. 7th speech it may be deduced that the U.S.S.R. has only been able to supply him with weapons, bullets and cannons. We state the reasons why the U.S.S.R. will not be able to invest more in Cuba, and that, at the same time, the nations of this Hemisphere will continue their economic boycott of Castro's Cuba. There can be no economic coexistence between Red Cuba and the rest of the Continent.

“Continental Resistance to Aggression.” Even though the Lima meeting of military chiefs from 17 American countries did not take up the question of the Inter-American Army, the assembled chiefs unquestionably took a step towards its establishment, which will be ultimately decided on by the O.A.S. Aggression to the Dominican Republic, and persistence in Cuba-drafted subversive plans against the rest of the Hemisphere, urgently demand that adequate continental security plans be adopted in order to face up to the threat and put an end to aggression.
