Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comments on foreign language competence, if required for current position.

Audited for CS-93 given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial/supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mail Room.

Subject continues to do an exceptional job in assisting his office in the formulation of reports and plans by his research and ability to quickly make name traces and ferret out information from the various agency sources.

During the past year subject has continued to be a most cooperative, loyal and willing worker on a project that due to its nature is more frustrating, and demands more with less apparent return than most projects. As on his previous fitness report, I have rated him very high, primarily due to the fact that he's mature and many years experience with the Agency have made him of much more immediate value than most of his colleagues in the GS 7-9 level. Consequently, although he has made GS-8 within the past year, I feel he is still undergraded and should be promoted to GS-9 at the earliest opportunity.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: June 13, 63. Signature of employee: Gregory Vitale.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 22 mths. Date: 12 June 63. Official title of supervisor: DC/SAS/MOB/EM. Typed or printed name and signature: Calvin W. Hicks.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: While not wishing to detract from the value of subject's duties or from the manner in which he performs them, I do have strong doubts as to whether the nature of his duties warrant promotion to GS-9 even if they were performed in an outstanding manner. During the next year additional duties of a more demanding nature will be placed on subject and I will want to weigh his performance under those circumstances before recommending promotion.

Date: 6/17/63 3. Official title of reviewing official: C/SAS/MOS/FM. Typed or printed name and signature: Charles W. Matt.
