From date assignment to theater to 11 May 1941 until Soviet operations section, MCB. Direct all operations into USHK mounted by section. From 12 May 1941 to present, unit, Combined Ocn (U) Soviet operations MCO. Directed all activities aimed at work within the USHK, including that involving USCH enigro groups.

1. If courses of instruction are considered during the period of this report, list title, location of school, length of course, and date completed.

Personnel in position and positions: Russian—IC: X; past: X; present: X. French—observed: X; present: X; subsequent: X. Berman—past: X; final: X.

5. My preference for next duty after termination of current assignment is, if it is US-ISO state: Yes. Legal address: X. (List one or more in order of precedence.)

6. Have there been any changes in personal status since original employment or last report? Specify if later.

Marital status. Number of dependents. Emergency address. Legal address.

If the answer to any of the above is yes, attach a separate detailed report on duplicate merits. In the case of marriage, the report will include names, addresses, and citizenship of spouse, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brothers-in-law, and sisters-in-law.

Date.

Sections 7 through 11 to be completed by immediate supervisor.

Period covered by this report: 23 February 1951. Date to: 23 May 1951. Occasion for report: Yes—covering initial 90 days of employment. Annual reassignment of reporting officer: No. Proposed reassignment of employee reported on: No.

8. Is this employee qualified to perform all present duties? Yes. Is employee better qualified for other duties? Yes.

If so, what duty or duties?

Do you concur in employee description of duties under Section 21? Yes. If no, explain in Section 11.

Has employee striven for professional improvement? Yes. Is your recommendation employee for promotion? Yes.

9. For each factor observed, check the appropriate box to indicate how the employee compares with all others of the same classification whose professional abilities are known to you personally. Do not limit this comparison to the others now under your supervision. Do not hesitate to mark “not observed” on any quality when appropriate.

Rating factors. Not assessed.
