p. The National States Rights Party;

q. California Anti-Communist League;

r. Christian National Alliance;

s. American Volunteers Group;

t. Provisional National Government of the U.S.A.;

u. American Nazi Party;

v. National Socialist White Peoples Party;

w. League (Leagtion) of Justice;

x. Operation Unicorn—and other similar groups.

2. All directives, memoranda, letters, orders, reports, investigations, studies, or other records, including written memoranda of telephone conversations, which relate to the foundation, existence, activities, operations, size, membership, or presence of any of the organizations named in No. 1 above in the United States Marine Corps (Corp).

3. All directives, letters, memoranda, orders, reports, investigations, or other records which describe, analyze, or otherwise relate to racism at Camp Pendleton Marine Base.

4. All directives, letters, memoranda, orders, reports, investigations, or other records which describe, analyze, or otherwise relate to racism in the United States Marine Corps (Corp).

Since none of the statutory exemptions from the Freedom of Information Act's mandatory disclosure provision applies, access to the requested records should be granted within ten (10) working days.

In the unlikely event, however, that access is denied to any part of the requested records, please describe the deleted material in detail and specify the statutory basis for the denial as well as your reasons for believing that the alleged statutory justification exists in this case. Please also state your reasons for not invoking your discretionary power to release the requested documents in the public interest.

We also request that you waive any applicable fees since disclosure will meet the statutory standard for such waiver in that it would clearly be “in the public interest because furnishing the information can be considered as primarily benefiting the general public.” 5 U.S.C.A. § 552(a)(4)(A).

Should any procedural problem arise as to this request, please call me (collect) at (714) 233-5463.

We await your prompt reply.

Peter A. Schey  
Attorney at Law
