Field Information Report.

Grading of source: A, completely reliable; B, usually reliable; C, somewhat reliable; D, not usually reliable; I, not reliable (applied to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence); F, reliability cannot be judged (applied to untested or insufficiently tested sources).

Appraisal of content: 1, confirmed by other independent and reliable sources; 2, probably true; 3, possibly true; 4, improbable; 5, probably false; 6, cannot be judged.

Country: Mexico. Report No. HMM-10,658. Subject: Reaction to Siempre! editorial on Victor Rico Galan. Date of report: 7 September 1966. No. of pages: 2. Date of information: 2–6 September 1966. Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City, 7 September 1966.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive; appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Mexican intellectual who is a personal friend of Victor Rico Galan, although they disagree politically. Source has reported infrequently but reliably on Rico Galan's activities. The reported information was obtained from Mrs. Rico Galan and from a journalist.

Field comment: The 7 September 1966 issue of Siempre! magazine, which appeared on the stands on 1 September, carried on pages 10 and 11 a letter written from prison by Victor Rico Galan explaining and defending his position and accusing the Mexican Government of being the real violators of the Constitution. On the following pages, an editorial titled Mexico No Es Una Insula de Gorilas (Mexico Is Not a Police State) rejected all of the points put forth by Rico Galan, defended Mexican institutions, and concluded with the observation that time and space had been devoted to what history would properly record as a minor incident because of the magazine's devotion to freedom of expression.

1. Inge de Rico Galan, wife of Siempre! writer Victor Rico Galan, said on 7 September 1966 that her husband was resigning from Siempre! because of the harsh editorial against him and his ideas that appeared in the 7 September issue of the magazine. Mrs. Rico Galan said that the editorial was far harsher than even President Gustavo Diaz Ordaz's comments on the matter, which he included in his 1 September State of the Union message.
