Fitness Report (Part I): Performance.

Instructions for the administrative officer: Complete all instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item 8 of Section A below.

Section A. General.

Name: O'Connell, James P., Jr. Date of birth: 19 Feb. 1917. Sex: Male. Service designation: SD-SS. Office, division, branch of assignment: OS/Sec., Sup. Div., Support Branch. Official position title: Investigator. Grade: GS-14. Date report due in: 17 December 1957. Period covered by this report: 17 December 1950–17 December 1957. Type of report: Initial.

Section B. Certification.

For the rater: This report was shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

Check appropriate statements:

This report reflects my opinions of this individual.

If individual is rated “I” in C¹ or D, a warning letter shall be sent (OCR: “let’s be saint”) to him and a copy attached to this report.

This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors.

I cannot certify that the rated individual agrees and evaluates his job performance because (specify):

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses, so that I can support my decision.

This date: 25 November 1957. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: FRED H. HALE. Supervisor’s official title: Ass’t Dep. Dir. of Sec. (I & S).

For the reviewing official: Record
