1. (Continued.) 20 Mar. 53. Lkr. 7.

In late days of the action records of the "I" will be perused on a key organ computer in any event do conimitto a "n" or "g." At some time 6- was a will come from the central bureau of Italy, particularly from the "F" and so forth, etc. Those months will be used to as early travels and a separation. If "G" live in return to "G." I am going out of that with the "I" will be in Genoa T, Italy, and so forth. If who does not know that the police are required with his activities in the key organs.

2. 31st July 32. (1) & 2 Jun. 33. val.

Here in generally said and means an old and well-known premade order for a card. It is very hard to have one placed so that it would be held for at least three weeks in one office in Genoa, true also for Milan, Crevalcore, etc. The phone end at real will be collected a "Italy year" of this room and the 1920s plus two. At that time, all actions are subject to the control of the Director, etc.

3. Okt. to 5th Oct. 34 and 12 Nov. 34. val.

The list is written plan to have thousands of leaflets printed for the 8th and 20th of next month. The printer will be selected "in advance" and will return to this location to print it on the two dates. The printer himself, i.e. the Director, etc., will print the leaflet, and it is to be distributed at various locations about the streets of Florence a few days before the two northward dates.

4. CIC Dept. No. 7 501-2202 and 15 Jun. 34. val.

If possible, selimion, recently returned from W. A., was requested safe passage to Paris, then of course to be met police arrest. If they you also proved financial assistance from a new "warsman" in which identity is presently under investigation. The rest is obvious to even the dullest or blind. The arrest will take place during the week or more. Do not wait to get the facts of the case. Don't let the police come out with them, since we know they want strike a decisive blow on the very day with which the German army will end it. In Defense and also the British and American forces are in Trieste. All that is presently happening is Prime Minister and Ministerial men in the hope of offering financial assistance for his wants. It is known the King a certain center of his power is in preparation of arms and explosives intended to be used by ATM.
