Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 22592.

Section A: General. Name: Zambernardi Robert. Date of birth: 9 May 1935. Sex: M. Grade: GS-7. Service designation: KURIOT. Official position title: IO Tech Aids. Career staff status: Not eligible. Type of report: Member; deferred; initial; reassignment supervisor; pending; declined; denied; annual; reassignment/employee.

10. Date report due in O.P. 11. Reporting period: From; To. Special (specify).

Evaluation of performance of specific duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Duties levied upon KURIOT by Station CO's in support of their ops and info. This constitutes using concealment devices, telephoto lens. Rating no. 5.

Specific duty No. 4: S/W (two systems). Writing S/W for CO's. Rec'd messages for development.

Specific duty No. 2: Routine lab work. Micro-filming docs, printing docs, reprod. photos, maintenance of Photo Lab. Rating no. 6.

Specific duty No. 8: Stake out surveillance, agent mtgs and other duties that may be requested.

Specific duty No. 3: Opening, photographing and recoaling operational mail of Station CO's. Rating no. 5.

Specific duty No. 6: Purchasing all photo supplies which can be procured on local market. Supplying some basehouses with supplies.

Evaluation of overall performance in current position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements. Overall rating no. 4.

2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.

3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.

4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
