Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in Item 8 of Section A below.

Section A, General.

Name: PICCOLO, Joseph S. Date of birth: 8 December 1935. Sex: Male. Service designation: D6. Office, division, branch of assignment: WHD/III/Mexico City. Official position title: File Clerk. Grade: GS-4. Period covered by this report: 2 December 1957–2 March 1958.

Type of report: Initial.

Certification.

1. For the rater: This report has been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

A. Check appropriate statement: This report reflects my doctrinal opinions of this individual. I, the individual, based primarily in C's and O's, a series of L's, M's, and T's, have begun to write a copy attached to this report. I cannot certify that the based in individuals' doctrinal and literary strengths as well as previous supervisors.

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and deficiencies so that he can show enough in standards.

O. This date: 19 March 1958. C. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: Lorenzo B. SANCHEZ. D. Supervisor's official title: Chief of Registry.

2. For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information which will lead to a
