Definitely out of place. Consequently, the Subject does not think he will be a very different person in the future from what he is now. However, he hopes that his material situation will have improved, not necessarily financially, but socially. He also naively hopes that the world will change and that there will be no discrimination and that there will be a general improvement of living conditions for everyone. He is a humanitarian in his outlook, but he is not an activistic social reformer, except in the sense that he is an individualistic rebel. Generally, he strives to improve his own standard of living and he feels that his own inclination to better things is the disease of all inventors. The Subject also hopes to acquire, if necessary, a nationality by virtue of which he could feel that he actually belongs to a society. However, he is ambivalent in this regard. He regards society as being anxious to stamp and label individuals and he would prefer to be an individualist outside of society than to be a member of society if he is required to conform. As was said before, his handlers would be wise not to label, to type, or to try in any way to get the Subject to conform to society. He will run rings around them like he did his mother. As regards his future outlook, the Subject is not entirely optimistic. He feels that he will never be able to reach his ideals because his material ideal (social reform) is so distant and so difficult that he would need to lead many lives in order to attain it. It might be unfair to designate him as a pessimist. As was said before, he is more of a skeptic and perhaps a cynic. Consequently, one should be careful as regards inculcating ideological or social motives. One should be content to accept his motives in their present state. Tampering with them would only result in disturbing the Subject and the relationship.

The Subject denies that he has any emotional interest in or emotional attachment to France at this time. Although it was likely that he was sentimentally patriotic before the war, it is a fact that he has been branded as a criminal and has been deprived of certain civil rights and privileges. He now perhaps feels rejected and in turn is rejecting France. Nevertheless, he strikes the examiner as a Frenchman in terms of the way he thinks, feels, and acts. He is certainly not a Russian in his personality. He expresses himself freely, is discursive, voluble, and is able to carry on a conversation intensely and indefinitely on his topics of interest. This is typically French, but, in terms of his personality, it represents an oral characteristic. In other words, he is inclined to express himself orally and is motivated to obtain love and affection together with other supplies by oral incorporation. What this means to you is that
