Last fall in which it won 7.9 and 7.4 percent of the vote and elected 8 and 15 deputies respectively. In Bavaria the NPD emerged as the only small party in the Landtag, causing the FDP to lose its representation in the legislature for the first time in its history. By underlining the weakness of the FDP, the election outcome contributed to the formation of the grand coalition government in Bonn by the Christian Democrats and the Socialists.

For the major parties, the NPD's successes had disturbing implications. In contrast to its various predecessors, the NPD appeared capable of mobilizing urban as well as rural support and of altering the general trend long evident in most West German elections toward a two-party system. In Hesse, the combined vote of the Christian Democrats and Socialists was a lower percentage of the total vote than in the previous election four years earlier. Still more significantly, however, Hesse and Bavaria provided further evidence of the NPD's ability to attract “protest” votes from various disaffected lower-middle-class elements including small businessmen and farmers unhappy with their lot in present-day Germany.

Basic Characteristics and Sources of Support

In spite of its direct lineage from the old German Reich Party, the NPD has tried to dispel the impression among the general public that it is the spiritual heir of Hitler's National Socialists. The party has sought acceptance as a legitimate political party and insists that it intends to function within the established democratic order. Party spokesmen maintain that it differs from the established parties primarily in its allegedly superior devotion to the national interest, which they accuse the governing parties in Bonn of having failed to protect. The NPD says it offers the voter a genuine choice between bankrupt policies of the major parties and a return to national morality.

As much as some NPD supporters might wish to play down the party's Nazi associations, however, it has been clearly established that the leadership consists of a nucleus of former Nazis who have been active in neo-Nazi parties throughout the postwar years. According to police reports, some 2,000 of the estimated 25,000 members of the NPD belonged to the Nazi party before 1933. This ratio is roughly eight times that for the public as a whole. The party has lost libel suits in which it has challenged charges of neo-Nazism. The German Interior Ministry notes the parallels in political outlook and philosophy between the NPD and the Nazis, and maintains that the party's activities “approach” unconstitutionality. In the words of one former party member, the NPD is made up of people “who have forgotten nothing and learned nothing” from Germany's past.
