was a communist sympathizer, despite his wealth. He became famous some time back by successfully sewing back on a hand that was amputated in an accident. He is a doctor with Seguro Social. Mexico since has shown him to the world as Mexico's great hand surgeon. He travels around the world attending medical conventions and is the principal host to medical conventions here in Mexico. An elaborate book was published by Seguro Social on surgery of the hand and Luis' work in that field. I mention the above since it seems to set the stage for someone who might believe that socialism and socialized medicine is good, because he himself has profited so greatly from it.

Further, Luis and Sylvia had made it known for quite some time that they wanted to have the funeral party for DIEHARD in their home. I always felt that this was due to communist sympathy. Now I don't know. And I am at a loss to explain why they insisted upon holding the party. They do not seem to be close friends of DIEHARD, are somewhat different in social and intellectual status, and no longer seem to be communist sympathizers.

Luis commented that ERNEST DIEHARD's son would probably come to the party since they have no maid. Incidentally, he did not come. Luis then stated that the boy still speaks no Spanish at all. He added that the boy has lived in Mexico for five years and before that for several years in Cuba. Luis explained that the Soviets are afraid to have their children see how the world really is. Luis added that Khrushchev saw a supermarket in Los Angeles and simply couldn't believe his eyes. Luis was frankly critical of the Soviets and their intellectual isolationism.

7. DIEHARD MIGHT RETIRE. DIEHARD and his wife both conceded that there was a good chance they might come right back to Mexico. She told me that if she did, she would like to teach me Russian. We had exchanged a few elementary words during the evening.

Dibbweg Avenu 376 Comment a unekreineh ikal ke wakil i-l Sufishtekal we wakil hore ogeneh lo hore leken shantlik which make hin Saq walik we did.
