Charles Schuman (Sohuman)  
348 East 19th St.,  
New York City  
Tel. Oregon 4-7360

United Press International. This was his trip into the Sierra, and he was very green for camp life and had no knowledge of Spanish or their history. It was a simple matter to give him a hand in everything and become his interpreter during the entire assignment. This gave me access to persons and information that I would normally have to struggle for—but eventually, he being a veteran newsman, he recognized my approach as something more than journalism. He put it in a few words, saying that I was entirely too thorough—too many field trips, too many technical photographs, etc. He came out and asked if I did belong to my true organization. It became necessary to become very convincing here, and I think that I did eventually allay his suspicions.

5. On December 29, 1958, I returned to Havana for a second assignment in the Sierra Maestra, which was interrupted by the fall of the BATISTA regime. During a period of three weeks, the following persons were given the business cards:

George Kappes  
George Michael Kappes (Micky)  
Calle K, No. 58, Ap. 5,  
Vedado  
La Habana, Cuba

Kappes is now employed with Harry Wassel & Associates in Havana—he was then in Havana in the employ of Fidel CASTRO as an underwater demolition expert and was in the process of sabotaging the Cuban destroyer “José Martí” (”Jose Harti”). He had lost his contact with the movement and did not speak Spanish—I helped him make contact and remove the explosives—he remained in Havana. (This has been reported complete with photographs.)

Home Address:  
2530 Woodhull Ave.  
Bronx 69, N.Y.

U.S. volunteer rifleman with Fidel CASTRO.  
Present whereabouts unknown

Don Soldini  
120 Laconia Ave.,  
Staten Is., N.Y.

Jay Mallen  
Life Magazine, Havana  
Tel. P-6579

Charles Schuman (Sohuman) and Andrew St. George were also met again on this trip.

6. In Mexico City, from 7 June 1958 to 12 March 1960, the cover employment was used for renting houses and apartments, schools, purchase of automobile, and with general acquaintances:

Owner and renter of the address given.

Agustín RIVADA Torres,  
703 Martin Mendalde,  
Colonia del Valle,  
Mexico 12, D.F.
