Chaos and tyranny—that is at least what Mike Oliver foresaw as early as 1968, the inevitable result of America's “interventionists” and “collectivist” fiscal debauchery. That he made millions of dollars in gold profits along the way did not really reassure Oliver, it merely confirmed his premonitions. Of course, the profits helped: to people who tend to think in terms of money—that is, most of us—they seemed to prove that Oliver had something.

To tell the world what he had, Oliver wrote a book in 1968: A New Constitution for a New Country. Printed privately, never noticed in a book review, written in pedestrian declaratory style, the book has thus far sold 19,400 copies through the mail—proving that there does exist that contradictory thing, a genuine underground best seller.

The subtitle on the cover reads: “Has the Time Come To Abandon the United States?” Oliver's answer is a firm “Yes.” The book tells why, and how. “The United States can no longer be saved from severe crisis... Though not yet under complete tyranny, prevalence of totalitarian ideas and increased use of suppressive measures prove that the end of freedom is in sight [in America]. ... [Only] those who arrange for a timely departure will escape the coming horror.”

The book is not a tract; it's a plan of action. If Ludwig von Mises is indeed the Karl Marx of monetary libertarianism, and Harry Browne, the best-selling author who invented Peter Panic, perhaps its Bakunin, its prolific pan-destructionist (pan-demstructionist), then Mike Oliver is its Fidel Castro—the ultimate militant who redresses the doctrine in terms of total action. Browne's book, advocating that self-sufficient people withdraw to “retreat homes” for safety, has snowballed into an all-season best seller; but it's Mike Oliver—who is about to show them how to do it...

“The person with self-respect has a right to preserve his life and freedom,” Oliver's book reassures the reader. “But he has no duty to stay in a country whose government policies will destroy him.”

The country Oliver is describing isn't Nazi Germany; history is a cruel joker—this time around, it's the United States. “Means for effective action to save freedom in the United States in the foreseeable future no longer exist. Thus, the freedom-loving person has no choice: leave, or be destroyed.”

Fortunately, “a surprising number of nearly uninhabited, yet quite suitable places for establishing a new country still exist... The exact location of the new country cannot be revealed at this time. Yet, one has but to look at the western hemisphere to find that places for establishing a new, fair-sized country still exist.”

And now, that “fair-sized country” has been found. Its conquest is within Mike Oliver's reach. How things have changed in the few years since 1968! A powerful consortium of frightened new-country seekers, wealthy and influential men who would have laughed at Mike Oliver's strictures a short while ago, are supporting his campaign with money and anything else that might be required. Whatever you need, Mike: just say the word, Mike. And the most important acquisition of Oliver's well-endowed New-Country Project has been the meeting and the alliance with Mitch WerBell and his semi-business, paramilitary organization. Now it's the Oliver-WerBell organization, at least so far as Abaco is concerned. Special personnel are interviewed, recruited, briefed: Walter Mackem, the scholarly young ex-CIA officer leaves for the Bahamas on his first assignment, Big John Muldoon rents a suite in the Lafayette Building in midtown Washington, Ralph McMullen is dispatched to Miami, along with a pale, quiet former British intelligence officer known only as Grant who is a communications specialist hired to run wireless traffic with the WerBell-Oliver organization's agent network on Abaco... coded wireless traffic, five-digit groups and all that jazz, the way a proper intelligence station does it. The skeptical Ted Roussos is soon replaced with another U.S. intelligence officer who is not merely enthusiastic, this lean young hard-charger named Charles Boyle, he is, best of all black; off he goes to work among the silent, sun-wrinkled fishermen and lobster trappers of Abaco.

And yet who but Mike Oliver is destined to comprehend it, to encompass it, to direct it all? Who but Oliver understands that the campaign for Abaco is not another banana-republic land grab, that this is an ideological, yes, a moral movement? Who makes sure that the ideas of free enterprise and unfettered market capitalism find some expression in every leaflet, pamphlet or newsletter that the Oliver-WerBell organization produces for distribution on Abaco?

AIM DEMANDS CONSTITUTIONAL CHANGES WHICH WILL ELIMINATE THE POWER OF GOVERNMENT TO ARBITRARILY LIMIT PERSONAL RIGHTS
