Surveillance had been discontinued. Nosenko (Nosenko) did not tell CIA about this incident in 1962, he said, because he knew that the watch had been discontinued and that nothing suspicious had been noted; therefore, he thought the incident would not have been of interest to American Intelligence.

Nosenko (Nosenko) has stressed that Abidian was under special surveillance by at least two surveillance teams at all times and that, on the day he visited Pushkin Street, Abidian was under continuous watch from the moment he left the embassy. Nosenko (Nosenko) has been able to give a detailed description of Abidian's movement to the dead drop site.

Despite the special surveillance coverage of Abidian, Nosenko (Nosenko) said, he was unaware of any unusual movements by Abidian during the days immediately preceding his visit to Pushkin Street. Nosenko (Nosenko) said that he knew definitely that surveillance had reported nothing unusual during this period and that he was sure Abidian had not eluded the surveillance at any time during it. According to CIA records, three days before Abidian went to Pushkin Street in response to indications that the dead drop had been loaded, Abidian left the U.S. Embassy in his private car for Spassu House at about nine o'clock in the evening; at about two o'clock the next morning he and Garhler (Garhler), CIA Chief of Station, went in Abidian's car to check the telephone pole for the signal Penkovskiy (Penkovskiy) was to leave as part of his signal that the drop had been loaded. Two days before Abidian went to Pushkin Street he drove his car to the apartment of Air Force Captain Davison (Davison); he again checked the telephone pole from a window in the apartment and then walked by it on foot. Nosenko (Nosenko) identified Garhler (Garhler) as a U.S. naval officer but not as a CIA employee (see above).

Asked why, in his opinion, Abidian went to Pushkin Street at the time he did, Nosenko (Nosenko) replied that in about 1960 an American tourist or delegation member had gone to this address. It was the “opinion of the Second Chief Directorate” that this American had selected the site as a dead drop location, and that Abidian went there merely to check the suitability of the site for this purpose. In fact, Abidian went to Pushkin Street in response to what appeared to be a prearranged telephone signal from Penkovskiy (Penkovskiy) signalling that he had loaded the dead drop there. It has been confirmed that Penkovskiy (Penkovskiy) did not give this signal and, because of the circumstances and type of signal given, the possibility of coincidence has been ruled out. CIA has therefore concluded that the signal came from the KGB.

The Pushkin Street dead drop site was proposed by Penkovskiy (Penkovskiy) himself in the August 1960 letter through which he initially contacted CIA. There is no record that a “tourist or delegation member” visited this address. The only known visits by Americans to the building on Pushkin Street—the only ones having any connection with its use as a dead drop location—occurred on 12 November and 4 December 1960 when the CIA officer Mahoney (Mahoney) checked the address from outside, and on 21 January 1961 when Mahoney (Mahoney) entered the building and checked the specific location of the dead drop. Mahoney (Mahoney) is known to have been identified to the KGB as a CIA officer before arriving in Moscow and was the target of heavy surveillance throughout his tour. (Nosenko (Nosenko) did not know about Mahoney (Mahoney) or his CIA status.)
