Florida, I was required to drive an average of 5,000 miles per month to provide the necessary handling and support. The major training exercises were as follows:

a. Three black flights to ISOLATION for periods of one to three weeks, during which time I was required to remain in the black training area as handler for the agents.

b. One three-day trip to Lake Worth, Florida, during which I conducted the ground phase of parachute training for 26 agents and arranged for civilian instructors and planes for two parachute jumps per man.

c. Two black flights to Camp McCall (McKall), North Carolina, to conduct parachute training for 36 agents, during which time, as chief instructor, I made two parachute jumps.

d. Two black flights to the Ranger Training Center at Eglin AFB, Florida, for additional parachute, commando, and guerrilla warfare training for 38 agents. Both trips were of two weeks’ duration each, and again I made two parachute jumps.

e. Four black flights to Fort Stewart, Georgia, for training in weapons and tactics for 36 agents. Training was conducted with all weapons from the .45-caliber pistol up to and including the 4.2-inch mortar. Demolition and sabotage training, including night and day tactical exercises using live ammunition and explosives, were also conducted. Each exercise lasted from five to 15 days.

f. Eight training exercises, from three to seven days’ duration each, were conducted in and around Everglades National Park and the Marquesas Keys (Marquess Keys) in Florida.

g. Over 70 mission rehearsals of two or three days’ duration were conducted in the Florida Keys.

h. In addition to the above training exercises, I planned and directed 115 actual operations into Cuba during this period. This involved the isolation of a five- to 25-man team in a safehouse for three days to two weeks, preparing for an operation and remaining with them day and night until they were launched. It also involved receiving the team at the conclusion of the mission and again holding them in a safehouse for a two-day debriefing period.
