Country: Honduras.

Subject: Horacio Moya Posas, Agrarian Reform Director/Rigoberto Sandoval in Italy/His Attitude Towards the US.

Report No.: X 00-J-321/33419-72.

Date distributed: 14 November 1972.

No. pages: 1.

References (2356): DIM No.: 1-7-88.

Date of info: October 1972 and earlier.

Place and date acquired by source: Honduras/1972.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: Naturalized US citizen who has worked and lived in Honduras for a number of years. He has numerous social contacts and business connections with officials of the government, the Armed Forces and the business community.

This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. Horacio Moya Posas is the present director of Agrarian Reform in Honduras. He is inefficient and lacks some of the necessary qualifications for that position. In spite of his being a lawyer by profession, he is not astute, is only of average intelligence, is far from decisive, and frequently vacillates when called upon to make decisions. He is, however, extremely anti-Communist. His deputy director is Roberto Oliva. He is no asset. He has no outgoing personality whatsoever, and in fact, he is rather innocuous. One thing that can be said in his favor is that he is reported to be a good engineer.

2. The previous Agrarian Reform director was Rigoberto Sandoval. He is an extremely capable lawyer, very sagacious, intelligent and he displayed great foresight in that position. His present and future course of life is worth observing closely because a possibility does exist that he may be a candidate for an important political position in the not too distant future. To date Sandoval has not mentioned which political position he plans to seek. Another reason for observing him is that he is exceedingly anti-US.

3. If Sandoval does decide to seek a political office, it would most probably be General Oswaldo Lopez Arellano who would sponsor him.

4. Early in October 1972 a US importer-exporter received a very pleasant personal letter from Rigoberto Sandoval. By the tone of the letter one would judge that a close relationship has existed between them for some time. Sandoval stated that he was in Italy working for the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), and that for the present his stay there was for an indefinite period. He enclosed a long list of items which he requested the US importer-exporter to send to him immediately if at all possible. The list consisted mostly of furniture, household furnishings, electrical appliances, etc.
