Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in promoting personnel management. The organization is supplied with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff, and a periodic record of his performance is required for the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Field Administrative Officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the institution and transmission of this report to headquarters.

To the Field Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs, and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as respected by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period covered, he has been under your supervision, and he has discharged his supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work. As to that in date and way he knows where he stands.

[Signature] Field. Posted Per. Control [Signature]. 26 October 1955.

It is optional to note this Fitness Report if you are an unemployed personnel because no work was done from this report until December 21, 1955.

Section I.

Leave blanks for headquarters only. Rick Thunberg. Date of birth. Sex. Service designation. Grade: OS-15. Station designation (current): M, D1. Due date of this report: 1 July 1955. Period covered by Fitness Report (inclusive dates): 22 December 1954–31 July 1955.

Section II (to be completed by field supervisor).

Current position: Come One Over – DEC 13th. Date assumed responsibility for position. [Signature] 8/27.

State the specific assignment; shows which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency).

Deputy Chief of Base, BTR, and, in addition, Chief of the Soviet Branch.

Section III (to be completed at headquarters only).

Do not complete – for headquarters use only.

Authentication of report and signatures.
