Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 025658658.

Section A—General. Name (last, first): Placido, Josephograph, S. Date of birth: 12/2/32. Sex: M. Grade: GS-12. Official position title: Officer. Checker (X), type of appointment: DUP. Willemsch & Rio de Janeiro. Type of report: Career, Reserve, Temporary, Initial, Reassignment Supervisor, Career-Provisional, Annual, Reassignment Employee, Special. Temporary and Annual are checked. Report due in O.P.: [blank]. Reporting period: 23 June 1970–31 December 1970.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Sufficient: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Station FI Chief, supervising one officer directly, several on a part-time basis, and one outside staffer. Rating: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Handles Station CP program; makes recruitment attempts, runs agents (including one of international importance). Rating: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Coordinates FI/CP activities of the three Bases in Brasil. Rating: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Handles funds and materials, and financial accounting. Rating: S.

Specific duty No. 5: [blank]. Rating: [blank].

Specific duty No. 6: [blank]. Rating: [blank].

Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness.
