2. Subj told Loginov about an upcoming trip to Copenhagen, which he is to undertake on behalf of the Chief of Mexican Tourism, Austin Salvat (see attached letter). Loginov asked Subj, if he were in Paris, to look up Ginette Palacci Porter, wife of the British NATO official. Subj said he wasn't sure of being in Paris, but he would try to see her if he could.

Subj plans to leave Mexico on 25 March, travel to Brussels and Amsterdam, be in Copenhagen for the Congress on Congress reunions from 30 March to 2 April, and continue on business to Vienna and Paris. There is no set date for his return.

Loginov inquired if any of the employees of Subj's office spoke English, indicating that if they did, they might be able to gain employment at the U.S. Consulship in Mexico. Subj volunteered information to Loginov about his employees.

Loginov said he would call Subj for their next meeting.

3. The C.O. told Subj to prepare a superficial personality résumé on the persons wanted by Loginov, for prior submission to the Station. Also, while in Paris, if it is not too much trouble, try to see Ginette Palacci for the purpose of having something to report to Loginov, naturally pre-checked by the Station, and also for the Station's benefit to discern if the Soviets abroad had made any overtures to her.

4. Subj parenthetically remarked to the C.O., in a loosely defined manner of showing the activity of the Israeli Embassy in Mexico, that there was to be a Congress of Intellectuals in Mexico with about fifty participants from all over Latin America. The major theme of the Congress was to be The Situation of the Jews and Anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union, but the theme was being held under cover as far as all advance publicity was concerned. Attached is the announcement card for the Congress. Subj's firm is handling the arrangements.

5. The C.O. will contact Subj on 22 March prior to his departure abroad.

Addendum: Subj remarked after his long talk with Loginov that he regarded Loginov as a better intelligence official than Prikhodko, much savvier, and that he must have been in the intelligence game longer than Prikhodko. Subj said that Loginov had told him that he would show Subj pictures of the places he had been in Latin America.
