Mitch WerBell: Gunsmith to the ‘Right’ Side

By Roger Williams

The following is excerpted by permission from Atlantic magazine.

Down the driveway that snakes through the country estate came two teen-age boys. They were clean-cut and handsome in the traditional college fashion, and they looked at home in the quiet, leafy setting. But one wore a camouflage suit and carried a large pistol in each hand; the other had an M-193 “grease gun” tucked under one arm and a silencer-equipped pistol under the other.

Behind them, propelling himself vigorously in a wheelchair, came their father, Mitchell Livingston WerBell III of Powder Springs (a soldier of fortune, militant anticommunist and one of the nation’s leading developers of military weapons and accessories).

Mitch IV and Geoff chatted lightly about the weapons they were carrying. Their father, temporarily immobilized by a fractured heel, punctuated the conversation with brief bursts of information about the super rifle, one of his most choice products. “This weapon had killed 1,000 VC in six months,” he said proudly. “Those VC took only 13 rounds per kill. Twenty-seven cents apiece they cost Uncle Sam. That’s the greatest cost effectiveness the Army’s ever known.”

Moments later young Mitch and Geoff pumped round after round from the weapons into the bullet-shattered body of an automobile that served as the primary target on the WerBell firing range. Then Mitch began firing a pistol, a standard Army .45. The run ended upward, and the noise echoed across the fields and rectangles. He then stroked up a strange, smoothly rectangular handgun, an Ingram Model 11, equipped with a “flash and muzzle suppressor,” and began firing it. The muzzle barely moved, and the only sound was a metallic click, followed by the ring of the bullet and the pop as it hit a target.

The effect was quite chilling, especially when you think Mitch put the gun on full automatic and whipped off 500 rounds in one second. Geoff provided the same kind of demonstration with the grease gun, a standard submachine gun and the snap-shooter which WerBell calls the NM-21 when it is also equipped with a suppressor.

On the way back to the house, WerBell explained why the suppressor, normally called a silencer, is so effective. A firearm accessory, “it hides the sound flash and reduces the firing noise to last metal on metal.” You

[air] weapons given to him by friendly forces in Vietnam, he said, and they were shipped to the States for display in military museums.

Not surprisingly, WerBell has often been called an operative of the Central Intelligence Agency, a charge that angers him only when it is leveled too schematically. It is not that he has anything against the CIA. He just doesn’t happen to be one of its boys. His paramilitary work, which consists of advising and sometimes directly assisting foreign governments, is done in the employ of what he calls “an independent group of well-intentioned, patriotic Americans.” The Birch Society? The Minutemen? A bunch of far-right Texas millionaires? WerBell won’t say, other than to insist that it is not the CIA.

It hardly matters, for according to WerBell, it is all in the service not only of freedom and anticommunism but of the U.S. government; he does not supply or advise or fight for regimes not bearing the State Department’s seal of approval. A heavy percentage of his merchandise goes directly to the U.S. government, which distributes it to its own forces that need silent or exotic weapons. The balance is sold to friendly governments, either directly or through the good offices of the “independent group.” He says he does not sell to individuals, not even if they’re certified anticommunists.

WerBell takes pains to point out that he is no ordinary arms broker. That is, he is not one of those shadowy figures who sell weapons to both sides at exorbitant prices or who take possession of contraband shipments on the high seas. “We’ve always adhered to a basic policy: There is only one friend of the United States in a given area, and we deal only with that friend.”

What does WerBell peddle? A range of firearms from machine guns to desk-sized cannons, from the meanest-looking weapons to innocent-looking swagger sticks that fire a bullet or even
