Throwing of a big knife. This made noise; he was detected and thrown out.

16. In this school he belonged to the “leading” trio of the school, the others being an Italian, Inzini, about 14, and a French boy, Tellier (13).

Every Thursday and Saturday the school went for walks. Their supervisor probably had a girlfriend whom he visited during those walking periods, leaving the boys on their own. On one such occasion, the trio decided to go for drinks in a tavern. They had all together 13 francs and some sous. Everybody was bragging about his experiences with women, and it was decided to have women. However, Tellier, the youngest, backed out, and so did Inzini. But he, David, to show his manliness, went upstairs with the woman who asked 10 francs. The woman asked him to wash himself before the act. He did. The room was cold, and the water was cold; he nearly “lost” his penis. But, with the help of the woman, he managed the act and felt proud when he returned to the others. However, since then he had a kind of mixed feelings toward women: shyness, fear, and attraction all together, and he did not have any of them for three years since then.

17. His father was angry with him because he was again thrown out of the school. Father told him that he was good but for a hog-herd. Nevertheless, he was sent to another school, Ecole Breguet, for electrotechnicians, in 1937. But there, also, he was thrown out.

18. Thereupon he left his parents’ home, lived for three months in a hotel, and worked nightly in the railroad station, unloading oysters. It was a cold job. The father took him back home and sent him to the school of photography and movie at the corner of Rue Littré (Rue Littree) and Rue Vaugirard, close to another school where he had been earlier. There he remained for two half-terms, March–July and October–May, not having finished the course because the German-Polish war started.

19. Sometime between his going to Ecole Breguet and the school of photography, he had stolen an English dictionary from a library. This came out; however, he was not put in jail. The only effect was that his normal identity papers as a stateless person were withdrawn and replaced by temporary papers, which he had to renew every three months. He did not do this, and after six months he was taken and held by the police for 13 days before he was given new papers.
