Left two trade unionists seriously injured, ply with his doctrine, no matter who falls and no master following before her death in a major public rally to what the cost,” said Mrs. Perón. 1952.

The rally was ostensibly called to publicize the Government’s decision last week to nationalize the distribution and sale of petroleum products. Until now, Shell and Euskal Herriaeries had shared the local sale of oil products with the State Petroleum Company.

Assertion of Leadership

But Mrs. Perón devoted most of her speech to defending her claim to leadership of the Peronist movement, which has groups.

She has held well-publicized posts at times. Her voice cracked. A walk through the plaza confirmed that only the street in front of the Government House was filled. The cameras of the television stations—which have recently been making rumors and recording slogans used by Gen. Isabel Perón, his student and second wife, the last three weeks—faithfully served Eva Duarte de Perón, who conservative Peronist leaders gathered an enormous personal following before her death in a major public rally to strengthen her image in the face of rising terrorist activity, has been in power. She has said, “Because I am a woman, I labor untiringly.”

Unions and avoided photographing the empty stretches.

Despite the poor turnout, strongly agreed that it was successful, considering that only two unions—the light and power union and the state petroleum workers—were supposed to attend. But he acknowledged that “Perón would never have addressed so small a crowd.”

Baltimore Sun  
28 August 1974

Forecast is cloudy for Bolivia’s Banzer

By Hugh M. O’Brien

Rio de Janeiro Bureau of The Sun

Bonanza (Banzer) demanded immediate elections. The Famine’s declaration was repudiated immediately by another member of the party of the Front, a smaller group named after the late president, René Barrientos.

The chief focus of political interest in the country has been Córdoba, the second largest city. Last February, a right-wing police coup, apparently backed by General Perón, removed the elected left-wing Peronist governor from power. During the upheaval, right-wing trade unionists also wrested control of the local labor federation from leftists.

Since then, Córdoba has been the scene of repeated incidents of political violence. A few days ago, the Labor Ministry decided to remove legal recognition from the left-controlled union at Ira-Renato—a concern with mixed Argentine and French capital—after labor leaders called a strike in support of higher wages.

Even as the civilian elections that have supported President Banzer’s generally right-wing and intensely anti-Communist regime were failing out, there were reports of dissension within the military.

A pamphlet was circulated recently to all military units in La Paz, allegedly produced by a group of young officers who have taken inspiration from their counterparts in Portugal, who last April led a successful coup against the authoritarian regime there.

Last week, General Banzer celebrated the beginning of his fourth year in the presidency by dancing in the streets during a massive celebration of the coup d’état that deposed Gen. Juan José Torres on August 21, 1971.

The document read, in part, “Banzer’s repression against his own institution (the Army) has persuaded those democratic officers to fight beside Argentine miners, workers and students....”

Although President Banzer received the compulsory support of the commanders of the armed services during last week’s vote, it is evident to sources here, and from reports from Bolivia, that the military is divided over the president and his policies.

After the attempted coup of June 3, many of the officers involved were either jailed or sent into exile to Paraguay and Argentina. According to reports from Argentina, many of these officers have been returning to Bolivia and holding clandestine meetings.

The clashes with the police last night resulted when officers moved to dislodge labor leaders from the union headquarters.

Even as he was celebrating and making speeches about the durability of the Nationalist Popular Front—the civilian-military coalition through which he has governed—the powerful Bolivian Minerals Union declared itself virtually at war with the regime. And the Front apparently was disintegrating.

It is believed that the younger officers are being alienated increasingly by the president. Specifically, they oppose his refusal to grant amnesty to unions.
