(Seventh Department—January 1962–January 1964)

Learned of the case through his friendship with the chief of the Second (“Active Line”) Section of the American Department, V.I. Petrov. Belitskiy was a KGB agent whom American Intelligence had recruited in London; he had never been met by the Americans in the Soviet Union. Nosenko did not know the date of recruitment but knew the case was already in progress during his second assignment with the Embassy Section (January 1960–January 1962). Belitskiy had been a KGB agent for a “long, long” time and was a KGB agent when he first went abroad (prior to his recruitment by American Intelligence).

The KGB’s purpose in running the Belitskiy operation was to lure American Intelligence into meeting the agent inside the Soviet Union, to learn the channels and means through which American Intelligence communicated with agents inside the Soviet Union. This was the “most important task” of the Second Chief Directorate. Although Belitskiy, in meeting with his American case officers, continually pleaded fear of contacts with American Intelligence in Moscow, this was a ruse; the real KGB intent was to use Belitskiy to lure American Intelligence into contacting him in the Soviet Union. After Belitskiy was recruited in London, CIA “did not go on with him...didn’t hold any meetings with him.” Nevertheless, he said, the KGB “cherished the hope...to lead him in somewhat deeper.” The KGB First Chief Directorate, with its own responsibilities and objectives, was unaware of Second Chief Directorate objectives in the Belitskiy case. The First Chief Directorate, through Department D, provided dezinformation-siya (disinformation) at the Second Chief Directorate’s request, but in this case, as in other “games,” it did not know for what ultimate purpose the disinformation would be used. (In such cases I.I. Agayants, Chief of Department D, did not even know in what country the disinformation was to be used, let alone the identity of the agent.)

Comment: According to Golitsyn, Department D runs its operations alone or in conjunction with (never subordinate to) other KGB departments.
