Fitness Report. Note: Supervisor or Reviewing Official may assign a higher classification if Confidential is not adequate for the report when completed.

Section A. General Information.

Name: Joseph S. Piccolo. Date of birth: 8 Dec 1935. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13 D. Official position title: Operations Officer. Current station: Managua. Type of appointment: Career. Reporting period: 21 Jan–7 Aug 1975.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or in separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Satisfactory: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to five of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific-Duty No. 1: Responsible for the Station's Operational Program targeted against Communist, Terrorist and political Left target. Rating letter: S.

Specific-Duty No. 2: Conducts daily liaison operation to extract intelligence and operational support for Station unilateral efforts and to assess and cultivate liaison or other military officers for unilateral recruitment. Rating letter: S.

Specific-Duty No. 3: Cultivates a Cabinet-level target for eventual recruitment as an agent of influence. Rating letter: S.

Specific-Duty No. 4: Acts as DCOS and, in the absence of the COS, as ACOS. Rating letter: S.

Specific-Duty No. 5: Develops unilateral assets in the MHABYSS target area. Rating letter: (*).
