The Miami Herald

Friday, Dec. 31, 1965

Cuba Aid Given to N. Viets  
Ship Weapons, Defector Says

By Carlos Martinez  
Of Our Latin America Staff

A Cuban sea captain who walked off his ship with three of his officers at a Japanese port four days ago charged Thursday in Miami that Cuban vessels take weapons to North Viet Nam “three or four” times every six months.

The captain, Francisco Cobas Ores, 46, told a press conference called by Cuban exiles that “all Cuban ships have orders to carry war materiel to North Viet Nam to help the North Vietnamese effort.”

The Cuban Embassy in Japan, said Cobas, is acting as coordinator for all Viet Nam-bound shipments taken at Communist ports in Asia.

The four Cuban defectors of the 7,800-ton freighter Aracelio Iglesias were flown to San Francisco last Tuesday. There they gave U.S. agents their account of how Fidel Castro’s ships carry Red Chinese arms to the Viet Cong. They arrived in Miami Wednesday.

Shortly before Cobas’ press conference, the Aracelio Iglesias sailed three days behind schedule for Communist China, reportedly to pick up military hardware for the North Vietnamese. It was being skippered by the second mate, on orders from Cuba.

“The Cuban Embassy in Tokyo had secretly arranged for the Aracelio Iglesias to take a shipment of war materiel from North Korea to North Viet Nam,” charged Cobas.

Nevertheless he said plans were changed at the last minute and he was “hastily ordered” to pick up the shipment of weapons in Shanghai (Shanghui) instead. It was then when the four decided to defect.

“The ships that sail from Cuba with sugar are ordered to pick up the weapons after unloading the sugar at Japan,” said Cobas, adding that the pickups take place only at North Korean and Red Chinese ports “because of their geographical situation.”

The short, articulate seaman also charged that the Cuban government keeps a small intelligence detail on each of its merchant ships. They are members of the G-2, Castro’s feared (headed) secret police.

“For some reason, the G-2 man on board is usually the radio and telegraph operator. In the Aracelio Iglesias we had a second G-2 man disguised as the fourth engineer, even though he had no training or ability to perform his duty.”
