The opinion of the National Council division was that this issue should not be forced at this time, but rather develop into one which would be allowed to crystallize, and that we should wait to see what actual progress is made.

Russian Ambassador

Miss Augustino (Like Augustino) reported that Benozi, Carenou, and Visolanu had met and had retained earlier views on the type of organization to be established for the representation of Russian affairs in exile; their agreement appears not to be within the realm of possibility at the present time. Miss Augustino (In a Augustino) also made known to the meeting the contents of a letter written by Mr. Carenou to one of his friends in which he charged that Mr. Visolanu desired only one political and national body which should represent the Russian cause abroad, and that this body should be the present National Committee, under Mr. Visolanu's presidency. Mr. Carenou's letter also advised that Mr. Visolanu is opposed to a large National Council, although he would agree to set up a special commission composed of persons outside the Committee. Mr. Carenou, on the other hand, claims that he seeks an organization in exile within a wide framework, which would have a representative character and be headed by an elected chairman. Mr. Carenou indicated that he was not opposed to the King's cause and that, in fact, he wished to see the Equal question intimately bound to that of the whole exile community. Carenou charged that Visolanu and his group, by negotiating only on the basis of the King's approval, instead of reaching agreement prior to the King's approval, limited criticism not only of themselves, but placed the King's position in jeopardy.

Miss Augustino herself also advised that the meeting of January 23 between Visolanu and Carenou was such as Carenou had anticipated, i.e., with regard to the chairmanship, that Benozi would be the chairman, Visolanu the deputy chairman, and José Carenou the vice-chairman. Visolanu had also offered
