Fitness Report. Employee serial number: J 60389.

Section A—General.

Name: Williamson Earl J. Date of birth: 13 Mar. 1915. Sex: F. Grade: GS-15. SD: D. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/M/Iberia. Current station: Madrid.

Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Initial. Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1964.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W—Week. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: In charge of Station's Cuban operations. Responsible for planning, directing and supervising all activities relating to spotting, assessing and recruiting of agents; collection of intelligence through introduction of agents to target area, debriefing of refugees, operations conducted with liaison, and. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: From sensitive sources. Supports other WE Stations in conduct of their Cuban operations, including assessment, recruitment, debriefing and briefing of persons of operational and intelligence interest, as well as warm and cold pitches to potential candidates. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3.
