Continuation of Dispatch. Dispatch symbol and number: ATT TO UFGA-19569 PG 6.

30. In attempting to re-construct how much money was spent to prepare the boat and equipment for Orozco's trip, it appears likely that Orozco was exaggerating when he said that he had asked for and received $400.00 for each member of the crew. Mrs. Orozco has stated that Orozco had given them each $200.00 and she thought but was not completely certain that he had later given each of them an additional unspecified sum. Starting with the figure of $700.00 which is mentioned in the attached note from Orizondo, it appears safe to say that most if not all of that sum would have been paid out for fuel (at least 50 gallons since it had been a 50-gallon tank which had exploded and had to be replaced), food for one week, the items (knives, ponchos, canteens, fatigue uniforms, ammunition, etc.) which Mrs. Orozco claims Orozco bought in an Army/Navy store plus other miscellaneous boat items. Add to this $700.00, the $200.00 apiece for the two fishermen (which could have been more), the $41.00 for the repair of the boat engine, the estimated $100.00 to replace the 50-gallon fuel tank, the $100.00 given to Mrs. Orozco by Orizondo, and the total (a conservative one at that) amounts to approximately $1341.00. Mrs. Orozco said that shortly before her husband's departure, only $125.00 remained of the initial sum. The group left for the Marathon area a day before their actual departure and had to return to Miami because they had forgotten the keys to the boat. Mrs. Orozco said that the $50.00 she received from her husband was taken from the remaining $125.00 and she assumes that the balance of $75.00 was spent for motel rooms in the Keys and for other last-minute purchases. The only items furnished to Orozco, according to his wife, were an M-1 rifle and an M-1 carbine which Orizondo had given him (Mrs. Orozco thought that they had had to buy the ammunition for these weapons), and a pistol of unidentified make by Laureano Batista Falla of the MDC (Christian Democratic Movement) who also gave Orozco a means of entree to the French ambassador in Cuba if he should run into unforeseen difficulties. Orozco also bought or received from some unnamed source an unknown amount of counterfeit pesos.

31. As Attachment B to this memorandum, a copy of another note from Orizondo to Orozco recommending an individual who could provide a boat for his infiltration is appended for your reference. This individual is believed to be ACSI Source No. 693.

32. CAS would appreciate ACSI comments on the above paragraphs, particularly as these contain certain allegations against “Jorge” and Or.
