Usually influential and agreed with LOG and expected LOG to tell him that he would pay for the visiting of Chinese restaurants, but LOG kept quiet.

9. S had no intention to skip the talk about money, and he told him that the publishing of the article about Kat China may end in a blind alley if TANG does not supply at least half a page of advertising. LOG did not want that to happen, and he told S that he (LOG) would give him MN 1,000 if the printing of the article should be held because of lack of advertising. S brought to LOG’s attention that half a page of advertising brings to Pierre (RUDIAN) 1,500 pesos. LOG felt that he would pay that money as a price of keeping the door open to the Chinese Embassy for S. To put some coating on the pill, S added that he would try to obtain an ad or two from Chinese restaurants, but he doubted that the owners would be interested in advertising in a magazine which is far from being well known. Just the idea that S contemplated going to Chinese restaurants pleased LOG’s ear.

10. LOG was interested in the status of the presidential race, and S told him that it narrowed down to four candidates and that all the indications were in the direction that ECHVARRIA was to be the official PRI candidate. S believed that by August 20 he would know the name of the candidate. In reply to LOG’s question, S stated that the candidate would be publicly known September 15–20.

11. LOG wanted to give more time to be positive of the name of the presidential candidate, and he decided that their next business meeting would be on August 25 at the same time and place. LOG immediately added that he did not forget that S’s birthday was on August 15 and that he believed it would be best if they celebrated together in Cuautla on Aug 16. LOG added that on that day his wife and son would be with him in Cuautla and S should bring along Josephine; LOG would bring a bottle of “Russian” champagne and picnic-style food. There would be a bottle of vodka for Josephine and a bottle of (F does not remember what) for S, plus the book he previously mentioned. LOG added some more description about what a wonderful day they would have together. They were to meet in Cuautla about 1000 hours at the “Banoes.” LOG would be there without fail because he would pick up his son, who was now attending the “Russian School.”
