México, D.F.

21 April 1969

Subject: Involuntary Retirement

1. A desk officer from Headquarters visited the Mexico City Station during mid-November 1968. While here, the visiting officer talked with the writer for approximately one hour regarding the operation of the LITEMPO project and the writer's plans for the future. The following points were discussed:

(a) The fact that the project was considered to be an important and successful one.

(b) The writer was specifically asked if he had any plans for an early retirement. The writer replied in the negative. The visiting officer indicated complete satisfaction with the writer's desire to continue in the service, and noted that it would be particularly important in view of the upcoming change of Mexican administrations in December 1970, and the necessity of keeping the project functioning at its current level of effectiveness.

(c) When the visiting officer asked whether the writer had ever visited Headquarters during his career with the service, and found that he had not done so, the officer asked whether the writer could arrange to visit Headquarters for a week or ten days during his next home leave, which would take place in August 1969. The writer indicated that he would be most pleased to do so.

2. Based on the foregoing, the writer made plans to proceed to the United States on home leave in early August 1969, to return in mid-September 1969. Since such matters cannot be handled on short notice, the writer has already rented a house in San Francisco, California, for the period in question.

3. This is where matters stood when, on 7 April last, the writer was advised that he would be retired, effective 30 June 1969, in accordance with various changes of policy. He was also asked to confirm in writing that he is in accord with the plan to place him on retired status as of 30 June next.

4. While the reasoning behind what appears to be a complete reversal of policy vis-à-vis the writer may be crystal clear to the responsible officials at Headquarters, the writer is at a complete loss to understand.
