Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

This officer made excellent progress in working with the liaison service and was notable in his efforts to organize train, and direct rather than simply sit back and accept the intelligence product. His liaison operation is the single most important operation of Station Managua and it could not have been inadequate. His working relationships with personnel of the liaison service were based on mutual friendship and respect and that service was appreciated to see him leave as was the Station. He also earned the friendship and respect of his colleagues and cover facility personnel of all levels and had rare success in his dealings with administrative personnel of the cover facility, a most uncooperative lot.

It is difficult for the rating officer to stand back and be flatly objective about this fine employee who is a friend of many years standing and who impressed the rating officer years ago as an officer of rare potential. His tour in Managua was cut short by a personal tragedy (illness and death of a minor dependent) which set into motion a transfer which could not later be reversed. Despite the pressures of this tragedy, this employee performed at a high level throughout this service in Managua and both he and his charming wife proved outstanding examples of “true grit.” His tour in Managua proved him once again to be a mature, competent professional who should be able to advance to high positions in the organization. He accepts responsibility well—acted without hesitation (continued).

Section D. Certification and Comments (continued).

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 11 February 1969. Signature of employee: Joseph L. Piccolo.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 9 months.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Employee left PCS prior to preparation of report. Should be shown to him at Headquarters.

Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station.

Type or printed name and signature: /s/ Robert T. Shaw.

Date: 15 January 1969. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the rating officer’s evaluation of Mr. Piccolo.

Date: 11 Feb. Official title of reviewing official: C/WII/2. Type or printed name and signature: Edwin M. Terrell.
