Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Continues to show a high degree of competence in his primary responsibility, which is translating and transcribing Russian telephone conversations. He works quickly and accurately and has a fine feeling for the subtleties of the Russian language. His character analyses of Soviets have been of great assistance in the Station's operational planning. He continues to maintain his deep cover status well and presents no problem of either an administrative or a personal nature. His wife continues to assist him with his work, and together they make an excellent team.

Subject is very cost conscious in his operational duties.

Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 3 Feb 67. Signature of employee: /s/ Jews H. Steinman 2.

By supervisor. Date: 3 Feb 67. Official title of supervisor: Ops Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Cynthia Hausmann.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I agree with the rating officer's evaluation. The Station is fortunate that [name omitted] intends to remain permanently in Mexico, where he makes an invaluable contribution to the SB Section's program and presents no difficulties whatsoever. Date: 3 Feb 67. Official title of reviewing official: Ops Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Paul L. Dillon.
