Cuban Trading

Economic Research Bu.  
Unidad Revolutionaria,  
10, S.E. 9th Street,  
Miami, Fla. USA

Last week we wrote you a few notes regarding illegal Cuban trading, also that the Greek Authorities, no doubt through USA pressure (AT LAST), are now investigating names of ships and Owners who have been trading with Cuba illegally since 1963. There is now quite a lot of propaganda going on that these investigations will be expedited through the Harbour Masters in Greece, and Consular Authorities in ports outside Greece. This news is of course to please USA, and to send to sleep those who know nothing about the business, ordinary public opinion. As we said before, nothing much will be done, except some isolated, probably, cases, mostly of small Owners, to just please USA etc. In fact, nothing will be done, because the Greek Authorities will firstly have to punish THOSE SLAVES before they can punish the Owners, Captains etc., mainly for the following reasons:

1. The Greek Authorities know at all times where Greek ships are trading, through their special Departments. They knew and know where the ships were and are, and have never done anything about it.

2. If in any special cases they did not know themselves, they knew it through your circulars, also through the Black lists issued by the USA Authorities.

3. Many ships arrived or sailed, or called for bunkers and supplies through Greek ports (or ports abroad with Greek Consular Authorities attending), and obtained clearance papers for Cuba or cleared having arrived from Cuba. Not a word was said about it.

4. And most important.

Greek ships, by special law, pay Income Tax, nothing on profits as other industries, but on each charter party voyage, whether ordinary voyage or time charter. They pay a percentage ranging from 1% to 4%, on the gross freight or hire, depending on the age of the ship (excluding new ships up to five years old paying nothing). Tax is payable in six-monthly periods. When the Income Tax Return is submitted to the Inland Revenue, Collector of Taxes (under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance), the following documents are submitted and attached to the Returns.

A. The charter party (properly certified).

B. Freight Statement showing exact details of freight rate, tons of cargo carried under that charter party, and the total freight (gross) earned and upon which the tax percentage is payable.

C. Sworn deposition of the Owners that all documents submitted are correct and true, again confirming the gross earnings of the voyage, which voyage must be explained in detail, port loaded, port discharged, dates, duration etc.

D. Master's Log Book, duly certified by the Harbour Master or Greek Consular Authority, if vessel abroad at the time (this under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Mercantile Marine).

It will be observed that in addition to all other sources of information, the Ministry of Finance (Inland Revenue), and the Ministry of
