Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

November 7, 4:41 PM, 1968.

Mr. Hicks has completed his apprenticeship and advanced by gradual stages from adequate to proficient to the point where his overall performance must be described as strong. He brings to his work a fine operational and paramilitary background, and he has adjusted quickly and effectively from the outdoor active life to the difficulties of becoming chair-borne. He is particularly effective on “problem” type disseminations, which often involve two or more area divisions. He is alert to operational details which occasionally slip into the intelligence portions of cabled traffic. Mr. Hicks is a real professional in the best sense of the word. He is careful, thorough, and very persistent in making certain that intelligence is handled correctly. He is courteous and patient in dealing with people. He stands up well under pressure and is completely dependable.

Neither cost consciousness nor supervisory responsibilities is involved in Mr. Hicks’ present position.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 24 October 1968. Signature of employee.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 11. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 24 October 1968. Official title of supervisor: Chief, FI/INT/IW. Typed or printed name and signature: Eldred J. Carroll; Edward J. Carroll.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: On the basis of the fine performance of the IW as a group and the high regard for the judgment of the supervisor, I concur in the above evaluation.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature.
