a) Hilario L.J. is looking for the subject urgently. He leaves a message about a “sick” person.

b) One Mr. Silva wants to speak to the subject. (Hilario, 27 March 1962.)

c) Julio Cárdenas tells the son of an earlier [person] that he is leaving for Central America and offers his services. The announcement has no apparent need, but says to ask Julio.

d) Ricardo Limar (Limiar) wants to come by the embassy for bulletins. The subject tells him it is better to meet at the same place and time. Ricardo has a Central American accent.

e) Some gentlemen from La Normal are bringing a message from Acqueledas to see the subject and want to see him.

f) The subject tells Furi Alexander of the Soviet Embassy that he could not get to the meeting but will come to see him later. (Lilliev, 7 March 1962.)

g) Somebody named Pierre Lhui is coming to the embassy to see the subject. (Lilliev, 8 March 1962.)

h) Some people from “Expression” from Sinaloa (Sinoloa) came to the embassy to see the subject, but he was not in.

i) One Lucio Hernandez came to the embassy to see the subject and was told to come in.

j) Pedro Conzalo Ortega is coming to the embassy to see the subject. The person of this name was IF Secretary General inayanit and leader of small farmers and workers in the coastal area.

k) One Vergara, FNU, left a message for the subject that it was urgent he communicate with him. Later contacts discussed the bulletins and family problems.

l) One Issij, FNU, came to the embassy to see the subject.

m) A Venezuelan named Mendoza, FNU, came to the embassy to see the subject. (Lilliev, 22 March 1962.)

n) Arturo and Luz Sarkano came to the embassy to see the subject.

o) Ricardo, with a Cuban accent, tells the subject he waited for him yesterday. Several later contacts with Riccardo.

p) Roberto Gayada and Mr. Gandica were waiting for the subject at the embassy. (Lilliev, 25 March 1962.)

q) Victor Manuel Gutierrez (Gutierriz), head of FGT in Mexico, met with the subject, who told Gutierrez that the person who was going to take over relations with Guatemala in Mexico still had not arrived. The subject planned to see Alfonso Ikara, a leader of the 13 November Group in Mexico. (Liall iga, 28 March 1962.)

r) Has identified the subject as 92. Not mentioned after 12 March 1962. Died in 1962 and not available. (CITV 7711 in 7/50, 1 April 1962.)
