Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espenagve Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. §§793 and 754, the transmission or release of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Mexico/Cuba. Report No. CS-3/540,193. Subject: Regulations of Mexico Government on Travel Between Mexico and Cuba. Date distributed: 12 March 1963. No. pages: 1. References: RD. By cable. Date of information: February 1963. Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City, 25 February 1963. This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Paragraph 1: Person (B) with good contacts in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. Paragraph 2: European businessmen (F). Appraisal of content: 2.

1. Since mid-February 1963 Mexican immigration authorities have placed stamps in the passports of travellers to and from Cuba which read “Arrived from Cuba” and “Left for Cuba.” The stamps are placed on the page with the picture.

2. All requests for Mexican tourist visas in Cuba must be approved in Mexico before they are issued in Habana.

Field Comments

1. Cuban visas are often issued on a separate piece of paper and not stamped in the passport, so that the passport would not show that the bearer had travelled to Cuba.

2. This regulation was first noticed in February 1963.

Documentation for travel from Mexico to Cuba does not differ from that needed for travel to other Latin American countries. The traveller must have a passport or other travel document, with a valid visa. Mexican citizens within the specified age group must also carry a cartilla militar.

Mexican security services do not screen applications for travel to Cuba. Although the Mexican Government has taken no action to prevent travel to Cuba, it has discouraged government employees from accepting invitations to Cuban-sponsored activities. It also appears to want to avoid recognition of Cuban Government activities by not sending government-sponsored delegations. These steps, plus the bothersome baggage searches, photographs, and questioning by Mexican immigration authorities have probably curtailed travel to Cuba.
