Subject entered the building with his briefcase containing a pistol. He noticed two men “loitering in the lobby.” He took the elevator to the 9th floor, departed, and walked to the eleventh floor. Subject was wearing soft shoes. He walked quietly to the apartment and heard a voice say, “Don’t talk so loud, as no one will come in.” Subject then proceeded to the next apartment occupied by a friend of the movement. The friend said she had heard noises since the preceding night in the apartment. Subject then took the stairs to the 9th floor and entered the elevator. He got off on the ground floor and proceeded to the house on Carlos 08 Tercero Ave., where the other radio was cached. The owner’s name is CABANES. Upon arrival at the house, he discovered that the woman who owned the house was outside in her housecoat talking to a stranger. Subject then departed from the area, called a friend of CABANES, who went to the house. The friend was arrested, held a week, and released. Subject then tried to pass this information to Arturo MUGARRA, but MUGARRA had disappeared. He later discovered that MUGARRA knew that the radios were discovered and that TROVADIUS had been shot.

12. On 9 May, Juan FALCON, the radio operator (AJUMP/1), Pepe GUTIERREZ, Akay Peluza, Estar CRUZ, and Jose SSEOANE were arrested. When subject heard of these developments, he hid in the Guanabo area. During this period, from the 9th to the 28th of May, he saw MUGARRA approximately eight times. He later heard that the G-2 had taken over a house in Guanabo, located three blocks from where he was hiding. Subject heard that the G-2 had taken a “blond thin man there” (possibly AMBRONC/5). The G-2 remained at the house for four days.

13. Subject then departed from Guanabo for a few days. When he returned in June 1962, he met Sylvia LNU, the person who resided at the house where the “blond thin man named CARLOS” was taken. Sylvia and subject met in the water in front of their houses. Sylvia is the wife of a BATISTA naval captain who lives in Miami. She has two “little girls.” Sylvia said that “CARLOS” used to live at her house and, after being captured, was returned there with the G-2. The G-2 was searching for a “plastic case and envelopes” (pads and crystals). Sylvia told subject that she had seen the envelope and that, when Enrique CEPERO’s family informed her that he was captured, she hid everything in the house that could incriminate “Carlos” under the doghouse in the backyard. “Carlos” talked as if he had been drugged when he returned to the house with the G-2. They searched the entire house, bringing “Carlos” back and forth several times for four days. Sylvia was forced to open the door whenever anyone arrived, and the caller was arrested. Sylvia was interrogated, and the house was under surveillance for approximately a month. A friend of Sylvia’s from outside Cuba visited her during this period and was arrested and held for a week. Sylvia said the items she buried looked like “pads and maps wrapped in plastic.” Although she claimed the material was turned over to the MRR, subject has doubts that this was done.
