In October 1962, before I went to Algiers, but when I came to Paris, I saw Finet, who had a large amount of Algerian currency in his flat. The closet shelves were covered with bundles of Algerian currency.

I met Finet in New York when he came back from Cuba. He and his wife. He came through FPCC afterward.

He asked me if I had time to help him change some of this money, which he claimed was given him by an Algerian friend who was going on a world tour and had brought it from Algiers, but banks did not want to change large amounts. He was sending it by various people to airports and small banks, to change a little at a time. This, of course, was part of the money that Verges got, I assume.

Verges had met Finet during the Algerian war, when and how I don't know. Smet had been closely involved with the Algerians during the war. But he was much too conspicuous to do much in an open way. He may have given money and such, and certainly helped in propaganda.

He knew Chauvelot at the U.N., and his Algerian connections were very good. He was in contact with Ben Bella. The French government would never allow Finet to go to see Ben Bella, but when Ben Bella was suddenly released, Smet said he had no proper clothes. He did allow Finet's wife to go. It was she who took clothes to Ben Bella when he was released, and went to Cairo.

When I saw Smet in Paris in 1962, I was thinking of going to Algiers. I was vague about Verges and someone named Maurice Marguin (phonetic), who was an editor of El Mijalid, a weekly, official organ of the FVN.

It was actually through Finet that I really got the job with Verges. I had heard of him, and he apparently had heard of me, but I had never known him before.

Smet had proposed that we meet again in December, but I couldn't—I don't know why. He had gone to Morocco for something.

Gara Tlemcem.

This was at the time of the struggle between the CRIA and the Cimperial group for power in Algeria. And I don't know whether he was. Again, he played a role in the transfer of funds. They needed money for a large parade. Verges carried the money to Morocco for Khider to Algiers.

My first meeting with Verges lasted about 15 minutes. We talked about an English-language edition then of Revolution Africaine in Algiers.

The business manager was Ali Buzuren, later secretary of the Algerian Embassy in Leopoldville.

The first meeting was in November 1962. The offices of Journal d'Algerie had to be cleaned up; they had been bombed.

CAS got staff, etc. In the meantime, he went to Paris and was in conversations with Mosquera and Gerard Charlan, to whom he proposed: “sumis Algers as capital.” He was careful to make sure he had foreign editors, not Algerian.

Revolution lasted 18 issues. I have the full file if you are interested.
