Staff. 78 0443808. TOR: 211827Z MAR 78. IN 0443808. MEXI 44345.

C. Revelation of Methods. The operational tradecraft and methods (teltaps) revealed by Bach are still in practice at this station. While it may be argued that the methods have been exposed by others such as Agee, the Bach revelations will have far greater impact because they carry the imprimatur of a reputable U.S. news agency and originate with a person who is not in league with any hostile country (as far as we know).

D. Damage to Liaison. A considerable segment of this station's operations are based on liaison cooperation. The relationship this station enjoys with high levels of the Mexican government also provides a hunting license for unilateral endeavors. The Mexican government is extremely sensitive to the possibility of exposure of instances of cooperation. The political risk which the government is willing to undergo for this agency is not unlimited. Existing or potential operations could be curtailed.

E. Damage to Existing Sources. It remains to be seen how many current sources will continue collaborating with the agency in Mexico City (or other stations) after this program is released.

F. Embarrassment to President Lopez Portillo. As noted in Ref B, the Mexican president will travel to Moscow on a state visit in about six weeks' time. As a means to damage CIA, it would not be unlike the Soviets to point out that unbridled CIA operations against a legitimate Soviet presence in Mexico are a matter of concern to the Soviet Union and a potential impediment to continuing friendly relations between the two countries. The president may choose to finesse such a statement, but the point will have been made.

G. Station Security. During past months, hardly a day has passed when the local press has not carried some attack against alleged CIA activities in Mexico. Within recent weeks, the agency has been accused of every crime from the murder of President Kennedy to the abduction of Aldo Moro. The NBC program will provide new grist for the local propaganda machine and further highlight CIA presence in Mexico with concomitant erosion of station security.

H. Future Bach Revelations. There probably is no way to estimate the amount of information that Bach has revealed to unauthorized persons. Bach admits that he has unburdened his soul to his friends, and undoubtedly has provided material to NBC.
