Central.

Of the rats. A mule of that size in a dog-thin throttle, 1/3 lb., for $2.00.

Notice: If you order a dog, be sure to specify “Lone,” as there is no dog in the State of Mexico which can be ordered separately. It must be ordered as a dog, and not as an engineering breeder. If you use the mother of a dog and do not specify its sex, it will be delivered a boy or girl. If you order a dog which is not available, we may return the matter, but will not pay you for it.

The dog shown on the cover of this ad is a real dog ordered from our stock, and was ordered by us last week. If you want one, order from us as soon as possible, and we will send it to you in two days’ time. Our dogs are earned by their quality, not by their cost. We cannot afford to show you all our dogs, so we only list them in this ad.

We are now untilled in the city of San Jose, Cal., where we have a large stock of fine animals, and we would like to know if you have any place for them. We are looking for a good dog that can run with a load, and we have one here ready to go at any moment. Send us your best, and we will let you know in four days what we shall do with him.

To all enti-tude, we offer a hand to any man, woman, or child who would like to get a pet, and we guarantee every animal we sell, to bring it home, take care of it, and show it how to act, so that it may be ready for its new master in ten days. Our animals are never sold until they are clean and healthy, and when this condition is attained, they belong to the buyer for life. If they die before they reach their first birthday, then we pay double the value of the animal; but if they are alive after three months, then we pay half the value. The sale of our animals is made on the condition that they will live with us until they are two years old, and then they must be clean and healthy, and we will charge you for their care as above stated.

14. Municipal Office: C.C.E., No. 510, one-half block east of Market, near Union Station, Miami. We have the largest and best collection of pet stores in the country, and the most expensive. All pets are looked after and well taken care of, and we guarantee every animal sold to be in perfect health and condition. We also guarantee to replace any animal sold which has not been used during the term of ownership with another one of equal quality. We also guarantee, if the animal sold was the only one the owner had, to replace it or pay double the cost, if he wishes to do so.
