needed weapons to fight the insurgents and subsequently invited Masferrer and Antonio Alliegro (son of a former Cuban Senator, naturalized citizen, and Masferrer's partner in Parabellum Corporation) to come to Mexico. Bravo promised to introduce Masferrer and Alliegro to Mexican police authorities, who consented to purchase firearms.

5. Subject again heard the name “Force Seven” in Miami, January 1970, from Oliverio CAMARON Puis, former First Vice-President of the Guatemalan Congress. Castaneda was head of the Guatemalan civilian counter-insurgency forces in the Zacatan region during 1967–68 and, according to Masferrer, the chief of the Mino Blanco. Castaneda was killed 12 June 1968. The Guatemalan insurgent group, F.A.R., “took credit” for the killing. Castaneda was travelling to the U.S. with Messrs. Sandeval (Sandoval) and Figueroa. Probably Mario SALDOVAL ALMEIDA, President of the Guatemalan Congress and head of the U.L.N. party; and Alvaro CUMMAS Figueroa, Castaneda's predecessor as First Vice-President of Congress. Several THS reports during January and February 1972 indicated Cuvelas Figueroa was trying to smuggle arms from the U.S. to Guatemala, supposedly for an intended coup in Costa Rica.

Masferrer said Castaneda was trying to arrange the release from U.S. federal prison of Rolando Masferrer, Sr. Castaneda wanted Masferrer, Sr., to emigrate to Guatemala to become involved in state security matters and also to organize an anti-Communist army. Castaneda mentioned to Masferrer, Jr., the growing insurgency problems in the Peten area of Guatemala. Castaneda mentioned that U.S. insurgents operating under the name “Force Seven” entered the Peten from Mexico. The Guatemalan Army's Mariscal Zavala Brigade had been dispatched from Guatemala City to the Mexican border in Peten province to counter the infiltration, but had recently been shifted to the border adjacent to British Honduras. Masferrer said Castaneda believed that former U.S. “Green Berets” were involved with the insurgents. Castaneda said that a list of all U.S. Special Forces-trained Guatemalans had disappeared when the U.S. military training mission was terminated. Now the guerrillas in Guatemala are pinpointing those U.S.-trained, local military personnel with uncanny accuracy. From that evidence, Castaneda believed that “Force Seven” must include some of the U.S. “Green Berets” that had originally trained the local Guatemalan military.
