And the writer, Elena Carro do Faz, the latter states: “The Cuban Embassy had severely chided Rico for writing an article favorable to the guerrilla leaders who were killed recently during their assault on the army barracks at Madera (Madra), Chihuahua.... Rico had been close to ‘Che’ Guevara rather than Castro, and that since Guevara’s disappearance he had grown noticeably cooler toward Cuba.” She added that although he is a Marxist and is anti-American, Rico is also very hostile to the Mexican Communist Party (PCM).

TDCS 314/10379-66, 17 August 1966. Highly placed police official, reporting believed reliable: “Sufficient legal evidence is available to prove that Rico, Raul Ugaldo and others were a part of a conspiracy advocating and teaching the overthrow of the Mexican government by violent means.”

TDCS 314/10419-66, 18 August 1966. Presumed B-2. From 12–13 August, Rico was arrested with 40 others; the PPS is pleased and will do nothing to help them. “According to Carlos Sanchez Cardenas of the PPS National Executive Directorate, it is almost impossible to believe that a man like Rico could be the leader of an armed rebel movement. He has always been considered a Marxist intellectual belonging to no party who has confined his battles to the pages of magazines like Política Siempre and SucSon. Lombardo Toledon (Lombardo Toledano) frankly thought of him as incapable of doing anything that involved a mass following.”

Additional information.

From WH-1/Mexico:

Parents: Victor RICO Gonzalez; Fernando GAIAN Suelros. Spanish nationals—no information available in Mexican and Spanish files.

Wife: Ingabord DIEHER de Rico. No information available in Mexican or Scandinavian files. In German files, there is reference to an Inge Diener; information dated 14 May 1956: born in Guben in 1920; of average intelligence; convinced, fanatical Communist; not liked; dangerous; of proletarian background; trained for administrative work; after 1945 worked for the Cadre Department of city administration in Forst-Zimma; afterwards obtained a position in the ministry; at first worked in the Cadre Department, was responsible for embassy and trade mission personnel; transferred to present position because of disagreements with Vose (fmu); now responsible for currency matters; takes a course during
