Section D — Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

My qualitative assessment and comments in Fred's February 1976 Fitness Report apply equally today; in fact, they fall short, in view of the quantitative and administrative changes of the past year.

The news headlines, the new oversight demands, an increasingly sophisticated FOIA requester group and judiciary, plus a highly organized hostile element, epitomized by the Center for National Security Studies, has made the PICG function all the more significant. Cases in litigation involving DDO materials now number 58 and the appeal pattern is now running 1:2 (i.e., one appeal for two initial requests, with subsequent litigation—anticipating deep analysis and Deputy Director-level review) compared to 1:3 last year. Appeal-level analysis is much more time-consuming, hence the backlog reduction process suffers; hence, overtime and firefighting remain the norm. Double-encumbered personnel detailing has raised the on-board PICG total from the 18 stated in last year's FR to 25. The managerial task of motivating workers in this continuously grinding and frustrating environment was harder this year, yet was met by Fred with the same qualities as those which led his people to write

Section E — Certification and Comments.

Months employee has been under my supervision.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Official title of supervisor: DDO Information Review Off.

Typed or printed name and signature: Charles A. Briggs (BrigGS).

Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance.

Date: 11/3/77.

Have attached. Have not attached.

Signature of employee: Fredrick (Fredricl) C. Landall.

Comments of reviewing official.

No appropriate reviewing official.

I certify that I have been entered in all sections of this report.

Date.
