Sao Paulo  
2 October 1959

Dear Atchico,

I've been thinking for an hour and I still don't know how to begin. I can't say that as a brother I've especially been a blessing to you, and often I've caused you more trouble than I would have liked, directly or indirectly. My leaving Gap was inevitable. On the one hand because of the obligation to remain there until an indefinite date, and above all because of the work I'm now doing which had been in the offing for quite a while. My stay at Ambert had nothing to do with my departure; it was only a business trip.

If I had been able to write you sooner, I would have done so. Now I can, and as there are many things in suspense I would be glad to be able to take them up where I've left them. I never expected you to bear the price of my actions; therefore, I'm counting on you to tell me whom you paid for me, for I presume that most people immediately thought you were responsible for my debts. As soon as you reply, I will immediately send you the money to reimburse you, or, if need be, to pay the interested party.

If you didn't already know, I'm notifying you that Jacqueline is first on my list and there is no reason why she should be deprived of what is hers. I could very well have sent her the money today, but I don't even know if this letter will arrive at the right address. It's more than a year since I left you, and I'm making contact again.

Next on the list there's you naturally, whom I do not forget. Listen, what I ask is that you write me seriously, for your sake as well as mine. Give me the list of these people in order of urgency.

When I left Albert, I had left instructions to pay certain people, and I don't know if this has been done. I'm going to write to the Dassauds; in this way, perhaps, I'll know what has happened.

I've been here a very short time and have had a lot to do in the past few months. Unfortunately I can't tell you where, when, or what kind of work. I only ask that you have faith in me.

How is life at Gap? How are the girls, Elico and Irene? I would be glad to receive a letter from them with a few pictures of all of you, if possible. Many regards to Jacqueline with hopes that she and hers are all well.
