Dates of employment (month, year): From; To; Year. Exact title of current position. Class of office (if known). Quality of pay: starting; final.

Place of employment (state and state). Name and title of immediate supervisor. Name and address of employer (firm, organization, or person; if Federal, name department, bureau or establishment, and division). Kind of business or organization (e.g., wholesale, insurance agency, manufacture of chemicals). Number and kind of enlisted personnel supervised by you. Reason for leaving. Description of your work.

If more space is required, use a continuation sheet (Standard Form No. 38) or a sheet of paper the same size as this page. Write on each sheet your name, address, date of birth, and examination title. Attach to inside of this application.

17. Military Training. In the space below, describe any training received in the Armed Services not already listed under Item 16 that would assist in preparing officers for placing you most effectively. Indicate actual amount of training received, such as hours per week. Detailed information regarding any special service schools you attended is especially important. See pages may be used to give full descriptions.

Dates: 2/41 to 5/41. Location: U.S. Naval Academy. Description of training: USNR Midshipman's Course.

Dates: 1/44 to 6/44. Location: Miami Beach. Description of training: AAF/OCS.

Dates: 6/44 to 8/44. Location: Orlando, Fla. Description of training: AAF Combat Intelligence School.

Dates: 1/45 to 3/45. Location: Catalina Island. Description of training: Office of Strategic Services, Clandestine School.

18. Education. Circle highest grade completed. Give name and location of last high school attended: Hamburg High School, N.Y.

Mark the appropriate box to indicate satisfactory completion of elementary school, junior high school, or senior high school. Senior high school.

Name and location of college or university: Brown University. Degree and specialty: English. Dates attended: From; To.
