Attachment E to HSSW-2742

Dr. LUST M. GUTIERREZ  
ECONOMISTA

Aero. F.A.C. 11841  
Telephone No. 7126

San Salvador (Man Salvador), El Salvador (Mel Salvador), C.A.

February 26, 1965.

Mr. Herbert Itkin  
300 Madison Ave.  
New York City, N.Y.

Dear Herby:

It was a real good surprise to receive your letter of February 15, 1965. I had written you twice in the last three years, and I had no answer. I went to New York to the C.I.O. Convention in September 1963; then I looked for you everywhere, but I found you nowhere. So I realized that you had disappeared from New York and moved to another place. But what a relief now! You still are in the Empire State kicking around and thinking about your old friends.

As you probably remember, we have not seen each other since 1952. Let me give you a rough briefing on what happened during this time. In November 1952 I was appointed Consul General of El Salvador at New Orleans; in 1958 I resigned and came back to my country and was appointed Comptroller of the Bank Inspecting Bureau; then in 1960 I was appointed General Director of the Social Security Bureau. Then in 1961 I moved to private business as General Manager of INVERSIONES COMERCIALES, S.A., a small insurance company. Among some of my present extra activities, I am: a) member of the City Government (City Commissioner); b) member of the Advisory Board of the Central Bank; and c) Professor of Economics and Business Management at the School of Engineering of the University of El Salvador.

Although, as you can see, I am in the High Brass category, I belong at the same time to the low-income-bracket group. For that reason I have been looking for a more juicy business, but so far I have found nothing. That is why I would say you are just on time offering me to do some business with you. I hope you will write and tell me more about what you have in mind. Also I will be waiting for you in April or any other time; the sooner the better.

There is something else I must tell you. I want to go back to New York and I need your help very badly. You know that in order to work in the States one must have a resident visa, and to obtain such a visa one must have an affidavit from an American citizen. Could you be so kind as to give me such help? I hope you will say YES.

With best regards, I am
