Date. To: Chief, WH Division. HIMMA-14991-1773. From: Chief of Station, Mexico City. 50-6-32/3. Subject: LIFEAT Monthly Report, April 1960. 20 May 1960. Information only.

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1):

a. Exploitation of Leads

The LIMERICK phase of the LIFEAT operation is able continuously to provide the interested case officers with background personality information on the members of the Soviet Embassy staff, as well as travel information on Soviet officials and diplomatic couriers. During the month of April 1960, this type of information was exploited for the following:

a. Viktor Nikolayevich GLCTOV, First Secretary, will be the replacement for Vladimir Georgiyevich NOVIKOV as Cultural Officer when the latter leaves for the USSR on 29 May 1960. He will also act as the Soviet Ambassador's executive secretary during the home leave of Vladimir Ivanovich CHERNYSHEV. CHERNYSHEV departed for leave on 17 April.

b. Nikolai ZHOUGANOV was the replacement for Anatoly Konstantinovich YEMELYANOV, Commercial Office employee who works “upstairs” in the Chancellery rather than in the Commercial Office. This indicated that ZHOUGANOV may be a code clerk.

c. Confirmation that four aliens are employed in the Chancery as teachers, one of whom teaches English.

d. Indications of increased contact between the Soviet and Cuban officials as noted in the travel of Soviet officers to Havana and conversations between the Cuban Embassy and the Soviet Ambassador indicating an announcement of importance was to be made on 8 May, possibly concerning the establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the USSR.

e. Through the review of past LIFEAT traffic and the direct statements of the Soviet Embassy personnel in discussions of “duty rosters,” it has been determined that a reduction in the Embassy staff is in progress. Future LIFEAT information should disclose whether this reduction is of a permanent or temporary nature.

f. Advance travel notice on Soviets such as CHERNYSHEV, NOVIKOV, Semcon FEDOROV, and couriers Vladimir BYKOV and Valentin KUZNETSOV.

LIFEAT/LIMERICK also revealed a serious rift which has developed between the Soviet Commercial Office and one of its primary commercial
