March 20, 1952

Memorandum for: Chief, International Organizations Division

From: Deputy Director (Plans)

Subject: Testimony of Adolph A. Berle, Jr., on behalf of Nicolas Malaxas; complaint of the State Department.

1. Please note the attached memoranda from Bob Joyce and John Campbell, dated March 11 and March 13, respectively. Will you please prepare a brief memorandum for Messrs. Joyce and Campbell informing them that we are in complete agreement with their views concerning Adolph Berle's statements, and moreover that action has been taken to inform the Cretsianu-Visoianu group that Mr. Berle had no right whatsoever to make remarks of this kind in his capacity as a member of the Board of HCPE. You can obtain the details of what has been said from Mr. Crew and Mr. Dulles in order to strengthen and round out your memorandum to Messrs. Joyce and Campbell. It is my understanding that Mr. Crew received Mr. Cretsianu for the purpose of denying any responsibility on the part of HCPE for Mr. Berle's remarks, which he made in his private capacity and incidentally as attorney for Malaxas. Will you please let Mr. Norton see the memorandum which you write to Messrs. Joyce and Campbell.

2. For your information, I have recently been informed by a very knowledgeable Romanian that, in his opinion, some good has resulted out of this highly improper and messy (mesny) business of Berle's. This Berle attack on Cretsianu was partially responsible, in the judgment of my informant, for Cretsianu's sudden turn-about and agreement to shake hands with and sit down beside Messrs. Gafancu and Davila. “It's an ill wind ...,” etc.

Although the following question may not be entirely in your field, I should appreciate your getting up a statement for my information concerning the present status of and our proposed future use, if any, of Julius Fleischmann. I have just heard through the grapevine that he considers his usefulness to us at an end and that he is severing all connection with this Agency. This disturbs me, as I consider Mr. Fleischmann to be an intelligent and able man who has already gained enough experience in our line of endeavor to be of value to us. If my information is by any chance correct, then I do not understand why we so lightly cast him aside. I hope that I am wrong and that he may be severing official connections only to continue his work in a more subtle manner.

cc: DNT  
ADC  
C/ST

(Signed) Frank O. Winter

Frank O. Vismer

Attachment: Described memorandum and transcript of Perle (Berle) testimony.
