OFAT-1-192. 6 Aug 74.

Fitness Report.

Section A, General Information.

Employee number: 128609. Name: CASASIN, Thomas B. (P). Date of birth: 20 Jun 24. Sex: M. Grade & SD: GS-15 D. Official position title: Career Associate - Ops Officer. Officer is an assignment: DDO/EUR. Current station: Paris. Type of appointment: Career; Reassignment. Reporting period (from-to): 1 January 74–30 June 74.

Section B, Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period, insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of his duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Basic specific duty No. 1. Rating letter. See attached memorandum in lieu.

Basic specific duty No. 2. Rating letter.

Basic specific duty No. 3. Rating letter.

Basic specific duty No. 4. Rating letter.

Basic specific duty No. 5. Rating letter.

Basic specific duty No. 6. Rating letter.

Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of an employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the ranking box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
