VI. 20 Oct. '76

Paper Scheme Activities of Chile in Mexico

Havana (Lavaca) Domestic Service in Spanish, 2736 CFF, 19 Oct. '76, FL

The Mexican daily El Imparcial (El Impia), in today's edition, demonstrates the existence of real ties between the Latin American revolutionary movements and the organizations of Cuban counterrevolutionary movements financed by the CIA. The daily affirms that the sabotage of a Cuban prisoner airman's aircraft has uncovered the pseudo activities of the so-called firms and their ties with the North American State Department, the CIA, and the terrorist dictators of the continent.

The daily adds that the investigations into the sabotage of the aircraft have eliminated the profile of a statistic percentage called Orlando Beach, to whom Pinchot's June assignment was made of assisting Chilean revolutionary Andrés Pascal Allende (Andre Foscal allende).

The daily mentions the charges filed against Beach, implicating him in the assassination of former Chilean Foreign Minister Orlando Letelier (Orlando Latellier) and in placing a bomb on the Cuban aircraft destroyed off Barbados.

Havana (Lavaca) Commentary Equated the CIA with the SS

Havana (Lavaca) Domestic Service in Spanish, 1750 CFF, 19 Oct. '76, FL

Inside the News' commentary by Rafael Borregui—read by announcer

Since its very beginning, the representative institutions created by the capitalist production system have included espionage organizations.

The criminal machinery at the service of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, CIA, perhaps can be compared to a degree to the one which, in the days of Hitler's Germany, obeyed the orders of the SS chief Heinrich Himmler.

The Central Intelligence Agency, which was created at the end of the decade of the forties in the midst of the Cold War against the Soviet Union and other nations of the socialist camp, also has an official function: the centralization of intelligence supplied by the different North American espionage organizations to facilitate the decisions of the U.S. president.

But the book “The Cult of Intelligence” by Victor Marchetti, a former high CIA official, acknowledges that unofficially the fundamental mission of the agency is to carry out the decisions of the President which, if implemented by other public bodies, could cause difficulties. Even though it recruits all types of mercenaries, the established image of the CIA agent is the same stereotype of the supposed superman of the SS troops used by Soviet propaganda.

During the war against the Vietnamese people, the United States confined in so-called strategic hamlets entire populations of southern peasants who were scrutinized by and under the custody of civilians working for the agency.

A special department of the Central Intelligence Agency has the exclusive task of carrying out actions that attest to its criminal nature, such as coups d'état abroad, economic destabilization, attempts against the lives of leaders, and others.

Equally, the CIA offers counseling to reactionary regimes in the methodical torture of their opponents. The sinister traditions of the SS troops and its modern continuator, the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, coincide in many concrete ways.
