Had gotten to know one of the “Mano Blanca” (the oldest: the trio that had been arrested for the kidnapping of the Archbishop), Muño (Mufio) Padilla, and felt he was sympathetic toward us. I therefore prepared a brief message on the inside of an empty package of cigarettes, “To Whom It May Concern,” stating that we had been arrested and were being held unjustly. On the day that the trio were called out to appear in court, where I knew there would be newspaper reporters present, I slipped the note to Muño with a plea that he give it to a reporter as soon as he could. I later learned that he did so and that my note appeared verbatim in the local press.

“Several weeks later the mother and wife of Iden B visited us at their home because of what he told them on their own initiative spread the party—that I had been responsible for the arrest and trial of a Trotskyite. (The wife and mother of Iden B are both members of the CP Mexico.) This proved very disquieting to me, but I was reassured to some extent by the Leon brothers, who told me that they would investigate and clear up the matter as soon as they could. About two months later, they took me aside in the prison compound and showed me a report they stated they received from ‘FAR sources in Mexico.’ In this report I was described as ‘an anarchist without party affiliations, of good character and conduct, trustworthy and responsible but difficult to control.’ Iden B, on the other hand, was described as ‘an opportunist, without sincere ideology, in reality aSCOGEUS of superficial convictions.’

“From that moment the Leon brothers took me into their confidence. They revealed that FAR had broken completely with the CP Guatemala because of complete dissatisfaction with the party’s handling of support matters. They pointed out to me Francisco Conado (Coronado) in the compound as the CP representative and commented that all financial help from the outside was being channeled through him despite the fact that he distributed the aid to his friends who were not even party members and neglected everyone else. The brothers also told me that FAR had stripped César Montes (Montez) of all his authority and that he was in exile in Mexico. They commented that Montes had spent almost all his time outside Guatemala and had not accomplished the missions he was sent on. They also stated that financial and material aid from Cuba had dwindled to almost nothing because of FAR’s refusal to accept Cuban terms. He explained that the Cubans insisted on sending their experts to direct everything and channeled all their financial aid through the CP Guatemala. “The Leon brothers also suggested that if and when I returned to
