Via: Depart MNO.

To: Chief of Staff (Attn: Chief SP).

From: Chief of Staff, Frankfurt.

Subject: General — REDSOX/AEPACT.

Reference: ECA-30972.

II, 15. DE 87.

1. In a recent conversation with Mr. Richard R. Brown, OFCEP, Frankfurt, he mentioned several portions of a letter which he had just received from his Washington headquarters directing some fairly strong criticism to the German country unit in its handling of the program. Needless to say, Brown was considerably upset since it appears that much of the criticism stemmed from KUBARK (KUARK). It was his impression that our conversations of last November and December and the remedial action taken by OFC at that time relative to the USEP German unit's handling of the Soviet program had indicated his willingness to do anything possible to correct deficiencies and to forestall just such criticism. In paragraph 1 of the reference we indicated that satisfactory answers to our questions had been received. In this connection we enclose an Attachment A, a copy of Brown's written answers to our specific questions. Attachment B is a criteria for USEP assistance.

2. In regard to the criticism levelled at Brown and the German unit by the German's home office, the following pertinent excerpts were passed to the understood:

“At the third meeting a great deal of stress was laid on the question of the special interest cases of other Government agencies. I was able to dwell at some length on the special handling that we have given special interest cases, and to cite chapter and verse of our report to the OFC. Nonetheless, it was felt that we should very greatly intensify our efforts in this respect. It is clearly considered that the disposal of special interest cases on a very high priority basis warrants unusual effort, procedures, and expense on the part of the Program. Both Army and KUBARK (KUARK) attach very great importance to this, and any dissatisfaction was expressed with the manner in which the present procedure are being implemented by the Program. In Germany, specifically, it was felt that the Program has been reluctant to associate itself with its contractors with cases which might present insuperable difficulties in connection with the

EO1-30A.

201-43952.
