clothes. He had but 32 German marks left. He asked the barber how much the railroad ticket to Paris would cost, and asked also to exchange his German money. He got the information and the money exchanged. He had just enough for the ticket with a few remaining for something to eat.

15. David bought the ticket and boarded the train. He asked other travelers about the controls. He was told that the German military personnel were performing the control at the Belgian-French border. He thought to leave the train before the border, to cross the border clandestinely, and then return to the train, but it was too late; he could not leave the car anymore. The control team, a Lieutenant, a W.C.O., and two men, was already there. The officer marched up to David, looked him in the eyes, then turned his back to David and shouted to the W.C.O. to hurry up. David was lucky: he had no documents, and nobody asked him for them; the W.C.O. probably thought that the Lieutenant had checked his documents.

16. He felt happy, but the others told him that there would be one more check, at the “red zone” (la zone rouge) near SAINT QUARTIER. Thereupon David left the compartment and approached a railroad employee in the corridor of the car. He showed the person his ticket, told him that he had no documents, and demanded that the employee, as a good Frenchman, help him, another Frenchman, to come to Paris. He was asked to wait. The employee soon returned with the chief of the train. The latter took David to the mail car of the train and ordered the employee in charge of this car to find a place for David to hide. A mail sack was opened and David was instructed to get in. David did, and felt so secure and comfortable that he fell asleep. He remembers having heard some shouting and kicking around; however, he was not hit. He was in Paris when the sack was opened. He felt very happy, offered money, but he was told that this was not done for money. He then promised to give the man some drinks, but in the excitement he forgot this. When he later remembered this and returned to the station, he did not find the person anymore.

17. Two or three days later David again reported to a German Labor Office in Paris, this time as a photographer. He, of course, did not go to the same office where he had been before, where they could have recognized him.

18. He got the assignment to work in a factory in Berlin, which produced electrodes for welding instruments. He had to photograph samples of material used, and of electrodes produced, for checking purposes, under different conditions. He also had to make photocopies of different books, and photographs for the identity cards. The factory was somewhere in Lichtenberg (LICHENBERG), not quite in Berlin (the next day David said that the factory was in FRIEDRANU). He does not remember the name of the factory, but he heard the director answering telephone calls by saying
