Staff Classification. Fitness Report.

Section A: General Information.

Employee number: 194737. Name: Flores, Daniel. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDO/LA/COG. Date of birth: 4 Aug 35. Current station: Washington, D.C. Type of appointment: Temporary, annual. Report period: 1 October 1974–30 June 1975; 31 July 1975.

Section B: Qualifications Update.

If Qualification's Update Form is being submitted with changes and is attached to this report, place the word “Yes” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “No” in the box at right.

Section C: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Case Officer for COG's Latin America area responsible for operational support of LA field stations Cuba programs. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Case officer for two sensitive on-island agent operations. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Develop leads to potential Cuban recruitment targets and personally interview prospective access agents. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Supervisor for one Intelligence Analyst. Rating letter: S.
