8. Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez, First Secretary-designate. Source does not know Rodriguez or anything about him. Rodriguez was scheduled to come to New York some months ago; it would seem that he is not coming at this point. Rodriguez simply has been documented as a DGI officer through other sources.

9. Cecilia Andre Sanchez, Second Secretary-designate. Source does not know Andre, who was scheduled to come at the same time as Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez. Source thought Andre might be the wife of Jorge Bolanos Suarez (paragraph 3 above), as he thought Bolanos' wife was named Cecilia, whom Source knew to be employed as a staff officer in the Cuban Embassy in London during Bolanos' assignment there.

10. Miguel Manuel Santana Fratz, Attache. Source, who had identified Santana as a DGI officer in November 1967, now states that he is not sure whether he is with the DGI or with the DSE. Source thinks that he is probably with the DGI. Source said that the wife of Santana will return here late October.

11. Justo Cesar Gelabert Martinez, Attache. Source stated that Gelabert is with the DSE. He replaced Ramon Martinez Suarez as the “Portero” of the CMUN.

12. Rafael Aguilera (Anguilera) Batista, Attache. Source confirmed that Aguilera replaced Roberto Guerra Gonzalez as a code clerk.

13. Rolando Perez Alfonso, Attache. Source stated that there are now two code clerks in the CMUN; by process of elimination, it would appear that Perez might well be the second one. Source did not know the name of the other code clerk.

14. Clerical employees. In addition to Adamina Vasquez Caparo (wife of Alberto Boza Hidalgo-Cato, First Secretary), who works as secretary to Ambassador Alarcon, and Mercedes Salgado Hernandez (wife of Jorge Reyes Vega, Second Secretary), who is the Telex operator, Source believes that two other wives of CMUN officers also work part-time in the CMUN. One of these females is pregnant and may be married to one of the code clerks. Source thinks that the other might be the wife of Pedro Luis Pinero Eirin, Third Secretary (her name is Juana Cruz Fernandez), but was not at all sure of this identification.
