D. Nosenko's Activities in Geneva

1. Introduction

The extent to which Nosenko made himself available for meetings with CIA in Geneva in 1962 and 1964 is reviewed here in connection with his statements about the KGB duties assigned to him for these trips, his visits to the KGB Legal Residency, and his personal association with other Soviets. Although Nosenko was not precise about how he spent his days and nights in Geneva, he did indicate that he was his own boss, disposed of his time as he saw fit, and for the most part had little to do. At the first meeting with CIA in 1962 he accounted for his freedom of movement by saying: “I can come and go as I please at any time. (Ambassador) Zorin knows who I am, almost the entire delegation knows who I am, because I don't need to pretend. Nobody pays any attention to me. They know that I am not a Ministry of Foreign Affairs man (at the conference sessions). I sit, listen, leaf through some papers. For this reason I can leave the conference at any time, or I do not come at all, and no one will say a word to me.” CIA made no attempt to place Nosenko under surveillance in 1962 and 1964, and there is no evidence from other sources confirming or disproving Nosenko's statements about his activities while away from the CIA safehouse.

2. Official Duties in Geneva

In 1962 Nosenko said he was the sole KGB officer in the 94-man Soviet delegation to the Disarmament Conference and as such he was responsible for the security and behavior of the entire delegation.* To assist him in carrying out these security officer functions, Nosenko had the services of a number of coopted informants of the KGB who were serving in the delegation. In addition, Nosenko had the specific mission of checking on suspicions attached to one of the delegation members, P. F. Shakhov,** but by the time he established contact with CIA, he said, this assignment had already been completed.

In 1964, Nosenko said his only operational task then was to handle the general security responsibilities for the Soviet delegation, as he had done in 1962. There was no specific mission such as the one concerning Shakhov in 1962.

Nosenko has described his investigations of Shakhov, but he has never indicated either that he conducted security checks of other delegation members in 1962 and 1964, or that he received any security-type information (except on Shakhov) from the KGB cooptees who were supposed to be reporting to him. Likewise, Nosenko has not said that he prepared communications for KGB Headquarters regarding his clandestine assignments in Geneva.

3. Visits to the KGB Legal Residency

Virtually every day, Nosenko told CIA in 1962, he went to the KGB Legal Residency in Geneva, and if he stayed away for more than a day or two, the Legal Resident, S. I. Gavrichev, would invariably ask Nosenko where he had been keeping himself.

* I. S. Mayorov and M. S. Tsymbal also arrived with the delegation in March 1962 but had left Geneva by the time Nosenko contacted CIA.

** Shakhov is discussed further in Part III.3.1.
