June 1962

The German city of Pillau and is now called Primorsk." There NOSENKO was involved in the formation of “agent-observation posts.” Suitable candidates were selected from among the crews of ships. They were then formed into groups of three men each and were trained in radio operation, demolition, etc. After this the groups split up and their members went their separate ways. In case of war the groups were to be reformed and sent behind enemy lines on sabotage and intelligence missions. Note: The former German city of Pillau is now called Baltiysk, not Primorsk; the latter is a small village nearby.

1964

When he learned that officer's job and that his final assignment was not definite, he then took more leave (unauthorized) until about 29 July, when he left for Baltiysk and reported for duty to the Intelligence Staff of the Fourth Baltic Fleet.

The Naval Intelligence Points (MRP's) helped train sailors for wartime agent missions and were closing down agent missions. The final assignment was to prepare the training plan for the sailors, to instruct them in subjects such as “The Foreign Policy of the USSR,” and generally to see to their needs. (May)

74.

1965

April 1966

I was ordered to the Naval Intelligence Point of the Fourth Baltic Fleet Intelligence Unit in Sovetsk, Kaliningradskaya Oblast. Sovetsk is located before you go out on the spit of land where Baltiysk (Pillau) stands. I arrived in Sovetsk in August 1952 and began to work in the Naval Intelligence Unit as a senior translator. Shortly before my arrival the Intelligence Point had been moved from Rostok, in Germany, to Sovetsk. Note: It was clear from NOSENKO's earlier descriptions that the “Sovetsk” which NOSENKO described is, in fact, Primorsk, a small village on the coast. The only place called Sovetsk in Kaliningradskaya Oblast

October 1966

He said that he was assigned to Sovetsk in the summer of 1952. He was asked why, as a son of a minister and as a patient under treatment for tuberculosis, he was not assigned to the Black Sea or somewhere else with a healthy climate. NOSENKO explained that there were no positions available “elsewhere.”
