Honorary President

President

Vice President

Recording Secretary

Secretary-Treasurer

Advisory Council

The Slovak League of America

A Cultural and Civic Federation of Americans of Slovak Descent

Organized 1937 in Cleveland, Ohio

Office of the President

Philip A. Hrobak  
P. O. Box 150  
Middletown, Pa.

Stephanie O. Husek  
Georgian Court College  
Lakewood, N. J.

Michael J. Vargoyich  
National President  
First Catholic Slovak Union of U. S. A.

Helen Kocan  
National President  
First Catholic Slovak Ladino Union

Frank Borus  
National President  
Slovak Catholic Solidar

Stephen J. Tkach  
National President  
Pennsylvania Slovak Union

Gabriela E. Vavrek  
National President  
Ladino Pennsylvania Slovak Union

John Rozboril  
National President  
Slovak Catholic Cadet Union

October 31, 1952

Mr. Kurt Glaser

1717–30th St., N.W.  
Washington 9, D.C.

Dear Mr. Glaser:

I have read your article on Radio Free Europe—The “Russia First” Boys in Radio “Free Europe”—and I must say that it agrees with the facts as I know them. It is regrettable that such knowledge or information cannot get to the masses of the American public. I have visited the State Department and the National Committee for a Free Europe several times during the past two years to urge them of the situation, but it seems they do not choose to do much about it. I had my information directly and indirectly from Slovak refugees in Germany and Austria…and London.

In December 1951, the Association of Slovaks in Great Britain sent a “Memorandum” to the National Committee for a Free Europe in New York stating, in effect, the very things your article contains. The personnel of RFE in Munich was given in toto. At that time 31 program editors were employed by RFE—29 Czechs and 8 Slovaks (renegades). Of the 29 Czechs employed, 27 were Socialists of one brand or another! The memo mentions who they were…and I still have that list. Should you want to use it, you are welcome to it.

I have long been convinced that it is not in the interests of America or other free countries to employ pseudo-left-wingers in the RFE, the Voice of America or Radio Free Europe. I simply would not trust them. Your article tells the charlatans in RFE or used by the RFE and I certainly support their publication. I, for one, certainly would!

P. S. Hrobak
