f. Has there been an open break between Starke and the Orlichs? A-1 stated that at the beginning of the crisis there had been a break between Starke and Cornelio Orlich; however, Starke has been able to smoothen the rupture by telling Cornelio Orlich that his main interest in controlling the MRR was for financial gains through the contraband trade.

g. Is Cabezas your main source on Starke and Calderon? A-1 commented that Cabezas had been one of his sources, but also Col. Figuls, plus reports given to A-1 by his own people in the camps. However, his main source was the facts which speak for themselves.

3. Changing the subject, Martin asked A-1 why he could not go to Guatemala. A-1 explained that what he had wanted to say in his message was that at this particular time Guatemala would have to be ruled out because his passport showed an exit from Mercedes Airport in Nicaragua. However, this did not preclude future meetings in Guatemala. A-1 apologized if he had given us the wrong impression in his message.

4. A-1 stated that within the coming week he might want to have a special meeting with the Consejo concerning the latest political developments in Costa Rica.

5. A-1 is forwarding us a tape on Honduras and Costa Rica as soon as possible.

6. A-1 is not satisfied with the developments in Nicaragua and with Iglesias in particular. A-1 implied that the main problem may be the funding mechanism in Nicaragua and misuse of AMWORLD funds. A-1 is sending AMWORLD-2, who is a public accountant, to review the financial situation there.

7. A-1 was asked to service his post office box since there are several letters waiting for him.

8. A-1 expects to meet with the DMJM people, who are now in Miami, along with AMWORLD-2 and AMJAVA-4.

9. It was requested of A-1 that he precede any Consejo messages which require immediate attention with the word “URGENTE” so that members of this office will not needlessly be called at all hours of the night. A-1 agreed.

10. A-1 was reminded that we still have not received AMWORLD-2's report regarding his interview with Eusebio Mujal.

Above conversation conducted in presence of frequently changed privacy code.
