Memorandum.

Subject: Subversive and Political Activities in Central America.

Source of the following information is a prominent Cuban exile who is a fairly reliable reporter. He has a large number of direct and indirect contacts with influential Latin American nationals. Source acquired the information from discussions held with the individuals mentioned, during the month of December 1966.

During a conversation with Frank Marshall in early December 1966, source learned that Marshall wanted to buy arms and asked source to supply them. Marshall said that he needed them for what he called “an expected revolutionary outburst from one moment to the next in Costa Rica,” and he did not want his “private arsenal” to be smaller than the arsenals of the Calderon Guardia group, Pepe Figueres’ group, Oduber’s group and the Communist group. Source asked Marshall when he needed the arms and Marshall answered NOW. Source replied that he would need at least three weeks to think about Marshall’s request and then he would give Marshall an answer. After considering what source had said, Marshall replied, “okay, I can give you one month to give me an answer but no more.” Source believes Marshall is in a plot to overthrow the Costa Rican Government. In source’s opinion “the situation in Costa Rica is very bad because the president does not have a definite political group to support him and therefore is in the hands of diverse groups; Calderon Guardia, Ulate, Echandi, Frank Marshall etc., who respond to their own sectorial interests and not to Costa Rica, and who respond much less to President Trejos. The Partido Liberacion Nacional, (PLN) is expecting a coup d’état and plan to counter-attack and stay in power.”

In a conversation with Daniel Oduber in early December 1966, source states that Oduber “spoke badly about Don Pepe Figuereos (Figueres) and ‘Chico Orlich’. Oduber said that ‘they wanted to eliminate his presidential aspirations for the coming campaign and postulate Don Pepe again.’” Oduber said that “they (Don Pepe and Orlich) were the

File: Ambuity-1
