Student Evaluation. Ratings: Security consciousness—above average; Ability to work with and get along with others—not observed; Ability to follow instructions—above average; Maturity of judgment and common sense—above average; Initiative—not observed; Resourcefulness and independence of judgment—average; Tactfulness and sense of discretion—above average; Cooperativeness—above average; Sense of discipline—average; Imagination and creativeness—above average; Amenability to constructive criticism—above average; Attention to necessary details—below average; Observant and careful in the collection of facts—below average; Political sophistication and awareness—not observed; Interest and enthusiasm for proposed assignment—above average; Motivation for clandestine activities—above average; Ability to relate theory to practice—above average.

Student's Comparative Evaluation to Others Trained for Identical or Similar Assignment: Above average. Average: X.

Instructor's Comments

Arthur G. VAIVADA impressed this instructor most favorably. The trainee is highly intelligent, practical and realistic. He possesses excellent judgment and common sense. VAIVADA is mature, well-balanced, resourceful and positive. He appears to be open-minded and objective, possessing a questioning mind and a strong sense of curiosity. VAIVADA approached training with a strong desire to add to his knowledge and to refine his own methods and techniques. He was highly receptive and amenable to constructive criticism. The trainee has a feeling for detail and is observant and careful in the collection of facts. It was necessary for VAIVADA to spend considerable time on administrative matters during the training. However, he completed all outside assignments punctually and completely.

VAIVADA's performance was excellent. He is above average in every aspect. His motivation is strong and his interest in clandestine activity as a profession appears to be genuine. If properly supervised, he should be a valuable asset to this organization. The trainee appears to be industrious, possessing initiative with leadership qualities.

Instructor

/s/ FRANK A. TOTH
