Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 69 of Edwin S. Cunningham (Cunninahan), American Consul General at Shanghai, China, dated December 10, 1931, on the subject: “Harold H. Issues.”

An oblong paper to the portion of newspaper of China.

Your publication of the “Ghastly” (Shanghai Times), “Horrible” (China Press), “Assassination” (Yen-ing Post and North China Daily News) murders allegedly committed by Chinese Communists in the French Concession brings forcibly to mind certain other aspects of the Chinese scene whose ghastliness and barbarity find their way into your columns only at rare intervals—and then only in brief, cool paragraphs.

There can be no attempt to “justify” these alleged murders, if the tale be true. We all hate the acts of a traitor. But we cannot allow a system of vendetta which exacts as the price of betrayal the innocent lives of a traitor’s family. That, however, involves the question of differing social customs to which no abstract moral absolute can possibly be applied.

Betrayal has its price under any social norm, whether we turn the dirty work of vengeance over to the ineffable mercies of the Lord or employ the less aesthetic but more effective instruments of the gallows, electric chair, lethal chamber, the guillotine or the more refined weapons of social ostracism; whether we consider the traitor himself responsible for his actions—or exact retribution from his blood relations as well. (Jehovah, too, visits the sins of the father upon his children, yea, even unto the third and fourth generations.)

But you reporters, whose typewriters quivered with the horror of these alleged deeds of murder in Frenchtown, can still without a qualm condone and even express satisfaction at mass murders a thousand times more revolting, a thousand times more barbarous—but less so in your journalistically judicious eyes only because officially perpetrated.

You city editors—at the moment sending your men out to run down the last threadbare fable to this particular story—why don’t you send them out to lunch us some fine sunny morning? Why don’t you give them an opportunity to witness the torture and murder of young men and women whose only crime is a realistic appreciation of the social and economic factors at work in the world and a demand for their readjustment?

You editors, who wield your editorial powers so self-righteously, why don’t you consistently examine and logically expose a government that maintains itself largely by desperately slaughtering the flower of its protesting youth and the backbone of its peasant classes who attempt protest against its venality and corruption?
