Dispatch.

To: Chief, WH Division.  
From: Chief of Station, Mexico City.  
Subject: LIFECAT Monthly Report, May 1960.  
Action required: For your information.

I. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1):

a. Exploitation of Leads

During the month of May 1960, Project LIFECAT continued to provide excellent coverage of the activities of the official Soviet and Cuban installations in Mexico City, the Station's top priority targets. The following are specific, though necessarily selective, contributions made by LIFECAT through provision of exploitable leads and support to Mexico City Station.

1) The most outstanding single contribution of the LIMERICK phase of Project LIFECAT during the period of this monthly review was the providing of information to the responsible Case Officer which confirmed the validity of agent LITARDY-1. This double agent turned himself into ODENVY, and thus to KUBARK, during the latter part of the review period. LIFECAT/LIMERICK provided data on the activities and Soviet contacts of LITARDY-1, thus enabling the case officer to adequately plan productive use of this new asset.

2) LIMERICK continued to provide Project LIMESA with support in the form of information on goods and services provided to the Soviets from the local economy. Of special interest was information on specific apartments which the Soviets were considering renting. LIMERICK also continued to provide valuable information on Soviet commercial activities which has been reported separately.

3) Also provided was information of a CE nature concerning specific assignments of personnel within the Soviet Embassy, advance travel plans of Soviet officials, and arrivals, departures, and addresses of Embassy staff members. The following are examples of this category of information:

a) Vitaliy Borisovich SHUBIN arrived 11 May 1960 and is probably the Intelligence Officer replacement for Yevgeny LAPSHEV. The address of SHUBIN was also provided by LIFECAT.

b) Aleksandr BROVKIN was assigned duties as Assistant Cultural Officer to replace Vladimir NOVIKOV during the latter's home leave.

c) Valentin BAKULIN was appointed Soviet Film Officer in charge of distribution of Soviet films, including propaganda films.

d) Advance notice was given of the 20 May arrival of the Soviet delegation to the International Cotton Conference held in Mexico City, and noted that the delegation would be composed of Dmitriy MAITOV, Boris FIRSOV, Abdulla SULTANKHODZKAYEV, and Vladilyana TERESHCHENA.
