Attachment

May 8, 1969

Valentin Loginov (P-11,712)

Source: LIBACON-1 (P-4805)

1. On May 3, the Source went with his family to Cuautla to spend a day out of town. There, as he arrived, he bumped into Loginov, who was leaving. They talked for 15 minutes.

2. Loginov asked the Source if he was still giving language lessons to that American (LIOVAL-1). When the Source answered affirmatively, Loginov told him that he would like to meet LIOVAL-1. The Source stated that LIOVAL was not only a student who paid for his lessons but was also a good friend of the Source. Then Loginov became quite blunt and aggressive: he outright demanded that LIBACON introduce him to LIOVAL. LIBACON tried to reason with Loginov that by meeting LIOVAL he would achieve nothing because LIOVAL was a good family man, a person conscious of his responsibility for four children, liberal in his way of thinking but definitely a patriot, and a person attached to his way of life who could not care less about Socialism. Loginov then insisted that he and LIBACON have lunch together the following week to talk this matter over. LIBACON agreed to lunch with him on May 8, a day after he meets with me.

3. LIBACON told me that he would stick to his guns and refuse Loginov’s request to introduce him to LIOVAL. One of the special reasons for doing so, in addition to his desire not to get involved with that gang (KGB), was that he considered LIOVAL to be a friend of his and would not want to do anything that could make LIOVAL suspect that LIBACON was a KGB collaborator.

4. Other than the fact that LIOVAL exists, I know nothing about him, but the sole fact that he is an agent of our forced me to assume that he was picked up for a good reason and that we must have an objective for holding him. Therefore, I felt that it would not be wise to let LIBACON shut the door to a possibility, however remote it may be, that we counted on the possibility that LIOVAL be approached or contacted by a Soviet official. Further, I kept in mind that we would not want LIBACON to slip into a double-agent role. Therefore, I instructed LIBACON:
