Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective. Report a relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

During the period under review, Subject's duties and activities have been performed as assigned by May 8, 1963. The main [duties were] devoted to the conduct of Cuban operations. His performance of those duties has been characterized by vigor and imagination. Concrete results have been achieved. The Station's performance in connection with all phases of this top-priority activity, carried out under Subject's supervision, has been the subject of commendatory comments from headquarters. In addition to direction, the Station's own Cuban operations, Subject has been frequently called upon to support other U.S. Stations in connection with various phases of their Cuban operations, particularly in making both “warm” and “cold” approaches to high-level diplomatic candidates for defection. These assignments have been undertaken by Subject with much enthusiasm and a high degree of professionalism. As a matter of fact, Subject was away from Madrid on those and similar missions for 120 days during calendar year 1962.

In the conduct of the Cuban operations, Subject has direct supervision over four officers and indirect supervision of the briefing center, the intelligence processing shop, and all activities relating to the recruitment, training, and dispatching of agents. Through personal liaison with leading Spanish intelligence and security service officials, he has been most successful in obtaining their cooperation in support of our operations. In addition, Subject has expended much of his after-hours time maintaining contact with agents and persons of operational interest.

Subject is fluent in Spanish. He is an efficient organizer and supervisor and thinks and writes clearly. In summary, he is an experienced, energetic, and highly dedicated officer. While he is well qualified to take over his own Station, it is my hope and recommendation that he be given a second full tour here in Madrid. In my opinion, it (continued in Part 3 below).

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 10 April 1963. Signature of employee: /s/ Earl J. Williamson.

2. Supervisor.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Months employee has been under my supervision. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature.

Date: 10 April 1963. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ James Noel.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.
