Early in April 1952, about a month after the coup d'état of General Fulgencio Batista, the deposed president, Dr. Carleton Prio Socarrus (Carlos Prío Socarrás), entrusted to his ex-minister of Education and State, Dr. Aureliano Sanchez Arango, the responsibility of organizing a vast subversive movement, created to oppose Batista and return to power the Cuban Revolutionary Party (Partido Revolucionario Cubano), if this were at all possible. The first step taken by Dr. Sanchez Arango was to give a political form to the movement and to create favorable conditions for an uprising (putsch) at the precisely opportune moment, to be called “the zero hour.” Immediately after Batista took over, the PRC found itself destitute of any kind of influence, since all former officials were dismissed by Batista. Hence Dr. Sanchez Arango began to reconstruct the PRC, placing in positions of command some of the most sincere members of the party, most of whom had formerly been in secondary status in party affairs and in government affairs.

While Dr. Antonio de Varona was again made president, men such as Dr. Arecolio Acui and Dr. Armando Hernandez, and a few others, became the most prominent figures of the Party. Immediately, the PRC began a campaign of passive legal opposition to the administration of the Batista Government, whose every step received the condemnation and adverse criticism of the Propaganda Committee of the Party. In addition, three times a week in the newspaper Free Press (Pronca Libro), articles by Dr. Arecolio Acui and Dr. Fono; “Illo pictured the present Government as a “do nothing” one, with policies of lack of policies, contrary to the public interest. At the same time, the articles were designed to restore to the party the faith which formerly it had enjoyed from the Cuban masses.

In the meantime, Dr. Sanchez Arango initiated the opposition by force in the Central American countries. Almost immediately he found out that the reconstructed PRC was gaining no ground with the people and that he would have to create a new political formula to draw to the side of the opposition of purgation, the general populace, by now disgusted not only with the Batista Government, but with the PRC as well. It was proposed that Dr. Roberto Agrononte (Agramonte), head of the Peoples Party (Partido del Pueblo Cubano), have an interview with Dr. Prio in Miami, but the former declined on the ground that his party wanted to remain neutral in the whole affair. However, Emilio M. Ochoa opposed openly the ideas of his chief, Dr. Agrononte (Agramonte), advocating an alliance of the two parties to make the opposition more effective. To this end he went to Guatemala to see Dr. Sanchez Arango. While there, conferences were held in the home of Dr. Paul Ocongue, then Ambassador of Guatemala in Cuba, and then Foreign Minister of the Government of Colonel Arbena (Arbenz). There, marvelous aspects of the movement were discovered, also the merging of the two parties. On the return of Dr. Ochoa to Cuba, eventually the armamentation was effected with equal administration on the part of both of the parties. This end was hastened by a surreptitious visit of Dr. Arango (Sanchez) to his native soil; he was then a political refugee in Guatemala.

From the moment Batista took over power in Cuba, Guatemala placed itself unconditionally on the side of Dr. Prio and served as a base for the military preparation of the conspiracy. Immediately the Caribbean League, reduced to impotency at the time, became to function again, to take a preponderant.
