Fact that I have been talking with you. You can ruin everything. I have a career. I have bright prospects. My boss GRIBANOV, my highest boss, has a very high degree of respect for me. He sometimes bawls me out and I—Well, I make it look like this is unpleasant for me. But, in fact, it is a pleasant thing because, inside, I am glad he is bawling me out and not someone else. I know that if he bawls me out he has a high regard for me. He sometimes calls me personally to his office and says: “You come with me. I have to meet an ambassador.” I go with him. We arrive and have the conversation. He is there all night. He comes out and says: “Well, where shall we go for a drink?” I know beforehand that he will say this and everything is ready at the Aragvi Restaurant. We go there. “Well, what shall we drink!” GRIBANOV says. I answer: “Well, Oleg Mikhailovich, cognac, of course!” He is the highest chief. “I don’t drink cognac. I’ll have vodka,” I say. “Well, we’ll have vodka then,” GRIBANOV says.

One of NOSENKO’s CIA handlers suggested at this point that GRIBANOV seemed to treat NOSENKO as an older brother would. NOSENKO replied: “That’s his attitude toward me.”

23 April 1964

Question: Did you ever go to GRIBANOV’S house?

NOSENKO: I never went in the house. I have driven to it.

Question: Did he ever come to your house?

NOSENKO: No.

Question: Were you ever out at night with him, after work? If so, how, under what circumstances?

NOSENKO: After work? Yes, once.

Question: Who else was there?

NOSENKO: TARABRIN.

Question: What was the occasion?

NOSENKO: No specific reason. GRIBANOV called me at midnight. I could hear that he was already drinking; he asked me how long it would take me to get dressed and come down to the Praga Restaurant, first private room. Afterwards we wanted to go somewhere else to finish the evening. GRIBANOV was sloppy drunk, lay down to rest, he needed a couple of hours of sleep. I drove him and TARABRIN home, got him there at 6:00 a.m., gave him some pills to help him.

Question: When did you first personally meet GRIBANOV?

NOSENKO: I might have seen him in 1953 or 1954, but I did not have a chance to speak to him then. Once I was in two group operational discussions, about 15 people present, about work against Military Attachés in 1954; that was the first time I ever spoke to him.
