9. Preference for Next Assignment (continued).

C. Indicate your preference for next assignment by inserting numbers 1, 2 and 3 (for 1st, 2nd and 3rd choice in the boxes below):

1. Return to my current station.

2. Be assigned to headquarters for a tour of duty. With respect to possible assignment in headquarters, indicate choice of component:
1st choice WH.
2nd choice WH.
3rd choice WH.

Indicate choice of geographic area or specific station, based on qualifications:
1st choice WH.
2nd choice WH.
3rd choice WH.

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments? Indicate number of work days: 45.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents and whether they will be travelling or moving with you: None.

12. Signature: Complete item No. 5-1, Transmittal Sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form.

To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training:

It is strongly urged by COS that this extremely valuable and all-round officer be returned to the Mexico City Station.

PIGOS would be one of the most difficult persons to replace in the Mexico City Station because of the variety of types of work he does (and all well and efficiently) and because of his detailed knowledge of CE operations, Soviet personalities and targets, and general capabilities.

14. Signature: Complete item No. 5-2, Transmittal Sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form.

To be completed by appropriate personnel officer at headquarters.

15. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the component to which he is currently assigned, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training:

Concur in COS recommendation. AIAA, 28 February '61.

16. Name of personnel officer: P.C. Bowers. Date: 3 February 1961. Signature: JCBowers.

For use of Career Service.

17. Employee has or has not been notified of planned reassignment.

18. Reference: Dispatch No. ________. Cable No. ________.

19. Type or printed name.

20. Signature.

21. Title.

22. Date.

23. Comments.
