26. All information available on the Afro-Asian Journalists Association, headquartered in Cairo. An AAJA conference is slated for March in Algiers.

A. Identify any individuals, outside of Horrissac, connected with it.

B. Identify any AAJA contacts in Europe or Africa.

27. Any information on the structure, plans, finances, or personnel of the Pan African Journalist's Union, headed by Koil basstel and headquartered in Accra.

28. Any knowledge of the International Organisation of Journalists, headquartered in Prague. Has CIBSON met any of its officials or attended any of its meetings?

29. Any direct knowledge of the officers, employees, procedures, etc. of Press Latina offices in Europe.

30. Any knowledge of the officers and operations of the NCNA offices in Europe and North Africa?

32. Any contact with representatives of, or any knowledge of the propaganda operations of the NYLSV (National Front for the Liberation of South Vietnam), which has an office in Algiers?

31. Knowledge of any officers or national leaders of the World Peace Council in North Africa or Europe?

Caribbean

33. Any current or past contacts with Caribbean revolutionaries? Describe.

34. Information on the present status of the Movement de Libération pour la Zona des Caribbes (MLZC), which has been mentioned by name in the Economiste.

35. We are interested in the present stage of organisation or disorganisation of the MLZC, which has not been heard from for almost two years, and any other information available on the coordination of the anti-colonial struggle in the Caribbean, especially involvement of Cubans, Algerians, Soviets, Trotskyites, and others. See attached dispatch, CCW-4712, for background on the MLZC.

36. Does Revelation receive Cuban assistance? Specifically, what is the nature of the relationship with Revelation in Havana? Contact with Carlos FRANCOU7.

Macalemnus: Leftist Groups

37. Describe the relationship, and persons involved, of Revolution with the New Left Review and the Movement for Colonial Freedom in Great Britain.
