Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 057303.

Section A — General. Name: Goodpasture, Ann L. Date of Birth: 11/28/18. Sex: F. Grade: 13. SD: D. Official Position Title: Ops Officer. Office/Division/Branch of Assignment: DDP/CI/OPS. Current Station: Washington, D.C. Type of Appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career-Provisional; Special (Specify). Type of Report: Initial; Reassignment Supervisor; Annual; Reassignment Employee; Special (Specify). Date Report Due in O.P.: 30 November 1971. Rating period: 18 October 1970–31 October 1971.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

U — Useful factory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M — Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P — Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Monitors all operational correspondence from the Far East Division Stations for counterintelligence leads and evidence of hostile espionage operations. Rating Letter.

Specific Duty No. 2: Reviews field project outlines for evidence of penetrations, provocations, or foreign intelligence relationships. Advises Headquarters officers in preparation of security reviews. Represents CI Staff at DDP project review meetings when the senior officer is not available. Rating Letter.
