Fitness Report.

Section A — General.

Name: PICCOLO Joseph S. Date of birth: 8 Dec 35. Sex: M. Grade: G3-09. SO: SJ. Official position title: Ops Officer.

Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career-Provisional (see instructions — Section C); Special (specify).

Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: 1 October 1964 – 15 March 1965.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Operations officer for handling communications training of a double agent. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Operations officer handling a Cuban intelligence service defector being utilized in recruitment operations. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Operations officer assisting in handling and debriefing a Cuban intelligence service defector. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 5. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 6. Rating letter.

Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperation, performance, personal habits, attitude and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which must accurately reflect his level of performance.

29 MAR 1965, Rating Letter: 8.
