Office of Personnel.

12. In what respect is this person's performance on present job most noticeably outstanding? Subject's performance is characterized by a high degree of industriousness and thoroughness. He is one of those supremely useful individuals to whom a supervisor can assign a task, and then turn to other matters with sure confidence that the job will be completed, to the last detail and on time. Mail room.

13. On what aspect of performance should this person concentrate effort for self-improvement? Subject's command of written English can stand improvement. His writing is by no means deficient in basic requirements, but practice will be needed to insure consistent production of clear and well-constructed prose.

14. Comment on this person's ability to handle greater responsibilities now or in the future. Subject demonstrates clearly his growing ability to handle larger responsibilities. His transition from a CE Unit Chief's job to that of the Indonesia Desk FI Chief has been a markedly smooth one. Once a new technique or procedural method is learned, subject can put it into operation when required. He is definitely potential material for a COS slot in the field.

15. Are there other duties which better suit this person's qualifications? No.

16. What training or rotation do you recommend for this person? Recommended training includes Communist Party Operations and Anti-Communist Party Operations. Recommend rotation to an Indonesian field slot. Subject has now, and is increasing, his knowledge of Headquarters tasks and procedures. In approximately a year, he should put such knowledge and training into effect in the field. There is every reason to believe that he will make an excellent field case officer.

17. If performance during report period has been unsatisfactory, there is attached copy of memorandum notifying this person of unsatisfactory performance.

18. This personnel evaluation report has been discussed with the person evaluated. Additional comments, including comment on items 7, 8, and 9, are shown below under item 20. Date: Sep 28, 1954. William H. Decker, signature of supervisor.

19. I have reviewed the above report. Comments, if any, are shown in item 20.1. Date: 28/9/54. J. A. Goodell, signature of reviewing officer.

20. Comments: If necessary, to be continued on reverse side of cover sheet.
