Memo for the Records

Subject: First Sistone and Ferelem Cover JGB Outing with Consular Corps; Brief Initial Exposure to Soviets Loginov and G. Loukov.

1. Terence D. Sistone and Ferelem, both under consular cover, accompanied, with wives, Fradyer on an outing of the “Cuerpo Consular en Mexico,” a social club open to all consular officers regardless of nationality, to the new Ford factory in Cuautitlan, lunch, and an excursion of the Spanish colonial convent at Tepotzotlan, from 1000 to 1000 hours on 17 July 1969. The Consular Corps is a creature of American citizens and the ex-Consul General of Greece, Leander F. Vourvoulina, who led the excursion. In addition to helping the two new station officers work into consular cover and make contacts, the purpose of the outing in part was to see at first hand the Soviet Bloc and Cubans who belong to the CC. Three Soviets showed, no identified Bloc personnel, and no Cubans. I did not see any other particularly interesting consular types, but the door was opened to meet people at future CC meetings.

2. The three Soviets who showed were Valentin Loginov, well-known to the Station as KGB under consular cover, and two men of the Commercial Section of the Soviet Embassy. Both Sistone and Ferelem independently identified Lev M.却yevich Golozov as one of the two commercial types from the mug book, but were unable to identify the other, who was quiet and hardly talked as he tagged along. Golozov was also quiet but was engaged twice by Sistone in conversation. On one occasion, he said he had been in Mexico a short time and was there as a result of the recent Soviet-Mexican trade agreement; he just happened to be around and was invited with his colleague to the Ford outing. On another occasion, he said Tepotzotlan and golf life and general art were more elaborate and impressive than the Byzantine church monuments with which he was familiar in Moscow. He spoke Spanish with a heavy accent and did not talk much, but was quite fluent nevertheless. Sistone also talked briefly to Loginov and was introduced by Fradyer as Fradyer's replacement. However, the conversation was monotonous and uninteresting compared to the constant verbal sparring between Fradyer and Loginov, which Sistone will defer to Fradyer to report if he sees fit.

T. F., 17 July 67, P-1171/2
