Section C. Narrative Comments. Office of Personnel Mail Room.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain recommendations in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory position is described, if applicable.

While Subject has been under my supervision only for the past three months, the following comments reflect also the opinion of the previous supervisor.

Mr. Keenan is an exceptionally strong officer. Following a successful tour in Mexico, he was assigned to the WH Division Staff in a capacity which required not only intelligence and a knowledge of operational procedures, but also a good measure of tact and perception in dealing with Branch personnel senior to him in rank and experience. Mr. Keenan adapted himself to the requirements of this assignment to our complete satisfaction.

Subject is industrious, fast in his work, and enthusiastic. Despite the inevitable demands of a large, young family, he has not permitted his domestic responsibilities to interfere with his official duties. His performance on temporary duty in the Dominican Republic merits special recognition.

The nature of a Headquarters staff assignment precludes spectacular achievements. The excitement and glamor which make field assignments challenging and rewarding are absent here. Instead, there is a routine and sometimes almost overwhelming flow of paper which has to be massaged and managed, dull as it may be. Many a young officer's motivation did not measure up to this test. Those officers who work on a desk or a staff as effectively and cheerfully as they do in the field are the ones who are likely to possess and develop the qualities needed for senior positions. Mr. Keenan is in this category. He has considerable growth potential.

1. Certification and Comments by Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: '63 Dec '65. Signature of employee: John S. Keenan.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 3. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: C/WH/PI.

Date: '63 Dec '65. Official title of supervisor: Thomas J. Polgar. Typed or printed name and signature: Thomas Polgar.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: I am not personally acquainted with this Officer's work. However, inquiries have borne out the rater's high regard for his work and prospects. I concur in full with this report.

Date: '63 December. Official title of reviewing official: WH/Executive Officer /or/ DC/BHD.
