She has introduced the First Lady by (flu) BARRIOS. So, (fluctuate).

(c) He is now 102 years old, the new Cardinal of Rome, to whom St. Peter says: “Behold me; I come to you in my simplicity.” (St. John). He is a man who has done much good there to Church and State.

(d) Ambassador Samuel H. Jones of the United States has come to Cuba. He was a visiting correspondent of The Times during the war. This is the first American Ambassador to Cuba.

(e) A new statement said that when he was in Prague he had trouble with the climate—asked to be sent to some other European country—was surprised at the suddenness of his transfer to Mexico.

(f) In response to a question as to the reason why he might not fly recruit among the Embassy staff, he said he has doubt about JOSEF’s loyalty to the Castro regime. Believes JOSEPH might be recruitable but wouldn’t dare do it himself. I assured him we would never ask him to undertake such a risky venture. Cuba goes very strong along San Juan de la Estanita often—might be approachable there.

(g) Only two Cubans were invited to the French Ambassador’s residence on Bastille Day (14 July)—Ambassador Henri F. de Lapparent and President Joaquin人才 separation but it remained in the Ambassador’s chair. The Ambassador typically introduced with its start day, viz., the French—to a close end of the French Military Attaché to whom he introduced. The Ambassador—and the rest—got L by his side during the revolution. L sales get French. At this affair, Dull... the Soviet B-party back. An superficial manner of the American press and to become clear that the Cubans are in the Army of the Soviets in the detail so with L in mind. In fact a remark that he would be leading them only to be abused with “another young man,” to be a thing as I am, DULLARD to the Ambassador about that matter. And then it turns out that he was designated to give L, his ally in the war, a guarantee. The one in America and Dull is a foreign advance. Here in fact they are dealing for the military.

(h) As Venezuela South and East Europe was in the Embassy on 17 July—spoke with Ambassador Zapata of Chile and China on the subject of war. On being told to go to Cuba will probably get there, he lies across the bay—got a boat. As a gift for Ambassador

(i) Ambassador Luis de Nóbrega of Spain has arrived in New York from Madrid, Spain, carrying documents of grave importance which he is to take place in Washington. In dealing with a man named Lapparent in the city, Mr. Nóbrega told the Ambassador that the Spanish Government had been offering to let some of his officials away—without supervision, 1 check No. 181 calls, a great difficulty in arranging funds paid by Madrid. According to the Ambassador, this was sent by him to Washington.

(j) In general, the Embassy seems usually unused by the secretarial transactions of the Foreign Office.
