10. Question. Have any steps been taken to get the Clemency Board of HICO (C. c. oncy Board of HICO) to pardon Soviet citizens sentenced for minor offenses committed in an attempt to survive, thus clearing their records? Do you want us to make any pitch on this?

In the past, petitions for clemency have only been presented to the Clemency Board of HICOS (Clandency Board of HICOS) when a person was under active consideration for resettlement. The Clemency Board has usually acted swiftly with the best interest of the individual and of the U.S. Government in mind. Recently, however, steps were taken to initiate petitions for clemency on all cases of the types mentioned in Question 10. It is too early at the present time to foresee the result of this operation. However, it is believed that it is not yet necessary for CAS to approach the appropriate officials on this point.

11. Questions. Is it the USEP policy to reduce the numbers who can be helped under the Program? If true, what are the reasons for this policy which appears on the surface to be a step backward from solving the problem?

It is not the USEP policy to reduce the numbers who can be helped under the Escapee Program. As a matter of fact, the USEP itself has continued to increase despite the fact that over 6,000 have been resettled, and many have been dropped for various reasons, including eligibility, local integration, and death. It is true that the primary purpose of the Program is to resettle eligibles abroad, and to integrate locally those whose resettlement potential is low. This action, of course, does tend to reduce the number of persons who can be subsequently helped under the Program. It is also the policy of the Program to create an atmosphere in which other programs which depend to a certain extent upon the psychological attitude existing in émigré (enigro) circles can operate successfully. In furthering this particular objective, the Program has recently taken action to declare as eligible those persons who, although having records as minor criminals, are of interest to U.S. agencies, and have broadened the basis to accept any Soviet citizen as eligible if he has in any way been under discipline of the Soviet Government since January 1, 1945.

12. Question. What has the Escapee Program accomplished for Soviet citizens (c犯)?

USEP's assistance to escapees is based primarily upon the needs of each individual registered with the Program. These needs are determined through a counselling program under which the voluntary agencies cooperating with USEP are supposed to send case workers to the field to interview each escapee family to determine their particular needs, background, problems, experience, abilities, and general situation. Based upon this interview the agency is supposed to develop a specific plan...
