29. Comments (continued):

Instructions.

1. Instruction to the Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current Administrative Instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report.

2. Instruction to the person evaluated: Since this evaluation will become an important part of your record, you will want to give it as much care and attention as you would like to have it receive from your Supervisor and the Reviewing Official. With respect to Items 8 and 9, you should include courses of instruction or assignments, either within or outside of the Agency, which you consider pertinent to your career development.

3. Instruction to the Supervisor and the Reviewing Official:

a. As the supervisor who assigns, directs, and reviews the work of others, you bear primary responsibility for planning and fostering the development of each person under your supervision, commensurate with his capacity, aptitude, knowledge and skills. As an alert supervisor, you judge the people working with you on a job-by-job and day-by-day basis and use this information in carrying out your supervisory responsibilities. Although evaluation is a continuous process, it is necessary periodically to record your observations and recommendations for appropriate action. In preparing the report you should consider the individual's capabilities for further development in his present assignment and his potentialities for more effective utilization in other positions, including work of a more responsible and difficult nature.

b. The following traits are generally regarded as having some bearing on a person's performance and development. Although you are not asked for specific ratings, do not hesitate to refer to these or similar traits in your comments, which should be terse and precise.

Cooperation. Dependability. Accuracy. Security consciousness. Initiative. Resourcefulness. Stability under pressure. Ability to obtain results. Judgment. Leadership.

c. In fairness to the individual and in the interest of the Agency, the importance of carefully prepared and accurate Personnel Evaluation Reports cannot be overstressed. The following basic principles of evaluation should be kept in mind:

(1) Base your judgment on:

(a) What you have observed the individual do or fail to do.

(b) Typical performance as well as critical incidents.

(c) Examples relevant to the duties under consideration.

(2) Different standards prevail in different assignments. Every effort should be made to arrive at a just estimate of the qualities of the individual as demonstrated during the report period. Avoid exaggerations. They detract from the value of the report and are unfair to others.

(3) BIASED OPINIONS BASED ON PERSONAL LIKES AND DISLIKES MUST BE SCRUPULOUSLY AVOIDED. IT SHOULD BE FIRM IN MIND THAT THE PREPARATION OF EVALUATION REPORTS IS AN IMPORTANT RESPONSIBILITY OF ALL SUPERVISORS AND THEIR CAREFUL PREPARATION IS AN INDICATION OF THE SUPERVISOR'S ABILITY AND QUALIFICATIONS FOR THE POSITION HE HOLDS.

4. A frank discussion between supervisor and individual concerning this report is necessary to assist in the development and best use of the individual's capabilities.

This position to be deemed only by approvals Off. CIA.
