Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain reasons given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties, if applicable.

Mr. Hidalgo is an able intelligence officer, developed to his profession and selfless in his desire to be of service to the Government. Although he has suffered ill health in recent years, he was consistent that he be among the first to be sent to the Dominican Republic when the crisis occurred.

An intense person, Mr. Hidalgo is industrious, works well under pressure, and sets high standards for his performance. Because he is intent on getting things done, he is occasionally hasty in judgment and in written presentation of the results of his research and conclusions. He is perceptive, quickly accepts suggestions, and offers counter-proposals with cogent argument. Mr. Hidalgo was not in a supervisory capacity. He was cost conscious, always endeavoring to be conservative where possible.

He is an effective and cooperative member of an office, ready to assume responsibility and to help his colleagues. Thanks to his unique experience on the Cuban target, he has wide knowledge of the Cuban problem and is, in fact, an expert on the Cuban Security and Intelligence Services.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Signature of employee.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 8 months. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 9 December 1965. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/C/MO/FI-CI. Typed or printed name and signature: Susan L. Darling.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official.

I concur with the supervisor's assessment of Mr. Hidalgo with exception to the statement that Subject works well under pressure. He is indeed an intense person and, under great pressure, his involvement affects his performance; and even more important, it has a very bad effect on his health. With this consideration noted, the undersigned thinks very highly of Mr. Hidalgo and would be pleased to be associated with him again.

Date: 9 December 1965. Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/C/MO. Typed or printed name and signature: Walter T. Cini.
