CABINET, the World Union, and the Lutheran World Federation. Without exception, these agencies have strong and reputable American affiliates which are accredited and recognised by the Advisory Committee on Voluntary Foreign Aid. In the course of WU, the American affiliate is the National Council of the Churches of Christ, whose welfare organisation is the Church World Service; it is accredited by the Advisory Committee on Voluntary Foreign Aid and is a member in good standing of the American Council of Voluntary Agencies for Foreign Service, Incorporated. The specific requirements for qualification are not now available; however, it is believed that to be qualified for accreditation by the Advisory Committee, an agency must be supported by voluntary subscriptions, and humanitarian in character. It is believed that agencies wholly political are not eligible.

9. Question: What is the status of the proposal to form a Russian labor company which we understand has been approved in Washington?

General agreement on the formation by USAREUR of a Labor Service Unit comprised of Soviet escapees has been reached by US BUCOM and USAREUR. This project now only awaits final approval from the Department of Army as to certain details. (It is understood that the Army has already agreed to the proposal in principle.) It is anticipated that the project will be implemented in the near future.

The Unit, which will be assigned a guard mission, will comprise initially 100 officers and men. In addition, one man to act as staff adviser to USAREUR on matters affecting the Unit will probably be recruited. This position should have a field grade of perhaps a Lieutenant Colonel. The personnel ceiling of 100 may be raised to 200 should it appear desirable in the light of experience. In order to avoid the appearance of supporting Great Russian or minority national aspirations, the shoulder flash for members of the company would bear the name "ROSSISKIY" or Russian People, rather than "RUSSELIY" or Russians.

In the course of a recent discussion between representatives of CAS, U.S. BUCOM, and this office concerning this proposal, general agreement was reached on the following points:

a) Leadership in the company should be recruited from the more recent Soviet escapees or defectors, rather than from the older "émigré" group;

b) Efforts should be made to recruit the maximum possible number from the escapees registered with USEP, and

c) The TROPE group should be strongly represented in the company.

10. Questions ...
