March 8, 1950

Reichstag Proceedings

(To be broadcast over worldwide radio network in all languages in collaboration with Radio Free Europe, RIAS, the various European networks, BBC, CBS-NBC, and the Voice of America.)

I. Purpose

To reassert the universal right to freedom in simple dramatic terms which men everywhere will understand, regardless of language.

II. Session

Berlin.

The opening session of the Cultural Freedom Congress, now scheduled for late June 1950.

III. Sponsor

The Congress. Its executive body should include sponsors for all leading countries. Most specifically, it should include at least two outstanding Russians of world reputation and no minor axe to grind. The Russian Nobel Prize-winning novelist Ivan Samin (living in Paris, I believe), Igor Stravinsky, and Sergei ISoussevitsky are names that suggest themselves. If the Congress itself includes a larger delegation from the leading European countries, then several Russian scholars and scientists now in the U.S. or in DP camps should be included. All delegations, from countries on both sides of the Iron Curtain, should be made up entirely of men of unimpeachable moral stature and real reputation. Professional politicians, even when they're good corporate, should be restricted to the rock-bottom minimum and must be of the moral stature of Mayor Ernst Reuter of Berlin. Petty, self-seeking politics must be kept out. Would kill the whole show.

IV. General Staging and Production Technique

The general treatment will flow from the moral and political tone of the production. The two are inseparable.

Sponsors in this case must be able to sponsor a segment of the program which must conclude with the ceremony at the Reichstag. The Reichstag must be treated as an organic whole: the rededication of a historic building to a House of European Freedom or House of Free Europe.

Why the Reichstag?

1. It stands on the precise frontier of two worlds, one the German and political lines of the program. The convocation is held to mark the beginning of the program, which must organize a segment of the program that concludes with the rededication of a historic building to a House of European Freedom.
