10 August 1967

CS copy.

Attention to UFGW 6657.

201-30975. FB 155/67. 10 August 1967.

Question: What kind of weapons did you bring for assassinations?

Lancerica: We brought two .45-caliber revolvers with silencers, a .22-caliber pistol with holster, and an A-J with a silencer.

Question: What kind of ammunition did you bring for the .22-caliber pistol with silencer?

Lancerica: Part of the ammunition was conventional bullets and part of it was expanded-tipped bullets.

Question: Did you prepare the bullets with gunpowder?

Lancerica: I prepared them.

Question: What were these bullets prepared for?

Lancerica: These bullets were prepared over there in Miami. (Polo—phonetic) Associates, number of an organization called (191 Race), asked me to prepare them. In spite of the fact that I know nothing about chemistry, they were for attempts on lives, to make sure of the death of the individuals against whose lives attempts were to be made, but they were for specific attempts.

Question: What plans were made in the United States or among the counterrevolutionary circles, and what is the main objective sought?

Lancerica: Well, the physical elimination of the leader of the Cuban revolution, Fidel Castro.

Question: The physical elimination of Major (Mj.) Fidel Castro?

Lancerica: Yes, sir.

Question: Those counterrevolutionary groups which operate from Florida, from Miami, do they have the approval of the North American Government for their actions?

Lancerica: Almost entirely. For example, the most opportunist elements over there create small groups to obtain dollars from the U.S. Government for their subsistence, but there are close links among all the organizations in exile with the Central Intelligence Agency. We have, for example, the case of (191 Race) which—through Luis Posada, who is known by all as a CIA agent—belongs, that is, all its activities of landing on Cuban soil, actions against merchant ships and so forth, are linked to the CIA.

Question: You say then you had a .22-caliber pistol with tipped (毒ed) bullets for specific attempts on lives?

Lancerica: Yes, sir.

Question: I would like you to clarify something more. Against which figures were those attempts to be made with that type of weapon?

Lancerica: Well, against the most prominent figures of the revolution according to existing circumstances, and according to the individuals who were going to execute them. Specifically, it is to be supposed that if the idea of counterrevolution were to take root in Havana, well then the effort to kill the leader of the revolution would be intensified.
