23 February 1965: Nosenko commented further on his social encounters with Gribanov and Tarabrin. The following, which was not included in the protocol quoted above, is taken from case officer notes.

Question: Tell me about the occasions when you were with Gribanov and Tarabrin.

Nosenko: Three times—drinking in cafes. Twice afterwards there were girls. The most recent time was in September or October 1963. I don't remember the first time. In 1963 I received a call from Tarabrin at home. Then Gribanov got on the phone and told me to take his car and come join them at the Praga Restaurant. I didn't take his car because I didn't want to call the duty officer. I took a cab and went to the Praga. They were sitting there and drinking in a private room. I joined them. They were drinking champagne, but I took cognac. Tarabrin suggested girls about 1230 and Gribanov made me go to the office to get my notebook. I called one girl I knew—her and her sister. When I got back to the restaurant it was closed with only Gribanov and Tarabrin still there. We went to the girls' apartment. They weren't prostitutes exactly. I knew her before.

Question: Is this why Gribanov called you to the restaurant, i.e., to provide girls?

Nosenko: I think so. It was the second time I had participated in this. This last time Gribanov told the girl his name. The girl works in the Archives of the First Chief Directorate. At that time of night I wasn't able to reach anyone else. Her name is Galina Mikhaylovna. Her mother works in the Central Committee. I don't remember her last name. Gribanov was drinking and she told him that she had quarreled with Zaytsev, the Chief of the First Chief Directorate Archives. Gribanov told her that he would give her a job and told me to arrange for a job in the American Department of the Second Chief Directorate for her. Galina's flat is in the building inhabited by Central Committee workers on Kutuzovskiy Prospekt. Gribanov's driver drove him home at 0600 and he was in the office by 0830.

3 March 1965: Speaking of the damage his disclosures must have caused the KGB, Nosenko said: “I believe they will punish people in the Second Chief Directorate (SCD)... Even Gribanov... He was personally responsible, as head of the SCD, for pushing me ahead.”

Question: What sort of punishment?

Nosenko: Even firing.

Question: Do you think any others would be punished, or even fired?

Nosenko: Maybe Kovalenko, Bobkov, and people in the Eleventh Department. Many others, too.
