Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel selection. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Field Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters.

To the Field Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Personal responsibility rests with the current supervisor to be assured that throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work so that in a general way he may understand where he stands.

Revise and reissue M.J. 11/75 if needed by next issue or until 8-7-55. SBJ 2-9-55.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is to be submitted as part of an effective personnel file.

Section I.

Leave blank—For headquarters use only. Kenneth W. Bailey. Date of birth: 11 Nov 1925. Sex: M. Service designation: Rufina F/. Grade: QS-12. Station designation (current): Vienna, Austria. Due date of this report: 30 November 1954. Period covered by this report: 1 July through 15 November 1954.

Section II, to be completed by field supervisor.

Current position: Kufiro Cash Officer/Soviet Branch 0136.01. Date assumed responsibility for position: 11 June 1954.

Specific assignments or tasks typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months: Case officer in the Soviet Branch. Responsible for the developmental activity, general guidance and directing, reporting and administering, and file research of Kufiro projects directed against Soviet targets in Austria. Plans especially CE operational activity against the RIS. Maintains liaison with CIC. Referent for CE matters.

Section III, to be completed at headquarters only.

Do not complete—for headquarters use only.

Authentication of report and signatures. Name of rater (true): William Hays. Name of reviewing officer in field (true): Bronson Twardach. Was not shown to the individual being rated. Date report authenticated at MOS: Dec 29, 1954.
