Nosenko

A “very undisciplined person” while in the GRU and “not very good,” Nosenko was to have been discharged from the GRU.

Nosenko’s statements about himself during the 1950–1953 period appear to agree with the evaluation, but he has said nothing about facing discharge by the Naval GRU.

Nosenko’s father, “a very influential person in the Ministry of Shipbuilding,” was able to get Nosenko transferred to the KGB.

His transfer from the Naval GRU to the KGB in 1953, Nosenko said, was at the initiative of KGB General Kobulov, a friend of his father; the elder Nosenko was Minister of Shipbuilding.

Nosenko was “an important boss” in the KGB (directorate or department unknown).

According to Nosenko, his most recent KGB title prior to defecting was Deputy Chief, Tourist Department, KGB Second Chief Directorate.

stated that Nosenko gave “very, very good information” to the United States, having had “great access” to KGB information which included “all means of KGB coverage of people in Moscow, microphone systems in the embassies, etc.” The U.S. Embassy, continued, had found microphones on the basis of information that Nosenko had provided.

3. Parallels with Nosenko’s Reporting

a. The Cherepanov Case

(i) Summary

One of the two ways in which Cherepanov has corroborated Nosenko on the authenticity of Cherepanov as a genuine source of American intelligence was to cite information he had learned from:

Cherepanov (Cherepakov) had formerly served in the KGB; Cherepanov gave some papers to the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, which returned them to the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA); the MFA turned the papers over to the KGB, which traced them by analysis to Cherepanov; meanwhile, Cherepanov had tried to flee the USSR, but he was captured near the Turkish border and executed. In every major respect, therefore, agrees with Nosenko’s version of the case. When asked whether the Cherepanov incident might have been “a trick” by the KGB to embarrass the U.S. Embassy, replied that it was definitely not.

The second way in which Cherepanov has certified that Cherepanov was a genuine source is indirect. Like Nosenko and one of the Cherepanov documents, had indicated that KGB surveillance of a U.S. Embassy officer brought about the compromise of Popov.

(ii) Remarks

As stated in Part VIII.B.6., the Cherepanov incident was a KGB provocation against the U.S. Embassy, but it is conceivable that statements suggesting the contrary could have been made.
