Fitness Report.

Section A: General Information. Employee name: Piccolo, Joseph S. Date of birth: 8 Dec 35. GS-13 DAG. Position: Operations Officer. Office: DDO/CI/O/C/LA Hqs.

Type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Temporary. Title of report: Initial, Annual, Reassignment, Special. Contract, Special, Other. Reporting period: 10 Oct 78–30 Sept 79.

Section B: Qualifications Update.

If Qualifications Update Form is being submitted with changes, and is attached to this report, place the word “YES” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “NO” in the box at right.

Section C: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken and proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Serve as senior CI coordinator for LA Division; monitor the Division’s CI activities; provide guidance and support for its CI problems and operations. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Participate in Counterintelligence and Operational Security Surveys. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Screen LA Division traffic containing items of CI significance; maintain liaison with other CI components of the USG; perform special CI case assignments.
