Dispatch. To: Chief, Station; Bureau de Droit; President. Ceber, M., Chief of Station, Veracruz. 11 December 1967. 23 November. Since: Availability of TICHER and DUTY for detachment EPORE—required. Date: 20 August 1967.

1. Edward G. TICHER is available at any time for JAPAMA travel. Trips of more than five weeks would be difficult, both for the Station and for TICHER. He is currently handling operation JAPAMA, which is so sensitive that the Station could be reluctant to use an interim cut-out.

2. In the case of Leo C. FELLICH, he can of course be released as requested by Headquarters for JAPAMA. His absence will, as previously noted, work considerable hardship on the Station’s current NACLF program. FELLICH handles LIMERON, which takes very little time; ANGARA-18, which takes considerable time; and ICOMAX, which is almost a full-time job. In the latter project, for instance, he meets with his principal agents almost daily, and with his Station case officer at least five times a week. It would be extremely difficult to release him during the six-week period immediately prior to elections at the National University each year, usually September and October. Since FELLICH, in his cover capacity, is active as a professor, as much lead time as possible is requested prior to travel requests. As an example, FELLICH is already signed up to deliver lectures in Monterrey in November of this year. Reference dispatch says travel for JAPIMA would require a minimum of three weeks, but does not mention the possible premium. Primarily for other reasons, and secondarily for operational reasons, the Station feels that any travel lasting more than four weeks would be almost impossible to accept. In spite of the above restrictions, the Station still, of course, will release FELLICH at any time for any period if Headquarters feels his contribution will be greater elsewhere.

Heller C. Currie.

3—AHD. 2—Pilots.

Cross reference to. Date typed: 17 September 1967. Date dispatched: 11 September 1967. Dispatch staff and manager: NYMA-1977. Headquarters file: unclassified. 50-174-0.
