Continuation of dispatch. Distribution statement: UFGA-4703.

50. Similarly, all that is known about AMFAUNA-1's background comes from AMFAUNA-1's own statements embodied in his PRQ Part I. No confirmation of this information has ever been obtained. From this point of view there is no guarantee that AMFAUNA-1 is what he claims to be. For all the proof to the contrary available to JMWAVE, he could as easily have been a (Spanish) Communist as a member of the Spanish Falange.

51. These points are listed for the sake of completeness, but little importance is attached to them. The known fact that (QUANTUM-81) and (QUANTUM-52) consider AMFAUNA-1 reliable suggests that he at least was not a (Spanish) Communist. And an unusually extensive independent view has been obtained of AMFAUNA-1's operations through the reports and debriefings of eight of his agents who have either escaped to or are in communication with the United States. The defection of Identity-14, and the escape and debriefings of Identity-19, Identity-23, Identity-26, and Identity-29, have all confirmed parts of AMFAUNA-1's story. Finally, AMCOG-3 has reported by S/W that AMCOG-2 is in contact with AMFAUNA-1, and AMFAUNA-2's telephone conversations with AMCUTLER-1 provide a continuing check on the safety and whereabouts of AMFAUNA-1.

52. For the same reasons, the possibility is heavily discounted that AMFAUNA-1 has been caught and doubled by the G-2 since his arrival in Cuba. Additional indications that all is still well are the fact that he never omits the safety signal that was given him for use in his S/W, that his operational activities are consistent with his character and background, and that the reporting of his agents is consistent with their access to information.

53. Whether AMFAUNA-1 is now in danger of being detected, and whether the G-2 could double him if they do catch him, are two questions remaining to be considered. Taking the second question first, it is believed that the chances of the G-2 running a successful CI operation against KUBARK through AMFAUNA-1 are extremely slim. To be sure, the G-2 has certain weapons that they could use against AMFAUNA-1. His father is already in prison, serving a fifteen-year sentence, and his mother and two children are still in Cuba as potential hostages. It is also conceivable that the G-2 could use AMFAUNA-1's own interest in paramilitary operations as a lever by persuading him that KUBARK, by neglecting to support the insurgent leader Oswaldo RAMIREZ, was responsible for the latter's death and has demonstrated its indifference to the fate of the Cuban people. This would all take time, however, because AMFAUNA-1's reaction to arrest, at least initially, would probably be an attempt to emulate his two heroes, AMCUSP-1 and AMRUNG-1. In the time that it would take the G-2 to break down this resistance, AMCUTLER-1 would almost certainly have learned, either through his phone conversations with AMFAUNA-2 or by the interruption of the same, that something is wrong with AMFAUNA-1.

54. The risks that AMFAUNA-1 is now running are believed to be considerable. For one thing, at least ten persons with varying degrees of knowledge of his clandestine operations, have been held temporarily or permanently by the G-2, which is believed to be increasing in competence as a security force. For another, AMFAUNA-1 takes unnecessary chances, as by interrogating a new and untested agent (AMFAUNA-4) in the personal automobile of his sister-in-law, or by personally trying to penetrate a restricted area. And for a third, he has some contacts which can be dangerous to him.

55. AMCOG-2 knows too much about AMFAUNA-1 for the latter's good. It is believed that AMFAUNA-1 himself is aware that this is a potentially serious security weakness, because he took the trouble to report it (see paragraph 15al above). The AMCOG operation is itself a fairly complex one, and will be analyzed in a separate dispatch. The aspects of it which bear on the AMFAUNA operation are that AMCOG-2 and her brother AMCOG-3 are close relatives of a very prominent
