Item 12—continued.

With the Minister, who told him that next week they would discuss the matter of costs and that the Minister was in favor of Ruiz's idea. Ruiz asks Villaroya to wait a few days more, and in the event that they receive bad news they will have a few drinks together at the Castellano to forget their sorrow. Ruiz says he is very anxious to move out of the place he is in and asks how long it will take to construct the building. Villaroya tells him about 9 or 10 months. Ruiz says that most likely he won't be there to inaugurate the building because his tour is ending in Spain, but that he will come from wherever he is for the inauguration.

28 January 1970

Item 1. Piloto calls Yolanda. He asks for the address of the school. She says it is Guadalquivir 16 (Cuadalquivir 16).

Item 3. An unidentified cobradera calls the Hostal Geneva. A Cuban answers. The comrade asks to speak to Antonio Casado. The Cuban (female) says he is not there, that he is on a trip to New York. The comrade leaves no message.

Item 4. Aristides Ruiz calls UNESCO in Paris, telephone 56-65-757. The connection is poor. Ruiz greets Martinez Morel (phonetic; he seems to be Cuban) and tells him that he, Aristides, arrived Saturday and that he is leaving on Sunday, 1 February, for Cuba. He asks for Milt (phonetic), and Martinez says that up to Monday he hadn't arrived.

Aristides asks to speak with extension 4111. They don't answer. He then asks for 4110, and an American, whose name seems to be Frank, answers. They speak lengthily in English about the installation of television in two Cuban schools. They also speak about films and the financing of the projects, mentioning the Swedes and the people of UNICEF.

Item 23. Piloto calls Cuca. It is 10:30 p.m. They speak for a long time, although Piloto is a little worried and nervous. He says, “The one on guard today is one of the bad ones and besides this, he is with his wife.” He tells Cuca that as the offices are carpeted, you can't hear anyone's footsteps, and he is afraid they will hear him. He remarks, “The people here have got me very nervous.”

3 February 1970

Item 11. Dr. Macorra calls Horacio. This doctor has just had an operation, and now that he is well again he wants to renew his connections with Horacio because he has to go to Cuba to give a course in the Cuban Society for Oncology (phonetic) Studies.

Mercedes asks for his full name, which is Luis de la Macorra, telephone 261-12-83; home telephone 200-93-52.
