Qualifications Update

Read instructions carefully before completing. Type or print. Avoid using light-colored inks.

Now that your qualifications are a matter of computer record, they must be periodically updated. This is done automatically for much information; however, some must be obtained directly from you. This form is for that purpose.

Section I must be completed in all cases. You need provide other information only if there have been changes since you submitted your Form 444, “Qualifications Supplement to the Personal History Statement,” or a previous update form. If you are in doubt whether information has been previously submitted, enter it in the appropriate section. The signed and dated form should be returned through administrative channels to the File Room, Office of Personnel, Room SE-13, Headquarters, whether information is added or changed.

Additionally, a qualifications update may take place at any time there is information to be added or changed, simply by completing and returning an update form on your initiative.

Section I: Biographic and Position Data. Employee serial number: 006198. Name: Wigren, Lee H. Date of birth: 12/01/23 / 3 / D.

Section II: Education.

High school. Last high school attended. Residence (city, state, country). Years attended (from–to), approved: yes/no.

College or university study. Name and location of college or university. Subject: major/minor. Degree received, year, semester/quarter (specify). Entry 2.

If a graduate degree has been noted above, indicate required submission of a written thesis. Indicate the title of the thesis and briefly describe its content.

Trade, commercial and specialized schools. Name and address of school. Study or specialization. From, to, number of months.

Other non-affiliated education or training not indicated above. Name and address of school. Study or specialization. From, to, number of months. Entry 2.

Section III: Marital Status.

1. Present status (single, married, widowed, separated, divorced, annulled, remarried, special).

2. Name of spouse: last, first, middle, maiden.

3. Date of birth.

4. Place of birth (city, state, country).

5. Occupation.

6. Current employer.

7. Citizenship.

8. Home of citizenship(s), country(s).

9. Date U.S. citizenship acquired.

Section IV: Dependent Children and Dependents Other Than Spouse.

1.
