Chamber of Commerce of the United States

“Prayer is a mighty force, a mighty unused power. Let us all, here in America and elsewhere in the world, put this mighty power to work.”

AMVETS (ANVETS)

“AMVETS wholeheartedly endorses the Crusade for Freedom-sponsored movement for mass prayers for the people behind the Iron Curtain who have been denied the freedom of religious worship which is the proud heritage of every American.

“There is a great need for a spiritual rebirth in this world torn with hatred and fears. The unity of peoples under a common God will do much to wash away the causes of unrest which haunt us today and will lead to the mutual objectives of peace-loving people everywhere.

“We are proud to call upon our members throughout the nation to participate.”

American Dental Association

“...the American Dental Association...endorses your plan for mass prayers for the people behind the Iron Curtain.

“The members of this association long have supported the Crusade for Freedom and...will be pleased to participate in this demonstration of the freedom of religious worship.”

Building and Construction Trades Department—AFL

“We will send out a circular letter to our local...councils throughout the country asking them to join in the mass prayers...”

New York State Bankers Association: ...pleased to cooperate...and urge our membership to participate.

The American Legion: ...your efforts will receive our wholehearted support.

Boy Scouts of America: ...joining with the Crusade...and all religious faiths in praying.

Kilisnis International: ...a splendid idea.

United States Junior Chairman of Cooperation: ...will certainly do everything we can...to get our organizations to assist in any way.

American Farm Bureau Federation (AMERICAN FARE! BUREAU FEDERATION): ...sending copies of your letter to all of our state organizations, with a note encouraging their participation.

Theatre Owners of America: ...action on our part...will strengthen...religious faith...and keep alive the hope of ultimate freedom from all oppression.

Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythias: ...your program...for mass prayers...is indeed commendable.

Direct Mail Advertising Association, Inc.: ...in complete accord with this movement...

March 21, 1952
