Field Information Report.

Grading of source: A. Completely reliable. B. Usually reliable. C. Fairly reliable. D. Not usually reliable. E. Not reliable (applied to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence). F. Reliability cannot be judged (applied to untested or insufficiently tested sources).

Appraisal of content: 1. Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. 2. Probably true. 3. Possibly true. 4. Doubtful. 5. Probably false. 6. Cannot be judged.

Country: Mexico.

Subject: Possible travel to Guatemala of Victor Rico Galan.

Date of information: 21 March 1966. Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City, 23 March 1966.

Report No. 10-24-10,214.

Date of report: 24 March 1966.

No. pages: 1.

References.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive; appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Guatemalan professional man, former member of a guerrilla group in Guatemala who is living in exile in Mexico. He is believed to have good access to the Guatemalan exile community.

Victor Rico Galán, leftist journalist who writes for both Siempre and Politica, reportedly is planning to visit Guatemala to investigate the disappearance of Victor Manuel Gutiérrez Garbin, Guatemalan Communist Party (PGT) leader of the Guatemalan exile community in Mexico who returned to Guatemala in late February.

Field Comment: HGG-4148 reported that Gutiérrez Garbin and three other Guatemalan leftists were arrested and executed by the Guatemalan authorities on 8 March 1966.

Source Comment: Rico Galan could only enter Guatemala illegally since he was declared persona non grata by the Guatemalan Government in 1963 after he visited the country to interview President Peralta. While in Guatemala at that time he also managed to talk with Marco Antonio Yon Sosa, guerrilla leader. Upon his return to Mexico, Rico Galan wrote articles favorable to the rebels and most unflattering to the Peralta government. Rico Galan's interview with Yon Sosa was arranged through Adolfo Mijangos Lopez who is now living in exile in Mexico.
