Flow in, in quantity, from Guatemala, which has been the great center for the accumulation of arms. From a place in British Honduras named Middleshoe, many rifles were secured with the connivance of British officers stationed there, then passed across the border.

The plan of invasion is as follows: When the zero hour comes, planes from Costa Rica and Guatemala will arrive at Habana prepared to drop bombs over the most important military points in Cuba. As stated before, the crew of those planes are English “morocharies” who, for money, have agreed to take part in this adventure, regardless of their politics. Coincidentally, the men from the camp in Central America will be landed in various parts of the island. At the same time there will appear in the streets members of both parties, well-armed, to battle the local police, capture them, and take over the civilian authority. While all this fighting is going on, leaders of the political parties under the direction of EXOFIIC (Fernandez and Jose) Gonzales Cartas will capture the personages most prominent in the actual administration, who, once the revolution is successful, will be put in jail under the charge of murder. With this action, it is expected that most of the citizens will come over to the side of the conspirators. Judging from things heard by this agent in an interview held in a Mexico hotel between Juan Jose Arevalo and Ex-Colonel Martin Elons, the battle is set to take place before the general sale of the next sugar crop, about January of next year. While not within the province of this agent, he has learned that General Foron is favorable to the conspiracy, sending arms of Argentine manufacture to the Central American camp.

On various occasions, cargoes of arms of different makes and kinds have been introduced into the island, a procedure now made very difficult because of the vigilance of the Cuban air force, which constantly patrols the seas between Cuba and Central America. This agent knows about the following concentrations: Cuban orthopex youth, headed by Jose Perezias, lies teenick, and Bernardo Balance Goudin; there are more than 600 machine guns, 10,000 grenades (hand type), all of Mexican manufacture. The arms are hidden in the “fince” of the son of Jose Manuel Cortina, in Pino del Fie. In the hands of Pedro Román, head of the youth movement in Havana, are about 100 machine guns, 50 grenades, and 10 or 12 M-1 rifles. The arms are hidden in a house situated near the “Central Toledo,” property of the secretary general of the workers of that central.
