TANG was a member of the Chinese Embassy staff here because he did not find his name in the diplomatic list. Further, he told S that he was doing a good job, which he appreciated, but he must be very cautious because the Chinese are clever people and extremely suspicious.

6. In reply to S’s question, LOG stated that he would not meet with TANG, because that was too dangerous. S queried what was dangerous about it, and LOG stated that there was always a chance that they, TANG and LOG or another Soviet, might be seen together, and that would be very bad. LOG went on to tell S that it would be his job to develop friendly relations with TANG or possibly another Chinese official and slowly obtain from him the information LOG and his embassy needed; LOG would guide him as to how to go about it, and if they showed confidence in S, he would have it made, and Soviets (LOG used the expression “WE”) would pay him very well for that job. S commented that he had believed that what he was doing, he did out of personal friendship with LOG and not for money. LOG smiled at S’s statement and added that in addition to money, they (Soviets) would enable S to travel to the Soviet Union and have a vacation on the Black Sea.

7. While S was thinking whether to say something or keep quiet, LOG told him that the next time he went to TANG he should limit his conversation to the publishing of the article about National China and, if needed, deny that he had had any contact with his Soviet friend, LOG, since he met TANG; S’s job was to win TANG’s confidence, and that was a slow process with the Chinese. Then, in answer to LOG’s question, S stated that there were two Mexicans, a woman and a man, working at the Chinese Embassy. LOG told him to get their names and addresses. S commented that this was not so simple as it sounded, because one cannot just ask a person what was his name and address. LOG commented that even this was a matter which cannot be rushed: first get their names and later obtain the address.

8. There was another thing S should do: find out how many Chinese live in Mexico City and determine which ones were influential, and among the latter determine which were the most influential. He could start working on this by dropping in at a better Chinese restaurant and trying to develop some acquaintances; it can be assumed that those who go to restaurants are people who have money, and those who have money are
