Prepared via fax. Dated 57 February 1963.

Fitness Report.

Section A — Center and General.

1. Name (last, first): Schmidlin, Schmidlin, Schmidlin.  
2. Date of birth: 29 Nov 19 M.  
3. Office position title: Ops Officer.  
4. Grade: E-SD.  
5. Type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Temporary.  
6. Special: Career Agent.

7. Date of birth: 29 Nov 19 M.  
8. Office position title: Ops Officer.  
9. Grade: E-SD.  
10. Type of report: Career, Reserve, Temporary.  
11. Special: Career Agent.

12. Reporting period (from—to): 3 January 1963–31 December 1963.

Section B — Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to the requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Overall Performance in Current Position.

To take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position, such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personnel traits or habits, and particular situations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee’s overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the following box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

Rating Letter.
