Finally, when they had assembled, he gave them hell and explained it would be a waste of time for them to try to alter or influence the situation in their own countries from Valka. He told them he believed the cause of many difficulties was the personal interest of many of the leaders in preparing the way for big roles at home after liberation. He then presented his idea of forming the first European community at Valka. He told the national representatives he had no support from Munich—he was on his own and asked for their help and cooperation. One by one they came to him and agreed.

Von Hoeffler's technique of making friends with the people, with whom he soon acquired an excellent reputation, was an effective instrument in swinging their national committees to his side, for aware of his popularity, they hesitated not to show active cooperation. As a means of delegating self-administration of the camp to elected representatives, von Hoeffler was about to establish a small parliament when he was recalled by reasons of a German administrative snafu in which favoritism played a part. Just before his departure, the Nuremberg chief of police approved him and asked that he request the withdrawal of the permanent squad, which the chief felt was no longer required due to the enormous progress in camp behavior.

After von Hoeffler's replacement by an unimpressive bureaucrat, the situation at Valka relapsed into violence. Yet his influence lingered, and delegations from the national groups visited him, begging him to return to the camp. Later, when the situation became even worse, delegates from the German administrative personnel at Valka also came to urge that he return. This was just before our talk with him, and the employees brought with them tales of the latest knitting. Obviously von Hoeffler's idealistic and far-sighted approach to the refugee problem had made a profound impression not only upon the refugees themselves but on Germans associated with the problem in a practical way.

Von Hoeffler's European community approach might be borne in mind in connection with NCPS's espousal of the policy of Federalism. Similarly, the EEC's citizenship approach might have the potentiality of being broadened to provide grass-roots emphasis on this aspect of NCPS's policy. The idea of European citizenship for refugees is not original or new, but it might provide NCPS and EEC with a useful propaganda weapon.

Von Hoeffler's realistic and productive idealism perhaps also indicates the necessity for at least trying to uncover and support more positive elements than the usual exile political leaders, even though it is believed likely that the latter will be able to regain control of their political machinery and return to power after liberation. For this reason, not to attempt the production of more constructive leaders and attitudes more amenable to NCPS and US interests is an example of infatuation with “hard-boiled” realism for its own sake.
