This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Italy, USA. Report No. CS. Subject: Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther King with Italian Leftist Personalities. Date and place acquired: Italy, Rome, 1 October 1964. Field report No. OIRT-06733.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive; appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: An unwitting leftist-oriented journalist (F) with contacts in Italian Communist Party (PCI) circles in Rome, from information available to editorial offices of L'Unita, the PCI daily newspaper. Reports from this source over the past few years have varied from mediocre and below in quality and accuracy. Appraisal of content: 3.

Luther King, noted Protestant negro pastor and “leader” of the anti-racist movement in the United States, met with various leaders of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and of the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) on 18 September in Rome. In particular, King conferred with PCI Senators Velio Spano and Ugo Bartesaghi, with PSI Deputy Lucio Luzzato, and with Senator Paolo Vittorelli of the Italian Socialist Party of Proletarian Unity (PSIUP). King discussed with the above-named politicians the program of demonstrations against segregation in the United States, which are to be organized in Italy during the months immediately ahead.

Field Comment: Given the source of the above report, we view it with some reserve. In this connection, we noted the 19 September issue of L'Unita, which reflected an article on King’s private audience with Pope Paul held the preceding day. According to L'Unita, immediately after the audience, in St. Peter’s Square, King stated that “Pope Paul was most clear on the fact that both he, personally and the Catholic Church support the cause of civil rights.” The article also states that in a press conference held at Fiumicino Airport after the audience King said, “The Pope will shortly make a public statement on racial segregation.” We have no other information at this time.

Coordinating. Selecting. Totals. Liaison.
