He has always been a friend of the U.S. and tried to work with them, and will be very happy if they will simply relax and try to live with him for a few years. They may find out it will not be so difficult as they seem to expect. On the other hand, if the U.S. cuts him off, there are other countries eager to fill the gap.

b. On the latter point (made about mid-September 1965), A/I followed up by eliciting from the Nic Consul-General in Miami, who revealed that the French Ambassador in Managua had offered to match the U.S. Alliance for Progress commitments to Nicaragua if the State Department cut them off because of SOMOZA's election. A/I followed up further on this point with General SOMOZA the night of 15 October, and he confirmed the report, saying that the French Ambassador had bypassed President SCHICK and come to him directly.

c. General SOMOZA told A/I that, when he met with Daniel ODUBER at the Costa Rican border for their “non-aggression pact,” he had handed ODUBER $80,000 in cash to help with his candidacy. SOMOZA later contacted a representative of the Costa Rican opposition and gave him $20,000 in cash, telling him he was short of cash but wanted to help as much as he could. He told A/I it is good business to bet most of your money on a sure winner, even if you do not particularly like his form. (A/I is doing the same thing by printing 8,000 posters for ODUBER free of charge; he would rather ODUBER owe him a favor than vice versa.) A/I will check with ODUBER and sources close to him on the alleged donation by SOMOZA next time he gets to Costa Rica.

d. SOMOZA's sources and A/I's representatives in Costa Rica agree that ODUBER is going to win handily, but he will have to push for a good majority as the opposition is working hard. Frank MARSHALL and his cohorts continue to conspire but pose no real threat.

e. One of A/I's men, a former AMORE Dor named Luis ARRIZURIETA Sardinas, is a member of ODUBER's personal security group and has gotten rather close to him. He was assigned by A/I at

SOMOZA

Guanica
