Deferred telepouch.

79 3381906. TOR: 132307Z November 79. 3383966. MEXI 51744.

4. Section C—Narrative Comments.

Shortly before the departure of the former COS, he submitted a special memorandum on subject's performance (Mexico City 50702; original OCR: MEXICn CITY 50702), which concentrated mostly on subject's responsibilities in the CI field. A copy of this memorandum is available in subject's personnel file. The undersigned fully endorses the laudatory comments in that memorandum, but since subject has taken on broader responsibilities, it is necessary to comment on other aspects of his work.

For the past months, subject has been dividing his time about equally between his CI responsibilities and other station objectives, principally the Cuban target. Subject was given these additional duties because the CI Operations Group is well organized and requires less direct C/O input, and also because of the need to dedicate all available resources against the Cuban target. This station is one of four within the Directorate which have been selected for a concentrated effort against Cuba, and this target now ranks number one among the station's many priority objectives. Subject's past experience in Cuban operations, his ability to pass as a native in this country, and his other strengths were the ingredients which the station needed to exploit in this effort.

Subject has taken over the principal station operation directed against Cuba. This was a fairly new operation at the time it was assigned to subject, and it will mature under his direction. For reasons of sensitivity, a more detailed review of subject's work on this operation cannot be provided, but the record should note that during the past three months, he has handled this operation in a thoroughly professional manner, with steady progress being made to fully exploit the operational and reporting potential. Also during this reporting period, subject renewed contact through his own efforts with a former reporting asset who had drifted away from collaboration with the organization. Subject is now attempting to breathe new life into this operation and bring it back under control.

Subject also cooperated with another government agency in attempting to re-establish contact with a local Cuban.
