To: Chief, WHD. From: Chief of Station, San José. Subject: General—Operational; Alfredo T. Povedano. Date: 11 August 1952.

1. The above-named individual is Chief of the Commercial Department of the Ministry of Finance on a full time basis. However, he is also the code and cipher specialist within the Costa Rican Government and personally provided the codes now being used by the Foreign Office and Seguridad Pública. This latter responsibility apparently stems from his hobby of working with codes and ciphers and the absence of any better-qualified expert on this subject. He is a member of the American Cryptogram Association, is a "ham" radio operator, an expert photographer, and an amateur chemist, among other things. During the 1948 revolution, he provided the rebel forces with code systems and broke a code being used by the government forces. On other occasions he has furnished codes to the incumbent administration during times of emergency, such as the abortive invasion of Costa Rica from Nicaragua during 1949.

2. Officers of the Commercial Section of the Embassy have had cordial and cooperative relations with subject on commercial and economic matters for some time. Recently one of these officers advised us that subject had made tentative, informal inquiries concerning the possibility of obtaining technical advice and assistance from the Embassy or the Department of State with a view to improving the cipher system of the Foreign Office. It was suggested to subject that an official request to the Embassy for such information would probably result in a polite refusal, but that one of the Embassy officers, Russo, had had experience in codes and ciphers while serving in the Army, and that perhaps an unofficial discussion would be helpful.

3. On this basis, a luncheon date was arranged at which time subject stated that the Foreign Minister had recently questioned him for several hours on the security of the Foreign Office codes and possible means of improving them, and had instructed subject to study the problem. According to subject, the Foreign Minister then indicated serious concern over the threat presented by local and international Communist activities and speculated on various possibilities of covering their activities.

Dispatch No. TESA-1272. Date: 11 August 1952.
