Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Allow time for explanation, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

As a former military officer, Subject is hard working and abundantly sincere in his efforts to fight Communism. His performance since Aug. 1961 has not been at the top level of his capabilities for several reasons, not all of which are within his ability to overcome. Subject has had little clandestine training, and is therefore not always able to comprehend the intangible factors which prevent, delay and cancel operations. A further reason is the absence of military law as a basis for discipline for his men. Still another reason is the directive for only limited action with which he has had to live since August. This is merely to say that in a period of policy formation when the action forces have had to be held in limbo, he has not been at his best.

Subject's dealings with his agents have in turn been affected by his own frustrations. His inability to rationalize situations has resulted in obtuse explanations to them which have made them harder to handle. His reluctance to put things on paper has detracted from his performance and denied him the clarifying process which reporting provides. His security consciousness has been similarly affected by his frustrations.

Subject is in need of training in tradecraft and PM operations. His basic qualifications for PM Case Officer work are such that he can, with training, do a much better job. This combined with a program of concentrated action would undoubtedly bring out the best in him, which should be of real value to the Agency.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date. Signature of employee.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Special).

Date: G. May 62. Official title of supervisor: Delroy. Typed or printed name and signature: Clec. orl D. Kiggles.

By reviewing official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 10 May 62. Official title of reviewing official: C.S./T.M.C.W.E. Typed or printed name and signature: Jane S. Radinicka.
