4 January 1978

Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report

Subject: Thomas J. Keenan

1. During the first six weeks of the reviewing period, Mr. Keenan continued as Chief of the Mexico and Central America Branch, the Division's most demanding geographic unit. His performance during this period continued at the same strong level detailed in the last Fitness Report.

2. During February, as part of a determined effort to strengthen the Division's Operations Staff, Mr. Keenan was moved up to fill one of the two Deputy Chief slots in that unit. As of 1 July, he was the sole Deputy of the Staff. As set up in Latin America Division, the Operations Staff had both staff and line functions. It had broad coordinating responsibilities with all elements outside the Division, served as the focal point for all senior staff requests for studies and reports, stimulated and coordinated Division operational activities and reviewed the effectiveness of Division programs. All Division operational traffic flowed through the Ops Staff where better than 80 per cent of the traffic was released.

3. Mr. Keenan was assigned primary responsibility for close review and staff action relating to the northern area (Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean plus Guyana and Surinam in South America). In addition, he served as the staff referent for narcotics operations throughout the Division and for Cuba operations worldwide.

4. I consider myself singularly fortunate to have had Mr. Keenan as my Deputy. I assumed the Chief/Ops responsibility in April 1977 and immediately discovered that ground rules were different, legal strictures impinged on many operational decisions, and the almost constant senior staff requests affected one's ability to concentrate on operations. Mr. Keenan was extremely helpful in providing substantive briefings, guiding me through the legal and policy complications and pointing out the shoals. He made many valuable suggestions on how to handle the work load without drowning in paper.
