Dispatch. To: Chief, DO. From: WOMACE Representative, Boston. Subject: ISOLOG/WUSPARROW/Operational; Dr. Harold R. ISAACS, Professor of Political Science at M.I.T.

1. On 12 July 1967, WUSPARROW/1 renewed his old friendship with Subject at the MIT Faculty Club. Subject is now a senior research associate at MIT's Center for International Studies and has recently been named a Professor.

2. For the past few years Subject has been working on an international study series involving minority racial groups. His reports have been published in the New Yorker magazine and as books, The New World of Negro Americans and India's Untouchables. Subject plans to publish in August 1967 a book on the American Jews in Israel and is working on another on the Philippines.

3. WUSPARROW/1 first met Subject in 1946 after he had just completed a long and friendly interview with Ho Chi Minh as Far East correspondent for Newsweek. At that time, Subject felt that the United States was making a mistake in not accepting Ho as the leader of a united Vietnam, feeling that Ho was independent enough of China to make him at worst a sort of Tito.

4. Subject presently is despairing of United States foreign relations in that our people from Washington, or elsewhere, seldom seem to establish a deep rapport with Asian or African nationals. Subject feels that such relations as do exist never reach more than an ineffective superficial level.

5. Subject first went to the Far East about 1930 when he was a crew member of the Matson Line's Malolo and disembarked at Honolulu to work for the Honolulu Advertiser. (WUSPARROW/1 went to work for the same paper two years later.) Subject went next to the Philippines where he worked on a Manila daily. While in Manila he was offered the editorship of the Bangkok Royal Mail, to fill in for St. Clair McELWAY, now of the New Yorker.

Continued.

Distribution: 2 - C/DO.

Cross reference to dispatch symbol and number: UTEA - 543. Date: 11 August 1967. HCS file number: -200-6-360/3-.
