Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance.

Analyze foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented upon, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This officer possesses highly developed professional skills. He is dedicated; his work is always well done and his reports are well written. Subject has repeatedly demonstrated that he is aware of the value of government funds which he spends as necessary but always conscientiously. This officer is articulate in speech and in his writing. He has excellent Spanish, an essential in the position he has occupied. This officer is an asset to KUBARK and his family are excellent representatives abroad. Subject could assume command of a station and he would make an excellent Chief of Station in the opinion of the rating officer. It is again recommended that this officer be promoted to GS-15.

May 24, 3:27 PM, ’66. Mail Room.

Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 21 April 1966. Signature of employee: /s/ Robert T. Shaw.

By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation.

Date: 21 April 1966. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Winston M. Scott.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

I concur generally with the assessment made of Mr. Shaw and agree that Shaw has turned in a highly commendable job and is an excellent operations officer. From here and not having the advantage of on-scene observation I would have rated Shaw with straight S' and overall rating of 'Strong' as compared to 'Outstanding.' Nevertheless, I strongly endorse the COS' recommendation for promotion for Shaw.

Date: 10 MAJ. Official title of reviewing official: C/MR/1. Typed or printed name and signature: W.J. Kaufman /L.J.P./.
