Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, including a zero-point perspective on their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give measure and reasons for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain actions shown in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Magnet of performance of managerial or support staff duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and must be commented on, if applicable. In this space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Wigren's responsibilities have broadened during the reporting period and will continue to grow. In part this change has resulted from the assignment of Mr. Edward Knowles to CI/OPS, but in equal or greater measure it is the product of Mr. Wigren's demonstrated ability to carry added responsibility with equanimity and resourcefulness.

Mr. Wigren has a very sound knowledge of the Soviet Union; its history, government, intelligence services, etc. He reads widely to keep his knowledge current. He maintains an excellent balance between a respect for the importance of facts and a creative faculty. Recently he has been increasingly concerned with ways to ensure a more regular, orderly flow of essential counterintelligence into this office and with restructuring the organization of this information to make it more readily responsive to our needs. His approach has been both imaginative and sound.

His work shows a very high level of organizational ability. This is reflected in his structuring of a report or speech, in the lucidity of his expression, and in his grasp of the inter-relatedness of the functions of this group. He is thoughtful and temperate; he does not jump to conclusions, show (continued).

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 9 November 1971. Signature of employee: Lee M. Clark.

By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 34.

Date: 9 November 1971. Official title of supervisor: Chief, CI/R&A. Typed or printed name and signature: Raymond E. Pratt.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

Mr. Wigren is a very knowledgeable research specialist in Soviet Bloc counterintelligence matters. He also is an excellent expositor of that kind of information from a lecture platform. He has done a good job. I am in agreement with the rating but would want this man to show more dynamism.

Date: 18 Nov 1971. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, CI Staff. Typed or printed name and signature: Raymond G. Rocca.
