Attachment #1

Versailles, LOG exclaimed that, for heaven’s sake, he did not want anything like that; he wanted this to be entirely on a private and personal basis without political elements involved. To show the film at Versailles would be stupid; it would just enable the imperialists to blast in the papers that the Soviets were getting involved in the internal political matters of Mexico. In view of the coming presidential elections, this could be blown up into a scandal. L-1 remarked that he saw no difference in showing the film in the Centro or in the Centro Asturiano, as LOG had wanted originally. LOG explained at length the difference, and L-1 promised to have another talk with MUNOZ.

6. L-1 told LOG that quite recently he saw in the press something written to the effect that there are presently in the USSR four types of detention (concentration) camps, and he wondered whether that was an indication that freedom in the USSR was being trimmed again. LOG stated that “this was pure imperialist propaganda.” He went on to say that in the USSR the cafés are full of people and that one can hear them even criticizing the government. He added that in his opinion there is too much (demasiado mucho) freedom in the USSR and other Socialist countries. If Stalin were alive, it could not happen that while the people in America are openly protesting against the war in Vietnam and against imperialism, a Socialist country such as Czechoslovakia rouses its people in favor of American and West German imperialism. “Too much freedom in the USSR results in still more freedom in other Socialist countries; this is no longer freedom, it is a shameful betrayal of Socialism; I hope that it will be realized soon that Stalin was right,” said LOG.

7. At this point LOG worked in a hint to L-1 that he should do something for the Socialist cause. L-1 sounded his old tune, saying that he saw nothing he could do, and added that now, when LOG opened the door to the American Intelligence Service for him through Victor RAKOS (actually working for The Economist Intelligence Unit, S.A., Reforma 116–801 B), he would find out whether they would pay him well, and if they would, he would work for them, because anyway the Soviets never gave him anything. When LOG asked him what the hell he was speaking about, L-1 stated that he was joking, and LOG commented that L-1 had never done anything to help the Soviet effort and, consequently, they were not able to pay him anything.
