HMA-29775.

2. Agent Communication, Contact and Performance.

During the period under review, GERENDE was seen 25 times in regular operational meetings by the LIEMPTY Project case officer. No basic departures, other than the regular pre-planned changes in meeting sites and time, were made in the regular and alternate communication channels. The updated and revised emergency communication system for contact with GERENDE as forwarded to Headquarters in HMA-28333, dated 21 February 1966, remains in effect. During the period under review, the emergency contact arrangements pertinent to LIEMPTYs -4, -6, -9, -13 and -14 were reviewed by GERENDE and the respective agents. The operational performance of all active LIEMPTY agents was highly satisfactory. As per usual, GERENDE turned in the solid operational performance which the Station has come to expect from this long-time contract agent.

3. Accomplishments, Progress and Achievements.

A. Summary — Throughout the reporting period, the LIEMPTY Project continued to provide the vast majority of the operational photographs and physical surveillance reports used by the Station in its operational planning against the LIMERICK installation and personnel. The LIEMPTY coverage has proved to be a particularly reliable tool for following the daily movements of LIMERICK personnel; providing leads to and confirming the identities of LIMERICK staffers and their visitors; providing leads to the relative rank and the specific intelligence service connection of various LIMERICK officers; keeping the Station abreast of construction changes in the LIMERICK physical plant; and providing a reliable check on various Station and LIVERGO access agents. During the quarter under review, Project LIEMPTY basehouses provided a record 5,722 frames of operational photographs (184 reels) as well as approximately 1,200 pages of fixed surveillance reports covering the movements of the LIMERICK staffers.

B. LIENTRAP — Throughout this period, the LIENTRAP mobile unit was targeted against leaders and meeting sites of the local Communist parties as well as other targets of opportunity, particularly exile Communist leaders now resident in Mexico. LIENTRAP provided updated identification photographs of Communist officers which are of value to both the JMTIGER program and the Station's recruitment/penetration program. This apparatus provided 262 operational photographs, while the personnel attached to the LIENTRAP unit also regularly serviced 21 postal accommodation addresses used by Mexico City Station, Headquarters and other Field Stations. In July, the LIENTRAP unit was repainted and completely overhauled.

C. LIMITED — During this quarter, the LIMITED basehouse provided 1,215 frames (47 reels) of operational film as well as daily physical surveillance reports covering the arrival and departure of all LIMERICK personnel, at the front gate of that installation during the evening and weekend hours. In addition, LIEMPTY-6, the LIMITED basehouse keeper, served as the radio dispatcher for numerous LIMERACE surveillance operations.

D. LILYRIC — During this period, the LILYRIC basehouse provided a record 3,301 frames (99 reels) of operational photographs covering the same area and targets as noted in the LIMITED section above, but during the morning and afternoon hours. As noted in paragraph 5 of reference A., Station completed the rearrangement of the LIMITED-LILYRIC working hours, based on the recent recruitment and clearance of LIEMPTYs -26 and -27. The LILYRIC basehouse now provides photographic and physical surveillance coverage from 0800 hours through 1700 hours, while LIMITED provides coverage from 1700 hours to 1930 hours on weekdays. LIMITED also provides morning coverage on Saturdays and Sundays.
