Declaration of Appointee.

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty. Question 3 is to be answered in all cases; otherwise answer only those questions which require an answer different from that given to the corresponding questions on your application form. If no answers are desired, write “NONE” in Item 10, below. Any false statement in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal after appointment. Impersonation is a criminal offense and will be prosecuted accordingly.

1. Present address (street and number, city and State).

2. (A) Date of birth.

3. (B) Place of birth (city or town and State or country).

4. (A) In case of emergency please notify: Harriette D., wife.

5. (B) Relationship. (C) Street and number, city and State: 122 Loyal St., Alexandria, VA 23269.

6. (D) Telephone No.: TE 8506.

7. Does the United States Government employ, in a civilian capacity, any relative of yours, other than by blood or marriage, with whom you live or have lived within the past 24 months? Yes. No.

If so, for each such relative provide the name, post office address, position (temporary or not), department or agency in which employed, relationship, and marital status.

Indicate “YES” or “NO” answer by placing “X” in proper column. Space for detailed answers to other questions. Item No. Write in left column numbers of items to which detailed answers apply. NONE.

8. Are you a citizen of or do you have allegiance to the United States?

9. Are you an official or employee of any State, Territory, county, or municipality?

If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 10.

10. Do you receive any annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act or an annuity, pension, or other compensation for military or naval service?

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 10 the reason for retirement, that is, age, optional disability, or by reason of voluntary or involuntary separation after 5 years’ service; amount of retirement pay, and under what retirement act; and rating, if retired from military or naval service.

11. Have you ever been discharged or forced to resign, for misconduct or unsatisfactory service, from any position?

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 10 the name and address of employer, date,
