Application for Federal Employment.

Instructions: In order to prevent delay in consideration of your application, please answer every question on this form clearly and completely. Type or print in ink. In applying for a position in the United States Civil Service examination, read the announcement carefully and follow all directions. If you are applying for a written examination, follow the instructions on the admission card regarding direction of this application. If you are applying for an unwritten examination, read this application to the office named in the announcement. Be sure to mail to the same office any other forms required by the announcement. Notify the office with which you file the application of any change in your address.

Application No. Annual incentive payment. Name of examination or kind of position applied for. Option(s), if mentioned in examination announcement. Place of employment applied for (city and state). Date: 17 May 1947.

Name: Everette Howard Hunt (Jr.). Street and number: 30 Willett Street. City or post office and state: Albany 6, New York; New York. Sex: Male. Date of birth: October 9, 1918. Place of birth: Hamburg, Erie County, New York. Weight: 126 pounds. Height: 5 feet 7 inches.

14. (A) Have you ever been employed by the Federal Government? No. (B) If so, give last grade and date of last change in grade.

Initials and date.

15. (A) What is the low entrance salary you will accept? $5,000 per year. You will not be considered for any position with a lower entrance salary.

(B) If you are willing to travel, specify: Frequently.

16. (C) Contract. It is important for you to furnish all information requested below in sufficient detail to enable the Civil Service Commission and the agencies using this list of employment to give you full credit in determining your qualifications. Use a separate block for each job. Set with your first name and last name and address on the left and job title, duties and responsibilities on the right. If you are being hired as a contract employee, indicate so. Include a complete description of all experience gained more than 15 years ago which is not pertinent to the work for which you are applying; such experience may be summarized in one sentence of the blocks. If your duties changed materially while working for the same employer, use a separate block to describe each position. You may include any pertinent religious, civic, welfare, or organizational activity which you have performed, either with or without compensation, showing the number of hours per week and weeks per year in which you were engaged in such activity. Military experience should be shown in the space below in its proper sequence.

(D) Check if you were ever employed in any positions in any CAP.
