5 March 1971

Memorandum for: Secretary, CSPS/Section A  
Subject: Recommendation for the Promotion of Calvin W. Hicks (056361) to GS-14

1. I recommend the promotion of subject officer from GS-13 to GS-14. Mr. Hicks has been assigned to the Intelligence Watch/FI Staff since June 1967 and serves on a rotating schedule with seven other officers doing identical work, four of whom are currently in grade GS-14.

2. Mr. Hicks has been in the Intelligence Watch (IW) for almost four years and his work, both quantitatively and qualitatively, has been consistently of a very high caliber.

3. His keenly developed sense of operational security resulting from his extensive paramilitary experience, coupled with his clear understanding of the relationship between operations and intelligence, has made him a very fine officer and a valuable asset to IW. He has been under my supervision for 18 months and I have had ample opportunity to observe his performance under conditions of stress. He very ably applies a multitude of detail and general reporting instructions to the different situations manifest in each incoming report and displays initiative in meeting unforeseen crises with rapid and effective action. Since the intelligence information is the face that the clandestine service puts out to the intelligence community, the performance of watch officers is of great importance. This factor becomes apparent when it is noted that over 75 percent of all cabled intelligence reports are disseminated by IW.

4. Mr. Hicks has an extensive background in paramilitary operations both in the field and at headquarters. All of his fitness reports for the six years preceding his assignment to IW have borne the overall rating of “strong.” He has been described as “highly motivated, sincere, and capable.” Also, “he works well with others and his knowledge and ability are respected.” Other supervisors during the years prior to this assignment have described him as “serious, hard-working and dependable.” His performance in his present assignment has demonstrated these same qualities.

5. Mr. Hicks is a distinct asset to IW and I highly recommend him for promotion to GS-14.

Joseph A. Procaccino  
Chief, FI/INT/IW
