Miami, Fla., August 13, 1965

Mr. Jerry Sounders  
N.C. Box 531  
Miami International Airport  
Miami, Fla.

Dear Mr. Sounders:

Three months have passed since my return from Leopoldville and, as I explained to you in our last meeting, the amounts corresponding to the basic pay of March, April, and up to the 13th of May, when my contract expired, are still unpaid, therefore leaving an outstanding balance of $1,950.00 in my favor.

Although I appreciate your concern in this case, I wish to inform you about certain facts concerning my work in the Congo that will explain how every cent of the mentioned amount was earned.

When pilot Fausto Gomez was shot down near Bunia—December 17, 1964—that Air Base became paralyzed, as two of the pilots resigned and the only one remaining was ready to leave. Everyone refused to take charge of the Bunia Base because of the proximity of the rebels, dangerous terrain, living conditions below standards, improper food, etc. Under these adverse circumstances I accepted the position of Chief Pilot and left the comfortable quarters of Stanleyville. I arrived at Bunia December 25, 1964, and the next day resumed full air operations against the rebels, flying two and three missions per day as squadron leader with inexperienced pilots. Those pilots did not have shooting, combat maneuvering instruction; therefore, I instructed them also in re-enacting, instrument flying, etc. We hit the enemy day by day, forcing them to retreat to the very border of Northeast Congo. M. Godofroid Munongo—Minister of the Interior—personally congratulated us for our accomplishments on behalf of the Congo.

When I became ill, due to improper food, parasites, etc., I was ordered back to Leopoldville for medical treatment. Unable to recover and having lost 25 pounds, Dr. Elkhoury suggested I return to Miami for more adequate treatment. Photostatic copies of certificates are attached. I left Leopoldville April 3, 1965, with the understanding that my contract was not being cancelled. I sincerely believe that my work and dedication throughout the entire campaign in northeast Congo deserved the full payment of the mentioned contract.

Your consideration of this matter would be appreciated.

cc: Mr. H. R. Telford  
Mr. Robert Flake
