Memorandum of Oral Commitment.

Date: 23-05-1975.

To: Office of Finance. Via: Chief, EUR and Contract Personnel Division. From: Contract Approving Officer, Paris.

SXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX (Independent Contractor).

Subject: Engagement of F.W.T. (Cash Coworker) (Contract Employees).

1. Term and Activity Charge: Subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under Activity, effective 1 July 1975 until completed, but not to be expressed 31 December 1977.

2. Security Approval: The appropriate security approval for subject’s use has been obtained. Type: former Career dated—Associate.

3. Citizenship: Subject is not a dual citizen.

4. Compensation: Subject will be paid nothing per [blank] in [blank] currency. Describe any other compensation in the nature of bonus commitments, gifts, loans, currency conversions, or other [blank].

5. Taxes: Explain method of collection when appropriate. Flat rate. N/A; FR 20-18d applies, to be determined by Headquarters.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence: Quarters allowance: N/A. Subsistence allowance.

7. Operational Expenses: N/A.

a. Travel expenses will or will not be reimbursed. Fixed payment. Regular accountings. Allowance.

b. Other operational expenses will or will not be reimbursed. Type of expense; method of accounting. Type of expense; method of accounting. Type of expense; method of accounting.

8. Other Commitments: Describe scheduled will-reimburse cases for costs of shipment of up to 1000 (one thousand) mugs of gas at the conclusion of cover employment from Paris, France, to Australia. Scheduled for 31 May 1977.

9. Contingent Obligations: Not promised to subject but may have to be met. Describe.

No commitments other than those described above have been made to subject.

Reviewed: [Signature]. Special Contracting Officer. 11/30/76.

Approved: [Signature]. Field Contracting Officer.

Certain special benefits or commitments require prior Headquarters approval, i.e., leave, retirement, death, disability, missing in action, resettlement, escrow accounts, citizenship assistance, emergency assistance, bonus payments, and other unusual items.

Distribution: Headquarters only; Station Finance; Subject File.
