Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide: 1. The administration of selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and 2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Field Administrative Officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters.

To the Field Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness so revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisor to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I.

Date of birth: 20 Jan. 1924. Sex: M. Service designation: DI. Name: Jacques Richardson. Grade: GS-14. Station designation (current): USSR Base, Tokyo. Due date of this report: 30 September 1955. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 17 February–30 September 1955.

Section II (to be completed by field supervisor).

Current position: Chief, USSR Base, Tokyo. Date assumed responsibility for position: 19 February 1955.

State the specific assignments or tasks which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency).

A. As Chief of Operating Base:

1. Manage and direct all operations against target area, and monitor products.

2. Supervise system of development and exploitation of operational leads.
