Section IX. Qualifications for Other Operations.

1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications possessed by subject which could conceivably be of value for other operations.

Subject is a highly qualified Spanish-speaking secretary with more than 30 years of government service, i.e. with the PERUEN Embassy in Mexico. Subject takes Spanish shorthand.

Section X. Commitments.

1. If it is proposed to pay subject a regular salary, indicate the weekly amount. If payment to be made in exchange commodities, subsidy or other method, specify and give details.

Subject does not get paid any salary and has refused same when offered.

2. Explain any promises, otherwise not covered herein, made to subject. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation of subject and family.)

The Case Officer introduced a friend of subject's to Dr. Juan GOODWIN of USIS re a scholarship to FEPRIME, has requested a visa through LITEMPO for a friend of subject and has tried to help subject's brother re draft-dodging problem, i.e. provided him with contact in INS in Mexico City.

CE and Security.

1. Indicate the field agencies and field files with which subject's name has been checked and the results.

Station files and intimate friends of subject down through the years, i.e. LITAMIL-3, LITAMIL-9, LITAMIL-2, all trusted Station assets.

2. Indicate other investigative measures taken to verify biographical information furnished by subject.

None.

3. Indicate whether or not provisional operational approval or operational approval for subject's use was previously obtained.

Yes.

4. Date approval obtained.

POA granted 10 Sept 62.

5. Evaluate subject's character, reliability and security, citing evidence where possible.

Subject is of high moral character, religious (Catholic), provincial in outlook, unsophisticated, intelligent, sincere, “simpatica” and unselfish. She is reliable and very security conscious.

6. Explain any situation or indiscretion in which subject may have been involved which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security viewpoint.

Subject's relationship with the Case Officer has been clandestine and is known to only LITAMIL-3, a trusted Station agent. On occasions the naive subject has allowed her to introduce several relatives to the Case Officer without mentioning any names, i.e. a friend.

Section XII. Subject's Personal Habits.

1. Use of liquor, drugs; gambling, paramours.

Subject does not drink, smoke, or participate in any other vices as far as the Case Officer is able to determine. She is very religious and lives her religion.
