Section C. Narrative Comments.

Subject is departing Spain for an assignment PCS Headquarters following a tour of over five years at the Madrid Station. During the past three and one-half years he has headed up the Station's Cuban operations, has acted as a coordinator of Cuban activities in Western Europe and has actively participated in operations in support of other WE stations.

Starting completely from scratch, the Station was able, under Subject's able direction, to develop extensive operations against the priority Cuban target, including technical operations against the installation, recruitment and defection of important officials, penetration of commercial establishments, recruitment and training of internal assets, bi-lateral operations with the local services, etc.

Subject is an officer of considerable energy and drive. He has a knack of developing and exploiting interesting contacts and much of the success of the Station's Cuban program was due to his intimate connections in Cuban exile circles. Subject was also able to enlist the support of the local services in connection with certain aspects of the over-all program which could not be handled unilaterally.

Subject has shown himself to be "cost conscious" in the utilization of funds and manpower. His Cuban unit of the Station was.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 1 Dec 65. Signature of employer: /s/ Earl J. Williamson.

By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation. Months employee has been under my supervision: 50. Date: 1 Dec 65. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ James Noel.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official.

Having observed subject's work only from Headquarters, my evaluation of his performance is based entirely on the results and production which he and the section which he supervised achieved. During the rating period, the station's Cuban operations were conducted vigorously with fine results. This report appears to be fair and objective.

Date: 10 Jan. 1968. Official title of reviewing official: C/WR/S. Francis G. Coleman.
