Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or elaborate, as necessary, information given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This young case officer has displayed considerable professionalism after only a relatively short time in the clandestine operations field. He is very versatile and resourceful and has shown a high amount of initiative. He is at his best as an agent handler and has developed close relationships with the assets entrusted to him. He has been helped in this by a high degree of fluency in Spanish and his pleasant personality. His reporting, particularly his cable writing, still leaves room for improvement, but on the whole, this officer has been one of the mainstays of the PBRUMEN Section during his tour, which unfortunately has been marred by poor health.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 30 Nov. ’67. Signature: J.S./Joseph S. Piccolo.

By Supervisor’s Signature. Months employee has been under my supervision: 16 months. Date: 30 Nov. ’67. Official title of supervisor. Type or printed name and signature: Ops Officer Francis Sherry.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

I fully concur with the comments of the rating officer. Subject is an excellent case officer suitable for assignment either outside or under official cover. No needs further training in written staff work, however, and at a convenient moment in his career would benefit greatly from intensive training in report writing, rapid reading, and related subjects.

Date: 30 Nov. ’67. Official title of reviewing officer. Type or printed name and signature: Chief of Station Winston D. Miller.
