Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 007667.

Section A. General.

1. Name (Last, First, Middle): Burton-Videla, Charlotte Z. 2. Date of Birth: 12 Jan 29. 3. Sex: F. 4. Grade: GS-13. 5. SU: D.

6. Official Position Title: Operations Officer. 7. Officer of Assignment: DDP/WH/1. 8. Current Station: Mexico City.

9. Check (X) Type of Appointment: XX Career; Career Provisional (See instructions—Section C); Special (Specify). 10. Check (X) Type of Report: Temporary; Initial; XX Reassignment Supervisor; X Annual; Special (Specify); Reassignment Employee.

11. Date Report Due in O.P. 12. Reporting Period (From–To): 1 January–31 July 1972.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

Unatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for failing this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

Poor: Performance is unsatisfactory. Desired results are not being produced in the manner expected.

Good: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

Absenteeism: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees must be rated on their ability to accomplish (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1. Prepares operational target studies on PBRUMEN officials and assists in the planning of operations against those targets. Rating Letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 2. Screen all agent and technical reports dealing with PBRUMEN targets for operational and positive information and puts in retrievable form... Rating Letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3.
