Attachment No. 2

July 24, 1969

Subject: Jimmy SABORI (P-13,850)—Report on Meet with LOGINOV (P-11,712) on July 18 at SEPE-Paris

1. The meet was prearranged and lasted about two hours. The previously used procedure was followed; S and LOG met in front of the restaurant and entered it together. As usual, LOG was sharp in appearing on the spot.

Their next meet: On August 4 at Samborna Insurgentes-Tasquena at 2000 hours.

2. Course of the Meet.

LOG asked S why he did not come “to play tennis with him” at the French Club on July 12. S explained that he was not feeling well and that he had not recovered completely from the flu, which he had had all week. S added that only for the reason of keeping the word given to a friend (LOG) did he come to this meet. Nice words by LOG, who concluded that he brought S two bottles of vodka which could be used as “a medicine” for colds and similar discomforts.

3. As could be expected after such an opening of the meet, LOG was interested in whether S was able to accomplish something for him. S told him that he had done what he promised and gave LOG the written report, which LOG read. When he finished reading it, LOG remarked that S had not signed the report. When S said that he was willing to do it right there, LOG said that it was not necessary and that he was only joking.

4. LOG spent a considerable amount of time questioning S about the reasons for and consequences of the cancellation of PEMEX contract(s) with some U.S. oil companies. At a certain point the questions lacked clarity, and S asked LOG point-blank what he was driving at. LOG stated that S should realize that the USSR is the second-largest producer of oil in the world (sic) and that he was interested in finding out whether it was possible for the USSR (USER) to step in where the Americans were kicked out (sic). S told LOG that it was difficult to go more wrong than LOG was in his thinking, because if Mexico’s ask (Mexicans) did not want Americans involved in their oil business, it was positively certain that they wanted no foreigner, re-
