Health Benefits Registration Form (Federal Employer Health Benefits Act of 1957). Read instructions on back of last page.

Part A. All who register must fill in this part.

Name: Randall, Frederick C. Mailing address: 4225 Deer Drive, McLean, Virginia. Date of birth. Are you now married? Sex.

Are you covered by, or is any family member listed below covered by or enrolling in, a plan under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Act of 1959 through the enrollment of another United States or District of Columbia Government employee or annuitant? Place an X in the proper box to show your annual basic salary range: under $4,000; $1,000–$12,999; $18,000–$27,999; $30,000 or over.

Part B. Fill in this part if you wish to enroll in a health benefits plan. If enrolled, list for self only, answer from 1. If enrollment is for self and family, also answer from 2 and item 3 if it applies. This part must also be filled in if you change your enrollment.

Names of family members: Wife or husband, Irma Jean Randall; Kirk Frederick Randall; Thomas J. Randall; Joan Ellen Randall; Barbara Joan Randall. Date of birth.

Part C. Fill in this part if you wish not to enroll or if you wish to cancel your enrollment. Place an X in item 1 or item 2, whichever applies, and answer item 3.

1. I elect not to enroll in any plan under the Health Benefit Act.
2. I elect to cancel my present enrollment under the Health Benefit Act.

Part D. Fill in this part if you wish to change your enrollment. I elect to change my enrollment as shown by the enrollment number and other information in Part B.

1. Enrollment code number of present plan.
2. Number of event which permits change. See table on back of application for proper number.
3. Date of event which permits change: month, day, year.

Part E. All who register must fill in this part.

Warning.—Any international false statement in this application or willful misrepresentation relative to this is a violation of the law punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment of two to ten years, or both. (14 U.S.C. 1001)

Signatures must be identical. Date.

Part F. To be completed by agency.

Name and address of employing office. Date received in state or local office: 1-10-60. Clerical office number. Received. Date of last activity.

Date of deceased in state or local office: 1-10-60. Clerical office number. Received. Date of last activity.

Remarks.
