1. For the record:

Subject: LEO

Subject was originally considered for an NCO project that was subsequently cancelled. Throughout the file are recommendations that in dealing with the subject any section should assert very definite authority. For example, the recommendation of COS Frankfurt, 13/11/58:

“The handling of subject from this point on must be ruthless and calculated... We would recommend against paying more than the absolute minimum he needs to survive until the mission is completed.”

On 20 September 1960, Africa Division picked subject up for an assignment in the Congo. In conjunction with this mission, subject was furnished Austrian documentation, which, according to a Director’s communication dated 27 November 1960, was to be used in order to travel from West Germany to LEO via Switzerland and Italy, and should be returned when no longer needed.

The Director’s communication to LEO again reiterated that subject would take first orders and should be dealt with in a positive manner. Unfortunately, shortly after arriving in the Congo, subject got into financial difficulty, created security problems with his conduct, and then jumped into a new position with the CAF that moved so swiftly as to preclude any effective station direction.

On 30 June 1961, the Director recommended termination of subject since he was becoming too great a security risk. Subject was returned to the U.S., then was sent back to Frankfurt, given $2,000.00 pay, and put on his own. There was no indication of any hard feelings on the part of the subject, but it is admitted that he “wondered” why he was let go.

On 20 September 1961, subject turned up on his own in the Congo and began to approach station personnel with offers of help, no matter what the situation might be. On 12 December 1961, the station admitted that subject was a security hazard of sorts and asked for some direction.

The Security Division at headquarters states that the documentation originally furnished subject was confidential, obtained by him since he had no other citizenship papers. Once these documents run out, it will be inaccessible for him to renew them.

In light of the generous termination terms, the reported statements to subject that KUBARK could not utilize his services, and the possible security hazard, it would seem best to completely sever any relationships with him. Judging from the psychiatric opinion, as well as opinions of personnel who have worked with subject, he fully understands the necessity and will not question stern authority.

JLL-233477
