A has nothing to do with NEAP. His business is basically with the Embassy.

He told me he had an incident with the Soviet First Secretary at the Cuban Embassy last January. The Soviet heard his name and said, “Are you Swiss English?” He said, “No, I’m Swiss.” “Swiss. You must be the Anderson.” The Soviet told him he couldn’t get away with that sort of thing for long. An emotional outburst. Tried later to leave a better impression: “I admire what you have been doing,” etc.

A is known to the Soviets.

He has been in contact with the Soviet Party, with the Eritrean Liberation movement. That was slight. He is in touch with Curiel and company.

I’m not certain he is in complete approval of what the Curiel group is doing.

At one time the Curiel group was interested in something in the West Indies. I understand that they were talking about sending arms into Martinique and Guadeloupe—which one can get in Switzerland and slip.

A was in contact with French West Indians. I don’t know how far that went.

Here in London Curiel wanted to found a magazine last summer to be devoted to the West Indies.

Two were published here, a Flamingo and Daylight. Don’t know whether Curiel has anything to do with it. There is a new one, Magnet. And said to be another one on the way. He has seen Dabeis? In Algeria and Tunisia, so a progress, but I really don’t know what Curiel is up to.

The Spaniards—I had no real knowledge on that.

He is likely to keep up contacts with the Spaniards. Also with the Portuguese, e.g. students in France. Knows what’s going on. But he is mixed up with Angola and was involved with the MPLA.

He was disappointed when the exaggerated claims of the MPLA were exposed: their claims that they had planes, arms on the inside, etc. But they could document their claims for the OAS.

Turned out a monstrous bluff. The UPA was a much more conservative organization; it did have a fighting force. And continued mild strategy to strengthen and hit was when Visite de Caray and others switched from the MPLA.

Understand Dr. Neto is still running around; he has contacts with the Chinese.

He probably is in Algiers now.

A has contacts which consist of being there. Anyone who comes to Algiers goes to see him. A kept in contact with Verges when Verges was in Algiers. He had cultivated Anderson. Mrs. A went down there to visit Verges. A had full power of attorney to sign for the Verges bank account in the Banque Banque in November 1962 until probably January 1964. Verges claimed that A had taken money. A claimed the funds were down to 500 Swiss francs anyway.

Verges sent the French to close the account behind A’s back, and when A found out he was furious.

In Geneva, Anderson and Verges haven’t seen each other since the spring of 1962.
