Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in SAB B. Provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties if applicable. Be specific about consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds; this must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. McCord was attending the Air War College during part of the reporting period. He became Chief of the Technical Division/OS on 20 July 1965.

Mr. McCord took hold of this Division with a heartening vigor and enthusiasm. Although not an Engineer, he soon learned enough of the technical business to meet many crash assignments with exceptional skill and judgment. By trying to get these assignments done within set time limits, he sometimes short-circuited a few coordinations in other offices, but this did not seriously detract, in my opinion, from a very proficient job.

While Mr. McCord has not had the Technical Division a sufficiently long time for me to judge his long-range performance, I feel he will become an exceptionally proficient Chief. There was insufficient time for me to judge his cost and manpower consciousness.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 22 March 1966. Signature of employee: J.nie. Wilsor.

By Supervisor.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 23 March 1966. Official title of supervisor: D. Dir. of Sec. (PTOS). Typed or printed name and signature: E. M. WINTERS.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Type or printed name and signature.
