Available to rational analysis, or even awareness. In this respect he is propelled by an uncontrollable force. This is an important point of consideration as regards his utilization in this project.

49. Subject's left index finger and thumb are missing. He lost these in an explosion. This occurred in Germany when he was involved in the repatriation deal. After the bombing of Berlin he picked up among the ruins an unexploded bomb of British origin and took it home to salvage the explosive which he might use in various ways. While he was removing the detonator, which was probably stuck in its receptacle, the detonator exploded in his fingers. Subject does not regret the fact that he tried to dismantle the bomb because he feels he has learned that one should keep his hands away from certain things. The explosion occurred so quickly that there was no immediate pain, but the people around him became panicky. He remained cold-blooded and gave the order to remove all things which were there because the explosion undoubtedly alerted the police. The police came and he explained that he had played with a fountain pen which had burst. The policemen strongly advised him never again to pick up objects dropped by the enemy. They took cognizance of his declarations and went away. The Red Cross took care of his wounds.

50. Subject does not think he will be very different in the future from what he is now. However, he feels his material situation will have improved. He does not mean financially but socially. He naively hopes that the world will change and there will be no discrimination. He also hopes to acquire, if necessary, a nationality, in which case he will feel he actually belongs to society. However, he feels that society is anxious to stamp and label individuals, and it may be that he would prefer to be an individualist who is outside of society than to be a member of society who is required to conform. Since this person lives in the present, it is very difficult for him to imagine what his future will be.

51. Despite the fact that this man is motivated by rather vivid ideals, he still strikes the examiner as a practical realist who thinks and acts in a matter-of-fact manner. He has experienced a good deal of life and he is quite sophisticated.
