Via: Air.

Dispatch No. TRSA-950.

To: Chief, Foreign Division T.  
From: Chief of Station, San José.  
Subject: General—Operations. Specific—Humanoid—Humanist.  
Reference: TRSW-643.  
Date: 7 June 1951.

1. Inquiry made of Humanist regarding the statements he made before the police during his interrogation reflects that he reportedly refused to testify before the police but made his deposition before the Procurador as to his part in the technical installation which implicated only the writer, and this only after he was told that Roddy had been identified. Humanist's testimony, as well as the line of questioning to which he was submitted, revealed the authorities' concern and their efforts to ascertain whether he had been engaged in or knew of any other similar installations on any other people. This he denied and maintained that the only installation was on Juan BOSCH. Humanist claims he made no mention of Humanoid, and he believes the police know nothing about him.

2. Humanist's claims also tally with the account of his confession as given writer by Manuel VENTURA, Presidential aide. Humanoid has been on the alert and has noted nothing of a suspicious nature which would indicate his activities being under observation or investigation. This matter of suspending his operations, as suggested by headquarters, was discussed by writer with Elmo R. Langtry during his recent visit in San José and the following suggestions are made for headquarters' consideration:

a. Humanoid at the present time is acting as cutout and chief agent for Humanist-2, Humankind-1, and Humankind-3. There is no other agent at the present time to whom these contacts can be given. It is believed that if these subagents are allowed a 6-months vacation, they will become practically worthless when picked up again and have to work for the money they have been receiving, aside from losing interim information and developments.

b. In an effort to establish a more secure, as well as a commercial, cover for Humanoid, this office has acceded to Humanoid's desire to set up a photography and photocopy shop in the downtown area, and has encouraged him in it by allowing funds paid for rental of a safehouse to be applied instead as rental for his photo shop. This provides Humanoid with a good cover in
