Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Christ continues to lead the Applied Physics Division in a progressive, responsive, and aggressive manner. Some turbulence is occasionally generated by this vigorous leadership; however, the record of solid and potential accomplishments by his group continues to be impressive. On balance, his creative, forward-looking leadership continues to be a talent suited for the goals and missions of this Office.

The technological innovations established in his Division are continuing to lead to a variety of items of great potential value to the Intelligence Community. His aggressive search for and application of other-agency funds has directly saved this Agency many hundreds of thousands of dollars.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 4/20/76. Signature of employee: Robert M. Christ.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 78. Date: 20 APR 1970. Official title of supervisor: Director of Research and Development. Type or printed name and signature: Robert M. Chapman.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Mr. Christ will be retiring 30 November 1970. Prior to 1970 he has generally been considered a capable officer and the list of his accomplishments during his Agency career is not unimpressive. Christ's performance, particularly in the last six months, however, has revealed critical weakness in judgment, discretion, and self-evaluation. These flaws have been called to Christ's attention by me personally, and I deem them sufficiently serious that, were it not for his proposed retirement, I would be constrained to seek other means to separate him from Agency employment.

Date: 29 October 70. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Director for Science and Technology. Type or printed name and signature: Carl F. Duckett.
