Intelligence Information Report.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage (Enbodyage) Laws, Title 10, U.S.C. Secs. 792 et seq., the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Report No. CS-311/08556-69.

Date distributed: 26 September 1969.

Country: West Germany.

Date of information: June 1968, 1 September 1969.

Subject: West German Ministry of Interior Evaluation of the Prospects of Banning the National Democratic Party.

Acquired: Germany (1 September 1969).

Source: A medium-level West German government official who follows the activities of the National Democratic Party and who had access to the study during his official duties. The information was extracted from the original document and is believed to be an accurate summary of its highlights.

Summary: In June 1968, the West German Ministry of the Interior prepared a basic study of the prospects of banning the West German National Democratic Party (NPD). The summary of this study given below describes the major charges which the government could bring against the NPD, the defenses the NPD could be expected to make against these charges, and the probable political results which would follow both a successful and an unsuccessful case against the NPD. According to the source, this study is still considered the basic Interior Ministry evaluation of the case against the NPD and is being studied by senior federal government and state (Land) officials. End of Summary.

1. (Field Comment): For several years, West German political and government leaders have debated seeking a constitutional court ban on the NPD. On 13 November 1968, Ernst Benda (Bend a), West German Interior Minister, advised Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger (Kicsinger) that there was sufficient evidence to warrant bringing a suit against the NPD. Kiesinger, however, opposed bringing a suit, and the subject became embroiled in West German politics. On 23 April 1969, the Federal Cabinet decided not to seek a court ban of the NPD, at least until after the September elections. This decision was prompted by evidence that the NPD was making no membership gains and apparently was losing popular support.

OGA-913. CATERROR.

Coordinating. Releasing.
