13.

This trip because Shakhov, who was suspected of possibly being a Western agent, was to be in the delegation. When the Eleventh Department was looking for a case officer to make this trip, they wanted to have a chief of section because of the seriousness of the Shakhov case. When they asked in the Seventh Department, V.D. Chelnokov agreed that I should take the assignment. There was no background or neighborhood investigation conducted on me in connection with my being approved for this trip. My assignment was approved by the Eleventh Department, by the Personnel Office of the Second Chief Directorate, by the Central Personnel Office of the KGB, and by the Central Committee of the CPSU.

Nosenko (Hosenko) was asked why he had been selected to make this trip immediately after assuming the duties of the Chief of the American Tourist Section, on the eve of the tourist season, and at a time when he had no deputy. He explained that it was not thought that the assignment would last so long, and Chelnokov, his superior and friend, had decided to let him go as a “treat.”

During interrogations of October 1966, Nosenko (Hosenko) was questioned further about his 1962 assignment to Geneva as a security officer. He said that in this capacity he would necessarily know the identity of all other KGB officers serving with the Soviet Disarmament Delegation in Geneva. There were only, besides himself, the KGB First Chief Directorate officers M.S. Tsymbal and I.S. Mayorov. (CIA, however, has tentatively identified three other delegation members as KGB staff officers: A.K. Kislov, observed in Washington and in Moscow in what appears to have been KGB operational activity; V.G. Filatov, who served as an alternate handler in the KGB operation with the NATO officer Georges Paques; and Oleg Grinevskiy, a member of the permanent Soviet Delegation who handled a double agent during this same conference.) Nosenko (Hosenko) included Grinevskiy in the list of his own agents in Geneva in 1962 and said that, in Moscow, Grinevskiy was handled by an officer of the Intelligentsia and Correspondents Department of the Second Chief Directorate. Kislov, according to Nosenko (Hosenko), was an operational contact in Moscow of the Austria-Germany-Scandinavia Department of the KGB Second Chief Directorate and was used in operations against the West German Embassy there. Nosenko (Hosenko) also said that Kislov had been a KGB operational contact during his earlier tour in the United States but was neither then nor later a KGB officer. He characterized Filatov as a Ministry of Foreign Affairs official and stated that he is “definitely not an intelligence officer.”

Nosenko (Hosenko) was also questioned during these interrogations on his investigation of Shakhov. After saying on the morning of 19 October 1966 that he had been personally told by the

Nosenko (Hosenko) has said that in 1960 he was turned down for a permanent assignment to Ethiopia because of his excessive drinking. (See Part V.E.4.a)
