Section C. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of job performance. Give recommendation for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Maksymiec continues to excel in his primary duty as staff photographer. He processes his own photography and the finished product is consistently outstanding.

He cooperates most willingly with other members of the staff in assisting them with the practical photographic aspects of their projects.

There have been a few minor personality conflicts on procedural matters related to job assignments between Mr. Maksymiec and both staff and non-staff personnel, which have been reported to his laboratory chief and the executive officer, T.E.S. It is believed that this is due to his strong desire to excel at his job. This problem has been discussed with Mr. Maksymiec and it is expected that he will avoid such occurrences in the future.

During this reporting period Mr. Maksymiec has satisfactorily completed a night school course in technical reading and writing at Montgomery Junior College and is currently pursuing a course in photography at American University. He is to be highly commended for this continuing effort to train himself for a more responsible position.

October 19, 1967, 10:54 AM. Narrative Comments: The report reflects some minor flaws in the performance of Mr. Maksymiec; however, he is a willing worker anxious to please and try to show that he is capable of a higher position.

Section D. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 9 October 1967. Signature of employee: A.B. Maksymiec. By supervisor: H.A. Maksymiec. Months employee has been under my supervision: 6. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: A/Ch/Exploratory Development Laboratory. Typed or printed name and signature: Henry L. Dollard.

Certification and Comments. By employee. The report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Official title of supervisor: A/Ch/Exploratory Development Laboratory.
