Tadeusz Szulc.

Born: circa 1926. Nationality: Pole. Naturalized U.S. citizen, 1955. Occupation: journalist.

June 1947: Used to work for the “Brazil Herald” and now for France Presse. Is on good terms with the Polish Legation, whom he supplies with information on Brazil. One of the party who accompanied Raul Fernandez on his mission to Montevideo. He is the son of Seweryn Szulc.

December 1947. Sub-source: Harold Horan of New York. Regarding subject’s efforts to find employment in American press circles. Mr. Horan tried to help him, due to a letter of introduction from Szulc’s uncle, John Wiley, American Ambassador in Lisbon, but desisted on finding that Szulc had been connected with the Rio de Janeiro communist paper “Diretrizes.”

February 1948: Further details of subject’s efforts to find a job in the United States. He is to work on the Palestine Commission of the U.N.O. as from the middle of February.

March 1948: Subject still in New York and writing regular reports on U.S. political affairs and personalities to the Polish Legation in Rio de Janeiro. Trying to get a job with U.S. press through the influence of Mrs. J. Wiley.

September 1949: Subject at present in New York, married to an American girl, and working in one of the American news agencies. Since the arrival of the new Legation from Warsaw, he was in touch with the Minister, the Secretary, and the ex-Press Attaché, the late Wikinski. Told by Warsaw Poles in Washington that, to be useful, he cannot have a job with the Press Department of the Washington Polish Embassy or the Polish Press Bureau in New York. Using his “uncle’s” introduction letters—the U.S. Ambassador John Wiley was married to Polish-born Irene Baruch, who is the sister of the first Mrs. Szulc—he obtained a job with Americans on orders from the Poles. Subject is helped financially by the Polish Legation in Rio de Janeiro. Thanks to introduction letters from the Wileys, Szulc penetrated several circles in New York. He is writing reports to Rio de Janeiro and working with people in New York and is considered useful for future tasks.

June 1951: Nephew of the newly appointed U.S. Ambassador in Panama, he is now trying to get a job in Panama as an American correspondent. He has a job with U.P. in New York. In Rio de Janeiro in 1947–48, he was a fellow traveler and informer of the communist nucleus on the staff of the communist newspaper “Diretrizes.” Also worked for France Presse and reported regularly on the Polish colony in Rio de Janeiro.

June 1951: Visited Rio de Janeiro from 11 June 1951 to 27 June 1951, when he returned to New York. Whilst in Rio, he was in touch with Ignacy (Igancy) Sachs, to whom he brought information from the USA. The two are relatives and boyhood friends, and subject writes personal letters to Sachs containing matters of interest to the Polish Legation. Subject also has useful contacts in New York in political and artistic circles, obtained through his aunt. Is believed to be trying to obtain American citizenship through having married an American woman.
