And the writer, Elena Garro do Nascimento, states: “The Cuban Embassy had severely chided Rico for writing an article favorable to the guerrilla leaders who were killed recently during their assault on the army barracks at Maderas, Chihuahua.... Rico had been close to Che” Guevara (Guevarra) rather than Castro, and that since Guevara’s disappearance he had grown noticeably cooler toward Cuba.” She added that although he is a Marxist and is anti-American, Rico is also very hostile to the Mexican Communist Party (PCM).

TDCS 314/10379-66, 17 August 1966. Highly placed police official, reporting believed reliable.

“Sufficient legal evidence is available to prove that Rico, Raúl Ugalde and others were a part of a conspiracy advocating and teaching the overthrow of the Mexican government by violent means.”

TDCS 314/10419-66, 18 August 1966. Presumed B-2.

12–13 August, Rico arrested with 40 others; the PPS is pleased and will do nothing to help them. “According to Carlos Sanchez Cardenas of the PPS National Executive Directorate, it is almost impossible to believe that a man like Rico could be the leader of an armed rebel movement. He has always been considered a Marxist intellectual belonging to no party who has confined his battles to the pages of magazines like Politica Siempre, and Sucnos. Lombardo Toledano (Tobedano) frankly thought of him as incapable of doing anything that involved a mass following.”

Additional information.

From W-1/Mexico:

Parents: Victor RICO Gonzalez; Fernando GALAN Sieiroz. (Spanish nationals—no information available, Mexican and Spanish files.)

Wife: Ingabon DIENER de Rico. (No information available, Mexican or Scandinavian files.)

In German files, there is reference to an Inge Diener; information dated 14 May 1956; born in Guben (Cuben), 1920; of average intelligence; convinced, fanatical Communist; not liked; dangerous; of proletarian background; trained for administrative work; after 1945 worked for Cadre Department of city administration of Guben; from 1950–1952 studied at Academy for Administration in Forst-Zinna; afterwards obtained position in ministry; at first worked in Cadre Department, was responsible for embassy and trade mission personnel; transferred to present position because of disagreements with Vose (fhu); now responsible for currency matters; takes course during
