16 December 1953

Memorandum for File

Project BIRADIAL

1. BIRADIAL, who was to have been dispatched to Buenos Aires, has been denied proper documentation from the Argentine authorities for entrance and residence in Buenos Aires.

2. There is attached hereto a copy of a letter dated 6 October 1953 at San Jose, Costa Rica, which BIRADIAL received from the Argentine Embassy, Consular Section, setting forth pertinent data regarding subject's entry denial. This letter, received on 24 November 1953, had previously been sent to a mailing address in Dayton, Ohio, namely % Francis Williams, 5846 Access Road, Page Kanor, Dayton. Since the letter was unclaimed at this address, BIRADIAL having learned later that Williams, an Army Officer friend of his, had been shipped out, the letter was returned to the Argentine Embassy, Costa Rica, and was subsequently forwarded to BIRADIAL's former address at Presidential Gardens, Alexandria, Va. The letter had been postmarked at Dayton, Ohio, 19 October 1953.

3. On 25 November 1953, while in contact with the Agent, he indicated the possibility of writing his wife's relatives, Alicia De Cruz and family, in Mar De Plata (Mar del Plata), Argentina, with whom contact is maintained, for the purpose of attempting to assist the Agent at that end in having the proper entry permit issued. He also indicated the possibility of returning to Costa Rica and, while in that area, being plausibly and legitimately employed while awaiting another Agency assignment. Inasmuch as a combination of factors led to the conclusion that it would be unwise to attempt to exert other influence in an attempt to have BIRADIAL granted an Argentine visa, and for other cover considerations as well as the time element which may be involved, the matter was discussed with other representatives of the one who desired to take the Agent over in connection with PB Success.

4. Arrangements were set up for the Agent to meet the Chief of the Guatemalan Station. Subsequently, on 8 December 1953, Agent BIRADIAL was introduced in a secure manner to Mr. E. Hobbing by the writer. Hobbing will in the immediate future be handling BIRADIAL in connection with certain operational matters, and as of 1 December 1953 BIRADIAL will be chargeable to PB Success.

5. In accordance with the provisions of the project, BIRADIAL was paid $350.00 for his November salary; $93.00 for his tuition fee at American University; and $468.00 for his per diem to cover his period of time while in covert training.

6. Proper receipts have been forwarded to Cedric Wolcott, Finance Division.

201-165871
