Occupation: Retired. Last employer: Leonid De Lagoinski. Employer's or own business address: 18 St., NYC, NY.

Military service: From, to, branch of service, country. Details of other government service, U.S. or foreign.

Section 7. Brothers and sisters, including half-, step-, and adopted brothers and sisters. Full name, age, present address, citizenship, for five individuals.

Section 8. Father-in-law. Full name: Henry B. Eicher. Present or last address: 210 California Avenue, Leland, Mississippi, USA. Date of decease: 1965. Place of birth: USA. If born outside U.S., indicate date and place of entry: NA. Citizenship: US. When acquired: Birth. Where: USA. Occupation: Laborer. Last employer: Cashier. 10-20-61.

I have a job here in the hospital. My name is John Smith, and my last name is laborer. I've been working at this hospital for three years now, and I'm a patient here. The doctor says I need to work more, so I'm a laborer. He gives me a check every month, and I use it to pay for food and other things. I don't know how much I should be paid, but the doctor says I should be paid $10,000 a year. But if you go out of state, they take away your money. And if you get sick, the doctor will charge you more than he should. It's really unfair. I think people should have some kind of protection against this kind of thing.

I was in a car accident two years ago and got injured. After the injury, my doctor told me to see a specialist. So I went to an orthopedic surgeon. He did some tests and said my back was shot. He referred me to a physical therapist. The therapist helped me with the pain. He also suggested that I see a neurologist, because my symptoms were affecting my thinking. So I did. The neurologist prescribed a medication that helped my symptoms. I've been taking it ever since, and my life has changed. I'm no longer limited by my injuries. My range of motion has improved, and I can even walk without help again. The neurologist also recommended that I see a neuropsychologist to help me with my memory problems. The neuropsychologist helped me understand why my brain was having trouble processing information. She taught me new ways to think, which helped improve my memory. Now I'm able to carry on my daily activities while still considering myself a patient. I'm not able to do all the things I used to, but my independence has increased. I can still drive my car, though with some limitations. My speech is still somewhat limited, but I can understand what others are saying. My family members have seen an improvement in me. They say I have a better understanding of what's going on around me and how to respond to it. Some of them say I have a better sense of time. Overall, I think my condition has made me a better person to be.
