Separate cover attachment to: NFL-002-76

The “Informal Grievance” was written by IDEN I.

Subject: Informal Grievance

1. This written informal grievance is being submitted in order that it may be passed to higher authority for resolution. It is anticipated that final action will be required by top echelon DEA officials in order to satisfactorily resolve all or part of the issues.

2. I wish to file a grievance on the following subjects which constitute commitments made to me by representatives of DEA at the time of my recruitment from CIA into the DEA Narcotics Intelligence Division.

a. I was specifically told by DEA representatives at the time of my initial recruitment interviews that the retirement plans were the same in both agencies and that my previous time in government would transfer with me with no break in service. I am now informed that my previous service will not count toward retirement under section 8335(c), Title 5, USC Law Enforcement Retirement. This leaves me with no chance to accumulate the required time for retirement.

b. I was told by the DEA representatives that in order to expedite my transfer from CIA it would be necessary to bring me on duty in schedule “A” status; however, action would be initiated shortly after my 200 to place me in competitive career status. I have now been on duty with DEA for two years and three months, and I am still on schedule “A” status.

c. As a recruitment enticement the DEA representatives stated to me that after two years of satisfactory service with DEA I would be a grade GS-13. No promotion is forthcoming after 14 months of satisfactory service.

d. DEA representatives stated to me that I would be coming to DEA as part of the “ground floor” personnel of trained and experienced intelligence officers to staff the newly formed intelligence division of DEA and that I could expect rapid upward movement on the career ladder. At this point there is no apparent intelligence career ladder in DEA.

e. The airline action that would satisfy my grievance is complete fulfillment of items 9-1 above. DIA should take whatever action necessary to credit my previous service for retirement under 8335(e), and career status should be established at least in the CAC. If DIA cannot fulfill the commitments made to me when its representative recruited me from CIA in 1973, then the highest evaluation of the Justice Department should be provided by my transfer back to CIA (CI.) as soon as possible.
