5. Concerning the big day, 21 August, Subject had the following to say in addition to the information in his notes. This information was in response to my questions:

a. They left the store at approximately 1410 and stopped off to get barbecued chicken (comment: they did not actually arrive at LICOWL's until 1507).

b. They went in a blue station wagon (comment: this is 17 DA).

c. The Soviets left at approximately 1800 (comment: correct).

d. Besides LICOWL and his wife and the two Soviets, only LICOWL's daughter and son-in-law were present.

6. Later in the meeting, Subject volunteered the information that SILNIKOV had told him that he had obtained permission to come to LICOWL's home (comment: strange conduct for someone who is playing the part of a case officer). Subject also volunteered that he had told SILNIKOV that LOGINOV had called a girl from the store on Saturday (see Subject's notes for 20 August). SILNIKOV's reaction was one of approval, noting that LOGINOV was a bachelor now. I asked Subject if he did not think his statement was a bit indiscreet since he could have burned LOGINOV, especially since SILNIKOV has now shown an interest in security measures. He said I was right, but it was obvious that this aspect did not bother him in the least either before or after my question.

7. I asked Subject what he thought about SILNIKOV's erratic behavior about wanting women, pornographic material, etc., in that he raises and drops the subject without any sense of continuity. Subject answered this by proposing that we send a girl under our control to visit his store, and he would introduce her to SILNIKOV (comment: exactly what we are trying to do with LIRUSTIC-1). I pointed out that such a girl would have to live in the neighborhood or her presence in the store would be suspect. He then said that the girl could be invited to his home at a time when SILNIKOV was there. Subject would introduce her as a friend from Jalisco and let nature take its course. I told him that his idea had basic merit but could be quite difficult to implement in a secure manner. I remarked that it was a shame that he had been unable to come up with suitable candidates in his neighborhood. He said that he had many suitable friends in the neighborhood but that none were suitable since they were not the types to whom he could suggest such an idea. I told him that he could not, but we could, so he would spot suitable candidates.
