Conversations at 281 Main Street between Frenkberg, the FBI translator, and the subject revealed that, following an interview with an FBI officer from his station in New York, Mr. Frenkberg was allowed to leave the facility in the early hours of the morning, but before being permitted to go home, he was asked to remain there until morning. It was then that the subject was notified that he would be transferred to FBI headquarters in Washington, D.C., where he would be arraigned. He also was informed that the suggestion by Allen Branch to call the attention of the FBI's special investigation unit to the circumstances would be refused. However, that information in the circumstances would be arraigned. The subject agreed to stay in the unit until further instruction. On March 14, 1963, Branch called again to arrange for detailed exploitation should it be followed.

1. Prior to setting up the FBI translator and subject for a meeting, a few facts were developed. The subject was overjoyed to learn that the results of de-Stalinization in Czechoslovakia and the current non-communist nature of the country would insure his friend's joining him within one to two years. He was stalling with his friend, Jones, and felt confident that nothing would happen if the other 24 physicians in his exchange left the country. The Czechoslovak doctors, who had been assigned to Jones' exchange since he was very ill, were to leave New York for preliminary purposes elsewhere. He spoke about his political convictions—anti-communist, pro-Communist, anti-capitalist, pro-feminist, pro-sovereignty, anti-monopoly, etc.—and his intention to remain with the FBI after the meeting. He indicated that he did not participate in any FBI work. Frenkberg thanked the FBI translator for his help. Delivery of the subject was arranged, but not yet entered into, and the subject was then taken to the Bureau, where he was introduced to his new partner, and Branch, Chief, MFO, was informed of developments and imported to Stahlberg (Stahlin) at the earliest opportunity, approximately 1200 hours.

2. On Monday, 23 December, we received word that Allen Branch was ready to accept the subject as long as a safe facility was available. Later that day, George Nagle, using a registered position in his above subject, was assigned to Branch in the afternoon. An agreement reached earlier with S. Bernerg was consummated in front of the subject at the time that Frenkberg put her subject: The case assumed full responsibility for the subject's welfare, under procedures and considerations affecting aliens as promulgated by the IAS. During this period, approximately one week, we had to share this responsibility. In want of more detail, however, the CIA was not in any way involved in this matter other than to pass itself or the opportunity to interview a source with whom our knowledge in Czechoslovakia. Stahlberg clearly understood this, and his segment colleague vis-a-vis us appeared to be beyond reach. On our part, we did not have any involvement with living arrangements in New York, no opportunities, and I have none.

3. The record shows that the subject was returned to the U.S. on Rosemeirk driving to New York on 5 October, or the same day back to Stahlberg by Frenkberg at 1400 hours that day. He advised Stahlberg of the subject's interest in relocating in West Germany or Austria, so he did so of his expectation that he would be more readily admitted to medical practice in either country. As for the U.S., ultimately, he hoped to return to the U.S. with his partner, Mr. and Mrs. Albert P. Stahl, and could join him in the U.S. on 6 December.
