Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinates where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel on later than 30 days after the date indicated in item B. of Section A below.

Section A: General.

1. Name: Richardson, Jacques.

3. Office/Division/Branch of Assignment: Japan Station (REDWOOD).

7. Grade: GS-14. Date report due in IF: 10/15.

10. Type of report: Initial; Annual.

8. Period covered by this report: 1 October 1955 to 30 September 1956.

Section B: Certification.

1. For the rater, this report has been shown to the individual rated.

A. Check appropriate statements:

This report reflects my own opinions of this individual.

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where he stands.

B. This date: 15 November 1956.

C. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: Edward Marelius.

D. Supervisor's official title: Chief, Soviet Branch.

2. For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

Continued on attached sheet.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

A. This date.

B. Typed or printed name and signature of reviewing official.

C.
