Valentin Sergeyevich Loginov (201-285412).

23 December 1927. 41 years old. Born in Moscow.

Stationed in Havana from September 1960 until September 1963. Attaché. In 1961 he toured Latin America with the Soviet soccer team as escort and interpreter, probably with security functions as well. He arrived in August 1965 as Third Secretary. He replaced Nechiporenko. His Spanish has been described as fluent, with hardly any accent. His English is fair, and he is studying it now.

In March 1966, XX LICOZY/5 was told he would be handled in the future by L.

In response to L’s claim that a radio had been stolen from him, a policeman was sent to his apartment, and L. ended the conversation by recruiting the policeman at the rate of 5,000 pesos per month. The policeman reported the incident, and the Metropolitan District Police sanctioned a D/A operation. The first and only recorded requirement given the policeman by L. was for some biodata on a Venezuelan who spent time in the USSR.

L. is friendly with YATSKOV and replaced him, he claims, as Consul General (1966).

Shortly after the Arab-Israeli War, L. tacitly admitted he believed that Egypt’s charges of U.S. involvement on Israel’s side were false.

Then there’s the one about Miss Elizabeth Duncan Wilde. L. told her that he was ready to “go to the other side.” He stated that he was afraid because the phones in both the U.S. and Soviet Embassies were bugged. He asked if she would go to the U.S. Embassy with his story. She consented, and reporting stops here. VAS SOLVED.

Paul Dillon observed L. and BARANOV in the area of XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX, a hotel where a meeting with Yuri Druss (Uriy DRUSS) was to have taken place one night ago, taking pictures with an 8mm camera. BARANOV is a Soviet tech.

L. pursued AMSLOCH/3, daughter of a Finnish agent, both in Havana and in Moscow. His intentions were unknown, but could have been romantically inclined rather than professional.

L. is an aggressive personality. With his fellow workers he is dictatorial and disdainful. He has been known to return to the Embassy thoroughly gassed, yelling and shouting, resulting in an altercation with the guard on duty. Other times he won’t finish one drink. He is chauvinistic toward his own race and deprecatory toward other nationalities. He has a sneering attitude, boisterous and arrogant at times. He can be gentle at other times and has frequently been labeled intelligent. He is definitely crafty, although not particularly subtle. He works fast and doesn’t appear to try hard at cloaking his true intentions, either in conversation with others or in a recruitment attempt. He is tough as nails. His build is athletic, and his appearance is ruggedly handsome. He appears confident and self-assured in relations with non-Soviets.
