9. Preference for next assignment (continued).

C. Indicate your preference for next assignment by inserting numbers 1, 2, and 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in the boxes below:

2. Return to my current station.

1. Be assigned to headquarters for a tour of duty. With respect to possible assignment in headquarters, indicate choice of component:

1st choice: FE.

Be assigned to another field station. With respect to possible reassignment to another field station, indicate choice of geographic area or specific station, based on qualifications:

1st choice: Germany. 2nd choice: Mexico. 3rd choice: England.

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments? 40 days.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents who will be travelling or moving with you: Wife, age 38; daughter, age 8; son, age 13; daughter, age 6; son, age 12.

11A. Indicate any change in your personal or family situation which should be considered in determining your next assignment: None.

12. Signature; complete item no. 5-1, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form.

To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training: Has shown definite supervisory capability. He has done an outstanding job in the time-consuming function of coordinating operations with the military members of the Intelligence Community in Japan. Unfortunately, this function has been so time-consuming that it has not allowed us to assign him as much operational work as we desired. However, in his discussions with the military he has often been called upon to give operational advice and guidance and in this regard his operational judgment has been excellent and respected by them. Continued on attached sheet.

14. Signature; complete item no. 5-2, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form.

To be completed by appropriate career service officer or personnel officer at headquarters.

15. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the component to which he is currently assigned, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training: FE Division requests that Mr. Randall be assigned to China Operations in headquarters upon his return from Tokyo, Japan.

16. Name of career service officer or personnel officer: Robert L. Staten, CFE/PERS.
