“At present we have the case of a member of the Chilean Communist Party and OSPAAAL whose passage has been set aside by these organizations to travel from Madrid to Cuba. Four days ago FRANCO sent a cable and still there is no answer. We made the decision to grant this person a visa because the plane leaves tonight; otherwise he will have to delay the trip one more week. If the tickets were reserved for him here, there is no doubt he has been given authorization.

“NEIRA, I want you to talk to OJEDA and request that our Consulate be able to contact the Emigration Department directly. FRANCO has been on the job for approximately one year and has never given reason for complaints, but if he has now made a mistake in the editing of a cable, it could have been that, in the face of mounting problems he is presented with daily, he might have exploded.

“Another thing I want to tell you is that last night we had as guests in our home the Chilean Director Hugo BENAVENTE and his wife, the leading lady in his Peruvian company which has brought to the stage ‘Luz de Europa.’ If they are not communists in the sense of the word, like the rest of the company, they do sympathize with us. They invited PINEDA to attend the premiere, and he answered with a cable which was shameful to see and read. The wording of that cable gives the impression that PINEDA is being held captive and asks them to please come to his help and send for him. He makes us look ridiculous. Just think that cable has been read by others before they showed it to me. The political position of PINEDA and other Cuban writers should be investigated, as now they are putting up on stage ‘La Noche de los Asesinos’ and they also want another Cuban writer to come. I should like to get your advice in this area as I am totally ignorant of matters related to culture, for we have no cultural attaché here.

“There is also the following problem: The comrades in the fishing department, specifically Comrade ARAGONES, are interested in having a radio communications station to contact ships on the high seas. In this regard I spoke to Mr. ASENJO in the Security Department, who said there was no inconvenience on his part if they requested it and took the necessary steps. You know Mr. ASENJO. I saw him a month ago and he had asked me if we had decided not to go ahead with it, as there had not been an answer in that regard after having obtained authorization from the General Administration of Security, which was the most difficult step.
