Classified message. Distribution: Action. Info. Date: 24 April 64. Deferred: Routine. Priority: Operational immediate. Initials: I. OIG: Sandiez. Incoming number: 9563.

Priority DIR INFO WAVE MEXI SALV GUAT PACY MANA SNT0 PRIN OTT: 11-57. Number: HOF OTTI. 1955 (not sent into addressee).

1. Defected Cuban intelligence officer Vladimir Rodriguez Lanere, given preliminary debriefing by Langosch night 23 April. Following from Rodriguez indicates scope of his knowledge:

A. Background: 11 years formal schooling. In 1957, engaged in clandestine and propaganda activities against Batista on behalf of 26 July Movement. At least July 57. Prisoner until February 50. On release joined column of Cuban Matos in Sierra Maestra. Fought as private under Captain Batista until Batista fell. Then made lieutenant and assigned to board chief in Havana (Hapana) Investigation Department to control gambling activities outside cabarets. No. 59 became deputy chief police director 10. On 10 January 61 was assigned National Police Hospital (HOS) on stand-up trotting. Collected pay but was not assigned duties until transfer to battalion. September 61 sent to study at Castillo del Norco.

B. Student until December 61 when given holiday leave. He committed resignation from Army, in which he held rank of first lieutenant while holding above jobs. He did not report back to duty. Was certified as deserter. This made reemployment difficult. At last got job; Ministry of Exterior conferred 3 April 64, working in planning and met tactical section of department concerned with automobile imports.

C. At last got job in intelligence through friendship with Saul Conolly, chief of deputy chief of illegal section B of General Intelligence Bureau rate. This section trains agents for assignments in Latin America.

D. 1. The association: Rodriguez, from August 63 until defection, entered in Section M of Direccion General de Inteligencia, where a deemed officer for Salvadorian operations. He supervised arrangements setting Salvadorans picked by CP SALV to Cuba for guerrilla group, and then selecting those with aptitude as agents who would be initiated and returned to work without knowledge of CP. Inside intelligence to other operations, became familiar with agents picked for operations in other areas.

C. Direccion General de Inteligencia (GCI) is headed by Pinier and collects intelligence abroad. Completely separate from Administration de Seguridad del Estado (DES), which is headed by P.M.S. All coordinate counterintelligence operations. Both report to Ramiro Valdez, who is Chief of Interior and supreme chief of intelligence and security. ACIS has been nameless, where they occupy full block subdivided by 40, 51, 72, 81, 82, 83, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 9.
