Memorandum of CRRIL Commitments.

Date: 13 June 1963.

To: Chief, Finance Division.  
Via: Contract Approving Officer.  
From: Chief of Station, Mexico City.

Subject: Engagement of LTAD/9 as independent contractor.

1. Term and project charge: The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under Project MEXICAN OPS and is chargeable to MP2. The effective date of the oral contract is 15 June 1963, subject to termination by notice upon 30 days' actual notice.

2. Security approval: The appropriate security approval for subject's use has been obtained. Type POL. Date requested: 27 July 1962. 8:45 1965.

3. Citizenship: Subject is a foreign national.

4. Compensation: The subject will be paid $4,000.00 per month. The approximate equivalent of this amount in Mexican currency is 320 dollars. Subject will receive a Christmas bonus equivalent to a month's salary. Other compensations in the nature of bonus commitments, e.g., paid vacations, etc., include birthdays, holidays, and approval of leave.

5. Maybe: Subject will be subject to additional leave days. To subject to permit income taxes, payments and/or deductions will be made in the following manner.

6. Quarters and/or secrets: (a) Subject will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence allowances. (b) The following commitments have been made regarding additional compensation to accommodate increased cost-of-living and quarters expenses.

7. Operational expenses: (a) Subject will not be reimbursed for operational travel. (b) Subject will not be reimbursed for operational expenses. State nature of any operational expenses for which subject will be reimbursed.

8. Content obligations: The following have not been promised the individual but may have to be set by notice. Give reason for each contingent obligation.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

RS reviewed: Signature.

Contract Approving Officer.

Approved: Signature.

Field Contracting Officer (FO).

Distribution: 3 authentic copies to Eqs.; 1 File P (.c79); 1 Support.

Case Officer.

Signature, 9/29/63, Jayne B. Ryan. Signature, 9/30/63.
