Fitness Report, April 1962. Employee serial number: 003520.

Section A, General. Name: Moore, J. Walton. Date of birth: 1919. Sex: Male. Grade: GS-14. Service designation: UC. Official position title: I. G. (Contact). Office/civilian branch of assignment: 00/CD/Houston. Career staff status: Not eligible; member; deferred. Type of report: Initial; reassignment/supervisor; pending; declined; denied; annual; reassignment/employee. Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1962. Reporting period: Tuesday, 1 April 1961–31 March 1962.

Section B, Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Rating scale: 1—Unsatisfactory; 2—Barely adequate; 3—Acceptable; 4—Competent; 5—Excellent; 6—Superior; 7—Outstanding.

Specific Duty No. 1: Supervising and managing a Resident Agency. Rating No. 7.

Specific Duty No. 4: Cultivation of contact to develop trust and confidence in both the Agency and the C/S himself.

Specific Duty No. 2: Exploitation of source's complete intelligence potential by debriefing thoroughly. Rating No. 6.

Specific Duty No. 8: Keeps informed on foreign situations and intelligence requirements in order to better orient and exploit sources.

Specific Duty No. 3: Writing reports clearly and concisely without coloring. Rating No. 7.

Specific Duty No. 6: Searches for and develops new sources.

Section C, Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
