Fitness Report.

Section A. General.

1. Name: Bustos-Videla, Charlotte. 2. Date of birth: 12 Jan 29. 3. Sex: F. 4. Grade: GS-12. 5. SD: D.

6. Official position title: OPS Officer. 7. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP WH 3.

9. Check type of appointment: Career-provisional. Annual. Reassignment employee.

II. Date report due in O.P.: 31 January 1963. Rating period: 1 Jan–30 Dec 62.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

Performance Rating.

W — Work: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Supervises office staff of Mexico Desk in preparing correspondence, keeping files, carding, and training new personnel. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 2: Desk Intelligence officer for important satellite and FI operations in Mexico, processing projects, handling operational correspondence, conducting liaison with other divisions. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Routing cables, dispatches for the entire Desk, supervising distribution of work. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 4: Personally handling large number of clearances, project approvals, cable coordinations, and official negotiations on matters touching all aspects of the Desk's work.
