Intelligence Information Report.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law. Its release, if any, would not be authorized by law.

This is an information report, not finally evaluated intelligence.

Report No. CS-311/01861-71. Date distributed: 10 March 1971. Country: West Germany. Date of information: March 1971. Subject: Intention of Adolf Von Thadden to resign as chairman of the National Democratic Party.

Acquired: Germany, Hamburg, 8 March 1971. Field No. EGG-1682.

Source: An official West German Security Service concerned with right and left radical organizations, from sources described as NPD officials, who have access to the information. Similar information received through other West German intelligence channels should not be construed as confirmation.

1. In early March 1971 Adolf Von Thadden indicated to close associates including members of the Executive Committee of the National Democratic Party of Germany (Nationaldemokratische Partei Deutschlands - NPD) that he plans to resign as Chairman of the NPD in the near future. Von Thadden has not announced the date when he plans to resign but close associates believe it will be sometime during the period 1 April to 1 June 1971.

2. Von Thadden's decision has been prompted by his discouragement over prospects for the NPD, serious financial difficulties of the party and by severe internal bickering within the NPD Executive Committee during the past several weeks. Von Thadden is basically more moderate than many members of the Executive Committee. Among other disagreements, Von Thadden has opposed certain aspects of the "Resistance Action" - (Aktion Widerstand) in which NPD members have recently staged demonstrations which erupted into violence. Von Thadden was also personally humiliated when his sister and other relatives asked him not to attend the funeral of Von Thadden's brother-in-law, the well-known historian Percy Schramm who died in Goettingen in January 1971.

EGG-1682. HAMBURG 19934. IN 282656. CEREBRIC. Coordinating. Releasing.
