Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 132830.

Section A: General.

Name: Last; First; Middle. Date of Birth. Sex. Grade. Official Position Title. Office/Division/Branch of Assignment. Current Station: Mexico City.

Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career-Provisional (see instructions—Section C).

Type of report: Initial; Reassignment Supervisor; Annual Reassignment; Employee; Special (specify): Contract Employee.

Reporting period: 1 January 1966–31 December 1966. Date report due in O.P.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the behavior in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Selecting and processing transcripts in Spanish and English into a workable format for Station analysis and filing. Rating letter: S.

Handling administrative matters for her husband and herself. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 3. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 4. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 5. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 6. Rating letter.

Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness,
