Memorandum for: The Record

Subject: BIRADIAL 202-2723

2 October 1953

1. On 1 October 1953 the writer, as George Wheeler, was introduced to Agent Arthur G. Vaivada (P) by J. G. Hanke at his apartment, E-21, Van Euren, Presidential Gardens, Alexandria, Virginia. The introduction was deemed advisable, inasmuch as Agent is to be inherited by Branch II. Mr. Heyn informs he is not available to handle Agent at this time but will meet him in about three weeks.

2. In accordance with instructions received from Covert Training Offices, Agent is to report for covert training at 2400 20th St. N.W., Washington, D.C., on 5 October 1953 at 11:15 P.M. He is to ask for Mr. Cal when he arrives. Agent is to be known as Mr. Vicks. The instructions were passed on to the Agent. He was also informed to call X2298 and ask for George Wheeler in the event he desired to make an appointment to discuss business matters.

3. In connection with Agent's previous inquiry regarding the possibility of obtaining U.S. citizenship for his wife, Mr. Hanke informed him that under the circumstances under which his wife entered the U.S., namely as a tourist, it would not be possible to plausibly apply for U.S. citizenship. Hanke also informed him that although possible to rush the citizenship through, it was felt inadvisable at this time since the procedure might jeopardize the present existing cover arrangement. Agent seemed to understand the difficulties involved and raised no particular objection.

4. Agent informed several neighbors had inquired as to the nature of his business. He has informed them that he is a student and is studying at George Washington University in the field of economics. This story had been decided upon before the writer came upon the scene. Since Agent has not commenced study at GW, it was suggested to him that he commence taking a course or two as soon as possible. He informed he would do this as soon as he learns the details as to his hours to be devoted to Covert Training.

5. Although there is no assurance subject will be granted permission to enter Argentina, subject previously indicated he could foresee no problem in this regard. He did make inquiry, however, as to what his status would be should he not be allowed entrance to Argentina.

6. It is unfortunate that Agent is residing in the Washington, D.C., area, inasmuch as that in itself is undoubtedly considered as a government stigma. The possibility exists that the wrong person or persons will learn of his and his wife's presence in this area.

7. The file fails to reflect what provision, if any, has been made to pay the Agent. This will have to be worked out.

John Cavadiac

201-168581
