Personnel Evaluation Report.

By. Date: May 3, 1954.

Name: James P. Jr. Grade: GS-12. Position title: Investigator (Gen.). Office: 1:8. Staff or division: SSD. Branch: Cps. Departmental. Field.

Period covered by report: From 11-17-51 to 11-17-52. Type of report: Annual.

Items 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

List your major duties in approximate order of importance, with a brief description of each. Omit minor duties.

As unit chief of the Project Desk, I am charged with supervision of the processing of security clearances for covert personnel to be utilized on the larger projects of the Agency. This involves the directing of seven case supervisors and five clerical employees. These supervisors are engaged in the scheduling of field investigations, making security appraisals and ultimately issuing a security determination for the covert personnel concerned. As an adjunct to this I also supervise necessary operational support to projects as requested. My position further requires that from time to time I represent the Division in conferences with operational units in regard to pertinent security aspects of covert projects.

8. List courses of instruction completed during report period.

Agent's Basic Training Course. Location: Washington, D.C. Length: 3 weeks. Date completed: 1/7/52 to 1/25/52.

CIA Orientation Course. Location: Washington, D.C. Length: 4 days. Date completed: 11/18/52 to 11/21/52.

9. In what type of work are you primarily interested?

Security.

If different from your present job, explain your qualifications (aptitude, knowledge, skills).

Date: 3/13/53. Signature: James P.G. O'Connell, Jr.

Items 11 through 13 will be completed by Supervisor.

10. Briefly describe this person's performance on the major duties listed under Item 7 above.

Mr. O'Connell has shown his ability in the position of Desk Chief to organize his work and supervise personnel on his "Desk" in such a way as to operate the Desk at maximum effectiveness and efficiency. Mr. O'Connell handles himself in a most impressive and effective way in dealing with other personnel of the Agency in problems relating to security factors in major projects of the Agency. Established deadlines have always been met by Mr. O'Connell and his judgment in rendering decisions has been most adequate.
