13. Evidently, this last piece of criticism upset RUIZ so much that he was nervous and particularly security-conscious. Less than a week later he called LEON in Havana and requested permission to go to Cuba, ostensibly to settle a personal problem with his son. However, his wife explained to another person in the Embassy that RUIZ's trip was due to his sick mother. His trip was probably due to the exceptionally sharp criticism and RUIZ's desire to clear it up personally.

14. When RUIZ returned to Madrid on 29 October 1969, he was a changed man, again relaxed and fully confident of himself. Nevertheless, he has told close friends that he feels very lonely in Spain and at times has had the desire simply to board a plane away from Spain and abandon the Embassy. He is always careful to say he desires to return to Havana, but he leaves room for the inference that he would rather go somewhere else. He believes that he is "burned" in Spain. He has said that when he returns to the island, he will definitely not return to his Ministry.

Security and Security-Consciousness

15. RUIZ seems to be particularly sensitive in the area of security-consciousness. This attitude can possibly be traced to an involvement with the DGI in one way or another, but his background and especially his political views (see below) would appear to argue against his affiliation. RUIZ is quick to warn visiting Cubans against the efforts of what he terms "la compañía, sociedad anónima" to compromise them, even before they leave Havana, indicating RUIZ's possible belief in the omnipresence and power of the sociedad anónima. He censors mail going to and coming from Havana, and he repeatedly states that his office is bugged, his telephone is tapped, and that he is followed quite openly wherever he goes. He attributes this surveillance to the Seguridad, and he probably ascribes it to the Spanish. (Note that, despite his "knowledge" that his words go to hostile surveillance, he still dares to express critical opinions openly.)

16. This security-consciousness is apparently the big reason he has asked Havana for funds for a new Embassy building, where he plans to have a shielded room free from bugs. He intends to have Havana send electricians for the job and Cuban personnel to act as doormen, etc., with the wives of the latter to be his char force. He seems fanatic on the subject of not having any Spanish personnel in the building. (Note that one Sr. VILLARROYA, of Construcciones (Constructiones) Aznar in Madrid, is handling the real estate operation.)

17. RUIZ is particularly aware of what he calls "traps." He once recalled that he had been asked to dinner by the wife of a VIP and, after accepting the invitation, was told that a priest would also attend. He did not attend the dinner, although it considerably upset his hostess, because he was afraid of a scandal arranged by the police. He said that he receives only in the Embassy, because through that door can enter only those whom he wants to see.
