6th August, 1961

Dr. Vicentina Antuna, General Director of Culture.

Dr. Jose Santiago Cubas, Procurator of the Supreme Court of Justice.

Dr. Juan Marinello, President of the Popular Socialist Party.

Dr. Eduardo Corona, lawyer and diplomat.

Dr. Isabel Monal, Director of the Cuban National Theatre.

Commander Oscar Fernandez Mel, President of the National Doctors' Association.

Mr. Baldomero Alvarez Rios, Dean of the National Journalists' School.

Commander Dr. Humberto Castello, General Secretary of the “Directorio Revolucionario 13 de marzo.”

Mr. Nicolas Guillen, poet.

Commander Rolando Bubela, President of the Students' Federation.

Mr. Giraldo Mazola, director of the Cuban Institute for Friendship between the Peoples.

Commander Guillermo (Gullermo) Jimenez, director of the newspaper “Combate.”

Dr. Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, University Professor and director of the journal “Hoy.”

Mr. Mario Kuchilan, director of the journal “Prensa Libre.”

Mr. Carlos Franqui (Fanqui), director of the journal “Revolucion.”

Mr. Alfredo Cuevara, director of the Cuban Institute of Art and the Film Industry.

Dr. Elias Entralgo, President of the Cuban UNESCO Commission.

Mr. Enrique de la Osa, director of the journal “Bohemia.”

Mr. Ernesto Vera, director of the journal “La Calle.”

Mrs. Vilma Espin, Federation of Cuban Women.

Dr. Ofelia Dominguez, Cuban United Nations Association.

Honduras

Julio C. Rivera, workers' leader.

Oscar F. Alfarengo, Member of the University Reform Front.

Miguel Yanes Rios, student leader.

Santiago Fernandez Toffe, theatre director.

Judith Salgado, Committee for Solidarity with Cuba.

Alfredo Hoffman, leader of the Radio Workers' Union.

Leticia Raudales, member of the Liberal Youth Association.

Hector I. Gutierrez (Guttierrez), general secretary of the Organisation Committee of the Honduran Democratic Youth.

Lisandro Galvez, former rector of the National Autonomous University.

Anibal Delgado Fiallo, General Secretary of the University Reform Front.
