29 April 1965

19.0 (continued)

Hotel Ambassador. There is a protest by the U.S. Red Cross stating that there are at least 400 dead and about 1,200 wounded. The Americans are distributing milk, etc. Both heard this over Voice of U.S. VRC comments (ironically) that “they are very nice people” (buenas gentes). There is also a declaration of the Department of Defense that since Marines are there, this does not mean the U.S. supports one or another side.

VRC asks if Miric has called. No, not yet. Not there yet. It is nearly 1900. Yes, but he goes to work at 1800.

“These young people” brought their bulletin and a copy for Miric. It is long but does not state anything, saying that it is not true that they are Communists, that this is a country fighting against oppression. VRC says this is habitual rhetoric of Latin Americans. Keep it for Miric.

Call VRC if Miric finds out anything about Mexico’s position or statements in this.

23.2 In. MO asks VRC, who answers, if they took the declarations of exiles. How was the conference? It took place during a terrible rain. Reporters from “Excelsior,” “Novedades,” and “El Dia.” Had declarations all written out for President, Cardenas, and PRI. Not really a conference, just a few commentaries. MO gave the men the addresses of press agencies which did not appear. They were going to deliver this declaration. VRC says these people are worthwhile. Declarations were good, according to MO.

VRC asks if MO knows that Marines have started to kill people. Read in “Ultimas Noticias” that the first exchange of fire took place, with 70 Marines at the U.S. Embassy. MO just got at home. Mexico also protested in O.E.A. meeting. Yes, and a lot of countries. Yes, but they wanted to make it a united effort. VRC has not heard the terms in which Mexico censured this action of the U.S.

Has VRC written this yet? He is preparing material. Wants to write it for tomorrow. VRC says it would be best to give this to “Siempre” on Monday. VRC will phone Pajaos tomorrow early. Pajaos will arrive on the train around 0900 or 1000. Should be at office around 1100. Would like to hand in his article on Monday.

About San Isidro being attacked. There is no foreign correspondent in Santo Domingo. All information is coming from San Juan. The ones sending out information are Dominican reporters and this is probably being censored. They found out about the Marine disembarking through Washington. MO sent a cable in detail. When he got home, he found a cable from Adrede (7) in Berlin that he wanted information on disembarkation. MO sent information to Berlin.

They will talk tomorrow. MO is Luis (Spanish extraction).

23.5 In: Valentina Cucherov (ph) of PASS with VRC, who answers. It was where he could not attend the press conference of Dominicans. Would like to see these men. Does VC have the address? Leonov gave it to him. Go to see Mejia Ricart there. VRC can give him the address. C makes note of Mejia’s name and address. He can go tomorrow morning to see Mejia Ricart. They have a bulletin written up and some copies of telegrams they have made up (sent). VC will go by there around 1300 or 1300. Call Mr. on his University phone. Mr. is a research man at the University. Phone 48-63-60, ext. 48-63-00, exts. 100, 432, 162.

Are there a lot of interesting things on this? Some. VC thinks this is.
