I. Confirmation from Other Sources

1. Introduction

Since NOSENKO’s defection, several Soviet sources and defectors have provided information supporting NOSENKO’s claims of having held certain positions in the KGB at certain times.

A Soviet scientist with suspected intelligence connections who was approached by CIA, Soviet case officers for a double agent (a NOSENKO lead), and the KGB officer handling Robert Lee JOHNSON (also a NOSENKO lead), a Soviet journalist who contacted the magazine Paris Match with a proposal to write an article on NOSENKO, and two defectors. Some of these sources had supported NOSENKO directly by reporting that he was a Second Chief Directorate officer in the various positions he says he was. Others have offered indirect support by confirming NOSENKO’s knowledge of particular pieces of information or confirming the validity of information which NOSENKO said he learned while in particular KGB jobs. As will be noted, the information from one source sometimes contradicts that learned from another or from NOSENKO himself.

2.

Has corroborated NOSENKO’s story indirectly by his descriptions of the repercussions of the defection within the KGB, particularly the firing of GRIBANOV, and by his statements concerning the probable effect that the defection would have on KGB operations.

Reported at various times that NOSENKO is “more valuable than PENKOVSKIY,” that he is “vastly more important than DERYABIN or GOLITSYN,” that the KGB “will not be able to operate normally for two years,” that it is the “unanimous opinion” of “NOSENKO could do tremendous harm to the KGB,” and that this damage would be severe “for several years to come.”

Has also given indirect support to NOSENKO’s statement that he was Deputy Chief of the U.S. Embassy Section. NOSENKO as a “chief” had access to details on KGB activities against the U.S. Embassy, and the loss suffered by the KGB as a result of NOSENKO’s knowledge of the microphones installed in the Embassy. NOSENKO has said that this information was available to him only because he was Deputy Chief of the American Embassy Section.

Reported that NOSENKO’s position as a “chief” in the Second Chief Directorate gave him access to the names and backgrounds.

However, it is not known to have stated specifically that NOSENKO was a senior official in the American Embassy Section of the American Department in 1960 and 1961.
