Father was very much embarrassed.

94. During the interrogations David was asked many times for whom he did all those things, for which intelligence service? Nobody believed that a single person could have achieved so much without any big foreign service behind him.

95. The police inspectors had hinted to him that he would not escape the death sentence. To gain time, he wrote a letter to "00008" and reported an invention of his: a motor which worked without gas—in those days, Germans being very short of gas, such an invention should attract attention.

96. He was contacted and asked for details of his invention. He told something and requested better living conditions and food, so he would be able to work on this invention. He also mentioned that some details of the invention were in Vienna and should be brought from there to Berlin. (At that time Vienna was already occupied by the Russians.) Later, two specialists were sent to him to check his information. They found that the idea was acceptable theoretically, and he was urged to continue to work on it.

97. In connection with the approach of the front to Berlin, they—that is, David, Katz, and Allumes—were transferred to Wolfenbüttel (WOLLENFUTTEL) jail, near Hannover. He does not know what happened to Asterée.

98. In Wolfenbüttel (Wolfenbuttel) they remained for some three months, until the Americans freed them in April 1945.

99. They went together to Kassel Discharge Camp, from where he and Allumes went to Paris, whereas Katz went his own way.

D. Additional explanations to the activities during World War II.

1. The photographs which David had made of the documents of Irakli Lordkipanidze (Lordkepanidze) were not good enough. So he had to enlarge the photos as much as he could, up to a size of a few square feet. He ameliorated the enlarging by some pencil work. Then he re-photographed the enlarging and produced new, good photos of the documents in exactly the right size of the original documents.

2. All the photographic lab work was done in his hotel room. He used two MINOXes and one CONTAX, and a French-type enlarger with the objective of his Contax. The equipment cost him over 100,000 (it was not specified whether French francs or German marks).
