Attachment “B”

Debriefing of Santiago Sanchez (SANCHEZ), de la Torre

Subject: Angel Bencomo (BENCOMO) (reportedly responsible for the MRR roll-up, according to Sanchez (SANCHEZ); see NEXI-5507).

1. Angel Bencomo (BENCOMO) is approximately 19 years old, has brown skin, is short and stocky, and weighs approximately 150 pounds. Bencomo was formerly a militiaman in Camaguey and a friend of Arturo Mugarra (MUGARRA). Bencomo entered the MRR via Eddy Galeno (GALENO) during March 1962, when he was employed by Obras Públicas (Abras Publicas) in Camaguey. Bencomo had trouble with his superiors, quit the militia, etc. Galeno brought Bencomo to Havana, where Bencomo began working in resistance with Jose Rodriguez Pacheco (Pecheco) and Santiago Sanchez (SANCHEZ). Bencomo did not meet Arturo Mugarra in Havana. Sanchez “tested Bencomo,” and he appeared to be O.K., disciplined, quiet, etc. Sanchez then began using Bencomo to pick up radios, Minox cameras, etc. This activity took place between March and May 1962.

2. Arturo Mugarra was arrested in May 1962 in a cafeteria in Havana, where he went to dispose of an automobile. Galeno was to meet Mugarra at the cafeteria. Mugarra and his brother arrived at the cafeteria, turned the Cadillac over to the prospective buyer, and sat down. A mechanic drove the car to test it and returned with two G-2 cars. Although Galeno was present and was questioned, he was not arrested.

3. From May to September 1962, Sanchez saw Bencomo often. In September, Sanchez went into an embassy but “heard that Bencomo was arrested and held until November.” In January 1963, Sanchez heard from Bencomo via Sanchez’s sister. Bencomo wrote a letter, which Sanchez still has, saying that he was working for the MRR in the streets. Bencomo said he did not want to seek asylum but was considering going to the house of Luis Perales (PERALES) in Oriente. Perales formerly operated in the hills of Yaguajay (Yayuajay) but went to Havana to hide out in January–February 1962. In February 1963, Sanchez received another letter from his sister saying that Bencomo was a G-2 man. Bencomo identified himself as a G-2 man to Perales in December 1962 and asked Perales to cooperate with him. Perales told Sanchez’s sister of Bencomo’s proposition in January 1963. Since that time, Perales has disappeared.
