UFG-8473

(1) The CADELLO I is docked across from Brito's Boat Yard at Stock Island, Florida. The boat is in need of repairs on the deck and superstructure, and the installation of electronic navigational equipment would be required to put it in operational condition. Current docking and routine maintenance costs are not being paid. Efforts to make commercial use of this boat have not been successful. This boat is considered ideal for activities which might be undertaken if there were a base from which to operate, but under the present circumstances the expense which this boat represents is not justifiable. It is recommended that consideration be given to selling the CADELLO I if an operational base is not established within four months.

(2) The KYA-ORA, which was donated to the MDC by a member of the military department, is in drydock at Nuta's Boat Yard in Miami. There are leaks in the hull.

(3) The LANCHA AZUL is in need of repairs, as well as its trailer. Repairs on this boat are being given priority, and will proceed as money becomes available.

d. Informal discussions have been held with representatives of the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE, Students' Revolutionary Directorate), and there is an “agreement in principle” to coordinate future actions. There is no political commitment.

9. In July Jorge Mas Canosa, chief of press and propaganda of Representación Cubana en el Exilio (RECE, Cuban Representation in Exile), proposed that the MDC enter into a pact with RECE, and indicated that some members of MDC will be offered full-time employment preparing military plans for RECE. As of late July no formal agreement had been reached.

10. Hernandez, who feels that Ramon Font Saumell is incapable of formulating military strategy, favors the formation of a pact between the MDC and RECE so as to exclude Font from participating in the preparation of plans for military operations. Hernandez also said that he plans to attempt the reorganization of the military department of the MDC in order to replace Barbeite in a less important position than that which he currently occupies.

11. In early June Ignacio Valladares Rodriguez expressed a desire to participate in action against Cuba with the MDC. Barbeite agreed to inform Valladares when an operation is to be carried out. Before Valladares left Miami on 6 June for Dover, New Jersey, he said that within a month he would send a 57mm recoilless rifle, a 50-caliber machine gun, and an unstated number of M-1 and Garand rifles. His address in Dover is Dover Cliff Apartments, apartment 21.
