Deeply concerned over the danger Red China represents to the world, he advocates that the U.S. and Soviet Union (SoV Union) should design a mutual defense pact and liquidate China until there is still time; he believes that the Soviet Union and the U.S. are entitled to act in defense of their own interests and “so hell with what the rest of the world says”; he desires the determination and dynamism of Americans.

9. After getting through this portion, F told Subject whether he still felt that he should get and give LOC the Embassy Phone Directory. He stated that he was willing to do what we told him to do, but he believed that if he came to the meeting with LOC on June 25 without the directory, LOC would consider him worthless, since he was not able to obtain something which he could get in some other way. When I commented that the directory was a tightly controlled matter and to get one would practically mean to swipe one from somebody’s desk, Subject stated that he was convinced that LOC would not care for a directory which he stole, because he is interested in Subject having a friend in the embassy through whom he would have access to information, and presenting the directory would be an indication that Subject had a friend there.

10. When Subject replied negatively to a theoretical possibility of obtaining a directory “legally,” I told him that he must necessarily be aware of the fact that LOC would not be satisfied with a statement that he obtained the directory from a woman or man friend; LOC would insist on knowing the name and address of the person who is his friend. Subject pretended not to be convinced about this but did not try to argue about it.

11. Then I told Subject that, whether he admitted it to himself or not, he was trying to manoeuvre himself into what was a double-agent role, which is by no means an enviable role. A person who is offering his cooperation to the U.S. under such conditions should be aware that every piece of information passed to the opposition, in this case LOC, must be cleared and approved by a U.S. officer, which, if nothing else, is a time-constraining proposition. Subject finally (failing) said, “Time is money.” I commented that only productively used time is money.
