a. From a report dated 21 August 1944 from the London office of OSS:

“TiLTA's Free Rumanians are also satisfied (with the new developments in Romania) though more moderately. They too are for MIAMI, and MASTU but they suspect Russian intrigue to be responsible for the latest changes. The fact that ex-King CAROL has expressed his satisfaction is also gratifying for them since several of TiLTA's men have not given up the hope of bringing CAROL back to Romania. They have maintained a correspondence with the ex-King, and they would have much to expect from him if he came back to power. TiLTA's followers are likewise very pleased with the fact that most of the men forming the new government are of the same political color as themselves. They are almost all former King CAROL favorites and good friends of some of the members of the Free Rumanian movement . . .”

b. From an OSS report addressed to Mr. Allen W. Dulles from “B.C.” dated 5 May 1942:

“Regarding the Romanian diplomat who is expected to arrive in New York (as per my recent memorandum) to take over the leadership of the Rumanian movement here, my informants believe that he is Mr. Florel TILA, the man who started the Free Rumanian movement in England. The British are said to have looked upon him with disfavor. He is a friend of King CAROL and of TILA. It is reported that Mr. TILA is to enter the United States via Mexico and it is believed that he may already be there conferring with GOU.”

c. From a report by Emil CHILEAN in 1948:

“TIILA might be watered down to the point where he is acceptable to the Political Parties, but never TILA, who is a King CAROL man.”

d. From a report dated 1951, evaluated as B-3, from a London source, concerning the activities of Father Vasile LEC, the discredited Rumanian earlier priest who has set himself up as a bishop:

“From Istanbul LEC intends to visit Rome WHAT, to request the episcopal crosier. This plan seems to have been worked out by LEC and me. Elena LIPSCU. Former King CAROL will apparently finance LEC's bishopric. . . Informant gained the impression that LEC's plans are supported by Cardinal TILA and Major Cheorche TLESCH. . .”

e. From a report, evaluated as B-3, coming from Paris in November 1951:
