b) Presence of counterrevolutionary elements in the Dominican armed forces; names, assignments, and functions.

c) Location of counterrevolutionary operational bases on Dominican soil; type of bases. Watercraft or aircraft present on them. Counterrevolutionary organization which appears at the head of them. Elements participating. Type of watercraft and their characteristics. Their weapons, objectives, and plans of attack; dates when they are to be carried out.

6. Counterrevolutionary Organizations

a) Cuban counterrevolutionary organizations which are functioning in Santo Domingo; their leaders. Their contact with government personnel, especially with people in the new regime who are responsible for establishing such contact.

b) Contact by the Bosch government with the magazine Bohemia in Exile of Miguel Angel Quevedo; financial support given it by him, and through whom.

c) Contact with Carlos Pró and elements linked with the PRC; assistance to them. Contact with the counterrevolutionary organizations; contact with the political parties; elements through which it is effected.

d) Methods of communication by the elements in Santo Domingo with the counterrevolutionary centers in Miami; through whom the communications are established, and what means are used for this purpose.

e) Obtaining documents which prove that the Dominican government gives economic assistance to the counterrevolutionary elements.

f) Counterrevolutionaries who are now working in the Dominican state apparatus or in Yankee aid institutions; disagreements between them and the Dominican workers.

g) Connections between the counterrevolutionary organizations and the Trujillo regime. Documents proving these connections.

7. Repressive Bodies and CIA, Santo Domingo

a) Repressive bodies which function in Santo Domingo. Their functions. Activities carried on by them. Their leaders and principal officers. Working methods. Plans and objectives.

b) Intelligence organizations functioning in Santo Domingo. Leaders. Elements abroad. Their duties and functions. Activities carried on. Plans and objectives of Dominican Intelligence, principally against Cuba. Trujillist elements still functioning inside this body; duties and functions.

c) Cooperation between the Dominican repressive bodies and those of the Latin American countries, especially those of Central America.
