2.

It later informed Rowton that it was in her best interest. She agreed that the child could not be properly taken care of at her mother’s home in Santiago because of a short supply of essential food, with neither parent present; that her departure without the child would permit frequent correspondence with 1/3; and provide an excellent pretext for her return to Mexico, to convince 1/3 to permit her to move the child to Havana (Havas) with her once she established herself.

5. For details, Rowton is convinced that LIRING/3 wants permanent separation from LIRING/4, feeling that the situation has become “intolerable,” whereas LIRING/4 is still hoping against hope that their domestic difficulties can be patched up and that, when she returns, they can resume normal marital relations. She insisted to Rowton that she would remain loyal to him and do nothing to increase his antipathy toward her. Rowton feels this is probably the best control that can be hoped for in her operational work.

6. Following lengthy meetings with L/4, Rowton has evolved the following operational plan with her approval:

(a) LIRING/4, on arrival, will re-establish contact with and assess the following contacts:

(1) Ramiro Abreu.

(2) Arnol (Arnold) and Rubí (wife) Rodriquez (Rodriguez).

(3) Caribel Guiffrido.

(4) Capt. Luis Carballo and wife.

(5) Lloé de la Torriente.

(6) Mercedes Nérdales Lereverent.

These persons will be referred to in 3/I messages by number only for security reasons. L/4 knows that numbers three and five have already expressed strong anti-revolutionary sentiments and will attempt discreetly to determine their present attitude and access.

(b) Discreet efforts will be made to learn the efficiency and modus operandi of DSE. LIRING/4 insisted on this for her own protection, since Rowton alleged that he could not provide her with the necessary briefing. She feels confident that she can get at least some basic data from Ramiro Abreu. L/4 commented that she is almost certain the DSE is manipulated by a “foreign service,” since she is certain that Cubans themselves are incapable of efficient and secure operations.

(c) When L/4 feels she has reached a point with any of the above at which she can make some sort of “deal”—for instance, assistance to them from outside in exchange for help to her in finding an “interesting position” during her forced stay there—she will notify Rowton by 3/I and proceed further or withdraw according to instructions.

(d) In the event L/4 meets other persons who might prove recruitable, she will mention their names, address, and position in the text of an open letter to LIRING/3, adding that they send their regards and need something not available in Cuba. The persons thus mentioned will be referred to in 3/I by the next consecutive number in a subsequent message. Rowton has stressed that he is interested only in persons in excellent positions and conceivably recruitable. The list should therefore not be exhaustive.
