Section C. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Credit on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention, if applicable, of potential or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Narrative Comments. Mr. Moore has been under my direct supervision for nine months. During that period he has demonstrated sound judgment and a thoroughly professional approach to his duties. His reporting is consistently high in both quality and quantity. Because of his length of service in the area and pleasant personality he has achieved exceptional rapport with his sources and prominent members of the community. He responds to requirements promptly and effectively.

Mr. Moore is a conscientious and dedicated employee who requires a minimum of supervision. His security and cost-consciousness are excellent, as is his performance of supervisory duties.

Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 9 May 1972. Signature of employee: J. Walton Miley.

By Supervisor. This report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Months employee has been under my supervision: 9. Date: 9 May 1972. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Dallas Field Office. Typed or printed name and signature: Justin F. Gleichauf.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur. We plan to transfer Mr. Moore to DCS Headquarters in the Summer of 1972 to broaden his experience and thus prepare him for possible assumption of greater responsibility. Date: 22 May 1972. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy for Field Operations. Typed or printed name and signature: R. K. STARLING.
