In January 1964, entirely out of context, he asked whether GOLITSYN had reported to CIA that Finnish President KEKKONEN was a KGB agent. (He was not able to explain in later questioning why he had not informed CIA about the case before he made the foregoing inquiry.)

NOSENKO asked precisely how American intelligence collection in the USSR is directed and coordinated. The CIA case officer responded: “What was that question?” NOSENKO thereupon said: “It was not a question—just general interest.” When the case officer urged him to repeat the question, he refused to talk about it and diverted the conversation to other matters.

He asked where CIA secretaries resided in the Washington area.

NOSENKO tried to find out the grades of the CIA officers in contact with him.

NOSENKO inquired in early 1964 whether the CIA officer who met him in Geneva two years earlier had received a medal for that phase of the operation.

(ii) Acceptance of Contrary Information from Other Sources

Under interrogation, even when accused of lying, NOSENKO rarely challenged the validity of CIA’s information nor claimed superior knowledge. The only facts he challenged strongly were incontestably true, such as the date of GOLITSYN’s defection, the date of ABIDIAN’s visit to the Pushkin Street dead drop, KOSOVAPOV’s travel separate from JENNER, and KOSOVAPOV’s November 1960 trip to Helsinki. It seemed at all times that he accepted that CIA knew more than he did on topics including conditions in the USSR and cases and people for whom he claimed direct responsibility. He never challenged DERTABIN’s statements about KGB procedures, although aware that his own information was more recent.

(e) Discussions with NOSENKO on His Own Performance

After admitting his inability to respond to questions about operations in which he said he participated, NOSENKO sometimes gave a general appraisal of his own performance. He would admit that it was “impossible to have such memory breaks” and agree that his response was neither reasonable nor acceptable (“In your place I wouldn’t believe it either,” or on another occasion, “It will look bad to your boss”). Admitting that the questions were fair, logical, and clearly put, he acknowledged at least a dozen times during the January–March 1965 interrogation that his performance under questioning was bad and unacceptable.

He also admitted that most of the leads he had passed were largely useless. Out of the 150 or so he said he had provided, he stated that the great majority were “no good,” unimportant, or people with whom the KGB had not worked (“Maybe ‘ANDREY’ became not interesting to KGB, changed jobs, and was not so important any more”; “some of the agents recruited by the Seventh Department weren’t meeting the KGB”; etc.) He consistently estimated, however, that there were about 20 to 25 “good” leads.
