Report on Contact with Agent or Defector

Subject: Invoice  
Date: 22 June 1962  
Time: 0930  
Place: Ostenstr 1/9

David Reisfeld, Case Officer

Comments:

CO met Subj at his apt. (ant), and informed him that word was received from his country that, due to his services in Kennedy's economy drive, Subj's services were no longer needed. Moreover, he was highly appreciated for his past performances and devotion to us. Subj, who was very calm throughout the entire session, took the news very well and stated that he had expected to learn his above fate.

He commented that now that he would no longer be in our employ, he was virtually without means to support himself, since the only funds he had were the accounts given him by Mr. Burmann. He said further that unless he sold his invention to someone in Germany, he not only would not be able to support himself but also could not pay for his fare to South America. It was therefore agreed that Subj should make every effort to sell his invention here. To this effect, he was given his letter of introduction to the doctor in Düsseldorf (Dusseldorf), where he hoped to go today. If this did not succeed, he would attempt to contact a few of the large electrical firms, such as Siemens and Braun, in the Frankfurt area.

He was informed that we would give him sufficient time to discover whether or not he could sell his invention in Germany. During this time, he could remain in our employ and continue to receive his subsistence from us. Subj assumed that, since he would not be working for us in the future, he was free to leave on his own and would make every effort to put his business in order as soon as possible.

Subj was told that, in the event he was not successful in selling his invention, we would inform our people in Munich that he was without funds and request financial assistance, especially to cover this period. After he was ready, we would inform him that it was likely that, in this invention, he intended to copy ours or to buy it.
