Directors to which actions have been agreed to may be approved for production: QRPHONE/1 has an adolescent, with energy and enthusiasm. He is capable of long-term targets, but not capable of being excessively efforted by QRPHONE/1 to obtain a fully permanent relationship. It must be recognized as a factor in this operation.

During the quarter QRPHONE/1 was the subject of a lot of attention.

5. Specific requirements levied upon directors: QRPHONE/1 will follow up on his access to the AIRS/PATRIOT camp. He will attempt to cultivate leaders in this cause—both in Europe and Asia—with the objective of taking a trip to the Middle East (Lebanon, Israel, Cyprus, Beirut).

QRPHONE/1's postponed trip to the U.S. was considered for April, in the next quarter.

QRPHONE/1 will revisit Italy, per note suggested earlier, for another look at the activities and attitudes of that personnel there in Italy.

QRPHONE/1 will continue his development of a local personality of operational interest in London.

6. Agent's personal response to assignment 1, 2, 3: personal security, etc.: QRPHONE/1's purpose is to enhance performance and continues to be enthusiastic in analysis. The comments made in previous quarterlies and other reports that are presented to the ECOPIT and RODIGAST are able to judge.

7. Agent's personal response to case officer: automatic technique: QRPHONE/1 has a very relaxed relationship with others. This is a potential opportunity for information from his many contacts and also relies on others' information and uncomplicated experience. QRPHONE/1 needs to be an expert handling, including direction and criticism—well known in a consistent village. The same holds true of critique of his reporting.

8. Administrative matter, including promotion, incumbent: a new method of funding the bulk of QRPHONE/1's salary is to be used. This method has been approved and will be put into operation in January. This was not initiated by the problems of BINNEE, which were modified in PRC and reported.

An increase in salary of $100 per month has been approved for QRPHONE/1. This will be effective 1 January and will be given into an escrow-type arrangement in order that it not increase QRPHONE/1's standard of living.

9. General comments on agent performance: QRPHONE/1 is an excellent asset. He has performed well and effectively against his targets.

10. Accomplishments and evaluation of effective activity: the effort to gain useful access to the political industries in Europe is progressing well. In subsequent quarters we will see whether or not this progress can be maintained.

The progress toward operationally useful connections with the Empire is painfully slow. In this—if in all other circumstances—the problem is mainly the nature of QRPHONE/1's access to.
