Subject: Activities of the Juventud Socialista

Report No.: HE-1332

Date of information: 7 July–13 August 1956

Place acquired: Habana, Cuba

Evaluation: Paragraph 1: 2; paragraphs 2–3: documentary; paragraph 4: 3.

Date acquired: 8 July–14 August 1956

Date of report: 22 August 1956

Paragraph 1: Cuban with close contacts in university student circles (B).

Paragraphs 2–3: Member of the Cuban Communist Youth Organization (C).

Paragraph 4: Person close to Communist university students (F).

1. On 6 August 1956, Antonio Barreto Ferrer (BARRETO Forrer), student Communist leader, was seen at the University of Havana distributing a fly-sheet of the celebrated Socinaria (Socinarian) (JS, Cuban Communist Youth Organization) titled “Path of Cuban Youth.” He had a bundle of approximately 500 copies of that document. On 10 August, Barreto and Iran Fatat (IRAN FATAT), student Communists, also distributed a sixfold (quantity of Hell’s official JS bi-weekly publication at the University.

The above fly-sheet also appeared as a page insert in the 1 August issue of Hell’s. The fly-sheet consists of a letter, dated 2 August 1956 at Haarlem, from the JS National Executive Committee to Cuban youth. After setting out the Cuban Communist line against partial elections and for revolutionary action on 12 August against the ATITA Government, the letter states that the Executive Committee has decided to appeal to the national leadership of all opposition youth organizations and other “institutions of the new generation” to join in immediate acts of protest against that Government. The letter states that the Committee has approved a new letter to Cuban working, rural, and student youth, which will shortly be circulated. A portion is made of an “exemplary” assembly of youth organizations, convened in Santiago de Cuba on 10 July by the OrCADRO Party Youth in their meeting hall in that city. Among others, it is said, leaders of the following groups attended:

OrCADRO Party Youth

Autentico Party Youth (both CRAU and FRIO sections)

Juventud Socinariana

National Federation of Secondary School Students

Student Federation of Santiago de Cuba

Nationalist Revolutionary Party Youth
