Language Training Report.

Office of Training.

Date of report. Student name. Office. Course. Full-time. Part-time. Inclusive dates.

Proficiency level before and after training: Reading. Understanding. Comprehension. Lead. Comprehension. Instructors estimate % CE official “A.” Hours of instruction: Scheduled. Actual.

Language Training: Aim and Evaluation Criteria.

The aim of this course of study was to provide the student with the foreign language competence desired by the sponsoring office. Except as noted below, the instruction emphasized speaking, aural comprehension and reading, as required.

This student's evaluation is based on (1) instructor and Department Chief observations; and (2) regularly registered achievement tests. Fluency and accuracy, as appropriate to each skill, were given due consideration in evaluating the student. The achievement rating and performance evaluation below reflect performance and achievement in this course only, and are conditioned by the student's motivation and attitude for language learning. These ratings should not be confused with the Proficiency Rating (Form 1273), “Certification of Language Proficiency,” which is submitted separately. The degree of progress achieved by the student while in language training is shown in the box in the upper right corner of this report.

Progress in Achieving Course Aims.

Overall achievement in the course is shown as unsatisfactory, marginal, satisfactory, above average, or superior when compared against established standards for such training.

Speaking: X. Aural comprehension: X. Reading comprehension: X.

Performance Evaluation.

As part of the program, and as centers of instruction, to Spanish. However, it will be seen that the material covered is very broad and comprehensive. In addition, the students are expected to study the subject matter at home and also have regular hours of reading, writing, speaking and discussion. This will monitor the progress of the students. However, as already indicated, there is no guarantee that the progress will be continuous, but rather is likely to be marked by certain periods of high interest and some periods of low interest. It is not assumed that all students can read and write well enough to benefit from such instruction. However, the professor of Spanish is responsible for the progress of the students in this course and has an active part to play in monitoring the results of the courses, especially the progress made by the individual student. The objective is to make sure that each student is able to profit from his or her work. In addition, every effort will be made to assure that the student will be provided with a book list which will cover the subject matter to be studied. This will include such books as the新华字典, the American idiomatic dictionary, and a number of other general reference books.

For the Director of Training. Instructor.
