23 October 1958

Memorandum for: CWH

Subject: Development of Physical Surveillance Assets in Mexico

Reference: WH/FI Memorandum of 14 October 1958

1. The subject of the recruitment of a physical surveillance team in the United States for use in Mexico as well as other areas within WII has long been a topic of discussion at Headquarters. While it is palpably ridiculous to consider the use of a surveillance team recruited and trained in the United States and based in Mexico, operationally in other areas in Latin America, there is some merit, at least in theory, to the proposal in 2a of reference. Although one of the basic factors in the make-up of any surveillance team is that its members must be indigenous to the area of operation, it would be possible to recruit such a team as suggested in 2a and use this team in Mexico. However, I believe this would be time-consuming and very expensive for the following reasons:

a. Machine runs have already been made to spot candidates within the Agency of the Mexican/American type for the LIMESA/LIMUST project, with negative results.

b. In order to make it attractive to young men of the caliber desired, we would have to offer some kind of a career with a starting salary of somewhere between the GS 7 and GS 9 level, plus travel and allowances. Without attempting to even estimate this cost one can see that the figures for a team of fifteen would run into six digits.

c. It would take a minimum of three months for a recruiter to move into the southwest area and spot, contact, develop and recruit a team of fifteen.

d. Once a team of suitable candidates was recruited, it would then take a minimum of another three months to train these candidates in basic trade craft and surveillance techniques.

e. Upon completion of the training period, the candidates would have to be moved individually into the area of operation to become familiar with this area, the language, people, and atmosphere in general, etc. This would take another three months minimum.

f. After completion of the area familiarization period, the team would have to be assembled and put through various surveillance exercises as a unit to check them out prior to actual operation.
