Thursday, Sept. 1, 1960 — The Washington Post

Halperin, U.S. Ex-Aide, Is Now a Soviet Official

Associated Press

The State Department says that Maurice H. Halperin, a former United States Government official linked by Senate investigators to Soviet espionage activities, apparently is serving now as a Latin-American adviser to the Russians.

Halperin was head of the Latin-American Division of the Office of Strategic Services during the latter part of World War II and later an associate professor at Boston University. Before the war, he had been on the faculty of the University of Oklahoma.

In 1934 he was dismissed by Boston University after Senate investigators received testimony linking him to a Soviet spy ring and he refused to answer a question as to whether he was a Communist.

The latest information on Halperin's whereabouts is contained in a report compiled by the State Department about persons to whom it has been compelled to issue passports under a 1958 decision of the Supreme Court.

The Court held that the Department lacks authority to deny passports to Communists or to other persons because of their political beliefs.

After the ruling, Halperin applied for a passport at the American Embassy in Mexico City, where he had gone after being dismissed by Boston University, and used it to leave Mexico on Oct. 13, 1958.

The State Department said that shortly after Halperin and his wife departed from Mexico it received information that he was employed in Moscow by the Soviet Union.

“This was confirmed on July 15, 1958, when the Halperins appeared at the American Embassy in Moscow and presented their U.S. passports for renewal,” the Department's report said, adding:

“Halperin stated that he had been in the U.S.S.R. since December, 1950, and that he is employed by the U.S.S.R. Academy of Sciences where he is doing research in the foreign field, specially, relating to undeveloped countries.”

The Department recalled that Halperin was something of an authority on Latin-American affairs and said, “Our information indicates that this probably is the field in which he is working at the present time.”
