15. HENTHAM was then fully briefed on developments and HOODINE gave certain operational information of a sensitive nature from subject to HENTHAM. After necessary analysis and discussion the following decisions were reached:

a. We would endeavor to remove the family out of Frankfurt by commercial aircraft that day, i.e., Sunday, 17 December.

b. In the absence of the ability to accomplish this, we would endeavor to remove them on an Air Force Medical Evacuation Flight on Monday, 18 December.

c. Joseph Q. KLEBACK (Chief, COE/KURIOT) was contacted by phone from HENTHAM's residence and said he believed that his people could affix in the subject's passports a Federal Republic entry stamp. This was considered necessary in order to prevent embarrassing questions by German Immigration Authorities on Sunday when the family would depart by commercial air. The family had entered the Federal Republic “black” and accordingly there was no entry permit in their Soviet Diplomatic passports.

d. We would return LAPOLIA and HOODINE to the safe house, and I would also send out one enlisted guard with sidearm.

16. A cable to Headquarters was drafted on the basis of all this information and everyone departed the HENTHAM residence for their respective missions. I proceeded to the Signal Center and released the drafted cable.

17. I arrived back at my quarters about 0350 hours. At about 0410 hours I received a call from KLEBACK, wanting to get in touch with LAPOLIA on matters pertaining to the documentation work he was trying to accomplish. I gave him the telephone number of the Eschborn safe house. It turned out that the cold weather had affected telephone communications to Eschborn and the phone was dead. KLEBACK then went over to Eschborn and discussed his problem with LAPOLIA and HOODINE. I am informed, but as yet do not know the technical reason why, that KURIOT could not put in the subject's passport the required German entry stamp. It was decided at the meeting at the Eschborn safe house that KURIOT would try to make and have ready by the next morning Austrian passports for subject and his family.

18. At about 0600 hours I received a call from the Signal Center Watch Officer informing me that Headquarters “approved your plan.” I immediately tried to contact the Eschborn safe house by phone but to no avail. Around 0630 I contacted KLEBACK at the KURIOT installation and was then informed by him of his earlier visit to Eschborn around 0400. He told me during his phone conversation that LAPOLIA was going to get up about 0700 hours. I surmised that LAPOLIA would proceed immediately to the office and then did so myself.
