Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses as well as areas of potential improvement. Be sure to address any concerns or issues that have been raised. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

In the brief three months Subject has been at the Station, he has moved rapidly not only to thoroughly acquaint himself with his specific responsibilities but also with all aspects of the Station's activities. His equitable nature, ability to deal successfully with people of all descriptions and dispositions and solid operational background make him a most welcome member of the Station staff. As COS, I am particularly grateful for his services.

Among his duties is that of supervising closely the activities of two junior officers—which he does extremely well. Being one who readily commands respect, they readily seek him out for advice and consultation and are learning much under his masterly tutelage.

Subject is also coordinating Station efforts to penetrate the military and is already achieving some positive results. A recent military recruitment was made by another officer closely assisted and encouraged by Subject. The latter is now handling this new source, which could well become one of the Station's most productive.

Subject has clearly demonstrated his managerial talent and acuity in the handling of funds and other resources. I would predict a most successful tour of duty for this fine officer in Lima and foresee marked progress toward Station operational objectives as a result of his presence.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 7 January 1972. Signature of employee: /s/ Thomas Keenan.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 3. Date: 7 Jan 72. Official title of supervisor: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Stewart Burton.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur in the above ratings and comments. While it is indeed a little early to make truly valid and perceptive remarks, we have also noticed from our vantage point back here the steadying influence Mr. Keenan has exerted on two highly imaginative and active but relatively inexperienced Station members to whom the COS alludes in his commentary. He too foresees a very successful tour for this talented officer and agrees that the Station is indeed fortunate to have him present at this important time when operational prospects in Peru are so rapidly improving. Date: 14 February 1972. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, Wh/3. Typed or printed name and signature: Richard L. Conolly.
