Field Information Report

Grading of source: A, completed source is highly reliable; B, fairly reliable; D, not at all reliable; F, not relevant. Applicable to sources of doubtful honesty or trust regarding the content, accuracy, and certainty of the report.

Approval of content: 1, confirmed by other independent and reliable sources; 2, probably true; 3, possibly false; 4, general; 5, probably false; 6, cannot be trusted.

Country: Mexico/Guatemala. Report No. HMM-10,629. Subject: Revolution of Guatemalan Exile Leaders in Mexico to the Arrest of Victor Rico Galan (2013). Pages: 2.

Date of info: 18 August 1968. Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City (18 August 1968).

This is unevaluated information. Source readings are different; appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Guatemalan professional man, former member of a guerrilla organization in Guatemala, who is believed to have good access to Guatemalan exiles in Mexico.

1. Rolando Collado Ardon, leader of the Guatemalan exile community in Mexico and a member of the Guatemalan Communist Party (PGT—Partido Guatemalteco del Trabajo), said that the arrest of Victor Rico Galan on charges of subversion was a good thing for the PGT. Collado was referring to Rico Galan's influence on Guatemalan guerrilla leader Marco Antonio Yon Sosa. According to Collado, Rico Galan prevented the PGT from persuading Yon Sosa to join the Party in 1963 because of Rico's Trotskyist interference and the aid he gave to Yon Sosa at the time.

2. Medical doctors Miguel Cruz Ruiz and Rudolf Meiner Huebner (andolf Meiner Huebner), two of those arrested with Rico Galan, have been associated with OCS Decedor Rico since early 1965. Both were very much involved in the medical doctors' strikes of late 1964, which continued into 1965. When the strikes were finally settled, both Cruz Ruiz and Meiner Huebner were dismissed from their jobs at the Social Security Hospital at Cuauhtemoc 330. They went directly to Rico Galan, who put them to work, mainly writing medical articles for the magazine Sucesos, for which Rico Galan worked.

3. Rico Galan sent both Cruz Ruiz and Meiner Huebner to Cuba in 1965, and both are well-indoctrinated Communists. However, neither belongs to any Communist Party or organization. Both, as well as Dr. Jorge Velez Trejo, also very active during the medical strikes, have traveled through Latin America making visits to Mexico.

La Seance du lundi. Assessments et synthèse. Délai de 24 heures.

(201-78 9272). CIT. MEXICO.
