Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II—Operational Information. Dispatch No. HMMA-33865.

Instructions to Case Officer

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless the requester furnishes answers to all questions in PRQ Parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of FZ 10-215, paragraphs 4a, 3, 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215.

3. Three completed copies of PRQ Part I, including a copy in the subject's handwriting if possible, and two completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRQ forms in two copies.

5. Fill in all items if information is obtainable. If an item is not applicable, write “NA.” If additional space is required for an item, use the reverse side of the page keyed to the appropriate item number.

1. Cryptonym: LITAMIL-9. 2. Pseudonym.

Section I—Contact and Development

1. Indicate how, when, where, why, and by whom the subject was first contacted or developed.

Clyde K. SHRYOCK, the first case officer, was introduced to the subject on 18 July 1962 by LITAMIL-3.

2. Indicate whether the subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

The subject could be turned over to any responsible case officer, particularly one with a speaking knowledge of Spanish. The subject also speaks good French and poor English.

3. List other case officers who have handled the subject or whom he knows or has known, giving names by which they have been known.

The subject knew Clyde K. SHRYOCK by true name. The next case officer, Lawrence F. BARKER, took over in June 1963. The subject was turned over to his present case officer, Raymond A. FRADYER, following his return from PBRUMEN in the fall of 1968.
