B. F. Small, Sycamore Bldg., Terre Haute, Indiana — Attorney. E. L. Zeigler, Cochran Bldg., Mayville, Kentucky — Attorney. A. M. Thurston, C.I.G., Washington, D.C.

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc.? Yes / No.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing X in proper column. Yes. No.

Are you a citizen of the United States? Yes.

Do you advocate or have you ever advocated, or are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence?

If your answer is “Yes,” give complete details in Item 38.

Within the past 12 months, have you habitually used intoxicating beverages to excess? Yes.

Since your 16th birthday, have you ever been convicted of, or been charged with, a capital crime, including, but not limited to, any offense involving drug use, possession of drugs, sale of drugs, manufacture of drugs, distribution of drugs, or manufacture of a controlled substance which a fine of $25 or less would impose (f); or

If your answer is “Yes,” list all such offenses under Item 38 below. Give in each case (1) the date, (2) the nature of the offense or violation, (3) the name and location of the scene, (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If appointed, your employment will be taken up. Yes.

Have you ever been discharged or bonded to resume for due contact or unsatisfactory service from any position? Yes.

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 39 the reason and address of employer, date, and reason in each case.

Do you receive an annuity from the U.S. or D.C. Government under any retirement plan for any pension or other compensation for military or naval service? Yes.

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 39 a reason for retirement that is due, substantial, disability or by reason of voluntary or involuntary separation after 5 years’ service, amount of retirement pay and under what retirement act, and rating if retired from military or naval service.

Are you an officer or employee of any State, Territory, county, or municipality? Yes.

If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 39.
