Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and/or assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to show the best basis for evaluating future personnel actions.

During the past year Mr. McCord has shown superior supervisory and organizational ability. During July and August he personally organized and supervised a major project overseas which was of national interest. His plan of action was implemented smoothly and the CI mission was accomplished. Another major project was successfully directed by Mr. McCord with outstanding results.

Mr. McCord has the proven ability to organize complex problems into workable and seemingly simple plans of action. He is a good supervisor, delegates responsibility, and uses imagination and tenacity of purpose in solving problems. He is continuing to improve himself. No special training is planned for the next year. Mr. McCord will continue to “grow.” He is ready to assume greater responsibility and with further experience will qualify for a senior position in this Agency.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

I. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 8 April 1959. (Signature) W. McLell Jr.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: Since March 1954.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify).

Date: 8 April 1959. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Security Research Staff/OS. Type or printed name and signature: Martin A. Wechill; Harlan A.острел.

By Employee.

These are the properties of Secret or International Relations Department, Johnston Academy, Chicago, IL 60612 U.S.A.

3. By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee’s performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 13 April 1959. Official title of reviewing official: E Director of Security. Type or printed name and signature: Eugene Edwards.
