All the big picture magazines. In time there's going to be a musical comedy about the Peace Corps. All this is great stuff as far as the United States is concerned, but I'm afraid it is going to create serious problems abroad. Actually, the actual observable benefit of the Peace Corps in the various areas will be very minimal when you consider, for example, they have about 29 people that will be in the Peace Corp (Peace Corps) in San Salvador. They're not going to be able to make much of a dent in separate communities, because they are separated. As I understand it, from talking to the manager of the Peace Corps for the Central American area, most of these kids will be alone in the villages they are going to, and whatever they do is not going to be very observable as far as the general population is concerned. Unfortunately, one of the things that we haven't yet learned in our thinking about these under-developed countries is the fact that we do such naive things as this: there is an elderly lady about 63 years of age that has been assigned to one of the small villages in southern El Salvador and her expertise is home economics. If you have ever been to one of these small villages and if you have seen that they subsist, and I say subsist, merely on a small supply of beans and maybe one or two tortillas, and the difference between the supply of one or two tortillas is a very meaningful one. When you start talking about balancing the diet and varying the diet and having a home economics expert to teach them this, this gets pretty ironic. This is precisely the thing that could easily be open to criticism and easily open to satire. I can imagine if I were someone in a position of Dr. Jose Rodriguez Ruiz, who was a very left-leaning Dean of the School of Economics in El Salvador—if I really wanted to cede on one issue and ridicule it, I would talk about this person who was an expert on home economics; balanced dieting; and how many vegetables you should have; what variety of vegetables, how much cottage cheese you should have; and the whole thing in the balanced diet. I could murder this whole thing in very short time and make it very ridiculous.

I think these are things that we've got to think about. We've got to think about all the possible weaknesses, how this thing can be turned around. I know that in the United States, I know that in the hometown of this woman (she's from Nebraska) it sounds absolutely marvelous and this home economics expert is going down to a little Latin American country and tell them all about home economics, but from the point of view of the Latin American it's sheer irony and it's susceptible to attack.
