But he probably has not thought of how dangerous it was for him to re-register two times in Paris under his right name for re-employment in Germany after he had abandoned two working places there. Nor has he thought how dangerous it was for him to visit his parents or, on those occasions, in Paris, at the addresses at which he might have been wanted, while these addresses probably were registered as his home addresses when he applied for work in Germany.

c/ David has shown during the debriefing broad knowledge of different advanced techniques and tactics of clandestine work, which he claims to have used. If believing his story, then the question arises: where could he have learned all this knowledge at that early time, before 1944?

d/ The incident of having instructed Pascal through the cellar wall what to say during the interrogation about the map, with no other items mentioned as to what more he had instructed Pascal on the same occasion, makes one think that this part of the story is invented. It looks as though David had been told of such pre-coordination of testimonies, that he had not quite understood the matter, and—relying on his “intelligence”—was telling nonsense. (C 28 and H 2, related item.)

e/ David’s acclaimed broad knowledge of different “psychological” tricks on one side, and, on the other side, his unwittingly demonstrated lack of understanding of many basic principles of clandestine work, leave the impression that David heard of most of those clever things after he had used his primitive knowledge during World War II, and is simply trying to impress us by telling “clever” stories. This would be in line with his need of showing up. (G 2; B 7a, 16.)

f/ This could be true if he still is an “honest” crook, and the story is right in its main lines. However, the too-tight concentration of events, different information, and alleged knowledge in this story, together with the unexcited, impartial way of telling the exciting story by David, also give reason to think that the story is a “too good” cover story of a penetration agent.

10. What could happen when David, being taken for an “honest crook,” would be used in a clandestine operation?

a/ Due to his general instability and the trend to act under the effect of some momentary thought, he might easily deviate from the pre-arranged, secure plan of action, and may fall into difficulties through his irrational steps.

b/ Due to the lack of solid, binding motivation, and the trend to use his own “cleverness,” he may “somehow” come to the splendid idea of contacting the “other side” and carry out the assignment.
