1. On 17 May 1963, Richard McCarthy (Mccarthy), socialist revolutionary and American bourgeois military jadherer, met three Chinese journalists at the Missouri governor’s office for Mr. Kissinger. He provided the three journalists with information about Comrade Mao Zedong.

A. The three Chinese journalists were: Comrade Mao Zedong’s Principal zhuxian (Chinese version), representative of Marxism, Marxism-Leninism, and the Cultural Revolution movement, and the Party’s highest leadership; journalist Huang Yi (English version), with materials provided by Xinhua News Agency; and journalist Zhang San, a problem journalist primarily responsible for translating this document.

B. On 28 May 1963, Richard McCarthy (Mccarthy) visited the Charles Hotel in Washington, D.C., and this was his last telephone call to his family. Chairman Mao Zeduan (Mao Zedong) called to wish him a safe return home. He also gave instructions to his children to tell their friends not to search for him.

C. On 3 May 1963, John F. Kennedy, Jr. (JFK) and his brother Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. were on a business trip to New York City. JFK was carrying a letter from his son Robert to tell him that he was being taken to a foreign country for some business.

A. When they arrived at Kennedy’s airport in Washington, D.C., the President’s Secretary, James S. Deaka, told his Secretary of Defense, Jamesگه, that he had been assigned to the Air Force instead of the Navy as previously stated. In addition, Mr. Kennedy was informed that his family would be given a special pass to visit the White House if necessary.

B. On 4 May 1963, John F. Kennedy, Jr. called his brother Robert and told him that he should get out of the military. He advised his brother to find a job in politics or in business.

C. On 5 May 1963, Richard McCarthy (Mccarthy) was meeting with a group of young people at a restaurant when he was interrupted by an employee who said that he needed to go to the toilet. After leaving the restaurant, Mr. McCarthy (Mccarthy) went to the toilet and then returned to the restaurant where he met his brother.

D. On 6 May 1963, Walter R.aris, a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, made an unannounced visit to Walter R.aris’s house to offer the use of the guest room in the Senate Office Building.

E. On 7 May 1963, the Soviet Union announced the death of General Secretary Brezhnev, the leader of the Soviet Union.

F. On 8 May 1963, Chairman Mao Tse-Kwan-tung, the Chairman of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party, died.

G. On 9 May 1963, Chairman Mao Tse-Kwan-tung, the Chairman of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party, died.

1. On 17 May 1963, Richard McCarthy (Mccarthy), socialist revolutionary and American bourgeois military jadherer, met three Chinese journalists at the Missouri governor’s office for Mr. Kissinger. He provided the three journalists with information about Comrade Mao Zedong.

A. The three Chinese journalists were: Comrade Mao Zedong’s Principal zhuxian (Chinese version), representative of Marxism, Marxism-Leninism, and the Cultural Revolution movement, and the Party’s highest leadership; journalist Huang Yi (English version), with materials provided by Xinhua News Agency; and journalist Zhang San, a problem journalist primarily responsible for translating this document.

B. On 28 May 1963, Richard McCarthy (Mccarthy) visited the Charles Hotel in Washington, D.C., and this was his last telephone call to his family. He also gave instructions to his children to tell their friends not to search for him.

C. On 3 May 1963, John F. Kennedy, Jr. (JFK) and his brother Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. were on a business trip to New York City. JFK was carrying a letter from his son Robert to tell him that he was being taken to a foreign country for some business.

A. When they arrived at Kennedy’s airport in Washington, D.C., the President’s Secretary, James S. Deaka, told his Secretary of Defense, Jamesگه, that he had been assigned to the Air Force instead of the Navy as previously stated. In addition, Mr.
