Dispatch. To: Deputy Chief, WH/C. From: Chief, EUR; Chief of Station, JIMWAVE. Subject: Chief of Station, Madrid. C: Psychological Studies Center.

Action required. References. FYI.

1. This report was prepared by a member of a group of Cuban émigrés who have been trained in the techniques of information collection and who have provided useful reports since early 1962, from CC-3138, Jorge Julio/X Beato Nuñez, M.D., pediatrician, a Cuban refugee and former resident of Havana City who left Cuba on 30 April 1967.

2. In February or March 1967, Beato sent (Dr.) Augusto Fernandez Conde, employed at Florida State Hospital, Chattahoochee, Florida, U.S.A., a copy of the magazine Tribuna Medica (Medical Tribune), which contains a complete list of all the “professionals” (presumably medical doctors) remaining in Cuba and all those who have left Cuba. Dr. Fernandez acknowledged receipt of the magazine. Dr. Fernandez was the last President of the National Medical College of Cuba, dissolved by Fidel Castro in April 1966.

3. In January or February 1967, Beato learned from medical files the complete list of all the Cuban medical doctors who had taken the Foreign Board examinations in Florida, U.S.A., together with the grades received. This also “appeared in the School of Medicine, Havana University.” The examinations are highly confidential and it is inexplicable how such private information could be published in Cuba. Medical doctors in Cuba presume that “said organization must be infiltrated by Communists” who pirated the information and forwarded it to Cuba.

4. (Dr.) Jose Angel Bustamante Oleares directs a psychological center for superior studies, the location of which was not known to Beato. It is believed to be a training school in methods of exploring the subconscious mind used by the Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (DSE, Department of State Security).

Attachment: Spanish Raw Report.

Distribution: DC/WH/C with attachment; C/EUR without attachment; COS, JIMWAVE without attachment.

Dispatch symbol and number: OSMA-22756. Date: 3 July 1967. Headquarters file number: A 65-6-38/J.
