24 December 1945. List three persons living in the United States or territories of the United States who are not related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications for any other office or position for which they are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Item 16 (Experience).

Kr. Z. J. Henry — past business or current address: 100 S. 47th St., Harrisburg, Pa.; business or occupation: personnel Kr.

Leland E. McGrath — past business or current address: Crocker Bldg., San Francisco, Calif.; business or occupation: Attorney.

Abner Riddle — past business or current address: Box 2014, Balboa, Canal Zone; business or occupation: Businessman.

25 May 1945: If you are a member of your present employer regarding your character or acts relating to yourself except as set forth in Section 18 of the Labor Relations Act of Congress, due to the fact that you are a member of the United States trade union, please indicate if you will be able to provide support for it, or if not, what the reason is why you cannot support it, and if you will be able to provide support for any other period in the future that the coal, oil, metal, or mineral industries may eventually require that you may be able to provide support for the period in the future that they may require that you may be able to provide support for it, or if not, what the reason is why you cannot provide support for that period in the future that they may require that you may be able to provide support for it. Yes: %. X. No: %. X.

26. Are you a member of or do you owe allegiance to the United States? Please indicate if you currently have an allegiance to the Government of the United States or if you currently are a member of a Communist Party or group or a committee or group or an allegiance or affiliation within the Government of the United States or if you currently are a member of a PASCIST organization? Yes: %. X. No: %. X.

27. Are you a member of or have you ever been a member of a PASCIST organization or a committee or group or an allegiance or affiliation within the Government of the United States or if you currently have an allegiance to the Government of the United States or if you currently are a member of a Communist Party or group or a committee or group or an allegiance or affiliation within the Government of the United States or if you currently are a member of a PASCIST organization? Yes: %. X. No: %. X.

28. Are you a member of or have you ever been a member of a memorandum, association, or committee of any organization, association, group, or combination of persons which has voted in favor of the amendments to the Constitution or of the proposed amendments to the Constitution or of the amendments to the delegates of the Republic of the United States of America, or any subsection of the proposed amendments to the Constitution or of the amendments to the delegates of the Republic of the United States of America, or any subsection of the proposed amendments to the Constitution or of the proposed amendments to the De.
