Subject: Philip Burnett Franklin Agee

1. Name of officer or employee: Elsie I. Scaletti

2. Personal knowledge of subject:

I knew Phil during the entire time he was in Branch I at Headquarters, and during his tour in Mexico. We came to Mexico PCS at the same time. This means I knew him from 1965 until he resigned. In Headquarters our relationship was limited to business in the office, and that was not very frequent. We sat in different rooms. He handled SB matters. I did the routing of all Branch correspondence which meant I decided what he was to see—this was anything affecting Soviet/Satellite/Chinese matters. My main areas of responsibility were in the support field. Even though we were both processing out at the same time, we did not exchange stories much. However, since I traveled as a “Tourist” and was not therefore allowed to bring anything into Mexico, Phil offered to have some of my things packed with his household effects since he said he owned hardly anything. One day my husband and I took some boxes of things over to his apartment before work. I do not remember the name of the apartment development in Virginia, but it was the garden type. His apartment was nice—fairly new but sparsely furnished. He helped us unload the things and take them upstairs. Then we parted. I seem to recall he had some trouble with his car that morning and we dropped him off at a repair shop on the way to the office.

At this time, in Washington, Phil was very pleasant, was nice to work with. He did not appear to be pushy, even though he did everything he could to get the Mexican assignment. At this time, despite his family problems, he did not appear to let these affect his work. At least from my position he seemed to get his work done, not to procrastinate, not to take a lot of time off. From the gossip I heard, he was separated, and was anxious to get any assignment overseas. When the possibility of this Olympic job opened up in Mexico he grabbed it. As I recall, C/WH/1 was sympathetic toward him also, and was happy to be able to help Phil at this particular time.
