Date of info: 12–17 August 1966. Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City (18 August 1966). Field report No. HMM-10619.

Country: Mexico. Report No. CS-311/11736-66. Subject: Treatment of Victor Rico Galan, imprisoned leftist journalist. Date distributed: 29 August 1966.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive; appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Mexican intellectual who is a personal friend of Victor Rico Galan, with whom he disagrees politically. Source has reported infrequently on Rico Galan's activities. The reported information was obtained both from Mrs. Rico Galan and from Francisco Martinez de la Vega.

1. Francisco Martinez de la Vega, writer for Siempre, Mexican leftist magazine, said that Colonel Eduardo Estrada Ojeda, in the police headquarters where Victor Rico Galan and others were being held after their arrest on charges of subversion, had been instructed to permit Rico Galan to receive packages from his wife.

2. Elena Garro, writer, told Mrs. Rico Galan that she was going to speak to Minister of Interior Luis Echeverria to persuade him to ensure that Rico Galan would not be manhandled by the police during the interrogation.

3. She also expressed skepticism about the whole affair, saying that it was a farce and that she believed that many of those arrested with Victor had been paid to make the statements attributed to them.

Field Comment: An unsigned article titled “New Conspiracy?” appeared on page 8 of Siempre. It presented briefly an account of the arrest of and charges against Rico Galan; belittled what it termed the periodic paroxysms of patriotism which seize the Mexican police and lead to such arrests; then went on to suggest that Rico Galan, a political journalist accustomed to expressing his ideas in signed articles, could hardly be thought of as a conspirator. The article concluded with a plea for respect both for Rico Galan's constitutional rights and for the rights of a free journalism.

Headquarters Comment: This article appeared in issue no. 687, dated 24 August 1966, of Siempre.

1. Elena Garro, Mexican playwright and novelist, was formerly married to Octavio Pan Lozano, prominent Mexican poet.
