"HAMBURG ÜBER DIE LUCRATIVÄITÄ" (V.B.U.I.)

November 19, 1963: “How the Anti-Communist Fight Goes.” A summary is made of the anti-Communist struggle in Asia, which is synthesized in the Indonesian events. There, anti-communism is gaining force day by day. And in South Vietnam, where the U.S. Army has just gained a great victory, violating the principle of defending the integrity of South Vietnam. In the Americans, we can quote from the brave speech delivered by Brazilian President Marshal Castelo Branco (Marshall Castello Branco), who called for a revision of the old concepts of political intervention and creating that of counter-intervention against Communism. Lastly, we point out that the voice of arms rang out in Cuba with an attack against the Cuban coastline, which evidenced the Cubans’ fighting spirit against Communism.

“Back to Popular-Front Tactics.” It is announced that the Kremlin is returning to its policy of popular fronts, which was in vogue back in the 30s. Some of the results of this policy were Italy’s “entente” with Hitler and Mussolini to put an end to the Spanish Republic. In France, after undermining its institutions and demoralizing the French people by means of the Popular Front, the Kremlin concocted the Nazi-Soviet agreement that unleashed the Second World War. This time, the whole thing is aimed at the Americas and the change is announced in Havana. This is the new wrapping of continent-wide conversion, and the purpose is to create an atmosphere of confidence and, eventually, to betray the Communists’ democratic and Catholic allies, as well as everyone else who is naive enough to join the Popular Fronts.

November 20, 1965: “A Tribute to Cuban Heroes.” A political, moral, military, and revolutionary evaluation of the Cuban patriots’ attack against the Eighth Police Precinct, the Riviera Hotel, and the house of puppet President Dorticós (Forticos). In the article, it is indicated how Castro, even though he spends hundreds of millions of dollars to accomplish invulnerability, found out overnight that he is far from invulnerable to a naval attack perpetrated by a group of Cubans who wielded nearly inefficient weapons. Castro’s wrath over the failure of his espionage network knew no limits. We pay homage to the heroes who, with their action on Cuba, saluted the other heroes: the ones that
