Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position being reviewed. In proper perspective, state relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Ample space to explain retainer given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Names of persons responsible for supervisory duties and cost control effectiveness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if not clear. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Flores is a part-time staff employee who works a maximum of 19½ hours per week while attending university full-time. In August 1967 he will obtain his bachelor's degree in political science. He will revert to full-time employment upon finishing his university studies and will be recommended to the Office of Training for admission in the CT class beginning November 1967.

The limitations imposed by part-time employment have prevented us from assigning Mr. Flores to jobs within the branch such as the monitoring of active field cases which require close, daily attention. However, he is qualified for this type of duty. His performance in the duties described above is excellent. He accomplishes his tasks quietly and efficiently with a minimum of guidance from his supervisor. Because he is bilingual in Spanish and English he is of great use to the Branch in screening quickly and accurately materials which are of counter-intelligence interest.

Mr. Flores agency work background, coupled with his formal education about to be completed and his own desire to make a career in intelligence make him an extremely valuable employee, one in whom the Agency should not hesitate to invest time and money for the advancement of his career training.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: June 14, 1967. Signature of employee: J. Bruce L. By supervisor: B.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date. Official title of supervisor. Type or printed name and signature. DC/WH/COG/CICS. Carl Trettin.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of Reviewing Official: I would rate Mr. Flores essentially the same as Mr. Trettin. I wish to stress that, although young and inexperienced in intelligence work at the present time, the potential is certainly there. After CT training Mr. Flores should be a fine, dedicated and competent officer.

Date. Official date of reviewing officer: Parly Mahoney (Barry Mahoney). C/WH/COG/CICS. Barry Mahoney.
