3. Scholarships to American universities this year will be $80–95 to highly qualified exiles who have signed a pledge to return to their homelands after liberation.

4. Textbooks to replace Communist textbooks are being prepared in stockpile and manuscript form.

5. The Mid-European Law Project, which digests and annotates current legislation from the Iron Curtain countries.

6. The East European Accessions List, which publishes a monthly annotated bibliography of current published material from the satellites received in the Library of Congress.

d. Free Europe University in Exile — Budget for fiscal year 1953 — $637,231

Two hundred exile students, all escapees, are provided with board and lodging at the University in Strasbourg. Each student attends the University of Strasbourg for his or her formal education. The Free University, in addition to providing board, lodging, and tuition, conducts courses and seminars dealing with the countries of origin of these exile escapees. The University operates on the theory that these young people are being equipped for future leadership after liberation.

e. Research and Publication Service — Budget for fiscal year 1953 — $500,522

The Committee for Research and Publications was created in November 1951 to make available in currently useful form information about the satellite countries. It gathers information from four basic sources:

1. The analysis of 270 Communist newspapers and periodicals;

2. RFE’s overseas information-gathering network;

3. Monitoring reports from all major satellite radio stations.

4. The analysis of the 10,000 publications from the satellite area received annually by the Library of Congress.

The compiled information is used in the following ways:

a) Within RFE — daily digest of all Iron Curtain information. These are prepared for the use of RFE’s New York language desk;

b) Weekly trend meetings by RFE — RFS desk heads to discuss the interpretation and use in radio programming of events in the Iron Curtain countries;
