The Division. In addition, the possibility was discussed in general terms of utilising Tichborn (P) in another capacity within the Division; this was in connection with a Benishev project going program of setting up anti-Castro groups throughout the area. This, however, was only mentioned as a secondary idea. If Subject were utilized in the student professor field, he would perhaps also be called upon from time to time to assist in political matters (such as assessing the political scene as he has done in the past, assisting in election activities, etc.) throughout Latin America on a more or less one-time basis. Employment by WHD of Tichborn (P) in the student field would be on a half-time basis, and Tichborn (P) would accept the job offer with the TV film company in Mexico City mentioned in paragraph 2 above as legitimate employment which would also serve as cover.

7. Mr. Collins, C/CA, suggested that we might also consider him in connection with a new political grouping of liberal, democratic, anti-Communist political parties throughout Latin America which is presently under consideration. Mr. Collins felt, and rightly so, that this operation would permit the full utilization of Tichborn's (P) talents in the political field. Consequently, I checked out this possibility with Mr. Peany, who agreed that he would be an excellent choice for such an assignment. He suggested that I talk about this possible project in more detail with Mr. Harlow Duffin of WH/I, which I did. Mr. Duffin stated that this operation is still in the preparatory stage and that a project must be approved, etc., which would take a minimum of 10 days to two weeks. (This idea was recently suggested by Adolfo Borie to C/WH, and a seeder was sent to all WH field stations. The question of whether such a group would be under the control of State or CIA was resolved on 12 May and is under our jurisdiction.) Once this project is set up, the position for which Tichborn (P) would qualify (sort of a liaison between the various parties comprising this grouping) would be full-time and would probably be based in Caracas. The scheduling for this project is still vague at the moment, and it has also not been determined whether this slot would be filled by a staff employer or by a contract agent. In other words, the timetable and details are still uncertain. Nevertheless, with the consent of WHD, I suggested this job possibility to Tichborn (P) in vague terms (that it would be full-time, would be on a higher level, would be in the strictly political field, and that he would probably be based in Caracas if he were accepted in this connection).
