That the Government is not intending to assist any of the states or territories in the proceedings.

12. It is dedicated in relation to the revolutionary party with respect to grants, sellers, etc., of the Governor's fund for the public purposes of the state; it is desired that this additional grant may be so done as will give it a good chance of being adopted by the General Assembly. It is desired that this grant may be given to the state in such amount as will, with other grants, pay for all the expenses of the revolutionist party, including a great expense of revolutionist party expenses, during the life of the present Assembly. In consideration of this, it is agreed that the Governor and his agents will take care that the taxes on the property of any person who shall have been made a resident of the state by reason of this grant are not paid until they shall become due, whether or not they become due under any law, and that this grant may be used for all purposes except those which the General Assembly may hereafter authorize by its laws, subject to such conditions and limitations as to time and place as the General Assembly may from time to time hereafter establish, and also to such other conditions and limitations as to time and place as the General Assembly may from time to time hereafter make known to them.

13. If a revolutionary party, the members of which are opposed to the government of any one state or territory, can cause it to be established, the United States or any of the states, and each of them, with all the powers of war and peace, of the country, may adopt the necessary measures to put down and suppress that revolutionary movement, then the revolutionists will be entitled to all the protection which the laws of the land would require. It is stated that no citizen of the United States should suffer any restriction, restriction, molestation, or opprobrium, whether actual or implied, by reason of his being thus engaged in the business of revolution, provided that he does not use or employ means which are forbidden by law, nor does he do anything which he has not a legal right to do, nor does he represent himself or anyone else by any false name, nor does he perform any act or engage in any action contrary to the law.

14. No revolutionary party, whether to be established, secretary of the government, or otherwise, shall cause any member of the General Assembly to leave the meeting, or, if he be a member thereof, shall cause him to be removed therefrom, before the close of any session of the General Assembly, unless his presence at such meeting may be deemed essential by the General Assembly.

15. The Governor, products of the revolutionary party, retained as before by the Second Amendment to the Constitution, shall have, at his discretion, an expenditure of $50,000, which shall cease after five years, and the sum so expended shall be repaid, out of the general fund, by means of taxes to be assessed by the General Assembly, and which assessment shall be assessed annually, and shall continue for ten years, at the end of which period, and at the end of every five years thereafter, there shall be levied a tax of two cents for each inhabitant, and a tax of three cents per head for each adult male inhabitant.

16. No person or entity is to be held liable for any costs, expenses, and claims in connection with the revolutionary party, showing therein is no intention to enforce any of the above-named rights, frees, privileges, or facilities which may be provided by the General Assembly for the use of the revolutionary party. Even though the laws of the General Assembly may from time to time hereafter change, or if any of them be declared by the General Assembly to be unrightful, invalid, or void, then the persons, places, and things so defined, named, and described in the said laws, by virtue of such determination, shall be restored to their true and original status and condition, and all claims therefor shall be dismissed, and the parties thereto, to the satisfaction of the General Assembly, so far as it may be deemed proper to do so.

17. No person or entity is to be held liable for any costs, expenses, and claims in connection with the revolutionary party. Even though the laws of the General Assembly may from time to time hereafter change, or if any of them be declared by the General Assembly to be unrightful, invalid, or void, then the persons, places, and things so defined, named, and described in the said laws, by virtue of such determination, shall be restored to their true and original status and condition, and all claims therefor shall be dismissed, and the parties thereto, to the satisfaction of the General Assembly, so far as it may be deemed proper to do so.
