Section C. Narrative Comments. April 12.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Bagley is an exceptionally skilled officer in the CE field. His knowledge of the Soviet intelligence services is almost unique in the Agency. After accomplishing the assigned task of reorganizing his Branch into a streamlined and operationally active unit, Mr. Bagley is now in the process of actively directing the planning and implementation of an aggressive effort on a world-wide basis against the Soviet intelligence services. Although in his present position only four months, he has shown considerable imagination and initiative. He carries out his managerial duties in a proficient manner. He does, however, tend to avoid necessary but perhaps unpromising tasks. Inclined to be intolerant of those who do not meet the high standards he sets for himself, Mr. Bagley can be uncompromising in professional matters to the detriment of his relationships with others.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date. Signature of Employer: Tennent H. Bagley.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 4 months.

If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation.

Date. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Operations and Plans, SR Division. Typed or printed name and signature: Edward D. Goloway.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

This employee is a dedicated and hard-driving operational specialist whose performance in the field on his last tour is well known and respected in the highest Clandestine Services levels. His services were sought after by this Division as Chief of its CI Branch. He was instructed to reorganize and redirect the Division's CI effort and to reorganize the Branch into an aggressive operational unit. He has tackled this with his characteristic aggressiveness and competence and has done extremely well in this undertaking. He has perhaps not paid as much attention to “channels and chains of command” as he should, but I believe he understands the importance of a little more tolerance along these.

Date. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, SR Division. Typed or printed name and signature: Howard J. Osborn.
