Central Intelligence Agency. Information Report. Country: Cuba. Report No. OO-B-3,168,139. Subject: Anti-Castro Attitude of ICP Personnel. Date distributed: 6 October 1960. Number of pages: Two. Date of information: September 1960 and earlier. Place and date acquired: Havana, September 1960 and earlier.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: U.S. national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the U.S. and has been located in Cuba for many years. Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.

1. As of September 1960 there appear to be some significant developments occurring among personnel of the staff of the Cuban Petroleum Institute. The Institute has commissioned a building of Esso (Ecoo) Standard Oil SA for use as headquarters, and is currently engaged in mixing the personnel of all three intervened oil companies in the new headquarters.

2. The shuffling around of personnel has further lowered the morale of the petroleum industry employees, and I have been told that 95% are strongly in favor of the companies and against the Castro regime.

3. Since ICP established its new offices, indoctrination sessions of employees have been scheduled on a twice-a-week basis. The first session was held recently and was concerned with the “Colored Problem of the World.” The gist of the remarks of the conference leader was that Cubans were of Spanish ethnic origin, and because of the close ties of Spaniards and the Moors for so many hundreds of years it had to be realized that all Cubans had colored blood, and should not make a distinction and should have no prejudices concerning people with colored blood.

4. The second indoctrination session was headed by an overt Communist from the Texas Company. He delivered the straight Party Line, anti-U.S., anti-imperialist, anti-monopoly, “The Soviet Union is the great hope of the world for peace,” and only Communist ideology will survive, etc.

5. He also stated that, “The Declaration of Havana of Fidel Castro will be our doctrine,” and said that it was desired to obtain the signatures of the whole population of Cuba to show that everyone was behind this doctrine. He then said in response to a question regarding what would happen to those who did not sign, “You are either for us or against us.”

6. At this, one of the office girls who had been a strong Fidelista got up and remarked that such comments reminded her of the Batista days, and she strongly disapproved of any pressure tactics.
