Section D. Narrative comments: Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Wigren received a well-deserved promotion during this reporting period and moved in August to become the Staff Publications Officer. He made solid progress in the early part of the reporting period in making the transition from the narrow sphere he occupied in the previous Staff organization to the much more varied and challenging duties of the External Branch. By the time he left that position he had mastered its peculiar problems and proven his capability to manage its unusual personnel effectively and productively. He has retained responsibility for exploitation of the most useful asset in that branch and recently conducted the asset on a series of liaison visits which has resulted in a significant advance of our CI relations with the services concerned.

He has moved vigorously into the function of Publications Officer, which is one of the most important activities in the Staff. He was selected for this assignment because of his deep CI experience, writing ability, and his mature judgment in selecting and preparing CI information appropriate to various audiences. Cost-effective influences which he faces by participation in local government are also applied in his Agency work. He deals confidently with senior officers of the Staff and other components and gets the best effort out of his subordinates. His present assignment is tailor-made for him, and he exhibits no significant weakness in performing it.

Section E. Certification and comments.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 20. Date: 6 December 1976. Official title of supervisor: Chief, CI/R&A. Typed or printed name and signature: Leonard McCoy.

By employee. The employee has not attached a statement concerning the supervisor's evaluation of his performance. Date: 6 December 1976. Signature of employee: Lee H. Wiggren.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the present assessment of Mr. Wigren's performance by the rating officer. As chief of the External Branch he turned in a highly satisfactory performance. In his present capacity, Staff Publications Officer, he is off to an excellent start. I believe the passage of time will demonstrate that Mr. Wigren's strongest points, never heretofore fully exploited, are in writing and supervising publications of counterintelligence materials. Already one of the new CI Staff monthly publications which he initiated some time ago is earning us plaudits from both domestic and foreign counterintelligence services. Mr. Wigren's work comes to my attention several times a week. I am most pleased that he is a member of the staff at this time. Date: 29 Dec 76. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, CI Staff. Typed or printed name and signature: George T. Kalaris.
