Office of Personnel.

2. Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties.

Directions: State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties to be performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of the specific duty. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty; do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others mainly based upon the same duty at a similar level of responsibility. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties. Be specific.

Examples of duties that might be rated: performing; has and uses area knowledge; conducts interrogations; giving lectures; develops new programs; prepares summaries; conducting seminars; analyzes industrial reports; translates German; writing technical reports; manages files; distributing sources; conducting external liaison; operates radio; keeps doors; netting; coordinates with other offices; drives truck; taking dictation; bites regulations; maintains air conditioning; sterilizing; prepares correspondence; evaluates significance of data.

For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if the supervisor considers it advisable, such as combined key and phone operation in the case of a radio operator.

Descriptive rating number: 1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty. 2. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty. 3. Performs this duty acceptably. 4. Performs this duty in a competent manner. 5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job. 2. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs. 7. Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Specific Duty No. 1: Conducting name checks to render case disposition. Rating number: 4.

Specific Duty No. 2: Alphabeticizing and filing index cards. Rating number: 4.

Specific Duty No. 3. Rating number.

Specific Duty No. 4. Rating number.

3. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Directions: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job.

Subject performed his duties effectively and competently. He gets along well with his fellow employees.
