EIR Communist Activities Files

Date: July 6, 1950

Source: Daily Worker

File No. 9100 Isaaac

Post Writer Admits All Korea Opposes Invasion

The Korean people are united behind the Liberation Armies from the North and are hostile to the American troops sent there by Truman's interventionist order, the New York Post's Far East expert, Harold R. Isaacs, admitted yesterday.

Isaacs' article gave the lie to the Post's own editorial line of support to the police-state regime of Syngman Rhee (III) and the Truman attack on Korea as an act to defend “democracy.”

Isaacs declared that the U.S. has “much more reason to count on general Korean hostility than on heroic support.” He admitted that “South Korean civilians have been infinitely harder hit by the American action so far” than by their fellow Koreans from the north.

The South Korean government was an “unpopular one in the election held only four weeks ago,” Isaacs said; “the regime of President Syngman Rhee (III) was decisively repudiated.”

Isaacs declared that the guerrilla movements in South Korea “could have operated only with a considerable measure of popular support,” and he acknowledged the “intense desire of all Koreans for reunification of their disunited country.”

To top this story, bristling with exposure of the imperialist nature of the Truman attack on Korea, and with evidence of the Korean people's awareness of their real enemy, the Post contracted the dishonest headline: “S. Koreans Don't Know Why Help Has Come.”

(In later editions the Post indicated its own awareness of the phantasm of this headline by dropping it. The new one complained: “Weak S. Korean Regime Hampers CIs at Front.”)

But Isaacs made clear that “if in China during the Japanese war the Americans had a friendly population on their side, this is by no means the case now in Korea.”

He concludes: “Even if the war remains localized, even a victory won in due course will be a temporary one, and such a victory will not be easily won.”

201-15446
