E. Preference to next assignment.

A. Describe probably the type of achievements preferred for next assignment.

I am interested in remaining in the “managerial cone” and in obtaining a position that will give me increased responsibility as well as career growth through promotion. Based on my experience and performance as Acting Chief of Station Managua for two months in 1968, Deputy Chief of Base Rio de Janeiro (Kid de Janeiro) for the last 10 months of my tour in 1972–73 and present assignment as Deputy Chief of Station Managua, I request assignment to a position which entails supervision of several employees and requires exercise of managerial skills and judgment. If assigned to another tour overseas, a position as Deputy Chief of Station in a medium to large size Station would be preferred. If assigned to Headquarters, I would like to work where an overview of the related operational and managerial activities can be experienced. If the above assignments are not available, a tour which would broaden my operational knowledge would be desired, i.e., St Division, China Ops activity or OTS.

B. Indicate if you desire to extend your current tour by checking in appropriate box. Also indicate preference for next regular assignment by inserting 1, 2, 3 or 4 (for 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th choice) in remaining boxes. Complete all alternate choices and options in all cases even though you are requesting an extension of your tour.

Extend tour 3 months at current station to 5 January 1976.

Be assigned to Headquarters for a tour of duty. Indicate your choice of division, staff or office. 1st choice: FI Staff. 2nd choice: SB Division. 3rd choice: WH Division.

Be assigned to another field station. Indicate choice of geographic area or specialization. 1st choice: WH Division. 2nd choice: EUR Division. 3rd choice: SB Division.

Return to my current station.

Prepare updating of personal security information in accordance with DOI-F 240-8 and forward under separate cover. Indicate date forwarded or to be forwarded.

To be completed by field station.

7. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee and his preference for next assignment, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training:

Given his steady, reliable and productive performance, every effort should be made to accommodate his expressed preferences. There can be no doubt that by temperament and experience he would be of greater value to the Organization in the field rather than at Headquarters, but a tour at Headquarters does appear timely now, following the past 5 years in the field. I do not honestly know how he will perform in Staff work, being a Field Station activist, but the experience should have a further broadening effect upon him.

To be completed by appropriate Headquarters office.

8. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee, his preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of your component, indicate your component’s recommendation for his next assignment and training.

Subject has been approved for assignment to Headquarters, LA/COG.

Date: 24 Jul 7&TE. C/LA/Pers. Signature: H. L. Berthold.

For use by Career Service.

9. Approved assignment.

To employee notified by dispatch No. dated.

Cable No. dated.

Career Service representative.
