Lionel Morrison (Morrisson) and Richard Gibson

Morrison says Richard Gibson is running for him because he is too involved with Gibson's wife Sara. Morrison had had an affair with Sara when he was working for the “Afro-Asian Journalist” and was visiting London. Gibson had found out and told a member of the P.A.C. about it. He in turn told Morrison, and he told Sara. She challenged her husband and asked how he dared spread rumours about her. Once before she had walked out on him.

2. Morrison said Gibson was worried because he did not know exactly what information Morrison had about him. There was a confrontation between the two at a meeting of the Race Relations Institute, at which Gibson refused to sit with Morrison. Morrison asked him on that occasion to report the matter to “his masters,” implying that Gibson was an agent provocateur.

3. Morrison says Sara told him that they live far above their means but are never in debt, and she could not understand it. That is why she had started a nursery school and no longer did any work for Gibson. Previously she had taken part in a number of Gibson's activities, for instance “the LANCHAMDA attempt to break up the Vietnam Solidarity Campaign.”

4. Once Gibson went to the Foreign Press Association claiming that Morrison had forged an application form and was not working for “Zanzibar Mail” (”Zanziban Mail”). Morrison is now a weekly contributor to that paper but was not when he first applied to the P.P.A. Morrison says that at present Gibson and his wife are on holiday for two months in Italy.

A secret and reliable source states that Tariq Ali is certain that Gibson is working for the Americans. He claims that the Chinese have documentary proof of this, and for that reason they removed him from the editorial board of “Revolution,” the Paris magazine they were financing. Gibson had then come to London.

2. Tariq Ali says Gibson is very wealthy but no one knows where his money comes from. From time to time he hands out donations to sympathisers, saying that they are “on behalf of the Chinese.”

3. Tariq Ali also has suspicions that Robert Williams, “who was thrown out of both Cuba and Peking,” may be working for the C.I.A.
