Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions for the administrative office: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item B of Section A below.

Section A. General.

Name: MOORE, James W. Date of death: 5 Oct 1919. Sex: M. Service designation: OC. Office/division/branch of assignment: CO/Contact/Houston Office. Grade: B. Report due in: GS-14. Period covered by this report: 6 December 1957. Type of report: Annual. Reassignment/supplement: Reassignment-employer.

Section B. Certification.

For the rater: This report has been shown to the individual rated. A check appropriate statements. This report reflects my opinions of this individual. I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he can use them.

This date: 12 Dec. 1957. Supervisor's official title: E. RICST A. RISCHE, Chief, Houston Office.

For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

This date: 30 Dec '57. Type of printed name and signature of reviewing officer: E. M. ASHCRAFT. Official title of reviewing official: Chief,
