From 2230, 1 May (Saturday) to 0845, 2 May 1965.

2.0 Out to 09. Victor Rico Galan (VKG) with long-distance operator. VKG has been reporting in from the phone of a friend's house, but he is now at home. As soon as they have communication to Cuba, call him here. With Sr. Orlando Fundora or with Sr. Vinas, Radio Habana.

3.7 In, from long-distance. They still do not have communication with Cuba. Will he continue to wait? Yes.

4.0 In, from long-distance. Ask with whom VKG wants to talk to in Cuba: with Fundora or Vinas? Yes. VKG takes the phone. Says there is no one by the name of Fundora or Vinas in Radio Habana. Of course, they are the Director and Sub-Director of Radio Habana.

Finally gets through to Fundora. VKG says that they talked to Bosch last night, at 2330. VKG could not call him because the line was out to Cuba. Bosch made sensational declarations. MO will record it.

They change phones. They asked Bosch what his opinion was of the O.E.A. Commission. VKG did not talk, but a Dominican friend talked to Bosch. However, they recorded the conversation. Bosch said some important things. This friend asked Bosch what he thought of the O.E.A. Commission. Bosch said that O.E.A. and nothing are the same thing. Who talked to Bosch? Marcio Mejia Ricart. They then asked Bosch if the U.S. Marines had occupied the city. He said they had and had gotten as far as Avenida Nella, near the downtown area, but that the armed civilians forced them back to Avenida Maximo Gomez, about 3-1/2 kilometers back. Avenida Maximo Gomez is what one might call their combat line since it is the zone where the U.S. Embassy is. So, they made them return to their original back positions. This took place yesterday afternoon. But the most important thing—they asked Bosch what political solution Bosch saw. He answered, textually: “It appears that in Washington they are thinking of converting Santo Domingo into fideicomiso (Pideicomiso).” Then he commented ironically, “So we get out of colonialism into independence.” VKG says that this is of course very grave. As F. knows, there are two or three left in the world—of fideicomisos—in Southern Africa. This would be an unprecedented case: that they convert an independent country into a country under fideicomiso (protectorate). When Mejia Ricart asked if they, the U.S., wanted to convert “us into a colony,” Bosch replied that yes, into a colony but with 25,000 armed men. Civilians, of course. Bosch further said that “what the people had done was something extraordinary and that he had complete faith in the people.” H. did not want to say anything to provoke the uprising of the people because he, Bosch, is out of the country, “and from outside, this is a comfortable role. If I were inside I would take up the responsibilities.”

VKG had to pay the call since Fundora did not call him. VKG will be ruined; therefore, Fundora should always have a call in for VKG.

VKG will let him know when he has anything new.

F. asks what the situation is inside the Dominican Republic. There is nothing new. They are expecting a call from the Dominican Republic today. VKG may have something in two hours. In this case, VKG will call. F. will then call VKG back at 2300, Havana time, or 2200, Mexico time. Or 0900, 1000 hours.

From 0845 to 1230, 2 May (Sunday) 1965.

13.2 In, 00 asks maid, who answers, for VKG.

Keel 72-KIGO-26.
