Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current performance of the employee. Give recommendations for improvement. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Dispatch MMHT-5685 dated 13 August 1965 from COS, Mexico City. In view of the fact that Subject's recent survival at Mexico Station was done while he was on TDY, this Station is not in a position to prepare a fitness report covering Subject's performance for the period. Since he was absent from Headquarters, it is felt that he might possibly not be credited for his fine work unless the Station expresses its views.

Subject plunged into work with the PRRUMEN Section immediately upon arrival and was given a wide variety of assignments ranging from surveillances on a rainy street at 4:00 a.m. to the preparation of operational reviews. He was given a number of existing agent assets to handle with a minimum of overlap with the previous case officer. He performed very well in every instance. He is able, enthusiastic, and capable of carrying a large workload. His colleagues in the office and his agents and contacts outside found him a pleasure to work with. The only weakness noted during his TDY assignment was in his written work—a tendency to be unclear—but this is something the Station is certain he can work out satisfactorily and it is not a serious shortcoming.

Mr. Piccalo returned to Mexico City PCS 29 September 1965.

Certification and Comments. Certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Signature of employee. By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Employee had left the Station and will be shown report upon his return to HQS. Date: 13 August 1965. COS, Mexico City.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official. Date: 13 August 1965. Official title of reviewing official: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: Winston M. Scott /s/.
