Gloria is a very attractive and vivacious woman of 40 or 45 years. She is the center of gravity of a group of tennis enthusiasts, ranging in age from Reche, Gloria’s daughter, of 19 or 20, to Licenciado Preciado (Licerciado Prociado), a deputy from PAN, of perhaps 65 years or more. It is doubtful that Gloria would encourage an affair with Valentin. Her interest in Val is probably that of everyone else’s: as a Soviet, he is a novelty. He is also probably attractive to women who like brutish men. Gloria, however, is married to a very soft-spoken and considerate person.

Extent of Social Concourse. It seems likely that Val and Gloria and their families have come together socially at intervals. It is doubtful that they are intimate friends, but likely that they (the Pintos) are the closest friends that Val has among the Mexicans.

Val’s Interest in Gloria. Val’s interest in Gloria is probably more complex than her interest in him. First, he probably has entertained the possibility of an affair with Gloria. Val has spoken frequently of his interest in girls. Gloria could easily be a sexual target for Val—self-appointed, of course.

Further, Gloria organizes tennis groups and informal tournaments. Through her, Val is likely to meet a number of Mexicans.

It seems highly unlikely that Val would try to recruit either Gloria or Pepe. They enjoy a fairly luxurious life, Pepe being a fairly successful physician. Neither Pepe nor Gloria take life seriously enough to become intellectual communists. Philosophy is certainly not their reading of choice during idle hours. Gloria is primarily interested in sports. She was national champion of water-skiing several years in a row. Now she is devoting herself to tennis, which she plays reasonably well. Dancing is probably her next great interest. In my opinion, she does not have sufficient time left to devote to Marxism, economics, or politics. She seems particularly ill-informed about politics.

First Returns. Pepe returned from four weeks in Europe last Tuesday, November 26th. Their son, Pepito, traveled with him.
