“I am always struck by,” Grippa said, “for instance, of Guillermo Cabrera Infante, the Cuban Cultural Attaché in Brussels, whom I know very well, that he’s an anti-Communist.” Which is true. He is a nationalist. And that’s the one thing that keeps him there. But he and many of the people like Carlos Franqui and around Carlos Franqui and Haidee (Haydée) Santamaria, her husband, who is the Minister of Education, they are liberal in their views about the arts, they are non-dogmatic, non-doctrinaire, Leftist if you will, but Leftist by situation and circumstance. They represent, if there is anyone in Washington who still has a sober mind, who is not completely filled with venom and frustration about Cuba, they would, I think, represent the real hope of reaching a modus vivendi in the future. They are the real heirs, I think, the people who will take over. I do not think the PS can do it. They have the mass support in the country behind them. If anything ever happens to Fidel and there is the slightest suspicion that it was done by a Communist, there wouldn’t be a Communist left alive on the Island in five hours. There were many people who felt that the Communists would have liked to do this. At one time it became almost a hysterical rumor spread around that the Communists wanted to kill Fidel.

The bitterness that I found against the old Communists was because they were compromised with Batista. Even now, this explains their pro-Chinese stand. But that can’t go very far, either, because they are not doctrinaire. The Chinese have been extremely flexible in dealing with Cuba—they can’t offer them very much and they can’t push them, so they have been easy-going.

The handling of the October crisis between the Russians and the United States, when they got together over the heads of the Cubans, was an insult. Being a small and semi-colonial country—it was a colony—it has an exaggerated sense of its national rights. This was, in terms of Cuba, not the situation in general, for the reasons it was the only way to solve the October question, it seemed to be the only way, but in the terms of Cuba that was one of the grave mistakes of the Russians: the way they handled it. They didn’t seem to soften the blow for the Cubans.

“They’re very sensitive people.”

Right. And they’ve never forgotten it. They have nourished lots of hopes about DeGaulle (De Gaulle) and the possibility of trade with France. Trade is increasing, but they’ve tried desperately to get DeGaulle (De Gaulle) to visit Cuba, which he wouldn’t do. He would do lots of things against Washington, but there are certain limits (laughing), and that’s one of them.
