GUTIERREZ's Report on HARBIN and ITKIN

Introduction

HARBIN is a well-built man with little evidence of fat. He always wore a vest. He spoke fluent Spanish and could have been of Polish or Russian family background. HARBIN always drank tea, never coffee. He appeared affluent with a professorial air about him.

Following an initial meeting, ITKIN alleges that he and HARBIN met periodically in New York City. ITKIN alleges that he passed to HARBIN copies of the correspondence developed by his law firm, Delson, Levin and Gordon, dealing with Indonesia, Burma, and India. ITKIN left that law firm in mid-1957, presumably thereby losing total access. Among the materials ITKIN claims he passed to HARBIN before he left the Delson, Levin and Gordon firm was information he picked up from a friend who worked at the United Nations for the Government of El Salvador. This friend was Luis E. GUTIERREZ (see biographic sketch, Attachment A). ITKIN claims that he became very friendly with GUTIERREZ, who was studying either at New York University or Columbia where he prepared a master's thesis on El Salvador's economic position. HARBIN, he says, was interested in the topic and ITKIN alleges he furnished HARBIN notes of GUTIERREZ' monograph.

Sometime presumably after mid-year 1957, HARBIN asked ITKIN if he knew anybody else who could do (intelligence) work. ITKIN recalled GUTIERREZ, who meanwhile had moved to the position as Consul General of El Salvador in New Orleans, Louisiana. HARBIN—ITKIN says—accepted the suggestion and ITKIN provided an introduction for HARBIN by letter, which he sent to GUTIERREZ in New Orleans. ITKIN asserts that HARBIN—according to his own statement—went to New Orleans and made the “new contact.” ITKIN claims he last saw HARBIN in 1960.

3. A comparison between the key points of ITKIN's account as summarized in the immediately preceding paragraph with the data set out in Attachment A and E will show immediate contradictions that tend to destroy any credibility in ITKIN's account, particularly with respect to his relationship to GUTIERREZ. We also point out, solely for your information, that we have found no confirmation in our records of any relationship between this Organization and ITKIN during the period 1954-1960. No traces have been found in our records or anywhere in government thus far of a Philip HARBIN, and there is explicit denial that there was any meeting in Philadelphia in 1954 between ITKIN and the high officials he nominates. Finally, there is no substantiation in our files of any of the intelligence product which ITKIN allegedly passed to HARBIN. This case, however, is of such a nature that we must strive, if possible, to have GUTIERREZ' own statement for the record.

4. We leave to the Station determination of the best manner to approach GUTIERREZ. It is our preference that a Station officer, under suitable cover, perform the interview, but it may well be that a consular or embassy officer might be the best person to do the job. We repeat that we are concerned in this matter solely with the verification or denial of ITKIN's statements, specifically the allegation that he introduced HARBIN to GUTIERREZ in New Orleans and that as a consequence GUTIERREZ would be in a position to identify and describe HARBIN in a way that would permit us to locate him if he exists. The request for GUTIERREZ' assistance in this matter is in no way predicated upon hostility towards ITKIN nor is there any predisposition against his claims if indeed evidence is found to back them up. If GUTIERREZ indicates that he is willing to provide whatever information he can, you can assure him that his information is solely for U.S. Government use and will not be made public by us at any time without his expressed consent. Also, it is clear that we are prepared to accept his decision to give no assistance in the matter.
