The validity of the information he has provided. To get such information he would have to be a KGB staff officer, must have worked in both the American and Tourist Departments as he says he did, and must have been a fairly senior officer with broad responsibilities (in view of the number of Tourist Department operations revealed by name in his 1964 notes). To name a few other examples from among hundreds possible:

(a) Nosenko not only knew the identity of a KGB double agent against CIA, Belitsky, but gave checkable details from inside the case, including the names by which the CIA case officers identified themselves to the double agent;

(b) Nosenko was able to report, with almost complete accuracy, that CIA ceased clandestine letter-mailings inside the Soviet Union for over a year after the arrest of Russell Lancelle in late 1959;

(c) He identified several Americans recruited or approached by the KGB in operations in which he said he did not directly participate, including “Andrey” (Dayle Smith), Sergeant Robert Johnson, and Henry Shapiro;

(d) Nosenko knew inside information on Americans at the embassy in Moscow, including operational activities of John Abidian, Winters’ mailing of a letter to Popov, the homosexuality of two diplomatic officers, etc.; and

(e) He knew certain details of the story of Aleksandr Cherepanov which would not have been available outside the KGB staff.

Thus there would not be any great need nor much room for embellishment.

The confirmations of others. He appeared before Bategoorn and other KGB targets as a “chief,” and sensitive sources confirmed Nosenko’s unusual importance: that he was a Deputy Department Chief in the KGB, that his defection was a severe blow to Soviet Intelligence, that he was more important than Penkovskiy (PENKOVSKIY), and so on. A Soviet journalist told Paris Watch that Nosenko’s defection was the greatest loss ever suffered by Soviet Intelligence. Two sources reported the recall to Moscow of many KGB staffers as a result of the defection, and these officers did indeed return to the Soviet Union.

Thus any embellishment must concern only minor details such as his rank, which he has already admitted.

d. Combination of Above

Another possibility might be that Nosenko’s poor performance was due to a combination of bad memory, psycho-pathologically selective memory, and embellishment. While this theory is intrinsically more logical and might correct and round off some obvious weaknesses in any one of the
