B. DAVIDOVICH left the Institute in 1971 to go to Algiers for two years, before taking his final examinations, but returned after one year to take these exams and to graduate. He speaks French, English and German.

C. In 1972, he married Nataliya (maiden name unknown), who is from Yevpatoria (in the Crimea), and is a graduate of the French Department of the Institute. In 1972, he also entered the Army but was discharged by a commission three months later due to a nervous disorder. To an ordinary person this would mean never being able to go abroad again. But in 1975, Source heard that DAVIDOVICH was in fact leaving the country again, with his wife, going possibly to Guinea or to Ghana. When asked how he managed this despite his record of illness, DAVIDOVICH told Source that his medical problem was curable and that he was now well. Source thinks that DAVIDOVICH is most likely working for the KGB, at least as a co-opted agent.

3. FISHMAN, Yakov Iosifovich. Born in about 1950. He was a neighbor of Source for 15 years. FISHMAN's father, Iosif, and a brother live in New York. Two days before Source's departure FISHMAN asked him to transmit the following information to authorities in the West. In 1973, FISHMAN served as a sergeant (serzhant) in a strategic missile unit 4 kilometers from the poselok (settlement) of Novobelokorovichi, Zhitomir Oblast'. This unit was armed with medium-range strategic rockets targeted against Munich. Twenty-four kilometers from this unit was another battalion with the same type of rockets, targeted against Frankfurt. These units were part of the 82nd Rocket Division of the Vinnitsa "Rocket Army." While assigned to this battalion, FISHMAN traveled to a rocket-connected manufacturing and repair plant at poselok of Kolosov near Minsk, and the poselok of Bataysk in Rostov Oblast'. The pickup points at both of these places were underground. FISHMAN wants to leave the USSR, but when he tried to apply, the officials would not even accept his papers because of his having been in the rocket troops.

4. KOROBOCHKIN, Leonid Ivanovich. Born in about 1943. Graduated from the Institute with Anatoliy Aleksandrovich AKSENOV (KGB operations officer in Minsk and a friend of the Source). KOROBOCHKIN'S father, born in 1902, is now a retired Air Force colonel and has been a Party member since 1921. KOROBOCHKIN was in the Army for one year and worked for the Belorussian Philharmonic Symphony for a year. He cannot find a good job but is trying to become a truck driver with the idea of driving the USSR-West European routes and then defecting. KOROBOCHKIN despises the Soviet government and system. He was one of three people, including Source, involved in a plot to
