II. Activities

1. Publications Project: The immediate editing of a volume on the founding Berlin Congress. Most of the material is already available in three languages: French, English, and German. This will be completed in the next month by the transitional Congress Bureau in Berlin. Herbert Muhlen is assisting in putting out the special double number of “Der Monat” on the Congress, which may be a kind of experimental model. François Bondy is returning to work out a table of contents and an editorial approach to the Congress volume.

2. Pamphlet Project: The immediate preparation and publication in many languages of a simple, straightforward brochure (12–34 pages) on “What is the Congress for Cultural Freedom?” It should be illustrated; should tell the story of the Berlin sessions; should print the Manifesto of Intellectual Liberty (and possibly a revised, improved message to the East); should outline a plan of Congress work to be followed and point to the future. This is essential for CONGRESS sympathizers, for the press, and for the public in general. The Editorial Director (Bondy) can be assigned to prepare a draft for revision and approval in September.

3. Investigation Project: The first of a series of White Book reports on the situation of cultural freedom. Sileno has recommended, and the CONGRESS has announced, a documented account of the writer, artist, and scientist in the countries behind the Iron Curtain (an account which the USCC, because of its governmental connections, cannot do). An immediate beginning should be made with the appointment of a Research Chief for this project, responsible for working out an editorial plan and contacting sources for information; this project chief should have the sociological and journalistic qualifications of men like Loewenthal and Muhlen (and Peter de Mandelsohn).

4. Protest Project: The CONGRESS should, with the specific signatures of its leading supporters, keep in the forefront of public attention, by taking up via the press, open meetings, debates, etc., cases of flagrant violations of the principles of the CONGRESS as stated in the Manifesto and other documents. The CONGRESS cannot, to be sure, become an international civil-liberties union, but it can speak out on special issues (purge of a university, liquidation of a scientist, arrest of a writer, etc.).

5. Break-in Project: The CONGRESS should, by means both of information and agitation, keep alive the difference between those who are choosing freedom and those who are willingly or unknowingly supporting totalitarianism and its deceits. The dramatic defection of Prof. Alfred Ober during the Congress Berlin session from the Soviet-controlled Academy of Science is an example of what can be done; this specific German movement is gathering strength; there have been another half-dozen resignations, and the news is spreading in Eastern Germany. This has also involved the world-famous
