Mentioned The Las Vegas Sun series but claimed that The Miami Herald and The Washington Post were both about to break stories linking INTERTEL with organized crime.

When Maheu hurriedly relinquished his palatial offices, which occupied one whole wing of the Frontier Hotel in Las Vegas, according to Al Pease, he took ten or twelve packing crates of records with him. In his haste, however, he appeared to overlook a box of 3 x 5 cards that were cross-references to some of these records. The INTERTEL investigation, under the guidance of Pease and the Hughes Tool Company attorneys, will undertake to establish as nearly as possible exactly what Maheu was doing with his time and with the Hughes fortune. The Hughes attorneys are proceeding on the basis that if Maheu in fact did have a “contract for life,” as he contends, then the Hughes Tool Company was entitled to 100 percent of his time and “true and faithful service.” At the outset and without the records, the INTERTEL staff hardly knew where to look or to begin, since they suspected kickbacks, siphoning of money into foreign numbered bank accounts, and the purchase of false mining claims, just to name a few.

Such investigation is costly and tedious, but INTERTEL hopes to develop and reconstruct Maheu’s pattern of activity from the date he gave up all of his other clients to work for the Hughes Tool Company (Howard Hughes) exclusively. Therefore, they will thoroughly scrutinize any and all private deals, foreign or domestic, looking for concealed assets, evidence of kickbacks or foreign numbered bank accounts, etc. Preliminary court action, except to accomplish Maheu’s removal, has been slow. Mr. Pease said that the Hughes Tool Company lawyers were in court in Las Vegas on April 18–20, 1971, but additional action or proceedings have been set down for June 25, 1971, and so it will probably continue ad infinitum.

With Hughes resources, he can hold out forever, but the general consensus is that Maheu is already beginning to feel the financial pinch. Pease reported that a recent new business, a consulting service opened by Maheu in Las Vegas, had flopped. It would appear that Maheu first became indirectly associated with Howard Hughes in the early 1950s, at a time when Hughes was entangled in extended Senate hearings with the then Senator Brewster of Maine. Maheu did some subcontract investigative work developing material which Mr. Hughes used during these hearings. If it has any significance or bearing on any current problems, Mr. Robert J. Flynn, a former Agency employee, could supply all details.
