OCLA 2555

Also, as noted in the discussion on motivation, he has been receiving funds since January with only GOFFEA to give as a source. His wife, who is a conscientious leftist, is presently suspicious of his activities, he says, largely because he received a phone call from FASS/IEU London in January. It explained it was a FEPRISEN journalist passing through who wished to talk with him, to which she was supposed to have retorted: “Why should someone from PEPRISE be interested in you, and, moreover, why should you be interested in working for anything or anyone from PEPRISE?” S/1 told RODCAST that the book-stopping effort initiated by LORD BOOTH did not fully dispel her skepticism. S/1’s reaction to the FLINTER examination on the question of “what his wife thinks” suggests that the matter is not laid to rest.

36. S/1 seems to be most concerned that his wife not find out he is working for CDYONE, let alone KUEBANK, and so pressure he has reason to feel she would probably say or do something, whether deliberate or not, that would compromise him in his present situation. We do not know the history of S/1’s marriage, but we have received indications from him that led us to believe he could not count on her discretion and loyalty in all circumstances. His relationship with his wife, therefore, must be watched with some care to insure that it does not comprise an undue hazard or that she does not become vulnerable in some way to forces inimical to his effectiveness in his work for EJUARK.

37. Aside from speculation about possible reproductions in this area of their marital relationship, there remains the question of cover for some $7,180 passed S/1 by KUEBANK in the past six months. His wife has been in the journalism business long enough to know that virtually unemployed journalists are not usually given travel and salary advances merely for the asking, especially when their press credentials are largely notional or the nominal sponsor has yet to go into publication. Thus, we have reason to believe she has some rather misleading doubts as to the legitimacy of S/1’s present cover job. This is implied in Paragraph 5 of the attachment of OKLA 43,272.

38. On 15 June S/1 told RODCAST his wife told him on the phone that a letter to him from MEN D warned him to be careful “as things might be ‘hot’ for him in Algeria.” MEN D had apparently heard of S/1’s forthcoming trip from contacts in New York and Paris, and S/1 surmises this means more of his summer’s travels must be rather common knowledge by now.

39. At TIEPPANY’s request S/1 let MEN E know he was in Paris, and S/1 says that the latter “came rushing around” to see him. S/1’s report on this contact was passed to the Paris Station 17 June by LCPITP. In the report is S/1’s assessment that MEN E would probably be willing to talk to RODCAST’s “service.” We shall discuss this case further with Paris Station, but in the meantime it should be noted for the record that as long as S/1 is said by many to be a KUEBANK agent, it would not be unreasonable to assume that MEN E might connect an approach by an OLYONG representative with his recent conversations with S/1. Therefore, the possibility of a flap here should not be ignored.

40. As far as S/1’s contacts with KUEBANK, he knows no one by true name and his case officer will continue to use an alias in all future contacts. At the same time, there is the ever-present danger that he may some day come to know RODCAST’s true name because of the number of acquaintances they have in common in Paris. It was largely for this reason that RODCAST will avoid holding future operational meetings with S/1 in Paris. RODCAST has already reported the rather unsettling experience of having S/1 tell him: “I think I’ve seen you someplace before.” RODCAST says this is quite possible. Were S/1 ever to stay in Paris for a considerable length of time, the chances are not remote that RODCAST’s identity would be compromised to S/1.
