B. However, Undersigned would like to suggest the following interpretation for whatever value may be in it. I suggest that money, per se, is not the primary end that Subject is striving for now, just as it never seemed to be his primary concern throughout his life. I believe that Subject genuinely enjoys clandestine operations, at least, his conception of clandestine operations. Subject probably would prefer to work for the AIS or possibly the W. German Service because he has a genuine fondness for the people and many aspects of the culture of both countries. The idea of legalized, or at least internationally tolerated, “spying” offers the opportunity to legitimize, and thereby rationalize, Subject’s compromise that he is protecting his equity in an important, unique, “professional” category.

C. Subject, during the period of Undersigned’s exposure, always considered that if he had money—fine; if not, then enough would come his way from someplace to sustain him from one venture to the next. Subject felt that the acquisition of money would be a by-product of his opportunist schemes and technical inventions in pursuance of his main goal—personal recognition for personal achievements and triumphs.

D. I believe Subject does not expect to be accepted in his offer of employment with the French Service, but rather to let our minds jump to the next logical step—the full meaning of the result of such an attempt on his part. Subject knows very well that he has violated his parole and would be incarcerated on his return. I believe his pride and the probability of censure and ridicule of family and friends in France would dissuade him in the final analysis.

E. Subject is a most excellent chess player. I have never won from him, nor have I ever seen him lose a game. I consider that Subject has thought this line of action out thoroughly. It is apparent that he is willing to gamble his quitclaim settlement on something that I believe he has specifically in mind—possibly the offer of new documents and identity in some third country. He has always had a great desire to “surprise” everyone back home, i.e., Paris, with new documents, a new identity, plastic surgery, etc. I do not believe that what he wants is necessarily more dollars, but rather for the AIS to once again help him, as co-partner, to achieve his aim of acclaim, success, and recognition, possibly this time to family and friends in France.

F. I do not believe that Subject could ever be physically intimidated. He lost half his front teeth to German interrogators and the other half to French prison guards. Additionally, he does possess a defiant spirit that sometimes comes through as sheer obstinacy to friends.

G. If it is considered worthwhile, I believe an attempt should be made to locate a C/O locally who has handled him in the past. A C/O for whom Subject has respect as a higher echelon and whom he considers understands him. I suggest that this C/O interview Subject in an uncontrolled environment to determine what it is that Subject
