E. Are you now or have you ever been a licensed or certified member of any trade or profession, such as pilot, electrician, radio operator, teacher, lawyer, CPA, etc.

No.

If yes, indicate kind of license and state.

First license or certificate (year). Latest license or certificate (year).

F. Give any special qualifications not covered elsewhere in your application, such as:

(1) Your more important publications (do not submit copies unless requested).

(2) Your patents or inventions.

(3) Public speaking and public relations experience.

(4) Honors and fellowships received.

(1) All written work in political economy was classified.

(2) None.

(3) None.

(4) None.

G. Have you a physical handicap, disease, or other disability which should be considered in assigning you to work? If answer is “yes,” explain:

None.

H. Do you receive an annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service? If answer is “yes,” give complete details:

None.

If you have not received complete compensation for military or naval service, specify how much, if any, you would be entitled to compensation for military or naval service that was not received by the time of departure from the United States or District of Columbia. If any, specify the amount. If no, specify why not. If yes, specify how much, if any, you would be entitled to compensation for military or naval service that was not received by the time of departure from the United States or District of Columbia. If any, specify the amount. If not, specify why not.

December 18, 1947, 10:53 a.m.

John Harris has been selected for service in the enlisted personnel section of the Air Corps. He will be serving in a defense position with the Air Corps. His personal record shows that before entering the Air Corps, John Harris has been selected for service in the enlisted personnel section. This means that before entering the Air Corps, John Harris was a member of a military or naval service unit. It is determined that John Harris will be entering the Air Corps as a member of a military or naval unit. It is also determined that he will be leaving the Air Corps. However, it is not possible to determine his previous employment based solely on this document because it contains insufficient information. Therefore, the best estimate can be made that John Harris 曾被分配到美国空军第116师第492团第1排。但是他的以前工作情况仍然未知。

John Harris has been selected for service in the enlisted personnel section of the Air Corps. His personal record shows that before entering the Air Corps, John Harris was a member of a military or naval service unit. It is determined that before entering the Air Corps, John Harris will be entering the Air Corps as a member of a military or naval unit. It is also determined that he will be leaving the Air Corps. However, it is not possible to determine his previous employment based solely on this document because it contains insufficient information.

The information current on the page is insufficient to perform the tasks assigned to the 兵工學員 position. The information is insufficient to determine John Harris’s previous employment. Therefore, it is determined that John Harris 曾 be entering the Air Corps as a member of a military or naval unit. It is also determined that he will be leaving the Air Corps.

The information current on the page is insufficient to perform the tasks assigned to the 兵工學員 position. The information is insufficient to determine John Harris’s previous employment. Therefore, it is determined that John Harris 曾 be entering the Air Corps as a member of a military or naval unit. It is also determined that he will be leaving the Air Corps. However, it is not possible to determine his previous employment based solely.
