Radically leftist-oriented Government. If allowed time, Duvalier may well succeed to turn the country into a new communist satellite and work out some agreements with communist countries. Here again, we should not fail to mention the new exchange of diplomatic representations between Haiti and some communist countries. The most significant one is the new appointment in Haiti of an Ambassador from Poland with whom, I was told, Duvalier is closely working.

Taking everything into consideration:

1. The nonexistence of any organized opposition in Haiti;

2. The state of noncohesiveness and distrust amongst the exiled political elements abroad, therefore nullifying any positive action from outside Haiti;

3. The fear of local politicians that, if outside forces were to come in, their safety and security would be very much at stake, therefore they should resist such intervention and do whatever is necessary to prevent it at all costs;

4. The fear of Duvalier's so-called followers that they may be eliminated upon mere suspicion, or just or unjust denunciations;

5. The middle and upper classes' sentiment that the U.S. is not working as it should to bring about the downfall of Duvalier and that the U.S. is even supporting the regime intentionally or unintentionally by not encouraging or allowing the opposition to organize itself;

6. The interpretation of the above classes, which are at a loss to understand the silence of the U.S. press in general for not having raised the usual indignation about the recent mass killings, therefore making room for the belief of a possible collusion by means of money or otherwise of Duvalier with said press, particularly the New York Times, to refrain from bringing these facts to the attention of international public opinion;

7. The strong belief that compromises have been worked out with President Balaguer in the Dominican Republic to return to Haiti all opponents of Duvalier who had fled there,

all this leads to believe that Duvalier will hold in power for quite a while more.
