Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This report is being written not by, but after consultation with, Subject's immediate supervisor, who is temporarily assigned elsewhere. The writer is one step removed from immediate supervision of Subject and has worked with him only since October 1969. In what follows, there is no difference of opinion between the supervisor and the writer, and statements not specifically attributed to one or the other represent the judgment and observation of both.

Subject is an experienced officer whose primary field, on-island agents, is by definition difficult and frustrating and has recently become more so owing to developments beyond his control. Despite this situation he has continued to support successfully the most productive Cuban in-place FI agent that the Agency has.

The compromise of a major on-island operation during the reporting period was due not to any deficiency on Subject's part but rather to a general lack of Agency control over the operation from its inception. In any case, it is to Subject's credit that he wrote a candid and thorough analysis and damage report on the case (Writer).

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 30 January 1970. Signature of employee: Joseph F. Piccolo.

Months employee has been under my supervision: Pls see above.

By Supervisor. Date: 30 January 1970. Official title of supervisor: Chief, WII/COG/OPS. Type or printed name and signature: Glenn O. Brown.

Comments of reviewing official: Based on 3 months' experience in dealing with subject, I have found him to be a thoroughly professional operations officer who shows good judgment and makes good use of his field experience in carrying out his function as COG's on-islands case officer. He performs with a minimum of supervision and is most perceptive in monitoring activities and events related to his area of activity. I believe Mr. Piccolo has considerable potential for moving up to more important positions.

Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, WII/COG. Type or printed name and signature: Wesley L. Laybourne.
