SC Att. #5 UFGA-26348

Economic Intelligence Report.

From the U.R. Economic Research Bureau.

Movimiento Unidad Revolucionaria (U.R.).

Mailing address: Box 3940, Miami, Florida. Phone: 373-8033.

Vol. II No. 4.

On November 22, 1966, Mr. Raúl Volta (VOLT.) Landá met with representatives of the press in Miami in order to discuss Cuban trade problems abroad and Cuban economic problems within. The ERB has felt that Mr. Volta's information will be of interest to all our readers, so therefore this issue of the Economic Intelligence Report contains the verbatim account of Mr. Volta's words.

Statement

My name is Raúl Volta (VOLT.) Landá, and until a few days ago I held the posts of Trade Counselor to the Cuban Embassy in London, Representative to the International Sugar Council, Representative to the International Coffee Organization, to the International Wheat Council, and Observer-Delegate to the International Wool Group.

On November 14th my wife and I were interviewed by the press in New York at which time we discussed the reasons that prompted our defection. The results of this conference have appeared in the press and therefore today I would like to discuss in some detail economic problems confronting Cuba today with which I am personally familiar and which, I hope, will be of interest to you gentlemen. In an effort to be brief and not take too much of your time, my friends here have been kind enough to reproduce some technical and detailed information on the following subjects: sugar, tobacco, the problem of convertible currency, problems with the lobster exports, and usurpation of registered trademarks. There is also attached a résumé of positions held since 1955.

From the economic point of view Castro's communist regime is well on the road to reaching a climax after having suffered one economic setback after another. Today Cuba's leading cash crop, sugar, can be termed a failure in the sense that due to a number of factors and particularly mismanagement in Cuba plus the low world price, it is unable to support the Cuban economy. The second most important cash crop, tobacco, similarly has been so mismanaged that today it is an unimportant earner of critically needed foreign exchange.

This economic chaos has forced the Cuban regime to increasingly desperate measures in order merely to survive. For example, meat, tobacco, eggs, fruit, vegetables, coffee, preserves, and shoes are some of the products that today are exported from Cuba in an attempt to earn the hard currency to purchase heavy machinery, locomotives, fishing boats, and all the rest necessary to maintain any semblance of an economy. An unfortunate result of this is that today there is a serious shortage of the proper foods throughout all of Cuba. There is rationing. The people have insufficient rice. Even citrus fruits have had to be rationed. Milk is in critically short supply. There are not enough shoes to go around. Coffee, long considered a necessity by the people, is sometimes unobtainable and is always in short supply. Our beer, famous for years, is now hardly drinkable when it is available. These problems, which before the communist regime were totally unknown to Cuba, were brought painfully home to me each time I returned to Havana from my post in London.
