With regard to the marriage of a Soviet to a foreigner, Kora Korzhenko (who married a British diplomat in the 1940s) has this to say: “Most of the women who have married foreigners must have agreed at one time or another to carry out some sort of spy work for the Soviets. Otherwise, they would not have been given permission to marry foreigners,” for even the marriage certificate has to be issued by the secret police. Nora, herself, was recruited by State Security through coercion and only allowed to leave the country by agreeing to work for Soviet State Security. This she never did since, out of the country, she broke completely with the Soviets, and it is presumed that she has furnished information on that organization to the British Services. (See “I Spied for Stalin” by Nora Murray.)

Petr Deryabin, State Security officer who defected in 1954, has this to say about the Soviet women who have contact with or who marry foreigners: “Soviet women associating with foreign men will be recruited by State Security when the association is first begun, or after it has developed, or when plans for marriage have been made. Even if only 5% of these women are 100% loyal State Security workers, and the others work less loyally, it is still considered a worthwhile operation. No woman known to be anti-Soviet would ever be given a visa to leave the country, even if she were married to an ambassador. The Soviets instruct all persons in this category to make remarks against the Soviet Union when abroad, but these remarks are not to be too strong, nor are they made for publication by press or radio.”

In the early 1960s, when any young American was thinking of marrying an Intourist (INTERIST) guide, his father contacts a knowledgeable official of the State Department who made the following remarks:

1. All American-Soviet marriages had turned out to be unsuccessful.

2. The Soviets never let one of their nationals out of the country under such circumstances (marriage to a foreigner) unless the person had been recruited as a spy.
