Headquarters, Detachment 404-A  
Strategic Service Unit  
Batavia, Java (Jaya)

Report No.: ZB-10  
SN: ZM2477  
Report date: 8 Dec 45  
To: Capt. Blungpell, attention Lt. Barejette  
Info date: 7 Dec 45  
From:  
No. pages: 2

Subject: Interview between Mr. Harold Isaacs, Mr. Charles Tanbu (Tanhu), and Mr. Diah.

Sources: Mr. Harold Isaacs, correspondent for Newsweek magazine. Mr. Charles Tanbu (Tanhu), Malaya-born Tamil, formerly employed on Singapore newspapers, newscaster for Singapore radio, English-speaking announcer on Batavia Radio during occupation, and presently editor of newspaper Independent. Mr. Diah, editor of Hardeka, nationalist newspaper, Batavia.

Evaluation: B-3, except as noted.

The subject interview was held at the request of Mr. Isaacs in line with his desire to talk with leading figures of the Indonesian nationalist movement who held no official government position.

Circulation of Indonesia

Asked about present circulation of Merdeka (Neroba), Mr. Diah replied with the following: Merdeka is the largest Indonesian newspaper on the island of Java. At present it is printed only in Batavia, with a daily total circulation of about 13,000 copies. Of this number, approximately 6,000 copies are sent out of the city by train to Bandoeng, Surakarta (Soekararta), and Djokjakarta (Djokj Jakarta), leaving a Batavia circulation of between 10,000 and 14,000 copies. Source expressed the opinion that while the Indonesian population of Batavia is in the neighborhood of 500,000 persons, the literacy rate is approximately twenty percent of this figure. Thus, he admitted, Merdeka is probably reaching less than four percent of the total Indonesian population of Batavia, despite the fact that Batavia is probably the most literate area on the island of Java because of the concentration here of all the governmental functions, prewar and present.

When questioned as to why his circulation was so inconsistent with the potential reading population, source replied that he was handicapped by lack of paper. He expressed the opinion that a circulation of 50,000 would be assured, and a circulation of as high as 100,000 possible, were sufficient paper available. At the present rate of consumption, he estimates that sufficient paper is on hand from prewar stocks to continue publication of Merdeka for one year.

ZM2477
