“In cellblock 400, where I spent several weeks awaiting release, there are six cells with thick wooden bars, three on each side, in front of which I sat. The other two were confined. I discovered that in one of the other cells was Polanco “Cebollito,” an important FMR guard, and in another cell were two young FMR inmates, the brother of Miguel and Juan León Bernós, who later told me that they were members of the G-2 of FAR. In the remaining cell were three brothers of the “Vano El Once,” one of whom I later learned was named Traz Eluo Sardilla.

“I was soon as we became acquainted, ‘Cebollito’ made an investigation of the circumstances surrounding our arrest, so he said, on behalf of FAR. ‘Cebollito,’ who had already been assigned, had more respect than the others and was able to waffle in and out of jail. Relatively free, I noted that the door of his cell was often unlocked. He therefore was able to talk discreetly with each of us through the bars to solicit us to his satisfaction. After several days he reported that he found Iden A’s conduct ‘inexcusable’ and Iden B completely stupid in his unnecessarily exposing his companions with the compromising material he was carrying. He told me that he felt I had been the victim of very unfortunate circumstances and my only mistake was to have attempted to cross the frontier with the other two. He added that he intended to send his report to FAR via his mother, who was able to visit him more or less regularly. Several weeks later I saw ‘Cebollito’ being pushed into an army truck and learned from the León brothers that he was taken out and executed before his trial was completed. The last time I saw Iden A was about April 25, when he waved to me from his cell. I had already been taken out of cellblock 400 and moved into the large compound.

“Fortunately the Mexican Consul, Serrano, recognized my family name and told me that he was a friend of my father. He did what he could to help me get messages out to my wife and to supply me with materials to write and do some painting. Also of great help and comfort to me was Mario Armando Amador, the First Secretary, whose life, I learned later, was threatened because of the interest he took in me and Iden B. Armando confided to me on one occasion that he had to be very discreet in sending messages to Relaciones Exteriores in Mexico since the ‘North Americans decipher and read everything we send.’ He therefore had to send everything concerning me by diplomatic pouch despite the delay involved.

“I managed to get a measure out to the press in a very strange way. I”
