Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5. Security. Revised 17 July 1958.

Covert Approvals and Related Matters.

Reference: CSI-F No. 10-5, 17 July 1958.

Rescission: CSI No. 10-5, 31 January 1955.

Contents: Purpose, page 1; General, page 1; Investigations, page 2; Operational Approvals, page 2; Covert Security Approvals and Proprietary Approvals, page 3; Covert Security Approvals for Liaison with United States Officials, page 5; Employees and Officials of Foreign Services, page 5; Notification of Termination or Discontinuance of Covert Security Approvals or Proprietary Approvals, page 5; Employees, page 5; Special Services, page 6; Double Agents, page 6; Defective and Recruitment in Place, page 6; Servants of Agency, page 6.

1. Purpose

This instruction describes the functions of headquarters components with regard to covert approvals and related matters which are the subject of CSI-F No. 10-5.

2. General

a. The Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, is delegated authority to act for the Deputy Director (Plans) in the exercise of all functions which are the latter's responsibility with regard to the granting of Operational Approvals and Provisional Operational Approvals.

b. The Director of Security has designated the Deputy Director for Investigations and Operational Support, Office of Security, to represent him in discharging the functions which are reserved to him with regard to the granting of Covert Security Approvals, Provisional Covert Security Approvals, Proprietary Approvals, and Provisional Proprietary Approvals.

c. It is the basic intent of both components that sensitive operational data shall remain within the custody and knowledge of the Clandestine Services, and that sensitive security investigative data shall remain in the custody and knowledge of the Office of Security. It is recognized, however, that such data may be necessary for proper performance by either component and, consequently, where necessary, it shall be made available or shall be discussed to the extent necessary.
