17 June 1972

Order by: Chief, WOLIME.

Subject: Completion of Training Report for QPHO/M/1, Training Program “EAW.”

Reference: Name for Director of WOMOLD from Chief, WOLIME, dated 23 May 1972. Subject: “Cover Training for QPHO/M/1.”

1. QPHO/M/1 was trained covertly in New York from 22 June to 19 July 1972. There were sixteen sessions for a total of eighty-seven training hours.

2. This was a happy reunion of trainees and instructor. Less than two years ago, FHO/M was given three days of reports training (please see Completion of Training Report dated 19 October 1970). Just as then, FHO/M was totally engaged in every training session from the moment of his arrival to the moment of his departure. Remembering that the instructor does not eat lunch, FHO/M brought a sandwich with him daily and took this lunch while listening to the instructor. Thus, every minute of every day was made to count.

3. The only time lost was three hours for JENMUTH and the several phone calls he had to make daily to check for calls to his cover office, then follow up with calls to those persons who had called his office and had left messages to be called back. At the most, these calls took half an hour. On some days, they took far less.

4. His cover organization work took up a considerable portion, every day, of his free time, with the result that he could not do any talking to speak of for subsequent preparation of some plans for exercises. For example, told early on to prepare two dead-drop plans, he was unable to come up with anything until the last week—and then with only one written one and one that he revealed orally. As a result, he had to be given time during the training day to write reports of his counter-surveillance exercises and one of his agent developmental activities. After one such exercise, asked if he wished to take time during the training day to write his report, he said: “No, tonight I will make time to write it.” And he did. And it was a good report.

5. On each Sunday, he went out of town to visit his aged grandfather. He used the travel time to read tradecraft books; he read seven altogether.

SIC A-77. 1st to OEPW-1814 CS copy.

200-124-156/1

200-124-156/3
