From 0620, 7 May (Friday) to 0730, 8 May 1965.

2.0 Moment.

VKG takes phone. MO is Jose Luis Gonzalez. Did VKG find out anything “about that collaboration”? Yes, but “he did not tell me anything.” VKG will have to ask the cashier if they will pay JLG for his article. VKG will go today and will ask at “Siempre.” Will VKG be at “Siempre” tomorrow? Yes. Could MO see VKG there about something else? Of course. Will go there around 1300 to see VKG.

2.2 In. Leonov, press attaché of the Soviet Embassy, with aid, who answers for VKG.

Inge xico takes phone and asks who is calling.

VKG takes the phone. Greetings. Leonov would like to consult something with VKG, but at the office of “Siempre” or at a café, but not over the phone. VKG will be at “Siempre” at 1230. Can meet at the café there.

Leonov says next Sunday they are having the reception for the end of the war, World War. L. took the invitations by the offices of “Siempre.” Lolita has VKG’s invitation. Thanks.

4.2 Out to 03. Time is 1008, 7 May.

4.2 Out to 03. Time is 1038, 7 May.

4.5 In. MC (Marcio Mejia Ricart (Marcio ejia Ricart) — v) with VKG, who answers. MC talked to Santo Domingo, but “there are 2 or 3 things they want to arrange and they will phone.” Mark back tonight at 1900. The news of today is that “we are willing to resist until the end, more or less the same information” Mark had already given VKG. VKG talked to the Minister of Interior. Ejeti 77 Curi (ph). VKG says “he” made some “stupendous declarations,” came out in “El Dia.” Mark has not seen them. But Emilio told Mark that they were wonderful. VKG thought they were very good. MC comments that the last time he, Mark, saw him, Mark hit him because he was Viru’s man, like Cañamafe or even worse. But he is improving. Mark talked to him and he was very cordial. He told Mark that they are working on the letter of credentials, that he thought that the nomination of Mark as Ambassador in the U.N. was certain, but they have not been able to arrange this definitely yet due to Mark’s political problem. He is working on this, but still lacks the last approval. Things have to be prepared. If VKG wants, he can go to Mark’s at 1900 to hear the conversation and bring his recorder. Fine.

5.0 In. Marcio Mejia Ricart (Marcio ejia Ricart) (v) with VKG, who answers. Forgot to tell VKG: Due to “my last call,” they cancelled the Ambassador of Mark Mexico, Emilio’s (Cordero’s), matter. The nomination is being worked on. It would be good to work on this, find out if they have received the telegram. They have sent a telegram to substitute the Dominican Ambassador here. It would be interesting to find out about this, perhaps through “Excelsior.” VKG will find out if Deschamps can do this and call Mark.
