Who have been employed 25 years or more be established at $100.

“Escalator Clause”

The AFL-CIO has proposed that an “escalator” clause be incorporated into Social Security so that a re-

I believe that the United States, now surpassed by 13 Western European nations in the field of social welfare, can and should provide its citizens with a realistic and sound Social Security system consistent with our resources.

Greeks Discipline Cuba Trainers

Fourteen ship owners and merchant marine captains were recently indicted by Greek authorities for sailing transports to Cuba in violation of existing regulations.

The Minister of the Merchant Marine has reportedly sent to the proper prosecution authorities the files against the owners and captains of S.S. Irene, S.S. Barbarino, S.S. Alice and S.S. Papanazza. All the vessels are registered in Piraeus.

Charges for similar violations are to be brought soon against the owners and captains of the S.S. Tina, S.S. Eltychia, S.S. Andromachi, S.S. Kyra Ithakiella, S.S. Nikolas V., S.S. Nizelias M., S.S. Roulamaria and S.S. Sofia.

The courts and the Merchant Marine Disciplinary Board are reportedly investigating charges against other owners and captains.

The steamer LOUISE LYKES (Lykes Bros.) and the Yamashiro Maru (Yama-shiro Maru) recently collided during heavy weather at Kee-hung.

Illness at Sea Rate Declines

Reported illnesses and injuries among seagoing personnel in 1966 in relation to the average number of seafaring jobs dipped to a new low for the last decade.

Recently announced figures stated that the combined percentage of illness and injuries, based on an average of 54,000 jobs last year, declined to 73.7 percent from the 85.5 percent reported on 40,000 jobs in 1955.

The respective percentages of injuries and illnesses also declined. The ratio of injuries last year dropped to 42.4 percent from 45.5 percent in 1955, and that of illness was down to 37.3 percent from the flat 40 percent registered the previous year.

The percentage of injuries is the lowest recorded since 1961, and that of illness is the lowest since 1957.

All told, in 1968 licensed and unlicensed U.S. merchant marine personnel were reported as injured or ill 43,045 times. Reported injuries totaled 22,923 and reported illnesses totaled 20,122.

As a whole,

“The F stands is a It should wards and make ever that the guards are

“We be labor and the mari must abar manger at ate behind is practic obtainable

“We be ernment abandon w gerous se the FDL are advar tutes for range mt policy. It’s to weaken rea-power. FDL prog lined appr separate from cor need. This unrealistic all lessons end result imical to terest, un defense an abilities.

“For th devices su ed “effecti ory whic

Committe
