S/1612

The people are very united and there are not the old differences between the parties of the Frente Popular. The policy of National Union is unknown; he has heard no one speak of it.

Details of this People's Struggle — He says that he thinks secret organisations function, especially in Bilbao, and he says particularly, “It is a city of brave men.” He says that notices painted on the walls are often seen there. He only remembers one: “Less Franco, more white bread.” Asked if the notices were signed by any party, he says no, because it would give away the people who had done it. He says that he knows, because he was told, that in Bilbao there were illegal pamphlets and even a newspaper in circulation, but he does not know their content. He thinks that there must have been a clandestine press, but as he was never an idealist, the people who did those things would not trust him, and as he is out of everything, he does not know any details. He says he thinks that the people working in Bilbao are nationalists and communists, especially the latter. A few months ago, two Italian submarines, badly damaged by English planes, came into Santander. Two hundred persons were arrested for discussing this, and many people thought that the second front had already begun. He gives no more details. He says that Serrano Suñer (Serrano Suner) was the object of an attack in Madrid when he met Arrese (Arressa), and when the latter tried to protect Suñer, he was seriously wounded and had to undergo a critical operation. Asked if he thought there was sabotage, etc., he says no—the disorganisation of the train services is due to all the employees being new and not knowing their business.

Guerrilleros — He says that “El Carineso” was working in Santander and “The Railwaymen” too; that “El Carineso” came from Hergesheim and had his headquarters in Santander. He was recently killed through quarrels and embroilments caused by his girlfriend, who was from the J.C. and had another lover, and it was he who was arrested at the same time as El Carineso. It was he who informed against them all. Many people love the guerrilleros, although there are many people who help them through fear, as, for example, a relation of his from whom they took his only pig, but in general the guerrilleros behave excellently. “El Carineso” was once in Barcelona, where he went in a cab to get his teeth fixed. El Carineso was not a politician but took to the mountains in order to avenge the death of his cousin, who was assassinated by the Falange (Palange). They often, like the guerrilleros of Asturias, disguised themselves as Civil Guard, went down to the villages, and arrested the Falangists (Palanquists). But where there are most guerrilleros, and the most active, is in Asturias. Six months ago, about three hundred guerrilleros were ready to embark on the coast in order to leave Spain. But there was a quarrel and a terrific fight between these guerrilleros and the forces of authority, with many dead, and after that they retreated to the mountains. He says that the politicians who are most popular are Prieto and Azaña (Azana). Some speeches of Prieto’s have been circulated through Bilbao, but he does not know what they say. There is also in circulation an article, reproduced from an English paper, reprinted by an employee in the Real Compañía Asturiana de Zinc, Republicana (Real Comp. Asturiana, de Diz. Republicana). The article refers to the powers and resources of the Allies and their chances of victory. He says he does not know of any activity of the communists, that this is obviously the activity of other people who are not communists; that, for example, the man who reprinted the article and those who read it were all on the Republican Left, and if there is any communist activity it is so camouflaged that no one knows who is the author. He says that during the crossing they were detained by the English in Bermuda and in Baltimore by the Americans. The English made a short examination; they did not interrogate them in front of everybody and left them the letters they carried. In Baltimore they were interrogated one by one and were asked about fortifications, food, whether they sent it to Germany, etc. When our informant said he had been in Franco’s army up to the war, they asked him why he did not desert to the Republican army.

Solidarity — He says there is no organisation for solidarity, that this only exists between groups of friends who have a relation or acquaintance in prison. They are not allowed to visit the prisoners more than once a week. He says that the killing goes on, and that in Vleg, a few days before he left, a lieutenant of the Civil Guard was shot.
