Central Intelligence Agency.

Country: Honduras. Report No.: 00-OCX 323/01020-68. Subject: Opinions on Rigoberto Sandoval/Mamá Acosta Bonilla/Armando Velasquez Cerrato/Activities of Ricardo Zuniga/Status of Present Government. Date distributed: 22 January 1968. Number of pages: 1. References (2356): CIRL C-DC7-53900.

Date of information: January 1968 and earlier. Place and date acquired: Tegucigalpa, December 1968 and earlier.

Source: Cuban national, an engineer who has worked and lived in Honduras for the last two years. During this period he has developed contacts with officials in government, the Armed Forces, and the business community.

This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. I have known Rigoberto Sandoval for approximately eight months. As the General Secretary of the Planification Board he is a very capable and competent individual. He is progressive and liberal in his ideas, though at times seems to be inclined to the left. He is a man of great potential for the development of the country. Sandoval was instrumental in instituting a housing project of approximately one thousand houses, to be constructed in San Pedro de Sula (Suála). The houses will be built for needy families. A loan of US$2 million has been granted by the “Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo” for the project.

2. The Minister of Economy, Manuel Acosta Bonilla, is an honest, hard working, and responsible individual. I have talked with him and with people who are close to him and got the impression that Acosta has no higher political aspirations. At least he does not show any outward signs of it.

3. Armando Velasquez Cerrato is being handled by the government very carefully. He is considered to be a dangerous individual. However, he is regarded by some of his followers as a scapegoat of the present government. Personally I don't think that he has any opportunities or enough popular support to intervene in the government successfully.

4. Ricardo Zuniga, Minister of Presidency, remains as an influential figure with President Lopez Arellano. Zuniga provides financial support to the non-Communist student organizations who support his claims that the US is intervening in Honduran internal affairs. In a recent confrontation with an official of the US Embassy, President Lopez Arellano openly supported Zuniga.

5. Since the last two years there has been a marked change in the country. There could have been more progress but the government is not dynamic enough, even though President Lopez Arellano is in complete control of the government. The opposition to the government is weak, plagued by differences of opinions, and lacking unity. The large majority of the people are undergoing great misery and poverty. Still, the masses are contented. Their interest is in subsisting from one day to the other, not politics.
