5. Liaison and Inter-Agency Coordination.

Not applicable to Project LIMFTY.

6. Plans.

A. As outlined in paragraph 6 of the Station's previous request for the renewal of Project LIMFTY, a program was undertaken to reequip and solemnize the LIMFTY photographic processing base. During the past year, a significant portion of the equipment used in the developing and processing laboratory was replaced. As a result of this program, negatives and photographic prints of such higher quality are now being produced. Consequently, only minor changes in the operation of the photographic laboratory and its equipment are contemplated for the ensuing period.

B. The present physical condition, mileage and frequent use of the LIMFTY (LIEMFTY) unit dictates the immediate replacement of this unit. Station Mexico City has received Headquarters approval for the replacement of this vehicle.

C. Other than noted above, Mexico City plans no significant operational, administrative or personnel changes, since it is generally felt that this Project is now operating at its optimum size and in a highly satisfactory manner. After 1 January 1967, the Station will review the existing LIMFTY personnel salary schedule and consider possible raises, again on a selective basis or specifically keyed to the rising cost of living.

7. Costs.

A. Past Project Year—Project LIMFTY was previously approved for the period 1 December 1965 through 30 November 1966 for the amount of $41,500 U.S. currency. Station records indicate that thus far, Project LIMFTY has expended $36,500.13 in the field. It is estimated that approximately 1,500 dollars has been expended by Headquarters, principally in the acquisition of new equipment for the LIMFTY photographic laboratory. Bi-weekly accountings with pertinent receipts and/or certifications were submitted by Raymond H. GELERDE to the Station finance officer via the Project case officer for all LIMFTY Project expenditures made in the field. It is estimated that approximately 12 hours of case officer and 5 hours of analyst time is required each week to fulfill the operational, administrative and analytical requirements of this Project. This figure does not include the 40-hour week put in regularly by Raymond H. GELERDE.

B. Ensuing Project Year—It is requested that Project LIMFTY be approved in the amount of 45,000 U.S. currency for the period 1 December 1966 through 30 November 1967. This figure represents only a slight increase over the amount programmed for the previous Project year. While no large expenditures are anticipated for the replacement of photographic equipment during the forthcoming period, an increase in the rental of the various bases will be encountered as well as the above-cited replacement of the
