David TSITSICHVILLI (nickname Dathouma).

Subject is a childhood friend of AEPADDLE. Age: 39 years; height: 5'10"; weight: 160 lbs.; bald; has moustache.

Subject is included in movies taken by AEPADDLE. Subject arrived in France with family from Georgia circa 1923 and lived in Paris. He was a poor scholar and did not get any kind of diploma from school. He served as a private in the French Army from 1939 to 1940 or 1941, when he was discharged. In 1942 or 1943 he volunteered for work in Germany with the Todt Organization as a truck driver, but changed to some other kind of work after reaching Germany. While in Germany he assisted French officer POWs to escape, aiding them with false papers, stamps, and uniforms. He was able to travel from Berlin to Paris, and AEPADDLE saw him in Paris on one occasion during the war. In 1944 a woman got in touch with him about helping an alleged French officer, and at the railroad station where he was to meet her, he was arrested by the SS (sic). In early 1945 he was sentenced to death for espionage, but managed to drag out his case by implying the existence of a large British-run net of which he was a part. In 1945 he was liberated by the US Army and returned to Paris in the summer of that year. He was unable to find a suitable job, and between 1945 and 1948 he did odd jobs as a draftsman and tried to market an invention of his own, some kind of engine. He married a French girl about 1946 or 1947 and had two children. In 1948 he began to rob banks, jewellery shops, etc., with a companion, Jean ADAM, a Frenchman who had worked with him during the war assisting French officers. ADAM was caught, and Subject attempted to escape to Spain but was also caught. Because of their war record they were given a “light” sentence—ten years. Subject was released about one or two years ago and is required to live in the small town of Cap (Hautes Alpes), under parole to his brother. ADAM has also been released and is not under restriction as to residence. Subject feels this is unjust discrimination against himself as a non-citizen.
