Section VIII continued from page 1.

4. Are you now or have you ever been a licensed or certified member of any trade or profession, such as pilot, electrician, radio operator, teacher, lawyer, CPA, medical technician, etc.? Yes / No.

5. If you have answered “Yes” to above, indicate kind of license and state issuing license. Provide license registry number, if known.

6. First license or certificate (year of issue).

7. Latest license or certificate (year of issue).

8. List any significant published materials of which you are the author. Do not submit copies unless requested. Indicate the title, publication date, and type of writing (non-fiction or scientific articles, general interest subjects, novels, short stories, etc.).

9. Indicate any devices which you have invented and state whether or not they are patented.

10. List public speaking and public relations experience.

11. List any professional, academic, or honorary associations or societies in which you are now or were formerly a member. List academic honors you have received.

Section IX: Employment History.

Note: List last position first. Indicate chronological history of employment for the past 15 years. Account for all periods, including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Give address and state what you did during periods of unemployment. List all civilian employment by a foreign government, regardless of dates. In completing item 9, “Description of Duties,” consider your experience carefully and provide meaningful, objective statements.

Inclusive dates: Sep 19–Dec 1973. Name of employing firm or agency: J.S. Power.

Address: Division B of C. All Services Dept.

Kind of business: Cashier.

Title of job: Loreto G. Salcedo Jr.

Description of duties: Assist in cash collections. Assist in collection and disbursement of Federal funds. Operate teller machine. Train tellers. Provide accounting guidance. Perform other duties as directed by the Cashier. Operate safeco. Answering call, check deposit account. Receive and record deposits. Explain instructions to customers. Report errors.

Reasons for leaving: Personal reasons. I will leave this bank after I complete my training at the Bank of New York. I will leave the Bank when I finish working with you on Sept. 1st. After that, I will continue working with you as a teller at the Bank of New York.

Name of supervisor.
