Soviet Zone Politburo Meeting.

Cable dated 7/16/53 from Minich to New York.

“East German President Wilhelm Pieck (Piock) is definitely on the way out, reliable sources in close contacts with the East German Government said here today. The sources stated that Pieck's (Piock's) ouster was disclosed during an East-West German Communist Politburo meeting which ended in East Germany on July 12. Top German Communist leaders were also told that East German Secret Police Chief, Wilhelm Zaisser, is now suspended or under house arrest. Zaisser was arrested for publication of casualty figures of the June 17 revolt, the source said. His ouster also falls in line with recent Communist policy shifts all over the Red Empire, they said. At the meeting it was disclosed that SD head Walter Ulbricht will remain a potent force in East German politics despite recent rumors of his impending purge. Premier Otto Grotewohl will be given increased power in the new government set-up, the sources said. During a discussion of recent events in the Soviet Union at the Politburo meeting, the Communist leaders were given information from Moscow reporting that Foreign Minister Molotov will emerge during the next month as the key figure in the Soviet Union. Premier Malenkov will serve as a figurehead for Molotov, the sources revealed. The Red Army is fast becoming a major political force in Russia and several generals have been recalled from outpost areas by order of Molotov, the sources said. The USSR is suffering from acute shortages of raw materials, especially rubber and oil, as well as strategic metals of the rarer varieties, it was disclosed at the meeting. In view of this, the top Communists were told that Russia would continue its ‘peace offensive’ for at least another year. The sources, reported to be ‘highly reliable’, said that the resolutions (revolutions) released at the meeting were to be used as ‘policy directives’ by East and West Communist leaders.”

Note:

FII. “This information was released through our Central News with the warning to treat with extreme caution, adding that Political Advisor's office agreed it is of most explosive nature and should be handled strictly as speculation.”
