American Embassy Section, January 1960–January 1962.

Everywhere it went, to different plants, and to meet representatives of the so-called Institute of Agrarian Reform to discuss how to increase production. Nosenko's cover assignment was deputy chief of the delegation, and shortly before departing Moscow he was introduced to the other members as such. He had one agent within the delegation and developed several “confidential contacts” during the trip. Nosenko would not have accepted the assignment had he known how long and uneventful the trip was to be; he had really wanted to go only to the United States.

On his return trip to Moscow, Nosenko was given a special mission. As he was leaving from Havana Airport, the KGB Legal Rezident in Cuba, A.I. Alekseyev, handed him a package with instructions to deliver it to Moscow. Nosenko did not know the contents of the package until he arrived in Amsterdam en route home. There the wrappings became loose (it was bound only by thin string), and Nosenko took the opportunity to determine that it contained copies of “letters between Mikoyan (Nikoyan) and Khrushchev concerning the prices of sugar” and drafts of agreements between the Soviet Union and East Germany, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, and Rumania. On arrival at the airport in Amsterdam, Nosenko was told that a message had been received from the Central Committee of the Communist Party instructing that the package was to be delivered “urgently” to Che Guevara, who was touring Eastern Europe and was then in Berlin. While the delegation continued on to Moscow, Nosenko was driven to the Soviet Embassy in The Hague, and in the late evening of his second day in The Netherlands he left by train for East Berlin. When he arrived in Berlin, Guevara was found to have left Berlin for Hungary, and Nosenko delivered the papers to “Guevara's deputy” in Berlin and continued on to Moscow.

Comment: Travel records obtained by CIA, which include photographs taken in both Amsterdam and Caracas of Nosenko's true name service passport and his passport photograph, confirm that Nosenko, a “minerals engineer,” transited Amsterdam en route to Cuba on 15 November 1960, was in
