11. Preference for next assignment.

11A. Describe/specify the type of work you would like for next assignment if different from that indicated in item no. 9 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choice.

N.A.

11B. Indicate if you desire to extend your current tour by checking the appropriate box. Also indicate preference for next regular assignment by inserting 1, 2, and 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in remaining boxes. Complete all alternate choices and options in all cases even though you are requesting an extension of your tour.

Extend tour 18 months at current station to 30 November 1966 (date).

Be assigned to HOOTRS for a tour of duty: indicate your choice of division, staff, or office. 1st choice; 2nd choice; 3rd choice.

Be assigned to another field station: indicate choice of geographic area or specialization. 1st choice: Spain. 2nd choice: Uruguay. 3rd choice: Buenos Aires.

Return to my current station. Please note that planned departure is December 1965, due to the fact that son finishes his school year on 30 November 1965.

To be completed by field station.

12. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee and his preference for next assignment, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training. The Station recommends and urges that Headquarters approve Subject's return to Station. His performance meets every Station requirement. For Subject's work, continuity is essential to obtain maximum effective product.

To be completed by appropriate Headquarters office.

13. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee, his preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of your component, indicate your component's recommendation for his next assignment and training. WII Division recommends that FEINGLASS' tour of duty in Mexico City be extended until December 1965 as requested in section 6B, and that he return for a second tour of duty following home leave.

Title: C/WI/PERS. Signature: Robert D. Cashman.

For use by Career Service.

14. Approved assignment: Approved extension to end of 1965 followed by home leave and second tour.

15. Employee notified by dispatch No. HMMS-3905, dated 22 December 1964. Cable No. ______, dated ______. Date: 22 December 1964.

Career Service Representative: Dwight M. Collins.
