Date of employment (month, year). End title of your previous employer. Starting date of current employment (mm/yyyy; leave empty if current employer is the same as previous job). Terms of current employment (if different from previous job). Place of employment (city and state). Name and address of employer (firm, organization or person; if Federal, name department, bureau or establishment, and division). Name and address of immediate supervised employee. Kind of business or organization (e.g., wholesale, insurance agency, manufacture, etc.). Please explain if leaving. Number and kind of employees supervised by you. Description of your work.

If more space is required, use a continuation sheet (Standard Form No. 58) or a sheet of paper the same size as this page. Write on each sheet your name, address, date of birth, and examination title. Attach to inside of application.

17. Military Training. In the space below, describe any training received in the Armed Services (not already listed under Item 1A) that would assist you in getting a commission or contract position in the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps. Indicate actual amount of training received, such as hours per week. Indicate if a nation regarding any special service assistance you attended is especially important. Attach accompanying officers in placing you must effectively. Indicate actual amount of training may be used to give full description.

Date of first service in the military force or national defense service. Location of service. Type of service. Description of service. Era or period of service.

2/41. Location: U.S. Naval Academy. Type of service: USNR Midshipman's Course.

1/44. Location: Miami Beach. Type of service: AAF/OCS.

6/44. Location: Oriando (Orlando), Fla. Type of service: AAF Combat Intelligence School.

1/45. Location: Catalina Island. Type of service: Office of Strategic Services.

Type of service: Clandestine School.

18. Location (circle highest grade completed): 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11.

Mark (X) the appropriate box to indicate SAT.
