Contribution. Fitness Report.

Section A: Employee Number 026090. Name: Keenan, Thomas J.

General Information. Date of birth: 29 Jun 30. M GS-15 DQB. Office position: A reporter in the chief. Type of appointment: Initial, annual department assignment specialist, career reserve, temporary, contract, special. Reporting period: 1 Jan 77–3 Dec 77. Date report out in O.P.: January 1978.

Section B: Qualifications Update.

If the Qualifications Update Form is being submitted with changes, and is attached to this report, place the word “Yes” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “No” in the box at right.

Section C: Performance Evaluation.

Specific Duty No. 1.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position, such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee’s overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
