In retirement: Let three persons living in the same home or place, and know each other by some name other than first, last, or first initial of any name. Indicate age, sex, and reason for being thus restricted. State or Territory where the person was a resident on the date of application. Give complete address, including street and number. Will you give the telephone number of your employer, business, or organization in which you are employed at present? Indicate yes or no. Has the employer given you the required information necessary to secure employment with you? Indicate yes or no. If so, what is his or her telephone number and address?

Full name. Give complete current address, including street and number. Billing address or obituary. Yes. No. Yes. No.

Maj. Gen. Rpt. J. Donovan: 2 Wall Street, New York 5, N.Y., Attorney.

John C. Farrar: 53 East 34th Street, New York 18, Publisher.

Raymond Subioan: 444 Madison Avenue, New York 18, Executive.

Indicate “yes” or “no” answer by placing “T” in proper column.

25. May indicate if you are current employer regarding your character, quality, etc.

26. Are you a citizen of the United States?

27. Are you a non-negative member of the Communist Party U.S.A. on this committee or organization?

28. Are you now or since you ever been a member of a Fascist organization?

29. Are you now or since you ever began a member of any organization, association, minimum group, or combination of persons which advocates the ideology of a constitutional form of government on an organization basis, association, minimum, group, or combination of persons which advocates the ideology of a constitution of the United States upon its enforcement under the Constitution of the United States by launch, to alter the state of government of the United States by launch, international strategic war, etc.?

If your answer is “yes,” list all or ighs above as “yes,” and if it is “no,” give complete details of your activities therein and make an explanation you deem relevant to your membership or activities therein.

30. Since your 19th birthday, have you ever been arrested, injured, or suicidally killed or injured, or completed effect.
