Memo (Hemo) for C/34/3A.

Subject: Tichborn Employment.

In following our conversation of 30 June, I contacted Stan Gaines of DC/H and Clarence Graham of CA/3 on 30 June; Bob Fallow of CA/3 on 5 and 6 July; and Gale Allen of DOJ as bin on 6 July.

Cover Action Staff:

Graham had indicated a possibility there might be a slot open for Tichborn with a “publishing company” which CA/3 controls in New York and he said that he would discuss it with Fallow upon the latter’s return from New York on 1 July. Fallow on 5 and 6 July concluded that this would not be good cover since they were then planning to terminate that project. Fallow then said that he would investigate other possibilities, including DC/2 and EITC, and let me know within a couple days. We also implied that he would discuss Tichborn with his friend front office and see what Cord Heyer might have filing about in the file of his head which might be applicable to this problem. He indicated some interest in the CDAMR possibility back and while pointing out Tichborn’s background is primarily Latin American and AMISTED at present does no business in Latin America, he said that he would investigate this more closely and be in touch with me.

Domestic Ops Headquarters:

Stan Gaines stated that Rudy Gomez and Pat DaSilva, with whom he had discussed the possibility of Tichborn’s employment in New York, indicated that as far as the UN is concerned, they did not believe that they could use him. Rudy described him, from personal relationship in Santiago, as a “cowboy type operator” who would not fit into the UN Station activity. DaSilva apparently was non-competent. Following Gaines’s (Gaine’s) return from New York, he said that he had planned on talking with Tracey Barnes concerning Tich but had not had a chance as yet. However he will discuss with Barnes and let us know as soon as possible concerning an investment firm which they have a connection with in New York.

Domestic Ops Washington:

I talked with Gale Allen concerning his object and he stated that he
