Fitness Report (Part II) Potential.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor, and to appropriate career management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is not to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision for at least 90 days. If less than 90 days, hold and complete after the 90 days has elapsed. If this is the initial report on the employee, however, it must be completed and forwarded to the [X] no later than 30 days after the due date indicated in item 8 of Section E below.

Section E. General.

Name: Tarasoff. First: Foris. Middle: D. Date of birth: 2 November 1908. Sex: M. Service designation: OD.

Office/division/branch of assignment: OO/FDD/USSR Branch. Official position title: IO (Foreign Doc). Grade: GS-09. Date report due in: 11 December 1958. Period covered by this report: 21 November 1957–20 November 1958.

Type of report: Annual. Reassignment—employee.

Section F. Certification.

For the rater: I certify that this report represents my best judgement of the individual being rated.

Date: 20 Nov 58. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: Rosamund E. Deutsch. Supervisor's official title: Sec. USSR Dr.; Chief, Materials & Industry.

For the reviewing official: I have reviewed this report and noted any difference of opinion in attached memo.

Date: 20 Nov 1958. Typed or printed name and signature of reviewing official: Trotot Eleefeldt Beliefeldt. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, USSR Branch.

Section G. Estimate of Potential.

Potential to assume greater responsibilities.

Directions: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee's potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his
