17 March 1963

Subject: LIRING/3 Report of Meeting with Carlos Persaval.

1. LIRING/3 reported to Bowton at 1115 on 16/3/68 at the restaurant Miss on Reforma and Calle Mississippi that unfortunately his meeting with the two Guatemalans scheduled for the previous evening at 2230-2300 in Danny's restaurant (Reforma at Diana Circle) did not come off. He stated that he arrived at the restaurant at 2230 and waited until about 2315 without seeing either Persaval or being approached by any Guatemalan. He continued that just as he was about to leave, he heard a tap on the window behind him and turned and saw Teresa Lozada de Persaval on the street. He met her and accompanied her to a car where Carlos Persaval was waiting. He was then driven to Sanborn's Angel and remained there with Carlos and Teresa for some thirty minutes.

2. According to LIRING/3, Carlos Persaval explained that he had been stood up by the Guatemalans and had been unable to get in touch with them to introduce them to L/3 as he had hoped. He added that one of the persons had been in Cuernavaca two or three days previously and perhaps had not been able to return in time for the meeting. Persaval, who appeared to L/3 to be quite nervous in Sanborn's, suggested that they go elsewhere to continue their discussion and LIRING/3 invited him and Teresa to his Tacubaya (Pacubaya) studio.

3. They then proceeded there to continue the discussion. Teresa excused herself on arrival, saying that she was very tired, and promptly fell asleep in one of the bedrooms. Carlos Persaval then continued talking with L/3 until about 0300. He mentioned that one of the Guatemalans he hoped to introduce to L/3 was well-known and important in FAR, while the other (who had documents) was relatively unimportant and could probably get by the police checks without as much risk. In reply to L/3's queries, Persaval stated that both men wanted to travel to Guatemala City and that one, the important one, would probably be returning to Mexico after a short stay. Persaval revealed that as far as he knew the purpose of their trip was to obtain much-needed funds to continue their work in Mexico.

4. LIRING/3 told Bowton that he again promised to guide the Guatemalans across the border south of San Cristóbal but insisted on meeting them in Mexico City prior to escorting them over the border. Persaval then asked L/3.
