Fitness Report.

Section A: General Information. Employee holder. Name: Phillips, David A. Employee number: 024345. Chief, WZ Division. Office, division, branch of assignment and current station: DDO/WH/O-CH, Headquarters. Code: DP.

Section B: Qualifications Update. Type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Contract, Other, Temporary. Type of report: Annual, Reassignment, Special. Reporting period: 1 May 1973–31 March 1974. Date report due in O.P.: 30 April 1974.

Section C: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial steps. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise; indicate the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Plans, organizes and implements the programs of the Operations Directorate in the Western Hemisphere area. Rating: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Supervises approximately 255 staff employees in Headquarters and 310 in 26 Stations and Bases abroad. Rating: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Represents the Agency in contacts with senior representatives of liaison
