Attachment No. 5.

Subject: General information of CI interests.

Source: Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ Perez.  
DPOB: 17 December 1967, Cartagena, Colombia, Pinar del Río Province.  
Alien Registration No. A17-405-810.

A) Area Especial (Special Area) of the Telephone Company

HERNANDEZ claims that in early 1960, the CCC established a new department within the Cuban Telephone Company. This department was called “Area Especial.”

As the site for “Area Especial,” a building located at 19th Street, corner of C Street, Vedado, Havana, was chosen. It is on the opposite corner of the same block where “Area Norte” of the Telephone Company is located, at 19th Street, corner of 3rd Street. Prior to being taken by the CCC, the building was the location of “Colegio Sepulveda” (Sepulveda private school).

HERNANDEZ claims that since “Area Especial” was organized, all of its members who had to deal with the installation or repair of telephone equipment had to be DSE agents, known at that time as DIER and later as G-2.

Even though only the accredited members of “Area Especial” can enter the premises, HERNANDEZ claims that it is common knowledge among telephone employees that the function of the members of “Area Especial” is to install, service, and maintain telephone equipment for offices of ministers; DSE offices; the Ministry of the Armed Forces; MININT; CCC personalities’ homes and offices, including Castro’s; DSTI; and any other CCC entity requiring security measures. It is also a main function of “Area Especial” personnel to establish telephone equipment and lines among trenches of the Cuban Army whenever needed, such as during the October crisis of 1962.

Note: The debriefer (Debrieficer) had previously been informed by Eusebio Pio NIVERO Yvelíez-Castro, during a cobriefing carried out at Freedom House on 7 April 1967, that an underground telephone cable had been installed from 2nd Street, corner of 13th Street, Vedado—the place NIVERO referred to as “Unidad Militar” (Military Unit)—to 19th Street, corner of C Street, Vedado—the place NIVERO referred to as the “Telephone Company sub-plant of Vedado area.” NIVERO told the debriefer on that occasion that this operation was conducted in late 1962, after the October crisis, and that he thought it was some sort of “cruising operation.” When asked by the debriefer, HERNANDEZ stated that in late 1962, after the October crisis, an underground telephone cable was installed at “Area Especial” and that it was said that the DSE was installing a “new” switchboard at “Area Especial.” No further information.

It should be noted by the debriefer that HERNANDEZ stated that he had no knowledge about it under the name of aflorante R. Divares within the Telephone Company.
