Intelligence Information Report.

This document contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the intelligence laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or dissemination of which is prohibited by law.

Report No. CS LT-313/01123-69. Date distributed: 9 July 1969. Country: West Germany. Date of information: 1 January 1969. Subject: German Government Evidence against the National Democratic Party (NPD). Acquired: Germany, Bonn (26 March 1969). Source: An official West German security service. Field No. EGN-4107.

1. A 77-page German-language report, describing the National Democratic Party (NPD) and presenting documentary and testimonial evidence of possibly unconstitutional aspects of the NPD, has been deposited in the files of the CIA Document and Pictorial Services Division, from which copies may be obtained upon request. The report is the shorter of two versions prepared by the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution (Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz). This shorter version is said to be complete in substance and is the version which was made available to West German Cabinet members in preparation for Cabinet discussion of whether the NPD should be banned. The longer, two-volume version has not been obtained.

2. Appraisal of the legal validity of the evidence against the NPD was omitted from the report at the order of the Minister of the Interior, who reserved to himself an assessment of the NPD's legality. Also, pages 9 to 13—a section entitled Chief Features of the Ideology (Grundzuege der Ideologie)—were omitted from the report at the request of the Minister of the Interior. (Headquarters Comment: The evidence in the report appears to be overt and less than conclusive. The West German Cabinet decided in the spring of 1969 not to request a ban of the NPD; substantial doubt existed as to whether there were sufficient grounds to obtain a legal ban of the NPD. The omissions from the text, referred to in this paragraph, may reflect realization by the Interior Ministry of the weakness of the case against the NPD.)

4. Field Dissemination: U. S. Embassy Bonn (limited).

Distribution of Attachment: CRS/ADD.

CAWHISPER. EGN-4107. Coordinating. Deleas­ing. HM: JL. rmm/vw.
