Federal Personnel Manual, Chapter M1. United States Civil Service Commission. Certificate of Medical Examination.

Applicant must supply information below the heavy line. Typewrite or print in ink.

Name: Charlotte L. Zehrunig. Address: San Joaquin, Kentucky, U.S.A. Department or bureau (BURLAO) in which employed: Office of the Secretary, Interior—Division of Geography. Title of position: Statistical Draftsman. Location: Washington, D.C.

Are you now employed in the position shown in item 5? If yes, give the date of your original appointment to this position. Have you any physical defect or disability whatsoever? If yes, give details.

Does the Veterans Administration recognize service-connected disability in your case? Have you ever received disability retirement from the U.S. Civil Service Commission?

Doctor: All questions on both sides of this certificate and on the lower half of the attached Health Qualification Placement Record must be answered. Before beginning the examination, refer to Items 9 and 10 on the Health Qualification Placement Record so that you will have knowledge of the physical requirements of the position to which the applicant is to be appointed. Sign both this certificate and the Health Qualification Placement Record.

Height: 6 feet 8 inches. Weight: 120 pounds.

Eyes: 20/20 with glasses, if worn; right: 20, left: 20.

Distant vision (Snellen): Without glasses: right/left 2/2. With glasses, if worn: right 2/2, left 2/20.

What is the longest and shortest distance at which the following specimen of Jaeger No. 2 type can be read by the applicant? Test each eye separately. Without glasses: right, 4 inches to 2 inches; left, 4 inches to 2 inches. With glasses, if used: right, 2 inches to 2 inches; left, 2 inches to 2 inches.

Evidence of disease or injury: right; left.

Color vision: Is color vision normal when Chihara or other color plate test is used? If not, can applicant pass lantern, yarn or other comparable test? No.

Weight (consider denominators indicated here as normal; record as numerators the greatest distance heard). Ordinary conversation: right ear 20 ft.; left ear.
