Contact Report

Subject: Elizabeth Duncan WILDE  
Date of meeting: 12 December 1967

1. A Headquarters officer made arrangements by telephone for me to interview Subject on 12 December. She was told that I would arrive at Toledo at 10:30 and call her. However, my plane developed mechanical trouble and I called her from Pittsburgh (Pittsburg) to advise that I would be 3 hours late. I arrived at Toledo at 13:30 and called her. We agreed that I would come to her mother's apartment at 14:30. The interview lasted from 14:30 to 18:30. During the last hour we were joined by her mother but, since she is senile and hard of hearing, we were able to continue talking without interruption.

2. I introduced myself as Peter Clark from the Embassy in Mexico. Subject accepted me without question and immediately began telling her story which was about the same as we had received from the political officer. The telling took only 10 minutes. I had considerable difficulty in taking her through a chronological account and holding her to one subject. It became obvious that she is a very self-centered person who is not interested in others unless they make a strong impression on her which LOGINOV obviously did. She is impossible on names, dates or times, asking me at least three times during the interview to repeat my name. On the other hand she was completely cooperative and did not appear to be withholding or distorting information.

3. The following account of her contacts are pieced together from her chaotic account and, thus, is by no means perfect:

a. She was in Mexico about 10 days on her most recent trip and met LOGINOV about a week before she left (ca 10 November). She met him at a party given by a Spanish couple (names forgotten) at their home in the southern part of the city to which her host, Dr. Frederico MARIN, had been invited. It was a large party which included Mexicans, foreigners and diplomats. She met LOGINOV through a German man whom she had just met (van Henrichs or Kendrichs, no meaningful traces). She talked to LOGINOV on and off, for an hour. After an exchange of amenities she remarked that he spoke good English. He said it needed improvement and asked if she would be willing to give him lessons. She would like to but must leave in a week. He asked if she had any American friends who could teach him. She explained that she had friends when she lived in Mexico from 1954 to 1957.
