9. Charles is of the opinion that Duvalier is determined to remain in Haiti and face any opposition from inside and outside the country. Although Duvalier is confident that he can rent any landlady’s house (宅), he has made a secret agreement with President Jules Hainé of the Dominican Republic (Dominica Republic). Duvalier made sure that he was granted authority in the Dominican Republic in the event his government is overthrown. The two presidents maintain close liaison through André Simon, a member of the Legislative Chamber in Haiti. Simon, who, according to Charles, is responsible for the murder of several anti-Duvalier persecutors (perusers) in the penal area, frequently travels in a jeep with diplomatic license plates between Santo Domingo and Port-au-Prince. Simon received a diplomatic passport from Duvalier while on business in Santo Domingo (Santeria, Domingo); he stays in the presidential palace.

10. It seems that the “battle of the semi-in-laws” (semi-inhabited) has been won by Bernard, Minister of Tourism. In early May 1967, Duvalier’s other son-in-law, Dominique, who is an Army officer, moved out of his presidential palace together with his wife. They took up residence in Port-au-Prince, but their independence did not last long. After a few days in their new home, President Duvalier and his bodyguards made a “friendly visit” to the Dominican house and took his daughter and son-in-law back to the presidential palace. Charles believes that Dominique is now virtually a prisoner. He also learned from those close to the palace that Duvalier either will appoint or has already appointed Dominique to a foreign diplomatic post, which amounts to “golden exile” (goldenслies). At the same time, Bernard continues to enjoy Duvalier’s full confidence. He is allowed to visit New York City with his wife “to promote Haitian tourism.” After an unsuccessful stay in the United States, Bernard flew to Mexico City, where he was also unsuccessful in his bid to attract Mexican tourists; but as a consolation prize, he received a decoration from the Mexican government.

11. Charles made the following comments to some concerning certain individuals in Haiti:

a. Winston Churchill, in charge of the Presidential Court. He compromises with him in case of a coup (cop); he must be eliminated.

b. Louis Bonaparte, head of the State Machine. Must be eliminated.

c. Clovis Bono, Minister of Finance. He is an “anarchist” (anzachist) with presidential aspirations who has some “underground movement in Haiti.” To be eliminated.
