Continuation of Dispatch. Dispatch symbol and number: HMMA-41,734.

Film and provided weekly written reports based on his daily visual observation of the target area.

5. KDABSINTHE: Operated by KDFACTOR-5, KDABSINTHE produced 100 rolls of film and continued to be the principal source for information on visitors to the MHHARSH installation, with special attention given to visits of “WOCORK-type” persons and political exiles. This segment of KDFACTOR also continued to be the main source of information on MHHARSH license plates and automobiles.

6. KDLITERAL and KDABSINTHE both continue to provide detailed “attendance sheets” on all MHHARSH personnel. Without this combined coverage, it would be difficult to identify personnel assigned to the MHHARSH installation or to monitor their daily movements and activities. In addition, the two surveillance points provide periodic photo studies of the MHHARSH installation itself with emphasis on coverage of any construction changes and any modification or additions made to the communications antenna system. Both sites are also available to service special support requests as required. During the period, KDLIRECT performed a number of special photo surveys and a three-week frequency sweep requested by WOACRE.

Security Review

7. There were no known problems of security relating to the project. In response to Reference B request, we have reviewed all phases of the operation and believe that project security is sound. The project assets have all been with us for many years and have established themselves as respectable long-time residents of the area. All five assets, four in one family and one in another, are extremely security conscious and have all been SGSWIRLed. The assets derive a substantial portion of their livelihood from their DKTRUST employment and would thus lose a great deal if security factors ever necessitated a termination of their work for us. As an additional safeguard, the KDLIRECT and KDABSINTHE operations are compartmented from each other, and there has never been any indication that either segment of KDFACTOR knows of the other’s existence.

8. The only termination of a project asset in recent years was KDFACTOR-1, who formerly processed the photo product from both surveillance points. KDFACTOR-1 was terminated amicably in March 1971. We still maintain periodic contact with him; and his brother, KDADAGE-14, continues to be one of our more valued MHHARSH access agents. KDFACTOR-1 is a reputable physician with a wide circle of friends, and on a number of recent occasions he has been very helpful when we have taxed his expertise in his field or requested background information on people in the medical profession. Although KDFACTOR-1 processed the photo product, he was not knowledgeable of the exact surveillance point locations. Delivery and pickup of the finished product was always accomplished by an outside case officer.

9. Contact is maintained with only two of the five assets. KDFACTOR-2 and -5, both of whom are responsible for the operation of their respective basehouses. Both KDFACTOR-2 and -5 are met weekly to obtain the KDLIRECT and KDABSINTHE product for timely processing and analysis by the Station. Meetings with KDFACTOR-2 are car pickups at periodically changed locations in the suburbs. Meetings with KDFACTOR-5 consist of car meetings early in the morning along his route of travel to his overt job. These meetings last only long enough to pick up the product, provide new supplies, and pay salaries, rents, utility bills, etc. Emergency contact plans are on file at the Station and have been forwarded to headquarters on both KDFACTOR-2 and -5. KDFACTOR-6, -8, and -9 are members of KDFACTOR-5’s immediate family and could be contacted through him using his emergency plan.

10. We have taken action recently to guard against the contingency that one of the present sites might be blown, and alternate
