Section C. Narrative Comments, Office of Personnel.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amend or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Wigren is a conscientious and capable research officer with a good grasp of his material and is able to commit it effectively to audiences of widely varied sophistication. Since his last report, the basic orientation of SR/CI has changed, and is now directed almost wholly to the creation and exploitation of operations. The organization thus needs more urgently than ever the digested operational experience which it is Mr. Wigren's job to produce. This has made it necessary to apply strict priorities based on operational need and relevancy, which has been difficult for Mr. Wigren, who has no direct operational experience. He has not been able to get the most out of his people, nor give them the sort of close and consistent guidance which some of them require in the face of changing or sudden requirements. He has a tendency to be over-concerned with organizational and bureaucratic exercise to the expense of substantive production. Nonetheless, his real qualities came to the fore recently when he produced well and used his staff effectively on an important and complicated project. He is a distinct asset in his responsible and demanding job.

Mr. Wigren performs his duties with maximum economy.

Certification and Comments.

1. By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 22 January 1964. Signature of employee: Lee H. Wigren.

By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

2. Months employee has been under my supervision: 14. Date: 22 Jan. 1964. Official title of supervisor: Chief, SR/CI. Typed or printed name and signature: Trentent H. Bagley.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: Concur. Date: 27 January 1964. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, SR Division. Typed or printed name and signature: D.G. J. Mains.
