e. The exile American Negro community.

f. Minor political writers and polemicists in exile leftist circles in Europe.

2. Access and Limitations on Access. There apparently has been circulated a charge that Gibson is a CIA agent. (This is reflected in his 201 as dating from his days with the FPCC.) In dealing with this question, however, KATZENBACH cites Gibson's own belief that he is still able to operate in the circles which would be of interest to us. It is, of course, difficult to tell from his debriefing the extent and seriousness of this charge against Gibson, insofar as it affects his bona fides. It does seem that in Gibson's milieu, gossip, personal attacks, muddled loyalties and an aura of conspiratorial confusion are everyday facts of life and that personal contact and effectiveness in building rapport would far outweigh such critical personal charges—which, indeed, probably circulate about most people. At the present time, for reasons not entirely clear, Gibson feels that he would be unwelcome and restricted were he to visit Ghana, and, in fact, would not like to make such a trip. He has indicated, on the other hand, that he has friends in Algeria and believes he could probably get some kind of job there or at least find a receptive and generally friendly reception. He also appears to have some contact and standing with the Indonesian government, since he claims their London Embassy offered him employment. It is not known to what extent he might be able to parley such a contact into employment in Djakarta or some form of official association in Europe, although these questions could be explored further. The termination of his association with Revolution and Verges would not, according to his account of it, discredit him in the eyes of those who might have been partisans of the ideological line which this magazine purveyed. According to his account, Verges is not in good standing with the pro-Chinese like Grippa or even the Chinese, and that his (Gibson's) quarrel with Verges over unpaid salary is well known. While this may not be unbiased, it is apparently true that he has lodged a claim for payment against Verges, and thus is not in the position of having been expelled from Revolution for ideological deviation. As Gibson recounts it, it is Verges, not he, who is discredited.

3. Motivation and Readiness to Cooperate. The debriefing reflects between the lines what KATZENBACH judges in his covering dispatch to be a readiness to collect information for us knowing that we are an official agency and probably suspecting that we are KUBARK. His professed motivation is monetary, and frankly so, although a certain degree of fatigue with his past profession of ideological punditry is discernable. There are also a number of indications that Gibson would like to rehabilitate himself lest he be forced to make his living for an indefinite period of time in an environment that he finds both unpleasant and materially unrewarding. It is not possible, of course, to make an intelligent judge from this debriefing on the firmness and consistency with which he
