Field Information Report.

Grading of source: A, completely reliable; B, usually reliable; C, fairly reliable; D, not sure, reliable; E, not reliable. Applied to sources of doubtful reliability or by comparison of their contents. Approved for use in intelligence and other official purposes.

Appraisal of content: 1, confirmed by other independent and reliable sources; 2, probably true; 3, possibly true; 4, controversial; 5, probably false; 6, cannot be judged.

Country: Mexico. Report No. HMM-10,628. Subject: Popular Socialist Party skepticism concerning the arrest of Victor Rico Galan and others. Date of report: 24 August 1966. No. pages: 3.

References. Date of info: 17 August 1966. Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City, 19 August 1966.

This is unevaluated information. Source coded as definitive; appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Veteran and trusted member of the Popular Socialist Party who has close personal connections with ranking members of the Party. He has been a prolific reporter of reliable information. The reported information was obtained directly from leaders of both the PPS and the General Union of Workers and Peasants of Mexico. The substance of these persons' comments is believed to be accurately reported; their validity, however, cannot be assessed.

1. Summary: Popular Socialist Party (PPS) attitudes toward the arrest of Victor Rico Galan and others on charges of conspiring against the Government remain unsympathetic, and the Party intends to stay outside the entire matter, although PPS Secretary General Vicente Lombardo Toledano may seize the opportunity to strike back at some of his enemies by issuing a statement condemning the plans attributed to Rico Galan. Within the Party there is considerable skepticism about the truth of the published charges. While several Party leaders do not doubt that there is some truth to the charges, they are quite convinced that there was no danger of imminent rebellion and that Mexican institutions stood in no peril from Rico Galan and his friends. Given the energy and efficiency with which the Mexican Government has dealt with less melodramatic threats in the past, one cannot but suspect that it is merely a tried and true Government maneuver. Also, it is believed in the PPS that police accounts of their role in the matter have been exaggerated to enhance the reputation of the police both with the President and with the public. The rumor that the Guatemalan Government may have asked the Mexican Government to silence Rico Galan because of his violent attacks against the new Guatemalan administration is generally discounted, since the complaints of Guatemalan officials are certainly of no concern to Mexico.
