Attachment to FJTA-19609

Memorandum No. 360

18 June 1957

To: Chief of Station

From: Chief, Soviet Branch

Subject: Jacques RICHARDSON — Recommendation for Promotion

1. This has been under my supervision as Deputy and Case Officer for approximately fifteen months. Based on the knowledge of this individual gained during this period and upon his actual performance, I recommend that he be entered for consideration on the SR Division GS-11 to GS-15 promotion list at this time — June 1957. The slot and job which he now occupies, Chief, Soviet Branch, is, of course, adequate to accommodate such a promotion.

2. Operational performance has been outstanding and notably versatile during this period. He has engaged primarily in liaison and has been personally effective in terms of results achieved almost daily, in terms of reports, operational data, and joint enterprise; while, overall, he has established enduring professional relationships from which the organization as a whole should benefit for some time to come. In addition, owing in large part to unique personal talents, linguistic and otherwise, he has handled a number of unilateral cases most effectively. In the office, too, as well as in face-to-face operational situations, he has been outstanding. He has a flair for and a facility with the written word as evidenced by the amount of general and particular correspondence which he has initiated, and he knows the organizational “drill” intimately and from way back. Thus, I feel that he is qualified for the recommended promotion by ability and experience in both the internal and external aspects of the profession.

3. Relative to the more personal characteristics involved in the term managerial ability, judgments are necessarily more subjective but here, too, I consider him to be qualified in maturity, in judgment, and in experience. He would most certainly be a supervisor who could perform all the chores or handle all the situations which he would be calling upon subordinates to take care of, in itself, the beginning of any good supervisory relationship. In actual fact, he has had considerable experience in this regard already and the principal shortcoming I have noticed is a tendency to “carry” others by an extension of his own industry. It is not without his difficulties in the area of personal relationships. He is a purist at times and manifestly impatient in certain human situations where a shrug of the shoulders would be the
