Georgetown University, Washington, D.C. 20007

Educational and Psychological Services Bureau

August 24, 1966

Name: Mr. Myroslaw A. Maksymiec

Mr. Myroslaw A. Maksymiec, age 49, came to this Bureau on August 1, 1966, in connection with the Veterans Administration's educational and vocational counseling program for former servicemen. Mr. Maksymiec is married, has two children, ages five and eight, and is employed by a federal governmental agency as a photographic research technician (GS 09/3). He retired from the United States Army in 1961 in the grade of Master Sergeant after serving for over 20 years with primary duties as an intelligence photographer. His education includes eight years of formal schooling, a high school completion equivalence certificate, and additional courses with the Graduate School, Department of Agriculture, and the United States Armed Forces Institute. Mr. Maksymiec stated that he was interested in further education at the college level in order to improve himself both personally and professionally in a field related to his present vocational activities.

In addition to several conferences with the undersigned, Mr. Maksymiec was administered a battery of educational and vocational tests. This report contains the results of these conferences and tests, the results of which should not be interpreted either as conclusive or final. They should be considered primarily as indications of various psychological factors that should be seriously considered by Mr. Maksymiec in making decisions concerning his educational and vocational goals.

In order to determine Mr. Maksymiec's fields of vocational interest, he was given the Kuder Vocational Preference Record. When compared to a representative group of men in the national population, Mr. Maksymiec indicated that his interests are significantly similar to persons who are engaged in computational, scientific, and literary activities. Men who have interests similar to Mr. Maksymiec's are found in various engineering fields, astronomy, seismology, economics, psychology, and technical publications writing. These fields are closely allied to his present occupational endeavors.

On the Educational Interest Inventory, a device that is beneficial to an individual in discovering his interests in various fields of study, Mr. Maksymiec's responses indicated that his study interests are very high in physics; high in engineering, chemistry, earth science, and history and political science; high average in communication, zoology, and mathematics; and average in psychology. The areas in which he showed low to average interest were music, education, industrial arts, agriculture, botany, sociology, literature, art, business administration, and economics.
