17. Military Experience: In order to more completely determine the complete military service of each of the members of the family, it is proposed that in addition to the usual statements of the various units of pay which are made at present in the United States, further details shall be given as to all special or technical schools attended and the courses taken in duty assignment, together with the dates of all previous assignments.

ASTP Russian Area and Language.

(a) What were you taught—as a regular service soldier?

Russian language, history, economics, etc., was intensive during the first 11 hours of Russian per week. Second semester history and economics were taught in Russian.

(b) What did you do during this duty assignment?

Performed duties as operations NCO in G-2 Section. As chief clerk of staff supervised Journal, situation man, planning, radio operators, maintained Order at En-टای files; because familiar with it.

(c) Duty assignment after this training: U.S. Army Officers Liaison School.

(d) What were you taught in Basic Special Service School?

Location. Russian language, Soviet Army organization, Soviet military history, Soviet literature and culture. The emphasis was placed on military Russian and contemporary Soviet life.

Date of duty assignment (months, years): From July 44 to June 45.

(e) Certificate of completion.

List on a separate sheet of paper any additional experience, training, service, or special duty assignments during military service or hospitalization.

(f) Give name and location of last high school attended.

19. Education—Circle highest grade completed: 12. Eastwood High, Syracuse, NY.

Mark (a) the appropriate box to indicate satisfactory completion of: Senior High School.

(b) Subjects studied in high school which apply to position desired: French, European History.

(c) Name and location of college or university: State Teachers, Cortland, NY. Social Studies. Major.

University of California, Berkeley, California. History. Spring semester 1945.

(d) List your chief undergraduate college subjects: 1936, 1042, 4, BSEd, June 1945, unknown.

(e) List your chief graduate college subjects: Social-Studies Education, God, European History, Political Geography, elective history courses.
