C. II, continued.

1943, Berlin: Resumed his role on the French West Coast (最高est Coast), as a driver at the Atlantic Wall construction. They were taken to Paris and given French Ford trucks to drive to Saint-Nazaire (Sainte-Aazaire). David was detached to the Navy (toavy) (U.S. unit). Later he refused to take an oath, was returned under arrest to Berlin.

Berlin: Punitive camp (Puritative camp). He asked and got permission to contact the police for employment in the police force. Employed with the Police. Guard duties. Broke his elbow at physical training. In hospital for 40 days, then convalescing. Falsified convalescence leave papers. Forged a three-month “surgical operation” certificate to be free of checks with his police unit. During this time, and already before, David was active in black marketing with gold and coffee, and he started document forgery on a larger scale.

He became acquainted with Irakly LORIKIPANIDZE, the future husband of his sister Helen. He already knew Astée SCHMIDT-AZI-BADASSI (asterée SCHMIDT-AZI-BADASSI), his confidant in forgeries. Other acquaintances in Berlin: a half-Jew named Kate, French radio technicians LUCAS, ALLUMES, VILEMAIN, et al. He prepared false documents for 14 people, for friends and unknown people. He made trips where he contacted engraver ALLOU and ordered forged stamps and seals, also Currier & Ives blank forms of official letters. He traveled to the French-Spanish border three or four times to buy coffee, brought it to Berlin, and sold it there.

Berlin: He used a German soldier in the Commandantura in Paris, and his wife in Berlin, for signaling purposes (conventional telephone calls indicating safe arrivals).

1944, Berlin: He sent his parents and sister, who had come to Berlin, with false travel documents to Vienna, his parents being unwitting of the falsification. He contacted the German Military Intelligence Service “CIA/AIS” to get employed with it.

He damaged his left hand when a capsule of an unexploded incendiary bomb exploded in his hands, in his room, wounding ALLUMES also.

February: A Belgian girl for whom he was preparing documents, and who should not have known where he lived, came to his living place just when the explosion had happened.

22 February, Berlin: Hat, Katz, Allumes, Astée were arrested at Anhalter RR station (Annalter RR station) when meeting the Belgian girl.
