Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: C55495.

Section A—General. Name: SHAN, Robert T. Date of birth: 18 Jun 1925. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. SO: D. Official position title: Opa Officer. Type of appointment: Career. Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1965. Type of report: Career; reassignment supervisor. Reporting period: 1 June 1964–31 March 1965.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W. Work: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Agent handling and exploitation. The management, direction and training of existing agent assets. Attention to full operational exploitation of such assets.

Specific Duty No. 2: Development and handling of new operations: target studies, spotting, assessment and recruitment of new agent assets and potentials.

Specific Duty No. 3: Operational management and administration. Maintenance of project records, preparation of contact reports, memoranda, dispatches and cables as required.

Specific Duty No. 4: General operational support
