Section IV. This section is provided as an aid in describing the individual. Your description is not favorable or unfavorable in itself but requires its meaning in relation to a particular job or assignment. The descriptive words are to be interpreted literally.

On the left-hand side of the page are statements that apply in some degree to most people. On the right-hand side are four major categories of descriptions. The scale within each category is divided into three scale blocks to allow finer distinctions. Look at the statement on the left, then check the category on the right that best tells how much the statement applies to the person being rated. An “X” in the “Not Observed” column means you have no opinion on whether a phrase applies to an individual. An “X” in the “Does Not Apply” column means you have the definite opinion that the description is not at all suited to the individual.

Samples: Able to see another’s point of view — Does not apply. Practical — Does not apply.

1. A good reporter of events — Applies to an above average degree.  
2. Can make decisions on his own when need arises — Applies to an above average degree.  
3. Cautious in action — Applies to an above average degree.  
4. Has initiative — Applies to an above average degree.  
5. Unemotional — Applies to an above average degree.

6. Analytic in his thinking — Applies to an outstanding degree.  
7. Constantly striving for new knowledge and ideas — Applies to an outstanding degree.  
8. Gets along with people at all social levels — Applies to an outstanding degree.  
9. Has sense of humor — Applies to an outstanding degree.  
10. Knows when to seek assistance — Applies to an outstanding degree.

11. Calm — Applies to a limited degree.  
12. Can get along with people — Applies to a limited degree.  
13. Memory for facts — Applies to a limited degree.  
14. Gets things done — Applies to a limited degree.  
15. Keeps oriented toward long-term goals — Applies to a limited degree.

16. Can cope with emergencies — Applies to a reasonable degree.  
17. Has high standards of accomplishment — Applies to a reasonable degree.  
18. Has stamina; can keep going a long time — Applies to a reasonable degree.  
19. Has wide range of information — Applies to a reasonable degree.  
20. Shows originality — Applies to a reasonable degree.

21. Accepts responsibilities — Applies to an above average degree.  
22. Admits his errors — Applies to an above average degree.  
23. Responds well to supervision — Applies to an above average degree.  
24. Even disposition — Applies to an above average degree.  
25. Able to do his job without strong support — Applies to an above average degree.
