EPM-A-11257  
KMPCK-1478

LILYRIC

This Base has been in operation for about two and one-half years and is located in an apartment building across the street from the LIMERICK installation. As in the case of the LIMITED Base, LILYRIC takes photographs of persons entering and leaving the main gate of the LIMERICK installation. The LILYRIC photographs are handled in the same manner as the LIMITED pictures. In addition to taking photographs, the LILYRIC operators also prepare daily logs on the activities of each LIMERICK employee, record the license plate numbers of most cars carrying people to and from the LIMERICK installation, and prepare an observation diary on all target personnel seen each day. (This permits the Station to tell when a target personality is out of town or not working for some other reason.)

The LILYRIC Base was originally acquired and made operative to provide for continuous coverage of the target in the event LIMITED is ever compromised. This is still the primary value of having two bases cover the same portion of the target. LILYRIC is compartmented from LIMITED and with the possible exception of GENEDE could probably weather any security flap involving LIMITED. Obviously, there is some duplication in the work of LIMITED and LILYRIC; however, the insurance value of having two bases is quite apparent.

LILYRIC has been operating for about two and one-half years and insofar as the Station knows, no compromising security situations have arisen.

LICALLA

The LICALLA Base is located in a position where photographs can be taken of people within the LIMERICK garden area. In addition, the operator of the LICALLA Base submits weekly reports on LIMERICK construction work, daily logs showing when a target individual was seen that day, and reports showing the association of target individuals with one another. LICALLA photographs are processed and handled in the same manner and by the people who handle the LIMITED and LILYRIC pictures.

The LICALLA Base was acquired and operations began about two and one-half years ago with the primary purpose of obtaining additional operational information concerning LIMERICK personnel, and operational leads which could be exploited for the physical penetration of the LIMERICK installation. Approximately one year ago the LICALLA Base was purchased by KUBARK through LINOUSINE. LICALLA will probably remain at its present location and will continue to submit photographs and reports of the same type as are now being submitted. Other than the fact that LIEMPTY-9, the LICALLA operator, is the brother of former LIPSTICK-47, no security problems are currently known to the Case Officer. However, reports from LIPSTICK 2, 12 and 30, the local police, the attorneys involved in the case, the foreign embassy concerned and the LCFLUTTER tests give no indications that LIEMPTY-9 was ever mentioned during the LIPSTICK flap.

LIENTRAP

This is a panel type truck equipped with cameras, telescopic lens and other types of photographic equipment. It has been used during the past two years as an investigative asset. The truck is parked about 75 yards from a target of interest (usually a residence or apartment building) and the photographer in the rear of the truck photographs individuals or things of interest to the Station. LIENTRAP is a valuable asset for any station to have and has enabled this Station to get pictures of individuals which could have been obtained in no other way. LIEMPTYs-10 and 11 operate LIENTRAP.

5T - 6 - 74/1
