Governmental Legislative Committee. Dated: May 1, 1970.

1. Name: Cuillenzo N.

2. Sex: Female.

3. Birthdate: 20-05-1926.

4. Marital status: Married (widower).

5. Present position: As of 10 October 1969, while serving in the last time, he was holding the position of Secretary of the Cuban Ministry in Madrid, Spain (Cuba Controls and Observers in Spain). Source does not know since no source provided.

6. Relational status: Subject is married, but source does not know the name of subject's wife, Milda Vozvrini (Lopez); she is white, was born about 1935, and is calendar and blend. She is a schoolteacher and resides with subject in Spain. Her political ideology is not known to source, but source believes that she follows subject's ideology. Subject's wife, Milda Vozvriani (Vozvrini), Lopez, is the daughter of Juan or Collectivo Vozvirni; Hainar (H) and Palma Lopez Mendez or Hernandez (H).

7. Relatives:

a. Parents:

Jose Fernando Puma (male, unknown) (N), white, born about 1910. He is a farmer and owns a farm located in Cuba 0%, City of Havanna. He is a former member of the Popular Socialist Party (PSP) and is now a member of the Communist Party of Cuba (CPC). He is also the head of a sectional office of the Committee for the Defense of the Revolution (CDR) in Matanzas, Matanzas, Cabarenes section, City of Havanna.

Jose Amarillo del Fiesta (male). She was born about 1904 in Havanna and, as white, she is a housewife. She is adapted to the present Cuban regime on account of her husband's and son's political ideology. Noted with her husband in Matanzas, Matanzas, Cabanees section, City of Havanna.

b. Sistemas:

(1) North Intercalation Party (NIP) (male, unknown) (L). It was born in Havanna about 1900 and its members. It is known to have worked as a truck driver and, during the present Cuban regime, he worked as a Havana-Vienna Route 37 bus driver in Matanzas. It is a supporter of the regime. A member of the National Political-Technical Ministry (MINTEC) and works in the national economy. It is said to be a gunner. Member of A. L. 2ª de Mayo. Havanna, second district, Havanna, from his parents' home.
