1 February 1964: At Nosenko's request, it was firmly agreed that the defection would take place in the morning of 8 February. Nosenko said that he assumed that exfiltration would be by automobile to West Germany and thence by plane to the United States.* His case officers confirmed that this was correct.

3 February 1964: Nosenko reviewed the Cherepanov materials. The defection was still scheduled for Saturday, 5 February.

4 February 1964: Nosenko telephoned the Geneva safehouse from his hotel room in the early afternoon and said: “I want to come now and not go back.” After arriving he explained that when he dropped by the KGB Legal Residency following the morning session of the Disarmament Conference, he read a cable ordering him to return to Moscow immediately to prepare for a KGB conference on foreign tourism in the Soviet Union.** The residency was arranging for a ticket for Nosenko to fly to Moscow via Paris the following day, and a replacement was being readied to assume Nosenko's duties as security officer for the Soviet Delegation in Geneva; he was not told who the replacement would be. Before he had left for Geneva in January, Nosenko then related, the Soviet Government had been deliberating the question of expanding foreign tourism in the USSR and had agreed to open a number of new cities and tourist itineraries in this connection. Semichastnyy had now decided that it was time to call a conference to discuss new “tactics and strategies” for handling the increased number of tourists expected. Since Nosenko had been placed in charge of the entire conference, he was directed to leave at once to prepare a basic report on the KGB handling of tourists; the report would be read to the conference either by himself or by someone from the leadership of the KGB or the Second Chief Directorate. Nosenko explained that he was the only one who could do this job as Lt. Col. A.G. Kovalenko, the KGB Headquarters Department senior officer, was a relatively new man in this line of operations, having been there only four or five years, perhaps less. Nosenko also told CIA that “by great coincidence” he had learned, just before the cable arrived, he was being moved to the Soviet villa on the morning of 5 February. He had arranged for a Soviet chauffeur to bring a car around at 0930 hours the next morning for the move. His absence would be noted at that time, and therefore “the main thing is to cross the Swiss border before morning.” Nosenko felt, however, that there would be considerable confusion among the Soviets in Geneva for a time following his disappearance, and that there would be no real concern until the evening. To foster Soviet uncertainty he had left his clothing lying around his hotel room and had brought no personal effects to the CIA safehouse. Nosenko estimated the first Soviet queries to Swiss

* See Part III.F.
