Name: John G. Fizer; Francis J. Holtzner; Edward J. Henry. Addresses: 2055 Belvedere Ave., Balto., Md.; 4220 N. 2nd St., Los Angeles, Calif.; 3 Farm Bureau Inc. Co., Harrisburg, Pa. Occupations: Attorney; Salesman; Personnel Mgr. Employers and affiliations: Life Insurance Company; Employee Benefit Association; United States Bankers Association; Circulation Officer; Military Unit; Farm Bureau; Co.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing X in proper column.

29. May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc.? X.

36. Are you an officer or member of any state, territorial, county, or municipality? If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 39. X.

26. Are you a citizen of or do you have allegiance to the United States, etc.? X.

77. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party U.S.A. or any Communist organization? X.

36. Does the United States Government employ in a chronic capacity any relative of yours (on pledge or marriage) with whom you live or have lived within the last 24 months? X.

78. Are you now, or have you ever been a member of a Fascist organization? X. If your answer is “Yes,” show in Item 39 for each relative: (1) full name, (2) present address, (3) relationship, (4) Department or Agency by which employed, and (5) kind of appointment.

29. Are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization, association or movement, group or combination of persons which is vocated as the overthrow of our constitutional form of government, or of an organization, association, movement, group or combination of persons which has accepted a liability of advocating or approval of the committee of acts of force or violence to any other persons under the Constitution of the United States or of other states, to alter the form of government of the United States by unauthorized means? X.

Special instructions for claiming veteran preference.

If your answer is “No,” list all such organizations, associations, groups, or combinations of persons and dates of
