the United States and given some kind of chance to observe the United States firsthand, they would be less bitter about us. I think that they have adopted some very dogmatic notions about us; they believe some of what they see in the movies, kinds of snatches of newsreels about the situation in the South. Actually, they have a very distorted notion, and some of it is a very sincere distorted notion. They really believe some of the things they've heard. I think if they would see us firsthand they might feel differently. Just as I think sometimes when a lot of these fellows go to Russia or Cuba; they come back disenchanted that it isn't what they have been told it is. I know that I've talked to some people in Mexico who have seen Cuba firsthand during the last year and have had noticeable changes of mind as to what it is. It's one thing to hear all the good things that the leftists say about a thing, but it's another thing when you actually go there and observe some of the tyrannical atmosphere. I think the same thing is true on the reverse, that you can disenchant people by sending them to Russia or to Cuba or behind the Iron Curtain. Just as sometimes you can rub away some of the misimpressions (malimpressions), erroneous impressions by sending people to the United States and having them live on a campus, for example, such as Cambridge, Michigan, or any such place where they can see firsthand that we're not the oppressors that they have been led to believe for a long time. Much of this is really lack of exposure.

During the time that I was in El Salvador about 10 days ago, there arose a serious problem of the departure of Salvadorans (Salvadorians) from Honduras; and it was all over the newspapers, and very strong statements were issued both in the editorials and by people over the radio about chasing out some of the Salvadorans (Salvadorians) that had been working in Honduras for a long time. Apparently there has been a rapprochement (rapproachment); there were meetings between the foreign ministers and I think the problem may be resolved.

It's interesting to note that El Salvador is the most heavily populated country of Central America. I think they have a population of about 120 per square mile, whereas Honduras and Nicaragua have something like 15 or 17 per square mile. Therefore, you have a very definite problem of space and overpopulation in San Salvador. The other thing is traditionally the people of San Salvador are supposed to be the hardest workers in Central America. I remember that Antonio Rivera, a very well-known attorney in San Salvador, said that the Salvadorans were referred to as the
