3. While AMSPILL [2] is now PRIME, he will determine AMSBILL policy as approved by the AMSBILL Executive Committee. However, the activities of the last four months were planned and controlled by AMRNT-2, and assisting him were AMHNT-5 and Bernabe FENA, who were present at that meeting. After the ARBARS discussion, the meeting turned into a long discussion of the International Communist situation, ODOKE, KUBARK, and AMSBILL policies as related to this situation. Some of the noteworthy items revealed:

a. AMSBILL had the 24 August Havana attack plan for six months, but had shelved it for the “right time” and a considered decision not to embark upon a course independent of KUBARK approval. The Soviet buildup changed that decision.

b. AMSBILL analyzes the situation as hopeless for the PURIMEN (PBRIMEN) revolutionary movements after four months because:

1. The Soviets will be firmly established, and ODOKE policy as defined by GPIDEAL tends toward and will probably result in a hemisphere with no acceptance of PURIMEN as a satellite.

2. After four months, the degree of police controls, repression, and persecution will make any internal action in civil resistance and guerrilla warfare virtually impossible.

c. AMSBILL feels that ODOKE policy on PURIMEN cannot be influenced by the rising tide of public opinion and congressional action, partly because GPIDEAL is surrounded by a group of advisors who are “one step from being parlor pinks or worse.” The list began with Chester HOWLES.

d. This situation is not an original AMSBILL observation. During his European travel in August, AMRNT-2 went to the Vatican for a meeting, claimed to be high level, which had been arranged some time ago. His impression of thinking in the Vatican regarding World Communist advance was that ODOKE or PRIME was no longer calculated as an effective power for defending the world against total takeover. The Catholic Church was beginning the long process of preparing its forces for a world dominated by Communism.

e. As a result of their observations and analysis, AMSBILL has assumed a “now or never” attitude and policy. They feel they must resort to tactics that mold PRIME public opinion and bring pressure to bear on ODOKE and GPIDEAL for action in the PURIMEN situation. Latin America must also be kept aware and urged to support an action. They would hope that such an AMSBILL policy and resultant activity would not be interpreted as opposition or hostility to KUBARK or ODOKE, and that their KUBARK relationship would survive the critical months before them. They recognize that KUBARK is bound by policy and burdened by its bureaucracy, and feel that the actions—although independent and uncontrolled—of AMSBILL might contribute to the formation of action policy in PURIMEN, despite consternation in GOPITAL.

HRN
