Answer all questions by placing “X” in the proper column.

25. Are you a citizen of the United States of America? If no, give the country of which you are a citizen. Yes.

26. Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of the Communist Party, U.S.A., the Communist Political Association, the Young Communist League, or any Communist organization? No.

27. Are you now or have you ever been a member of any foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which is totalitarian, racist, Communist, or subversive, or which has adopted, or shows, a policy of advancing or oppressing the commission of acts of force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or which seeks to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means? No.

If your answer to 26 and/or 27 above is “Yes,” state on a separate sheet attached to and made a part of this application the names of all such organizations, associations, movements, groups or combinations of persons and dates of membership. Give complete details of your activities therein and make any explanation you desire regarding your membership or activities. See Instruction Sheet.

28. Have you any physical handicap, chronic disease, or other disability? No.

29. Have you ever had a nervous breakdown? No.

30. Have you ever had tuberculosis?

If your answer to 28, 29, or 30 above is “Yes,” give details in Item 39.

31. Have you ever been barred by the U.S. Civil Service Commission from taking examinations or accepting civil service appointment? If your answer is “Yes,” give dates of and reasons for such department in Item 49. No.

32. Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours, by blood or marriage, with whom you live or have lived within the past 24 months? No.

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 49 for PASC all such relatives: (1) full name; (2) present address; (3) relationship; (4) department or agency by which employed; and (5) kind of appointment.

33. Do you receive or have you applied for an annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act or any pension, or other compensation for military or naval service? No.

If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 49.

34. Are you an official or employee of any State, territory, country, or municipality? No.

If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 39.

35. Have you ever been discharged (fired) from employment for any reason? No.

36. Have you ever resigned (quit) after being informed that your employer intended to discharge (fire) you for any reason? No.

If your answer to 35 or 36 above is “Yes,” give details in Item 39. Show the name and address of employer, approximate date, and reason, in each case. This information should agree with statements made in Item 19—Experience.

37. Have you ever been arrested, taken into custody, held for investigation or questioning, or charged by any law
