Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject has performed in a manner quite consistent with his long and broad experience in many aspects of the craft of intelligence. His senior grade, his special expertise in the field of propaganda and publication, and his very high intellect have contributed to the division's operations in the public media field a sharp focus, an economical concentration of money and effort, and a consequently heightened impact. In the WUHUSTLER project, Subject vindicated his faith in a moribund clandestine asset by demonstrating, after about a year and a half under his personal direction, that it is one of the most effective activities of its kind. Before Subject assumed direct responsibility for this project, it had suffered from visionary and diffuse direction and from poor case officer-agent rapport. Subject's personal handling of this operation is marked by excellent rapport, and the project prospers on an entirely reoriented basis which the agent himself enthusiastically welcomes.

Subject's supervisory responsibility has extended over two secretaries, from one to two professional staffers under official cover, and three professional career employees under unofficial cover. The fairness and precision of his management has patently won their respect and inspired their performance.

Continued on additional sheet.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 20 May 74. Signature or employee: E. H. Landis.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 24 May 74.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Official title of supervisor: DCOS. Date: 19 May 1964.

Type of printing DCOS and signature: Stanley H. Gaines. Comments of reviewing official: Crawford. Official type of reviewing official: R. L. Davis.

Date. Approved by. Type of printing DCOS and signature: C. T. Barnes.

May 28. G. H. Avis. Dates.
