The participation by national figures reflected a feeling in Bonn that this state election, the last before the 1969 federal election, might influence national politics. The analogy to the federal scene was pointed up by the existence in Baden-Wuerttemberg of a coalition of Christian Democrats and Social Democrats, similar to that in Bonn.

Reaction to Student Riots

In looking for explanations of the NPD gains, German observers have emphasized the public reaction against the Easter student rioting, and dissatisfaction with the federal grand coalition. Conservatives lean to the former explanation, while students and trade unionists stress the latter. The NPD did not receive less than 6 percent in any electoral district. This suggests that the sentiment expressed by the vote is widespread, and may extend throughout the FRG.

Reaction to student rioting probably contributed something, but this aspect seems to have been exaggerated as a factor in NPD gains. In Heidelberg, the NPD vote rose to 11.9 percent, but in three other university towns, the party's vote fell below the state average of 9.8 percent. In industrial Esslingen, where there had been two student riots, the NPD only attained 9 percent. Some voters may have been influenced by student demonstrations to transfer their votes from the SPD to the CDU, whose spokesmen have generally advocated a stern treatment of rioters.

At the same time, the "new left" certainly failed to win popular support. The Democratic Left, supported by radical students, won only 2.3 percent in the state as a whole, while making better showings in certain university and industrial localities. While the Democratic Left's state-wide average was better than the far left had attained in recent elections under other names, it fell below the last, low figure gained by the Communists before they became illegal: 3.2 percent.

Hostility to the Grand Coalition?

There is dissatisfaction with the coalition within the CDU, and it can be assumed that some of the party's right wing voted for the National Democrats. The Socialists, however, suffered the greater loss. Left-of-center Socialists often complain that the party has compromised its principles and lost public favor. There is an undercurrent of feeling in these quarters that the party has endangered German democracy by abandoning its long-time position of opposition and entering into collaboration with the CDU.

Although the SPD has provided much of the impetus to the grand coalition's economic and foreign policies, and although the coalition in Baden-Wuerttemberg has generally functioned well, dissatisfaction undoubtedly exists among idealistic members of the left and among traditionally class-conscious union members. Middle class voters of this persuasion probably turned
