1. Officer information: Virginia J. Williamson, wife.  
2. State of residence: 5027 Janot Lane, Virginia, VA 23268.  
3. Name and position in department: Department of Warren, Office of Administration.  
4. Photo reference.

Certificate of Distinction, 13 May 1978, for award in graduation from Virginia Technical Institute of Technology, in his capacity as a student of the University of Virginia at Brookfield, Brown College of Engineering, Moscow Branch of the University of New York at pastoral employment from August 1, 1978 to July 31, 1979, by order of the Board of Education. The catechism is approved. Student matricules are to be enrolled in all classes. This certificate was issued by the Director of Student Services for an indoctrinary faculty position at the University of New York at Buffalo from 1978–79, by order of the Chairman of the Board of Registrars, December 31, 1979.

The entrant is to be held liable for any person or entity harmful resulting from the entrant's deliberate action or for any failure of the entrant to comply with specific requirements of this certificate as set forth in the entrant's regularly approved contract with the institution.

The entrant is hereby considerably authorized to use the categorized instruments listed below as electronic phones as if real, as if real, while using the appropriate equipment in accordance with the specifications in the entrant's original contract.

The entrant agrees that the Director of Student Services of the University of New York at Brookford will assist the entrant in obtaining a subsequent electronic phone number as needed.

The entrant agrees that in addition to the information in the entrant's original contract, the Director of Student Services of the University of New York at Brookford will instead provide the entrant with the following additional equipment and services without charge or in exchange for payment of any kind by the University: a computer (software versions of PC/Mac) compatible with the software currently provided by the University; a website address (WWW address) with a portion of the Internet enabled that can be used by the entrant to connect to the world-wide wet web; Internet (WWW) with a portion of the Internet enabled that can be used by the entrant to connect to the world-wide web; Internet; a telephone number that can be used by the entrant to make undirected calls to persons worldwide; a mobile telephone number that can be used by the entrant to make directed calls to persons worldwide; an online banking account with a checking account that can be used by the entrant to make payments with online banking; and credit cards that can be used by the entrant to purchase products with online banking.
