Subject: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA

In contact with one Orlando Garcia, who was in the Miami area recruiting Cubans for use in a Venezuelan Special Forces Unit. Your Agency is referred to the FBI for information concerning the activities of these individuals in the United States.

5. Justo Larazo Alfonso. A check of our records turned up one Justo Alfonso (no DPOB), a Cuban exile, who was active in anti-Castro organizations in the late 1960s. Your Agency is referred to the FBI for information on this individual.

6. Manuel De Armas. DPOB: 06 November 1947, Havana, Cuba; naturalized U.S. citizen living in Miami. On 17 October 1975, one Manuel De Armas contacted our overt Domestic Contact Division (DCD) office in Miami, offering his services as a double agent. Following are excerpts from two DCD reports dated 20 October 1975 and 19 January 1976, based on debriefings of De Armas: While in Cuba, De Armas claimed to have been the neighbor of Raul Betancourt, the brother of the former Venezuelan President Romulo Betancourt, and his two daughters, Antonieta and Mariela, who was De Armas' girlfriend. De Armas' mother decided in 1962 that Subject should leave Cuba, which he did. In 1975, De Armas found out that his two young cousins had been placed in an orphanage in Cuba. He made contact with Mariela Betancourt, telling her that he was fed up with the U.S. system of government in order to gain her attention on the matter of taking his cousins out of Cuba. Mariela asked him if he would be willing to work for the Cuban Government, and he replied he would if it would help the youngsters. Mariela then told De Armas to go to Caracas and meet with her sister Antonieta. De Armas went to Caracas on 02 October 1975 and met with Antonieta, but no proposals were made on the possibility of his working for the Cuban Government. On 17 October 1975, De Armas again called Mariela and was told that he should return to Venezuela to hold more talks with Antonieta and “other people.” After talking with Mariela on 17 October 1975, De Armas called our DCD/Miami Office because, as a U.S. citizen, he claimed that he did not want to get involved with the Cuban Government unless he had this Agency's approval. De Armas graciously offered his services as a double agent. He called DCD/Miami on 20 October 1975.
