The Washington Daily News points out that the “Peace Corps” program, which costs taxpayers $100 million annually, does not work, and recommends that the administration find better ways to use these funds.

Official Washington has in fact acknowledged the failure of the “Peace Corps” activity. This is evidenced by the White House’s decision to merge the Peace Corps with VISTA, so-called corps of teachers.

The activity of such centralized “volunteer service,” in the opinion of the White House, may bring greater returns for the invested dollars.

But the U.S. press casts serious doubt on the effectiveness of the administration’s plans, and not without reason.

The famous ten-year activity of the “Peace Corps” made many in America convinced that no one, except for ideological saboteurs, needs this “volunteer” organization.

Henry Winston Describes U.S. Racist Policies

Kocourov, TASS International Service in English, 0903 GMT, 27 February 1971.

[Text] New York, February 27, TASS—Speaking at the law faculty of Yale University in New Haven on Friday, National Chairman of the Communist Party of the United States Henry Winston said that Nixon’s policy, aimed at expansion of the war in Cambodia, Laos, and other areas of Indo-China, is actually the racist policy of American imperialism.

Henry Winston emphasized that the policy of the present-day government of the United States becomes increasingly menacing. Henry Winston said this policy leads to intensification of racism and anticommunism as component parts of the program aimed at elimination of the resistance to the government’s line.

Current reprisals against civil rights fighters are only the beginning of a campaign which was launched with the aim of breaking the resistance of the Negro people. This campaign is now spearheaded against Angela Davis, a symbol of struggle against racism and anticommunism. These reprisals, if they are not duly rebuffed, will tomorrow spread to the whole of the American people, blacks and whites. The struggle in defense of Angela Davis and other political prisoners is, therefore, a matter of honor for all Americans who cherish freedom and peace.

U.S. Communist Party Issues Statement on Angela Davis

Moscow, TASS International Service in English, 0810 GMT, 28 February 1971.

[Text] New York, February 28, TASS—The National Women’s Commission of the Communist Party of the USA issued the following statement for International Women’s Day:

The vicious frame-up persecution of Angela Davis by the Nixon-Agnew-Reagan axis is an attack upon the rights of all who struggle for peace, democratic rights, and freedom from capitalist exploitation. In addition, Angela Davis shares the plight of all who would escape the yoke of racist oppression.
