Fitness Report.

Note: Supervisor or Reviewing Official may assign a higher classification if Confidential is not adequate for the report when completed.

Section A. General Information.

Employee number: 194737. Name: Flores, Daniel. Date of birth: 4 Aug 35. Sex: M. Grade: GS-12. SD: D. Office division of assignment: DDO/WII/Br 3. Current station: Lima, Peru. Type of report: Special. Type of appointment: Career. Report type: Reassignment. Position: Ops Officer. Reporting period: 31 May 73–4 March 74. Date report due in O.P.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Significant: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Station officer responsible for operations against the MPCHECK target. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 2: Direction of and support for an outside principal agent and the assets handled by this principal agent. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 3: Case officer responsible for a unilateral surveillance team. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 4. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 5. Rating letter.
