Fitness Report (Part I): Performance.

Instructions: For the administrative officer, consult current instructions for completing this report. For the supervisor, this report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item A of Section A below.

Section A. General. Certification.

Name: Wigren, Lee H. Date of birth: 1 December 1923. Sex: M. Service designation: DI. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP WE Scandinavian, Area Ops. Officer. Grade: 11. Date report due in OP: 19 March 1957. Period covered by this report: 19 March 1956–19 March 1957. Type of report: Initial.

Section B.

For the rater: This report has not been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

Check appropriate statements: This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors. I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses as well as with me anors where he stands.

This date: 25 March 1957. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: K. C. Clape E.C. Tore. Supervisor’s official title: C/NE-1/Swodon.

For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

I have discussed this report, and his general situation, in considerable detail with Mr. Wigren. He felt he did not wish to challenge the critical comments of the rating officers (I had two officers work together in that capacity), but felt that a rating of 3 under specific duty No. 2 did not do him justice. I think he right on this score and would raise that rating to a 4. I would say there has been an improvement in Mr. Wigren’s performance within the last year, and I have raised with the Division Personnel Board the subject of a promotion for him to GS-12. The Board recommended deferment of his case for a
