Treated by the Embassy's Spanish doctor Villalanda (fmu), who prescribed cortisone. His condition was diagnosed as incurable, since it was doubted that the injury to his spine could be corrected by an operation. Ruiz was further told that the condition would continue to grow worse, and that within six to ten years he would have a defective walk. Ruiz planned to send the diagnosis and X-rays to Roa in Havana, who would pass them to the Cuban specialist Martinez-Paz for review.

Travels

33. Following are the trips Ruiz is known to have made during the last quarter of 1969:

a. To Bilbao (Bilboa), San Sebastian, and Burgos by car, on 28 November 1969, returning two days later.

b. To Havana, to settle “a personal problem,” on 20 October 1969 via Iberia (first class), returning to Madrid on 29 October.

c. To London on 14 November for consultations with Raul Leon Torres, returning two days later by air.

d. To Italy with his family on vacation on 28 December to pick up an Alfa Romeo (Alfa Romero) that he bought for the Embassy, returning by car and arriving in Madrid on 6 January 1970.

Contacts in Madrid

34. Little is known about Ruiz’s contacts in Madrid. Aside from the Algerian Ambassador (see above), we know about:

a. Pedro Ruiz. A good friend who goes to Ruiz’s home frequently. According to Ruiz, Pedro is quite influential and is a friend of Masso(?).

b. Carlos Carrasco. Another person who calls Ruiz frequently. In late October or early November 1969 Carrasco went to New York.

c. Rosendo Canto (201-749310). Canto lives at Goya 54, Madrid. His friendship with Ruiz is interesting, given Canto’s background, because their being together could be very dangerous for Ruiz unless he were using Canto for some reason with the approval of Havana. Canto wants to go to Havana for a year, live there for a year, and then join the Cuban Foreign Service. Referring to Canto’s desire, Ruiz said on 8 January 1970: “He is a fool.”

Character

35. Superficially, Ruiz seems to be an easy-going and rather simple man who no doubt enjoys the prestige and position he has and the successes he has had professionally in Spain. He appears to have a strong character and probably plays the predominant role in his marriage. He and his wife seem to get along very well.
