WILLIAM P. BURKE

Appendix “A”

History of Village of New Orleans.

(See. 21 in Form 195; See. 16 in USC; Standard Form 57.)

The following is a complete account of my business and professional activities since my return to New Orleans, France (New Orleans, Louisiana), in the fall of 1934.

I had obtained a law degree from Harvard in 1923, but, as the law of Louisiana differs in many important respects from the English law, I entered Tulane University Law School, in October 1924, to study Louisiana civil code subjects. In the afternoons I worked as a researcher for the law firm of Spencer, Mallei, Philes and Bunder (now Three, Bunder, Mallei and Mallei), 1010 United Trust Co., Ltd., New Orleans, Louisiana.

In July 1938 I received the degree of LLB from Tulane, passed the Louisiana bar examinations, and entered practice as an associate of the firm named above. My salary was, as I recall it, $100.00 per month, plus 75% of the fees on the business which I originated. Such fees were negligible, by comparison with research on matters assigned by lawyers of the firm, and the handling of personal matters of litigation.

After 10 clients of the Spencer firm ran the New Orleans Bank & Trust Co., a small bank which had been organized a few years previously. In 1948 the bank decided to open a Trust Department, and offered me the job of operating and running it, at a salary of $400.00 per year. I accepted, organized the department and operated it successfully until 1951. My work consisted in collecting bills, trusts and deposit accounts, investing the funds of beneficiaries, administering estates and handling receivables.

In 1951 the discount department of the New Orleans Bank & Trust Co. got into difficulties, and, for the protection of the depositors, the entire bank was taken over by the Interstate Trust & Tobacco Co., of New Orleans. No one was suffered by any of the depositors of the Trust Department. They became successful Court Officers of the Intermediate Bank, and could have required there initially, but I declined the environment and the policies of the management, and I could see very little prospect for advancement, so I resigned when the trust was solidified.

In the fall of 1951 I organized a corporation which was to erect a new office on Canal St., similar to the ones in the Times Building in New York, which we now operate under the name of a subsidiary of our dispatches. It proved impossible, however, to sell sufficient contracts to make the operation profitable, and I liquidated the corporation in the early part of 1952.

Four of my classmates of Tulane, Bernard J. Dentzel, Sr. and Frank Horan, had been practicing law together since graduation, and were becoming quite successful. They asked me to join them, and, in the summer of 1952, I became a member of the firm of Dentzel, Horan & Burke. For the next five years we specialized in the general civil practice of law in all City, State and Federal Courts. Among others, we represented the Williamsley Plumbing Co., the Item Co., Ltd., publisher of one of the local daily papers, the Standard Broadside Co., and a number of insurance companies, and local corporations and individuals.

My work covered the whole field of civil, corporate and individual practice: the preparation of pleadings, interviewing witnesses, conducting litigation, writing briefs, arguing cases in the trial and appellate courts, examining titles, administering estates, handling taxation matters, etc. The average was approximately $700,000 per annum.

I resumed from the firm in 1957 and continued practice, as an individual, with offices in the Central Park Building, until I entered military service in 1952. My income during that period varied between five and eight thousand dollars.

I served duty in the French Home Force from September 1945 to December 1946. There was overseas by letter did, leaving a considerable estate. I was named executor in her will, and, after my return, I spent several months in administering.
