Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, including in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance and recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds, must be commented on and applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper. Date: May 27, 1966.

This employee has turned in a consistently fine performance since his assignment to Mexico City. Every going operation assigned to him has shown marked improvement under his tutelage, most notably the PERUEN refugee migdal program which has finally developed into a highly productive enterprise under the guidance of this officer. He is handling a sensitive PERUEN double agent case in a most professional manner. His operational reporting is exemplary and his writing style, once somewhat obtuse, has shown steady improvement. Despite a relatively short period in the role of field case officer, he has won the admiration and respect of colleagues and agent assets alike. He has a winning way with people—a reflection of his sincere interest in them. He has a high degree of initiative and drive, is imaginative and resourceful. In operations he shows a welcome degree of aggressiveness. His supervisory ability, except as exercised indirectly through others, has not yet been sufficiently put to the test to enable the rating officer to make a determination, but it appears that he already possesses the essentials of a good supervisor. He has had some health problems in Mexico but in spite of these has not let up in any way in his work. Indeed, one wonders what he would be capable of if he were in perfect health given the high level of performance to date.

It is a pleasure for the rating officer to go on record as stating that never in his 18 plus years with the organization has he had the pleasure of serving with a more promising young case officer.

It is recommended that he be promoted to GS-11 as soon as eligible.

In addition to the period covered by this report (Oct 65–May 66) this employee served at the Mexico City Station in TDY status from April 65 to Aug. 65. His performance during this time was also taken under consideration in the preparation of this report. Date: May 15, 1966.

Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. By employee.

Date: 12 May 1966. Signature of employee: /s/ Joseph S. Piccolo.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 4 months TDY; 7 months PCS. By supervisor.

Date: 12 May 1966. Official title of supervisor: Ops Officer. Typed-on printed name and signature: /s/ Robert T. Shaw.

Comments of reviewing official. By reviewing official.

The reviewing officer concurs in the comments of the rater. I have observed this officer closely during his tour at the Station. He has largely overcome a tendency to freewheel somewhat and shows an increasing willingness to accept guidance from more experienced officers. Compared with other officers of the same grade at this Station, it is my belief that his overall performance should be rated O rather than S.

In the Station's view he is a young officer who should advance steadily and with more experience should be able to handle a demanding deep cover assignment.

Date: 12 May 1966. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed-on printed name and signature: /s/ Alan P. White.
