Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. A recommendation selection board with information of value when considering the application of an organizational plan for membership in the career staff.
2. A periodic record of job performance. (See “Appraisal Date” below.) This record should be reviewed periodically to ensure that its content remains accurate and complete.

Instructions.

To the select administrative officer: Consult current Staff administrative instructions regarding the institution and transfer of this report to headquarters.

To the first supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, arranges and reviews the work of the individual, you have secondary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that he, in general, may know where he stands.

A revised appraisal date is 25 May ’86. GCS 180 check off.

It is optional whether or not this fitness report is shown to the person being assessed.

Section I.

Leave blank—for headquarters use only. Date of birth: Williamson, Earl J. Sex: M. Service designation: D. Grade: GS-13. Station designation (current): Intelligence Officer—KUTUBE. Due date of this report: 30 September 1955. Period covered by this report: 30 September 1954–30 September 1955.

Section II (to be completed by field supervisor).

Current position: Intelligence Officer—KUTUBE (Acting Deputy Chief of Station), 0136.5/. Date assumed responsibility for position: 10 August 1955.

Specific assignments or tasks typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months, listed in order of frequency:

a. Acting Deputy Chief of Station.
b. Liaison with Bureau of Investigations.
c. Contacts and development of operational assets.
d. Handling agents.
e. Reporting.

Section III (to be completed at headquarters only).

Do not complete—for headquarters use only. Authentication of report and signatures. Name of BOSO (Tree): Caldwell (Caldwell), William B. Name of reviewing officer in field, if any. This report is due by: signature. This report was due by: signature to the individual being rated.
