Proceed on to Guatemala City from Tapachula by air (the airport being small and all travelers being subject to the curiosity and scrutiny of the local officials). Valentín then stated that L/3 should be able to pass through the Guatemala City (Bucatena City) airport without difficulty, provided he kept his eye out for a certain José Linares, an ex-Chief of Police who worked for the North American Embassy and had a complete file on all suspect persons who might enter or leave the airport. Valentín described Linares as a man of short stature, thin, with grey hair combed in a high peak in front, usually dressed in a double-breasted jacket. Valentín added that Linares was considered the most dangerous man at the airport, although he is not an official, but simply a secret agent of the North Americans.

9. Valentín then, according to L/3, stated that the latter should procure the following items at once so that he could bring them to Tapachula with him:

1. Khaki shirt and trousers (pantalón y correa de lona muy gruesos).
2. Leather combat boots (zapatos de campaña).
3. Browning or Walther 9mm automatic weapon with three clips and 50 rounds of ammunition.
4. Detonators with wick or electric fuse.
5. Gauze for medical treatment.
6. Three pills of the most potent poison available.

Valentín explained that the Browning automatic was the best since it could be converted easily into a machine gun with its clip of 13 cartridges. The Walther was also good since it could be fitted with a silencer. Valentín also explained that the poison capsules were desirable to be taken in the event of capture by the army to avoid the possibility of anyone confessing under torture. He added that one was for the use of L/3 and the other two for the comrades who would be his escorts.

10. Valentín further explained that L/3 should open the sealed envelope he had received in Tapachula when he was aboard the plane en route to Guatemala City, memorize the name and address, and then destroy the paper. He added quickly that he realized L/3 could open the envelope any time after he received it in Tapachula, and he was free to do so, but it was hoped for security reasons that he would open it only after he had left Mexico City airport. Valentín added that he himself had no idea of what name would appear on the paper, but in any case he was sure that it would be the name of a person not directly involved in revolutionary activities.
