Section E. Description of Marriage of Job Placement.

Cross strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibility. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. Kimsey possesses a wealth of knowledge in his technical field which, when skillfully and tactfully utilized, helps to increase the productive capability of his Section's activities.

This thorough knowledge of A&R activities enables him to present his oral briefings in an informative and interesting manner.

Subject has been downgraded in Specific Duty No. 1 from a “4” to a “3”. The basis for the lower rating in this category warrants the following explanation. There have been numerous and recurring complaints from personnel under his supervision that he does not display complete respect for their professional capabilities. This weakness has definitely decreased the morale of the personnel under his supervision. Mr. Marzen, Chief, TSD/GARB, has discussed all areas of weakness with the ratee and pointed out how they affect the overall work aspects of this section of TSD/GARB.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

1. By employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D, and E of this report.

Date: 7 March 1962.

2. By supervisor.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 58.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (specify).

3. Date: 7 March 1962. Official title of supervisor: DC/TSD/GARB. Typed or printed name and signature: Paul J. Szego.

By reviewing official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official:

This was not signed by Mr. Kimsey and was not forwarded in March 1962 as Mr. Kimsey was in the process of leaving as a result of the 701 action.

Date: 13 February 1963. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, TSD/GARB. Typed or printed name and signature: Joseph F. Marzen.
