diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of all travel pursuant hereunder and, when authorized, for you alone while on temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be properly authorized, and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to payment and accounting in compliance with applicable Government regulations or those of your cover facility, whichever is directed by the Government.

6. Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information, as specifically approved by the Government. Such funds will be subject to accounting in compliance with Government regulations or those of your cover facility, whichever is directed by the Government.

7. Repayment. It is recognized that your failure to account for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government or your cover facility to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appropriate.

8. Benefits. (a) You will be entitled to death and disability benefits equal to those authorized under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended. Claims by you, your heirs, or legal representatives under this paragraph will be processed by this organization in accordance with its procedures in such manner as not to impair security.

(b) You will be entitled to the continuance of pay and allowances in a manner similar to that set forth in the Missing Persons Act (50 U.S.C.A., App. 1901-1915).

(c) You will be entitled to sick and annual leave equal to and subject to the same rules and regulations applicable to Government employees. Annual leave may only be taken at times and places approved in advance by appropriate Government representatives.

(d) Your Civil Service retirement status is preserved by virtue of the fact that you have transferred without a break in service from a position subject to Civil Service retirement deductions to your present status as an employee of the Government under contract. Contributions to the Civil Service Retirement Fund will be deducted by the Government from the basic compensation due you hereunder, i.e., presently $13,750 per annum. In the event circumstances of your cover warrant or require contributions to social security, such contributions will be at your expense and you will not be reimbursed therefor by the Government.

(e) (1) This organization is authorized to pay the cost of necessary hospitalization and related travel expenses for illness or injury incurred by a United States citizen full-time Career Agent in the line of duty while permanently assigned abroad.

(2) This organization may pay certain necessary costs of hospitalization and related travel expenses for illness or injury incurred by
