Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 036130.

Section A: General. Name: Flores, Daniel. Date of birth: 4 Aug 35. Sex: M. Grade, S.D.: GS-05 D. Official position title: Intel Clerk. Office/division/direction of assignment and current station: DDP/WH/COG, Wash., D.C. Type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Temporary, Career-Provisional, Special. Type of report: Initial, Reassignment Supervisor, Reassignment Employee, Special: Recommendation for Promotion. Date report due in O.P.: 1 February 1967–15 June 1967.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak: Performance ranges from inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific duties: List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty 1: Performs intelligence operations support work in connection with Cuban CI operations in third countries. Assembles lead files, collates data on hand and additional information received in preparation for target analysis. Rating: S.

Specific duty 2: Screens Cuban Spanish language publications for information of value in the branch counter-espionage/counterintelligence records and for operational data. Rating: S.

Specific duty 3: Conducts liaison between two contract agents and WH/COG/CICS and maintains the administrative records for these cases. Rating: P.

Specific duty 4: Prepares translations from Spanish to English and English to Spanish of operational correspondence. Rating: P.

Specific duty 5: JPM. Rating: P.

Specific duty 6: U. Rating: P.

Overall performance in current position. Review letter: S.
