June 1962.

1964.

1965.

Turn at the end of his leave for reassignment. (May)

“I worked in the Far East until 1952, when suddenly I fell ill. In the Far East. It was this way. Then I arrived in Moscow, I went to the doctor. They began to X-ray me. Clear lungs, absolutely. They examined me one day, two days, three days. Clear, absolutely clear. Then by accident, right under my collarbone, a small, small, little spot was found and it turned out to be on a blood vessel. It turned out to be at a very early stage. At that time they had just discovered streptomycin and I was confined at the Herzen (Hertzen) Sanatorium near Moscow. I was there for two months. I felt fine but they

Nosenko was on leave during May and June 1952 and lived during this time at the home of his parents at No. 4 Ulitsa Gor'kogo in Moscow. He received one month’s leave for his 1951 service in the Far East and the other for his 1952 service there. Note: Nosenko did not mention having had tuberculosis during any interrogations or statements in 1964. According to his 1966 statements, he spent only one year, March 1951 to April 1952, in the Far East.

Nosenko was on leave during May and June. No decision had been reached with regard to whether he would return to Sovetskaya Gavan or not, and he was “at the disposal” of the Naval Ministry during this period. After the leave, Nosenko waited another month until his assignment was decided upon. (May) Note: Nosenko did not mention having been hospitalized in this period.

“While on leave I became ill with tuberculosis and spent almost two months in a sanatorium near Moscow.” Note: In another statement, written a week earlier, Nosenko said that in Sovetskaya Gavan “drunkenness and the severe conditions had their effect on my health and led to an outbreak of tuberculosis in May 1952.”

April 1966.

October 1966.

Nosenko confirmed that he was at the Herzen Sanatorium during this period and said that as a result of his illness he was “coughing up a half a glass of blood at a time.” His treatment consisted of shots of streptomycin.
