12 June, 1968

Subject: A. JACOB B. Rowton Meeting with LIRING/4.

1. Rowton met with LIRING/4 at the Diana Restaurant, Calle Mississippi, from 1300 until about 1410 on 11 June, 1968. LIRING/4 reported that she had finally moved into the apartment in the Edificio Cordesa with the few pieces of furniture of the Tacubaya apartment. She stated that she intended to remain in close touch with her friend Blanca Peña de Amard and, of course, Catalina Cepero, at whose homes she hoped to be able to take her main meals. LIRING/4 added that she was still attempting to find some sort of work to help her meet her expenses, as well as to find a person, preferably a PERUMEN student, to rent a room in her apartment.

2. With regard to employment LIRING/4 stated that LIRING/2 had told her the previous week that his recommendation that she been employed in the (outside) LIRING cultural office had been turned down and consequently she had appealed to Mexican friends to help her find employment. She also told Rowton that she had queried LIRING/2 about PERUMEN students who might share her apartment but was told that the only female students (two) at present in Mexico were studying in Pátzcuaro.

3. LIRING/4 continued that she had been receiving letters regularly from LIRING/3 directly from his place of confinement. She showed Rowton a portion of one of the letters in which LIRING/3 stated that there were about 2,000 prisoners in all and that he feels obliged to share whatever food he can purchase with the money sent to him by LIRING/4 with six others who are closest to him and whose relatives cannot provide even the essentials of a basic diet. According to LIRING/4, LIRING/3 has not complained about what appear to be very difficult conditions but has revealed his constant fear of physical violence, the threat of which he feels hangs over the prison. LIRING/4 told Rowton that she had finally obtained officially normalized statements from the proper Mexican authorities testifying to LIRING/3's bona fides as an artist, as requested by the Mexican Consul. She gave Rowton a letter from the latter which requests this information (copy of which is attached).

4. LIRING/4, in reply to Rowton's queries, stated that she still hoped to be able to make the trip to PERUMEN but could not consider leaving Mexico at this time in view of LIRING/3's situation and the fact that she was the only point of contact he had on the outside. Rowton sympathized with her but stressed that his ability to help her financially was limited by her
