Official Dispatch.

To: Chief of Mission, Mexico City.  
From: Chief, WHD.  
Subject: General Operations; specific: Arthur G. VAIVADA.  
Date: 17 June 1954.

1. The following information on Arthur G. VAIVADA is being forwarded so that you may consider using him in Mexico City as a contact agent, in which capacity he has served KUPIRE most ably in the past four years. His present contract, which became effective on 1 September 1953 for a two year period, provides for a salary equivalent to grade OS-7, with allowances.

2. A review of the Headquarters file indicates that subject is an aggressive, rather well qualified operative, who has enjoyed a good measure of success and has exercised good judgment under operational stress. He desires a career with this agency, and is devoted to the work. Subject's academic education has been designed to fit him to become an economist. Prior to entering a contract relationship with KUPIRE, subject had received U. S. Army intelligence training and had worked for the Force Intelligence in Panama. He was trained covertly by instructors of KUPIRE in Washington, D.C. in the latter part of 1953. His instructors indicate that they were most favorably impressed and feel that he possesses a sound practical knowledge of basic clandestine operational principles and should become an increasingly valuable agent in the long range work of this organization.

3. The following is a summary and appraisal of subject's work which has been provided by the Costa Rican Desk at Headquarters:

a. He was recruited by the Panama station in November 1948, but in early 1949 he moved to San Jose, Costa Rica, where he enrolled in the University of Costa Rica as a student of economics. In June 1949 subject acted as cutout for two mail intercept agents and handled a low level penetration of the Communist Party. In October 1949 a very high-level penetration of the Communist Party was also turned over to the subject, who was by this time devoting approximately

J. C. KING. Robert B. Takagn. Joe. M. Doerflinger.
