CS03-012/00003-67

Controlled Berlin Document Center. Although this tracing activity has not been completed and is handicapped by lack of personnel at the Berlin Document Center, the BfV estimates its current file on the NPD is far more accurate than the files at the NPD headquarters. Because of its access to the Berlin Document Center, the BfV will eventually have a better estimate of the number of NPD members who are former Nazi Party members than does the NPD itself.

4. The BfV is also making a concerted effort to obtain documentary evidence on the NPD's sources of income. The recruitment efforts to do this are directed at spotting and recruiting clerical help who work in NPD offices and have access to files. Information in the BfV's possession to date, which includes considerable documentary evidence regarding finances, indicates that the party is not receiving any substantial financial assistance from abroad. The principal sources of funds are as follows:

a. The monthly DM 3.- membership dues. For the 20,000 members, this amounts to DM 60,000 per month or DM 720,000 a year.

b. Subscription fees for publications.

c. Single donations from financially well-to-do members and supporters.

d. Admission fees for political rallies. The BfV has registered, since May 1966 when the NPD began its campaign in Bavaria, a total of more than 2000 political rallies in Bavaria. Although at times more than one third of those attending such rallies were estimated to be opposed to the NPD, everyone attending the rally paid an admission fee. The BfV estimates that the NPD has been able through the above sources of income to collect from DM 3,000,000 to DM 4,000,000. The BfV (IfV) are watching this funding quite closely, particularly for evidence of financing from Communist countries. Thus far they have been unable to substantiate the existence of any such support. Although there is no firm evidence of actual financial support of the NPD from Communist sources, the BfV is aware of an interest on the part of the Eastern intelligence services to penetrate the NPD and monitor its activities.

5. At the instigation of Federal Minister of Interior Luecke, the BfV has undertaken to establish a confidential all-party committee consisting of members of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), Free Democratic Party (FDP), and the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and the Trade Union Movement (DGB) to counteract the NPD in Rheinland-Pfalz prior to the upcoming elections in spring 1967. All of the parties have agreed to participate and this activity is moving ahead. Recently at a two-day conference chaired by the BfV in a village on the Mosel River, it was decided not only to counteract NPD propaganda during the election campaign, but also to undertake orientation lectures for all officials in the Rheinland-Pfalz and other local governments who have shown NPD leanings. These courses will be launched as soon as the campaign gets underway. A similar propaganda and orientation activity is also being planned for the elections in Schleswig-Holstein in 1967.

6. The BfV has persuaded the DGB to set up an action group aimed at organizing the labor movement into countering the
