Att. No. 3, UFGA-26348.

Economic Intelligence Service.

From the U.R. Economic Research Bureau. Movimiento Unidad Revolucionaria (U.R.).

Mailing address: Box 3940, Miami, Florida. Phone: 373-8033.

Vol. II, No. 3-A.

Special Supplement.

Lobster Exports Continue to Cause Problems for Cuba.

Commercial sources in Canada and confirmed by information obtained in New York report that the Canadian and French authorities have launched investigations into the receipt of bad lobster in both Canada and France. The ERB has now learned that a shipment of more than eight thousand cans of Cuban lobster arrived in France on October 6 aboard the S.S. KATHERINA. This shipment was consigned to “Fourchstein et Cie.” and was impounded in its entirety by the French customs authorities, who observed that the shipment contained swollen tins. Upon investigation, impurities were discovered, the lobster was found to have been overcooked, and in some cases gray spots were observed.

“World Seafood Distributors,” a Montreal firm that imports Cuban lobsters for sale in Canada and for transshipment to Europe, continues to have its difficulties with CUBEXPORT. ERB Cuban commercial sources in Europe report that Sam Beiner, an officer of “World Seafood,” is complaining to CUBEXPORT that CUBEXPORT is undercutting Beiner’s prices quoted to the Antwerp firm of “Hallewyck.” “Hallewyck” appears to be a major European account for “World Seafood,” and in order to protect this business Beiner was forced to tell CUBEXPORT that “World Seafood” may be forced to quote “Hallewyck” cost prices for direct shipment of lobsters from Brazil unless CUBEXPORT and Cuban commercial representatives in Paris and The Hague cease these antics. This dispute involves more than two thousand cartons of lobster.

“World Seafood” maintains a stock of Cuban lobsters in Antwerp. The ERB has learned that Cuban commercial authorities in Europe have issued written instructions that in effect claim that more than one thousand cartons of lobster in this stock are under the control of CUBEXPORT. Upon learning this, “World Seafood” informed CUBEXPORT in Havana that it would cause the arrest of any person removing these lobsters without pre-payment. The person concerned with attempted removal of these lobsters is Mr. J. M. Schwarz, who appears to be releasing “World Seafood’s” lobsters by giving promissory notes that are not guaranteed by any bank or other institution. “World Seafood” is understandably seeking pre-payment or at least a guaranteed note of payment. By late September, this dispute reached the point where “World Seafood” refused to assume responsibility for a sale of more than a thousand cartons of lobster made by Schwarz acting on CUBEXPORT instructions. CUBEXPORT counterclaims that Schwarz is “World Seafood’s” agent in these sales, which, of course, “World Seafood” denies.

As if these were not enough problems, “World Seafood” realizes that it can buy similar lobster in New York at lower prices and is therefore insisting upon an additional discount from CUBEXPORT in order to compensate for this difference.
