Fitness Report (Part II) Potential.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is a privileged communication to be kept confidential and appropriate career management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is not to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision for at least 90 days. If less than 90 days, hold and complete after the 90 days has elapsed. If this is the initial report on the employee, however, it must be completed and forwarded to the ID no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item 8 of Section 15 below.

Section E. General.

1. Name: Murphy, David E.  
2. Date of death: 23 June 1921.  
3. Sex: F.  
4. Service resignation: FI.  
Office/Division/Branch of assignment: Berlin Operations Base.  
7. Grade: 3S-15. Date report due in OP: 31 July 1955–28 September 1958. Period covered by this report: Special (specify); Promotion.  
10. Type of report: Initial; Annual. Assignment/Supervisory Assignment/Supervisory.

Section F. Certification.

For the rater: I certify that this report represents my best doctrine of the individual being rated.

A. This date: 28 Sept 1958.  
B. Type or printed name and signature of supervisor: /S/ William K. Hartby.  
C. Supervisor’s official title: Chief of Base.

For the reviewing official: I have reviewed this report and note an difference of opinion in attached memo.

A. This date: 28 Oct 1958.  
B. Type or printed name and signature of reviewing official: /S/ John A. Bross.  
C. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station.

Estimate of Potential.

Potential to Assume Greater Responsibilities.

Directions: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee’s potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

Rating Number:

1. Already above the level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

2. Has reached the highest level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

3. Making progress, but needs more time before he can be trained to assume greater responsibilities.

4. Ready for training in assum
