Yet it was far enough away from the United Nations building to lessen the chance that FHOE himself and his putative diplomat target would be spotted by friends or acquaintances. His choice for the next meeting was at an increasingly dated new restaurant near the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts on the West Side of town. This restaurant was located in the safe-site complex. He was thus able very smoothly to invite his agent to the safe-site from the restaurant for the recruiting pitch.

20. He did very well in executing two recognition meetings and the brush passes. He had no time to write his own course exercises (as stated, he was able to write up only one dead drop course plan), so he was given course plans written up by another trainee. To give him variety, he was alternately the higher and the lower echelon, alternatively accepted and made the hand-off.

21. In operational and intel reports, he did very well. He very successfully separated the operational from the intel information and the source comments from the positive intelligence.

22. Instructor's Observation: FHOE is a proud man, both as an individual and as an operator. While he was very discreet about it, I saw him cross-inspect. He did, nevertheless, let the instructor know that he had, on occasion, been handled with something less than pure genius. This, like the previous item, is noted not to downgrade FHOE, but to alert both desk and field officers that this man, being very sure, positive, definite, and strong, hopes to be handled in a manner that would have those same words apply.

23. In sum: A very good man.

24. In an effort to evaluate the effectiveness of the training, we would appreciate a detailed evaluation report in July 1973 from the field station. This report should indicate the extent to which the training has made the trainees a more useful and effective asset, and should evaluate the performance in each area of tradecraft in which training was conducted; negative as well as positive comments are solicited. The field station's report should also include the trainee's comments. Please ask the field station to submit the report WND/COMI/MV/1/MAN. Upon receipt of the report at Headquarters, please forward a copy to the undersigned.

For the Director of World
