Problems. When Revolution was closed down by the Swiss, S/1 was called in and notified that he had three months to leave the country because of the undesirable nature of his activities; the Swiss told Nils Anderssen informally that should S/1 change to a “desirable” activity he would be allowed to stay. Following his departure on what S/1 considered very polite terms (i.e., the three-month notice period), S/1 traveled regularly to Switzerland (once a month, on Revolution business), although he tries to arrive by means which expose him to minimal border checks (train rather than plane, and Trans Europe Express best of all) and while in Switzerland lives with friends rather than in a hotel to avoid having to fill out police cards. (S/1 was notified of his expulsion in September 1963 and left in December before the deadline. His most recent trips were in January-February 1965.)

b. S/1 was never arrested by the French, merely interrogated on the Harrington forgery charge. He has resided in Paris since that time. During the early stages of S/1’s suit against Vergès for payment of back wages, Vergès’ attorney said in open court that S/1 had been in France illegally (as he had no carte de séjour; he could not obtain one since Vergès never agreed to a work contract which would be required at the time of application for a carte de séjour). (In connection with the Vergès suit: S/1’s French lawyer Pierre Schwarzenberg, has not pressed the charges; he is a Communist and an old friend of Vergès, and told S/1 he believed he could obtain a settlement through persuasion. S/1 has already paid Schwarzenberg’s fee (the money was obtained from S/1’s brother-in-law), and does not know whether he can whip up Schwarzenberg’s enthusiasm. Should S/1 win a judgement for the same $5000 owed to him, he could force Vergès’ bankruptcy (there is a printer in the same legal position who has not insisted on payment because he is reluctant to bring on bankruptcy). S/1 says that it is possible that if he engaged a first-class non-Communist attorney in France (who would have to be paid in advance) he might achieve
