Section C.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign-language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of management or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds, if possible. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject is the FE “referent” for the Washington Base and, as such, has the responsibility for coordinating all work against the FE targets, as well as handling the bulk of operational activity in this category. In addition, as is true of all officers at the Base, he is responsible for contacting and developing American and foreign nationals in the Washington area with the capability of producing operational and intelligence information on other areas of priority interest to WOFIRM. His forte continues to be the exploitation of existing assets rather than the recruitment of new agents, particularly among foreign nationals. He writes well and is orderly and professional in his approach to operations. His work on the highly involved and sensitive WUWORTHY case is cited in this regard. Although he continues to feel a bit unsure of himself in operational areas other than FE, to a degree not warranted by his performance, as the WUWORTHY case shows, he is improving in this regard and is on his way to bringing his operational activity in other areas up to the level of his performance on Asian targets. He performs his supervisory functions well. He is very cost conscious, and his accounting for official funds is prompt and accurate. No particular training is contemplated or recommended at this time.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee. Certify. Date: 25/4/68. Signature: Signed in pseudo. 

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 40. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 25 April 1968. Official title of supervisor: Chief, NOG. Signed in pseudo. Robert E. Boies.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: As Reviewing Official I am in full concurrence with the evaluation given this employee, as outlined above. Date: 1 May 1968. Official title of reviewing official: COB, Washington. Signed in pseudo. Rudolph E. Gomez.
