4. Processing the source material limited above absorption a large part of NISLEY's time. LIBRIFORM handles the translation of the Czech material, and BESMOOTH of the Polish material. There is no translator for the Yugoslav small and telephone intercoms. NISLEY listens to the Spanish conversations on the Yugoslav news, and attempts an occasional translation of some more interesting bits of Serbo-Cross correspondence with the aid of the dictionary kindly supplied by Headquarters. NISLEY meets BESMOOTH every day to pick up the Polish translations. LIBRIFORM and SPATHAR are still being used daily by Harvey P. DENENHOLZ (pl). After his PCS departure in July, this will become NISLEY'S responsibility, as will the handling of LIMETATIONS 4 and 5, LIVERBLOOD, LINILE, and LIBALSA.

5. Beside the daily scanning of source material, one of the month's more important activities was the updating of the table of organization of the Czech Embassy. This has now been completed. Photographs of departed Czech personnel were forwarded to Headquarters in HMMA-15081, 15106, and 15120. Of the sixty Czechs, including wives but not children, known to be stationed in Mexico City, photographs are lacking for twenty. SPATHAR has photographed about the same number of unidentified people repeatedly entering the Czech Embassy; copies of these photos are being given to the LIEMBRACE surveillance team, and it is expected that one by one these people will be followed home and identified.

6. The Polish table of organization had already been determined, with the possible exception of one newcomer to the Polish Commercial Office who has not yet been completely identified, and there were no changes during the month. It is believed that most of the Yugoslavs have been identified.

7. The process of accumulating information on Czech personnel has not yet gone far enough for the Starlon to pick one or two likely targets for concentrated attention. A new agent, positively identified as a Czech Intelligence officer, arrived on 30 June and will naturally receive all possible coverage. The Starlon received a proposal from Headquarters for special attention to be paid to Jaroslav VALENTA, the Commercial Attaché; unfortunately, VALENTA had just departed on home leave, so action is being deferred until his return in August.

8. Among the Poles, concentrated attention is being paid to Aleksander BEKIER and Stanisław ADAMOWICZ by means of telephone taps. The newly arrived Polish intelligence officer will, if technically possible, receive the same coverage as soon as his permanent address is determined, although this will probably mean dropping the BEKIER line. Physical surveillance was run on Tadeusz ZIOLKOWSKI and Henryk POTASZ during the month, the former being
