Section C. Narrative Comments.

I believe significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. Please suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comments on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section II to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties is most important, and, if applicable.

Subject has performed his duties in a competent manner. Enjoys huge class of money with few errors, and maintains the necessary statistical records.

Cost consciousness and management of organization assets does not apply to this position.

The report was well written. This report is very clear and concise. It is well organized and the information contained is complete. Overall this report is a success.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 9 Jun 04. Signature of employee: /s/ James Wilcott.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 23. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Official title of supervisor: Finance Officer. Date: 9 Jun 04. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Frank Wells.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Subject has held the position of Finance Disbursing Officer since his arrival at Tokyo Station in May 1960. He has performed well in a function for which he had no previous experience or training. With a realignment of the office workload in December he was given the additional responsibility of processing TDI travel. Due to his specialized work, he has not had the opportunity to be trained in other facets of finance work. He has been scheduled for finance training upon his return to Headquarters in July 1964.

Date: 7 Jun 04. Official title of reviewing official: Finance Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Jack Randall.
