Dispatch. To: Acting Chief, WE. Info: Chief, Task Force #7. From: Chief of Station, Madrid. Subject: GUEB/PBRULEN — Resistance Activity in Cuba.

Action required: FYI.

The following information was provided by Francisco Luis Rodriguez Gonzales (CC-1169), a Cuban refugee who arrived in Spain in early August 1962 and had been active in the Revolutionary Student Directorate, an anti-Government resistance group, while in Cuba.

a. Source has been opposed to the Castro regime ever since the defection of Diaz Lanz in May 1959, and was involved in sabotage activity with the Revolutionary Student Directorate. His immediate supervisor was Angel Fontanilla, known as "Charles" in clandestine (olandestine) circles. Alberto Muller, the leader of this group, arrived clandestinely in Cuba in October or November 1960 and began to organize the various groups of the Directorate to bring about an insurrection in the Sierra Maestra area, in Oriente Province. These groups were mainly from the provinces of Las Villas and Havana, and received orders to unite with Muller who was already in the Sierra Maestra. The men went there in small groups, and had the seminary in the Santuario del Cobre as their destination. Once in that spot, they received final instructions and military equipment. Source's group, which consisted of two carloads, entered the Sierra Maestra through Bayamo. Source was riding in the first car. When they arrived on the outskirts of Bayamo, source's car was stopped by the militia, but the car was allowed to pass without any check. A few minutes later they realized that they were being followed and tried to escape. An alarm and shots went up, and they were finally captured and taken prisoner. The second car, which was following close behind them and was warned by the shots, was able to escape.

b. The prisoners were taken first to G-2 Headquarters in Santiago de Cuba and later to the Boniato Prison, where they were interrogated by the G-2. There were two American prisoners there, and although source did not know their names, he said that they were from the Guantanamo Naval Base.

c. Muller was taken prisoner a few days later, shortly after the ill-fated invasion of Playa Giron. No arms were taken from him when he was arrested. Had this insurrection been successful, about 1,000 men would have risen up.

Date typed: 31 August '62. Date dispatched: 31 August '62. Dispatch symbol and number: OSHA-14,272. Headquarters file number: 23 [65] 0-33/4.
