Section F: Marginal Description of Manner of Job Performance. Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject has had lengthy experience both in field and headquarters operational assignments emphasizing FI and CI objectives. He is particularly mature in applying tradecraft principles and faces operational situations with detachment and balance. Subject approaches and executes his tasks with careful planning and forethought. He is attentive to detail; conscientious to duty. While Subject tends to be somewhat reserved, perhaps cautious, in a strange situation he displays an even temperament and honesty toward associates and contacts.

This is an unusually qualified officer in experience and ability, uniquely suited to the long-range needs of DD/P. During the period covered by this report he was recommended for promotion to GS-15.

Section B (continued). Specific duty 5: Conduct unilateral FI operations involving a highly placed advisor to the Chief of State and an indigenous agent with extensive contacts in Government and dissidence movements. Rating: 6.

Specific duty 6: Supervises the administration of his station including finance, property, records, and logistics. Rating: 5.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this report.

Date. Signature of employee. Subject is at his overseas post.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (specify).

Date: 6/4/62. Official title of supervisor: Chief, AF/2. Signature: Grant A. Fielden.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official. A combination of illness shortly after arrival at station and subsequent lengthy royal mourning periods have given Miller less opportunity to show his talents than would otherwise have been expected. However, nothing has occurred in Addis to change the above high evaluation.

Official title of reviewing official: Chief, Africa Division. Signature: Bronson Tweedy.
