count on American assistance to return to the mainland, TANG stated that Mac China Government was aware of the fact that the USA cannot help them in that matter without getting involved in war with Mao's forces, which Mac China understands and considers that such a war would serve no purpose.

3. According to S, after 10–15 minutes of talking, TANG gave S some material and told him to return the next day to pick up additional material which he could use for his article. Therefore, S went to the Mac China Embassy on July 18 at 1400 hours and got some of their publications in English. To keep the door open for an additional visit, S requested some material on Chiang Kai-shek (Chien-kai Shek), and TANG told him that it would take some time to get it. TANG also asked whether S or La Vision had connections with Soviets (Sovs) here, and S stated they did not, but the Soviets were subscribers to the magazine. Reportedly, this visit lasted about 20 minutes.

4. After reading the paper (report) which S prepared for LOG, T asked S whether Julian CARRILLO FLORES was the same person whom he had mentioned previously to me as his source on the Port of Spain at the recent conference and referred to him as Eduardo. S claims that he knew of no Eduardo CARRILLO FLORES, and if he had stated that it was Eduardo, it must have been a slip of the tongue. As for Julian, he is a Department Chief in PERRIER; the department is unknown.

5. In reply to FS's question, S stated that the U.S. companies affected by the PERRIER decision were Continental Oil, Gulf Gas (or oil), and Kelly Oil from California.

6. In reply to FS's question, S stated that he did not go to the French Club on Saturday, July 12, with LOG because he was not feeling well. He added that because of his condition (flu), he was keeping himself away from his office; he was still not well (remark: true), but he felt much better.

7. S asked F what he thought about the development of S's relationship with LOG. F said there was not much to think about, because LOG was getting all he wanted and it was obvious that we had no possibility of getting anything from S because he brought us into the picture at a time when it would make no sense to try to change anything. F commented that it
