Departure, Nosenko said: “Oh, no. There is no contact like there was before. It was broken at the time Bolshakov left. Zinchuk was an agent or a cooptee....No, there is no such contact since Bolshakov left. He passes no more messages.”

Referring to the Kennedy-Bolshakov contacts, Nosenko told CIA on 26 January 1964: “You have shown considerable interest in him [Bolshakov], even after his return to the Soviet Union...because all this was done by-passing CIA.” He said on 1 February 1964: “It was pretty obvious that this relationship between Bolshakov and Robert Kennedy had nothing to do with CIA, and CIA was not witting of it. It was at the personal desire of Bob Kennedy.” The KGB determined that CIA was unaware of the exchange between Kennedy and Bolshakov, Nosenko reported, because when Bolshakov was subsequently invited to a reception at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, two CIA officers—Kenneth A. Kerst and Malcolm A. Toon—tried to elicit information from him about his relationship with President Kennedy. “The most important thing” they had tried to find out, according to Nosenko, was whether the President and Bolshakov had met personally. Although Bolshakov did not admit the fact to them, he did have one meeting with President Kennedy—“he was brought in a car...and was taken through a back door into the White House,” Nosenko said.

Nosenko reported that William Walton visited Moscow in December 1963 and at that time went to Bolshakov, whom he had previously met at the home of Robert Kennedy. Part of their conversations, he continued, related to Robert Kennedy’s future political plans: “Walton said that Bobby...did not expect at present to become a candidate for the vice presidency. He was, perhaps, according to Walton, thinking of running for Governor of Massachusetts...” Nosenko said he felt that there were “some feelers sent out on the part of Walton—not exactly questions, but just a passing of opinion. Walton was trying to sound them out, but I think that everything was left without an answer....My personal opinion was that these things were told to Walton so that he could pass them on as, so to speak, Bobby’s plans for the future.” Another topic covered in the Walton-Bolshakov discussions, Nosenko added, was the assassination of President Kennedy. “As I remember, it was Walton’s opinion—and his opinion reflected the opinion of the Kennedy family—that there was no Russian involvement in the murder of the President. No suspicion at all.”

Nosenko proposed two plans whereby the KGB could take over the GRU’s channel to President Kennedy. Under the first of these plans, the Soviet Minister of Justice would personally invite the Attorney General to come to the Soviet Union. There the KGB would “set him up in private living quarters, give him everything he wants...so that he would be

Neither Kerst, who Nosenko said was suspected by the KGB of being the CIA Chief of Station in Moscow, nor Toon was affiliated with CIA in any way.

See also Part V.D.6. on Nosenko’s information concerning Lee Harvey Oswald.
