Designation of Beneficiary.

Important: Read instructions on back of duplicate before filling in this form.

Information concerning the employee: Name: Phillips, David Atlee. Date of birth: October 31, 1922.

I, the employee identified above, canceling any and all previous Designations of Beneficiary heretofore made by me, do now designate the beneficiary or beneficiaries named below to receive any unpaid compensation due and payable under existing law after my death. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary relates solely to Unpaid Compensation as defined in section 8 of the act of August 5, 1950, Public Law 636, and in no way will affect the disposition of any benefit which may become payable under the Retirement Act applicable to my Government service. I further understand that this Designation of Beneficiary will remain in full force and effect, unless or until canceled by me in writing, so long as I am continuously employed in the above department or agency.

Information concerning the beneficiary or beneficiaries:

Maria L. Phillips; address: 8224 Stone Trail Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20034; relationship: daughter; share: one-fourth.

David A. Phillips, Jr.; address: 8224 Stone Trail Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20034; relationship: son; share: one-fourth.

Atlee Y. Phillips; address: 8224 Stone Trail Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20034; relationship: daughter; share: one-fourth.

Christopher C. Phillips; address: 8224 Stone Trail Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20034; relationship: son; share: one-fourth.

I hereby direct, unless otherwise indicated above, that, if more than one beneficiary is named, the share of any deceased beneficiary who may predecease me shall be distributed equally among the surviving beneficiaries, or entirely to the survivor. I understand that this Designation of Beneficiary shall be valid if none of the designated beneficiaries is living at the time of my death.

I hereby specifically reserve to myself the right to cancel or change any designation of beneficiary at any time in the manner and form prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, and without knowledge or consent of the beneficiary.

1 December 1967. Date of execution—month, day, year.

Witnesses to signature:

2400 So. Glebe Rd, Arlington, Va 22206.

8137 Prescott Dr, Vienna, Va 22180.

Print or type name and address of employee: David A. Phillips, 8224 Stone Trail Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20034.

This space reserved for receiving data of employing agency.

05 December 1967. Date and by whom received: 7/22.

Deliver both copies to the proper officer of your agency—duplicate will be noted and returned.

The copy delivered by the officer is hereby deemed confidential, and may not be disclosed, except as needed for the performance of the business activity. The recipient of this notice is hereby ACK
