Going to be Machiavellian, my God—you don't do it like that, you know. The best propaganda is the one that comes closest to the truth, that just slightly goes off; you don't have to push the point.

In any case, I do feel that there are an enormous number of people in Cuba and inside the government, particularly among the old 26th of July people, who would be—they don't want a capitulation to the United States. They want an independent government. They would like trade. They would like to get out of the dependence on the Soviet Union, such as it is. They have managed to keep from being swallowed up by the Russians just by enormous effort on their part.

Do you think that both sides have committed themselves so far that it is impossible to have any kind of rapprochement or normalization of relations without a feeling that one side or the other, or both, had been forced to capitulate?

I should not have made one point, if I don't think it's true any more.

To a certain extent, recent months have brought a sort of cooling down in Cuban-American relations, though there have been continued charges about Venezuela, and it is certainly true that the Cubans were encouraging the Venezuelan FALN. They certainly gave financial support—not so much in the way of arms, I think, but money—and in a guerrilla campaign you get your arms anyway from the police and the army, from the army that surrounds you. That's the easiest way.

I have the feeling, nevertheless, that the Cubans are somewhat disappointed, disillusioned, about their ability to agitate these revolutionary groups elsewhere in Latin America, their ability to carry out any effective revolution, outremixing them just as the Alliance for Progress has proved to be a great disappointment to many people in Washington. So has the Cuban open solidarity with other, almost any, revolutionary movement in Latin America proved a disappointment.

On the other hand, the Cubans are not going to issue a statement saying that we will export revolution. Certainly the first years of the Cuban revolution, they had become extremely mobilized, with expeditions to Haiti, expedition to Santo Domingo, expedition to Panama, remember, and they had to send people into Panama to get them to surrender. The people in Santo Domingo were just slaughtered. In Haiti they were slaughtered also.
