Continuation Sheet/Fitness Report—Section C:

Subject is a dedicated officer who has proven by performance that he can be counted on to get the job done in less than allowable time limits. Subject is a sound first-echelon supervisor of a group doing a basic paramilitary job. Subject has the ability to develop a sense of teamwork in a diverse group of employees. It is believed that this leadership trait is particularly significant in that Subject has judiciously blended the talents of staff agents, career agents, contract employees, Army officers, and Navy personnel into a cohesive, effective group which has been able to mount successful resistance, ratline, cache, UDT, and commando operations against an insular denied area target. Subject is cost-conscious and effective in the use of space, equipment, and funds. Subject has been able to keep his agent assets in a high state of combat readiness despite shifts in policy which have placed the UDT, sabotage, and commando raider operations in a high state of flux. This ability to manage agent assets under conditions of severe frustration is a tribute to Subject’s area knowledge and an understanding of the psychology and mores of his agent material. Subject delegates authority and has control over the paper flow in his Branch. Subject has a fine appreciation for positive intelligence collection techniques, and he has been able to relate those techniques to his PM operations so that an intelligence product of quality has been developed on the rural areas of the target country. As a result of the totality of Subject’s performance during the period covered by this report, his overall performance warrants an evaluation of Strong.

Subject has Spanish language fluency, operational experience, area knowledge, and drive. Armed with those tools, Subject is capable of meeting the long-term needs of his career service in Spanish-speaking operational areas where there is a need for first-echelon supervisors. Subject is at his best in agent-handling situations and, in view of this, in the future it is believed that he should be used in Latin America under commercial cover to run and/or manage appropriate FI, CI, or PM projects.

At the completion of his current assignment, Subject should attend an advanced management course.
