Dear Mr. [REDACTED],

Reference is made in your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 10 February 1961, as amended. Effective [REDACTED], said contract, as amended, is hereby terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto and in lieu thereof the following agreement is substituted.

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you for your services as a Career Agent under the following terms and conditions:

1. Status. Your status is that of a Government employee under contract and, as such, your rights and benefits are governed by the provisions of this agreement. It is specifically understood that you are not entitled to rights and benefits pertaining to appointed staff status, except as provided herein.

2. Cover. In the performance of your services hereunder, you will act under cover suitable to conceal your relationship with the Government. It is expressly understood and agreed that any and all documents which you may execute in the course of such cover employment are subordinate to this agreement and any contradiction in terms which may in any way amplify, extend or restrict your rights and/or obligations hereunder shall be resolved by this agreement which shall always be dominant.

3. Compensation and Taxes. For your services as a Career Agent, you will be compensated at a basic salary of $11,000 per annum. You will be entitled to a post differential in conformance with applicable Government regulations. In addition you will be entitled to authorized overtime, within-grade promotions and legislative pay adjustments in substantial conformance with rules and regulations applicable to Government appointed personnel. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government. Monies paid you directly or guaranteed by the Government under this paragraph constitute income for Federal tax purposes. You will be advised as to the method to be followed in reporting and paying such taxes. The method as well as the procedures used by this organization to implement its tax reporting responsibilities will be based primarily upon cover and security requirements. Unless precluded by such requirements, taxes will be withheld therefrom and submitted by this organization.

4. Allowances. You will be entitled to: (a) living quarters allowances in conformance with applicable Government regulations. You may be provided quarters by your cover facility or the Government and, in such event, you will not be entitled to the living quarters allowances herein indicated.

(b) Cost of living allowances in conformance with applicable Government regulations including, but not limited to, a post allowance or an equalization allowance in lieu thereof, a supplementary post allowance, a transfer allowance, a base service transfer allowance, an education allowance and a separation allowance.
