Continuation of dispatch. OSHA-24,112. CSEPRONINCE.

Subordinates should back him by taking the same positions in public that he takes, a not unreasonable demand on the part of a Chief of Mission. RUIZ bluntly told GALLO that he, GALLO, had committed an error and GALLO just as bluntly disagreed. GALLO's view was that RUIZ had come in in a bad humor and nothing pleased him whereas RUIZ felt GALLO should try putting himself in RUIZ's place, something he claims GALLO is incapable of doing. Finally, this particular argument ended in a form of compromise with GALLO agreeing to call ROMERO the following day and remind him that he "should call the Minister".

3. On 4 July the battle was renewed over the distribution of Che's Diary. At that time the Embassy only had 6 or 7 copies which were being loaned out on an overnight basis. RUIZ said he wanted to send the Diary "to a mountain of people" while GALLO was also offering it freely and without consulting RUIZ about the action or his list of recipients. RUIZ scolded him roundly for this and, ignoring GALLO's attempts at self-justification, told him he had to respect the instructions he received. At one point in his tirade, RUIZ even went so far as to suggest it would be better for one of them to leave and go to work in another country, for example Rumania. Several interesting items emerged from this long quarrel:

A. GALLO has some undefined problem which Station Madrid assumes is related to his personality and his approach to his fellow workers. Ruiz said, "Look, GALLO, here everyone knows the problem you have. It is necessary to be hard, because unfortunately all the comrades that have come here through many years know of the problem..." Ruiz then insisted on the importance of discussing problems among the comrades and said "for example in your case, you have been foolish in not outlining the problem. I was waiting and ESPINO was waiting and PILOTO".

B. RUIZ commented that now he can understand the attitude of CALZADILLA. Before, he had thought CALZADILLA was in error but now he feels the same way. He mentions "an ambivalence" and says he will not react the same way, "that CALZADILLA was wrong in limiting himself to a reduced group of persons whereas I will continue to go forward but with everyone, not just a few."

C. RUIZ takes a broader view of Party membership than his contemporaries. In commenting on the weekly study circle for members of the Party, he set forth his opinion that all the comrades of the local Cuban Mission should participate even though they may not be members because in his eyes it is as if they all really were members.

D. RUIZ repeated a statement he has made on previous occasions - the great interest of his life is foreign commerce. However, in this 4 July QUDOZE Report, he added the interesting detail that he had not wanted to come to Madrid as Charge and, in affect, had been persuaded to come against his will. He believes he is best able to serve in the control of industry and that is where he could perform a tremendous work for his country as every revolutionary
