When the CIA officer said that he understood NOSENKO had been in the KGB since shortly after the war, NOSENKO, without further prompting, gave a detailed statement of his own personal past and his professional career. In this statement he described his education, his service in the GRU, his entry into the KGB and generally the functions and operating techniques of the various components of the KGB Second Chief Directorate in which he had served, along with the inclusive dates of his service in each. This account was very similar to that given MARK earlier in the day. Still without prompting, he discussed several specific KGB operations against Americans inside the Soviet Union, one involving the recruitment of a Yale University professor on the basis of homosexual compromise and the other an unsuccessful attempt to recruit an American code clerk. NOSENKO said he was personally involved in both cases.

The question of his further assistance was then raised again: The CIA officer asked NOSENKO to tell more about the Yale professor, but NOSENKO demurred, stressing that the agreement involved only two pieces of information and ignoring the fact that he had already given considerably more:

NOSENKO: I have told you enough for this day, and I will tell you only these two cases which I wanted to tell you, and it is enough for this day.

Case Officer: How do you imagine that this is enough? You know that we work much the same way.

NOSENKO: Yes.

Case Officer: You know what interests us, of course.

NOSENKO: I know it. Today I gave only two things. Let's meet one another again.

Case Officer: Good. But let me say this: What you tell me is your business. I am not going to try to bring any pressure at all...There is no argument about it. I am not going to say: “Please see us in Moscow.” I don't want to see you in Moscow because it's too difficult. It is completely impossible. That's it. No more on that subject.

NOSENKO: I said to David MARK before meeting you that I don't want to meet anyone anymore, not anyone.

Case Officer: All right. Agreed.

NOSENKO: In another place. I don't know whether I will come back here in a month or not...I personally don't want to, either, because my wife will be moaning at home. But I am afraid they will make me come, because I know the delegation. I know

Richard BURGI and Joseph MORONE; see Parts V.D.4.b. and V.E.3.c., respectively. NOSENKO did not supply the names at this time.
