Classified message. Action. Info. Date. File. Deferred. Priority. Initials. Incoming number. To info cite.

ZURC0227 (1033)

Gun instructor, alias Jose, DOB CA 42.

(2) Explosives theory (C-3 and C-4 compounds, TNT, instructions on how to prepare explosives and incendiaries). Instructor, alias Manuel, DOB CA 04.

(3) Guerrilla tactics. No formal instructions were given. Nine manuals marked secret, written by “General Ballo.”

(4) Communications. Cipher preparation: lemon juice, milk, sweat, urine; SW: RC-6 and RC-10 radio. Instructor, DOB CA 27, no alias used.

(5) Topography. Instructor, DOB CA 33, no alias used.

(6) First aid. Instructor, DOB CA 30, no alias used.

H. 24 June, group went by truck to Pinar del Rio near village Samoa for practical work with explosives. Training site referred to as a “Pete,” consisting of one barracks and mess hall.

I. 26 June, group went to another “Pete” in Pinar del Rio for practical work with weapons.

J. 23 June, Renteria and subject returned to Havana to second villa in Marianao. Remainder of group remained in Pinar del Rio to continue training. Reason for Renteria and subject’s earlier return was that Renteria was impatient and anxious to return to Peru to fight. Became extremely agitated at time of Lima football stadium incident, which he claims was political murder. Renteria wants to return to Lima to assassinate responsible police chief.

K. 30 June, subject and Renteria left via Prague for Zurich. Each received U.S. dollars 1,200 for expenses. Cubans paid air fare.

2. Per reference, subject and Renteria plan to enter Peru overland from Chile at Arica legally with true-name Peruvian passports. Subject’s passport number 102408, issued in Lima 12 August 60. Neither has alias documentation. Subject claims he knows no details on further plans other than they are supposed to join guerrillas in Cuzco Province. Subject will take all his cues from Renteria. Incidentally, subject referred to subversive group as “FIR,” not “MIR.” Renteria did reveal in Paris that he has instructions to contact a man named Alain Elias in Jauja. Elias alleged to be important man in “FIR” who has had full-year training in Cuba.

3. Wish emphasize that subject bona fides not established, although have no indication he is lying. In view of Renteria’s presence in Paris, subject’s three-hour absence definitely maximum safe time for interview. Significant portion of available time used to make recruitment pitch, give security briefing and Lima contact instructions, provide cover continued.
