Fitness Report. Employee serial number.

Section A. Name (last, first, initial): Williamson Earl J. Date of birth. Service designation (D): Opd Officer – Dept. Br. Chief. Officer designation (OFD): Career Staff Status (CS). Date report due in O.P. (DR): not eligible, members pending, declined, denied, deferred. Reporting period: from 15 June to 2 October 1960. Reporting period to: special (specify). Type of report: initial, reassignment/supervisor, annual, reassignment/employee.

Evaluation of performance of specific duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Read, study and prepare for assignment to Madrid as Chief of Liaison and DCOS Madrid.

Specific duty No. 2: Handle specific operational traffic involving WH activities in or related to Spain.

Specific duty No. 3: Prepare an assessment and plan for Spanish liaison.

Section C. Evaluation of overall performance in current position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on knowledge of the employee’s overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements. Rating No. 5.
2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
5. Performance in every important respect is superior.
6. Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Description of the employee. In the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee.

Characteristics: Observes ethics and dues — not applicable: X. Resourceful — not applicable: X.
