Report No. 12-745.

Subject: Manuel Amezaga's appearance before A.R.E.C. on Wednesday, 18 March 1964.

Source: Report from our collaborator through direct observation.

Following is a literal transcription of the report from our collaborator [illegible].

“At 3:30 PM, 18 Mar 64, the A.R.E.C. Recording Secretary, Ignacio Cancio, read the minutes of the preceding A.R.E.C. session in the conference room of the Everglades Hotel, Miami. The minutes were unanimously accepted by the A.R.E.C. members present.

“Abel Mestre, A.R.E.C. President, announced that the agenda included Dr. Manuel Amezaga as guest speaker at 4 PM. Then the stand was taken by Gerardo Arascal who gave a detailed report on the experiences of the newspaperman John Cord (I am not sure of his patronymic because I only heard it spoken), from Life magazine, on his trips around the world.

“At 3:50 PM Abel Mestre announced that Dr. Amezaga had just arrived and the audience gave him a standing ovation. It is estimated that there were about 500 persons in the audience.

“According to Francisco Prieto, who is one of the most active members of A.R.E.C., this was the A.R.E.C. gathering ever attended by the largest number of persons because the normal audience is from 220 to 240 persons.

“There were from 40 to 45 members of the M.B.A. in the audience, and they could be perfectly identified as much because they had the emblem of that organization in the buttonhole of their lapels.

“Arturo began his speech by making a count of his activities since 1939, which he called his ‘ingredients to A.R.E.C.’ He mentioned his letter of resignation to Castro six months after the establishment of the Castro Government, where he said to Castro among other things that he should not deceive the industrialists, merchants and live classes of the nation because when industry, commerce and all private properties passed to the hands of the State that would be Communism. Later, in some paragraphs from the book which he published in exile prior to the Bay of Pigs invasion.
