Section IX. Qualifications for Other Operations.

1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications possessed by subject which could conceivably be of value for other operations. Subject is an artist.

Section X. Commitments.

1. If it is proposed to pay subject a regular salary, indicate the weekly amount, if payment is to be made in exchange communities, subsidy or other method, specify and give details. As of 15 June 1963, subject will be paid a monthly salary of 4000 pesos.

2. Explain any promises, otherwise not codexed herein, made to subject. No commitments or promises, but it is assumed that KUBARK (KURARK) will assist subject to leave the country if this is necessary because of his activities on KUBARK's behalf.

Section XI. Licence Security.

1. Indicate the field agencies and field files with which subject's name has been checked and the results. Station files. Close friends of subject such as LITAMIL-3, LITAKIL-2, LITAMIL-7, LOCZE-1 and many other contacts of the Cuban Embassy.

2. Indicate other investigative measures taken to verify biographical information furnished by subject. See para 1.

3. Indicate whether or not provisional operational approval or operational approval for subject's use was previously obtained.

4. Date approval obtained. Submitted 27 July 1962, BMA 19855.

5. Evaluate subject's character, reliability and security, citing sequence where possible. Subject is of high moral character, proud of his family background. Sincere, extremely security conscious, reliable, punctual and highly intelligent. A cosmopolitan type, somewhat arty, yet cognizant of what it takes to get a job done, i.e. KUBARK's job.

6. Explain any situation or discretion in which subject may have been involved which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security perspective. Subject's relationship with ODYOKE is unknown to Jose CARRAL Escalante and Dolores CUEVAS de EYCHEMEE per MEX 3450. CARRAL and de EYCHEMEE are not believed to be security risks.

Section XII. Subject's Personal Habits.

1. Use of liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours. Subject drinks moderately. Subject is not known to have any flagrant vices.
