cc: Mr. Jackson  
Mr. Lang

Except for litigation due February 21, 1952, by Joy Spencer.  
This to be publicity notice:

Second, my travel plans; until I know when we are to see Mr. Lenz (Ir. Lenz) and what the consequences of that interview may be, I can of course make no definite travel arrangements. I should like to go to Strasbourg and talk with them there about the enlargement plans for the Collège de l'Europe Libre; I want to have a few days in Paris, if possible, to catch up on developments in Royall's area; and I feel it important to have about a week in Lisbon. Forgetting the question of dates, my itinerary would probably be Strasbourg, Paris, Lisbon, New York, and if there is to be any considerable delay before we can see Mr. Lenz (Ir. Lenz), I shall plan to go to Strasbourg from Frankfurt, then return to Frankfurt and then go direct to Paris. It would please me if I were able to go back to New York in time to go to New Hampshire to vote in the primaries on March 11, but this may be an idle hope.

Third, our Frankfurt negotiations, as I cabled C.D., we reached complete agreement on the technical basis, covered by the draft licensing agreement. Throughout our discussions we were treated with the utmost courtesy and consideration. The original draft submitted for our study contained several ambiguities and specific provisions which, if literally construed, would defeat the purpose which both sides seemed to have in mind. Our suggestions for changes and modifications were accepted after a minimum amount of discussion. Whenever we made a valid point, the fact was recognized at once by the others. Lick agrees with me that one could not expect to receive any more courteous or considerate treatment, and we were all very much pleased by the atmosphere at the ministry. You realized, of course, that the technical side of the question is by no means the complete picture, and it remains to be seen how rapidly we can clear up the non-technical aspects. If we can have our Conn appointment again tomorrow, I ought to be able to have a cable in New York for your evening Monday, indicating the prospects, but if our appointment is delayed until some time next week—one of the local handicaps we are encountering—is a harvest-period or “Fasting” which reaches its climax Monday. Fasting is much more of a celebration than George Washington's birthday, so Lick and I are willingly sacrificing our holiday tomorrow (strike out Lick from the preceding clause because he tells me that the German operation does not recognize G. Washington's birthday. When I asked him if they had selected Fasting instead because it lasted longer, he avoided a direct answer.) so as not to get involved in a possibly long cost-Fasting however period. Seriously, very little work is done in Germany the day after the principal Fasting celebration and we hope we can get matters more or less cleared up tomorrow, but I shall not come until I get a telephone call this evening after return to Frankfurt.
