Section E. Narrative description of manner of job performance on nearly the same duty as a unit director in a specific performance role.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is a thoroughly professional intelligence officer endowed with a high degree of intelligence and ability to concentrate. He is imaginative and skilled. A rapid, accurate and purposeful worker, he is a good writer and a good speaker. Though his natural bent is in the CE field, in which he excels, he has also demonstrated ability and accomplishments in other areas of Station activity. He is particularly adroit at the analysis, planning and management of his operations. His contribution to the Station liaison task (through inquiries, follow-up and special studies he has prepared to stimulate liaison to action in KUBARK's behalf) has been outstanding and has been a vital factor in stepping up the pace of Swiss-KUBARK liaison. Subject tends at times to avoid necessary but unpromising Station chores and at times is intolerant of those who do not meet the very high standards he sets for himself. These are minor flaws in an otherwise superior officer with outstanding potential.

Section P. Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D, and E of this report.

Date: 9 December 1960. Signature of employee: /s/ Tennent BAGLEY.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Other (specify). Date: 9 December 1960. Report made within last 90 days. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Philo DIBBLE.

By reviewing official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I question judgment of these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official: I concur completely in the supervisor's estimate and would state that Subject is the most outstanding all-around officer in the Station. Further, he is ideally suited to the peculiar requirements and operational situation of Switzerland. In my opinion he has been performing consistently at a level above his present grade and all members of the Station, including myself, have learned much from him professionally.

Date: 9 December 1960. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Burton R. LIFSCHULTZ.
