However, it would appear to the examiner that there is more to this story than meets the eye. One would suspect that, since he obtained mild treatment at the hands of the Gestapo, he probably collaborated more than he is willing to admit at this time. It may be that he did not fool the Gestapo at all. It is quite possible that the Gestapo used him to pass on the authenticity of documents of other prisoners or in some other nefarious activity. If this can be established as true by other techniques then we are dealing with a person who places self-preservation above all else.

The Subject also has a history of criminal activity in France after the war. At that time he was married and was the father of one child. He was working at a model-maker's shop and although he was not well off he was earning a decent living. According to the Subject a close young friend solicited his assistance in attacking a bank in order to finance an intended marriage. At first the Subject felt that the other fellow was crazy to dare to attack a bank. He also claims to have had a twinge of conscience and asked himself the question, "Is it right to do harm by robbing a bank?" Furthermore, he never felt that a team of two partners would be able to attack a bank successfully. Apparently the other fellow was a fairly good recruiter. He reminded the Subject of his war activities and he was of the opinion that since the Subject had been able to accomplish certain illegal activities in the past that he would be quite capable of attacking a bank. He also displayed a confidence in the Subject's capability to invent a plan of attack and played on the Subject's love of risk, of his need for friendship. At each point in the developments the Subject tried to withdraw by saying: "If my mother learned of this, she would die." He postponed the job indefinitely. However, in the meantime his mother died and his friend felt that he no longer had an excuse. The Subject compromised by agreeing to knock over a jewelry store. Apparently they knocked over two jewelry stores for the sake of good measure. However, after having spent his money, the friend again returned with a proposition to attack the bank. The Subject told him: "You got your money for your marriage; now leave me alone." However, the friend had not married his intended, was broke, and was interested in financing another marriage. They agreed that this would be the last job. Afterwards, however, the other fellow apparently threw his money around and was arrested and squaled.
