out of place.

57. It is Subject's experience that his friends love him for what he is. He likes his friends as they are, probably because they are as they are. The idea of attempting to change a friend is unthinkable for him. He loves them for their bad points as well as their good points.

58. Subject is an optimist but also a pessimist. He feels he will never be able to reach his ideals because his material ideal (social reform) is so distant that he would need to lead many ... in order to attain it. It might be unfair to call this man a pessimist; it is more likely he is a realist and perhaps a cynic.

59. This man denies that he has any interest or emotional attachment to France at this time. However, it is likely he was patriotic at the time of the war. Since he has been branded a criminal and has been deprived of certain rights and privileges, he now perhaps feels rejected and in turn is rejecting France as his fatherland. Nevertheless, he strikes the examiner as a true Frenchman -- he thinks and feels like a Frenchman and is certainly not a Russian in his personality. It is likely that he identifies the French authorities with the police. He cannot tolerate rejecting attitudes. He is like an outsider who is looking in. It may be he has the "sour grapes" attitude by which he feels that since he cannot have what he wants, it is not too good anyway.

60. Subject is not a planner. Despite his interest in invention and the fact that he has pulled off a number of capers, he is more of an instigator, a leader, and an executor. In order for him to be successful in future projects, it is necessary that someone else plan and then tell him exactly what to do.

61. Subject is currently involved in the invention business which he started alone. He is the owner and exploiter of several patents and certain persons are financially and technically interested in his inventions. He is faced with a problem at this time. He is involved in the initial and preliminary phases with us and consequently is put on the fence as regards his invention business. Furthermore, if he were to join us, he would relinquish everything to his business partners.
