24 August 1976. Staff.

Cite DCD/Miami 15477.

To: Priority DCD/Headquarters.

To: Operations Services Group/OSB (French) from Hennessey. WHINTEL.

Subject: Albanian cryptographic material.

Reference: Hennessey/French telecon, 23 August 1976, same subject.

1. This is to confirm referenced telecon. On 23 August 1976, we received a call from Robert W. Morgan, owner of Safari Sports, P. O. Box 133, North Miami Beach, Florida, and Vanguard Research, Inc., P. O. Box 312, Miami, Florida, in which he indicated that he had had a visit on the same date by Frank Sturgis. Sturgis had told Morgan that he had just returned to Miami from New York City, where he had been interviewed for the “Tomorrow Show” on NBC. (This interview was supposed to have been televised at 0100 hours, 24 August, but was not.)

2. Sturgis said that while in New York he had stayed the weekend (presumably 21 and 22 August) with Marita Lorenz, who Sturgis sometime ago publicly claimed to have hired to poison Cuban (CLIBAN) Prime Minister Fidel Castro. Lorenz gave Sturgis a book containing cryptographic material that she said she had stolen from the Albanian Mission in New York. Morgan was shown machine copies of three or four pages of this material, which consisted of five-digit numerical groups in series across the pages. Each of the groups had a single line drawn through as if a decoding operation had been performed. Sturgis told Morgan that he had distributed pages of the book in various places in Miami for safekeeping until he could turn all of it over to Senator Howard Baker. To this end he already had placed a call to Baker’s staff on 23 August. Sturgis told Morgan that Lorenz had given him the book because one of her MACIA contacts in New York tried to blackmail her (for some reason unknown to Morgan or ourselves), and subsequently beat her severely and threatened her life. As a result, she no longer wanted any part of the cryptographic material in question. Sturgis has promised to get it into official U.S. government hands.
