(Seventh Department, June 1955–January 1960)

The department has now been organized for the Soviet Union and the Peoples' Democracies. And he is chief of the department... He is no longer in Moscow, but he was here two and a half or three years. We hope that he will return. We are waiting for him to come back. We know that the company wants to send him again, because he knows the Russian language very well. He is, in fact, an emigre, this FRIPPEL. And he also did a good and intelligent job of establishing relations with Inturist. He had very good relationships with ANKUDINOV, the Chairman of Inturist, and with other people, both the chiefs and the low-level workers... But, why was FRIPPEL recruited? I was interested in knowing precisely by whom, by name, and how approaches were being made to our delegations (in the United States). I was interested in him from the point of view of counter-intelligence, not intelligence. What kinds of approaches are taking place to our people in America and by whom? This is what interested me. But he didn't know anything. He provided only superficial information, nothing more.

NOSENKO was then asked whether FRIPPEL would not have been useful for coverage of Americans visiting the Soviet Union. He replied no, that the KGB had already had great success in this by other means.

In Geneva in 1964 and during subsequent debriefings and interrogations, NOSENKO made additional statements concerning the FRIPPEL case.

NOSENKO attributed his involvement in the FRIPPEL recruitment as follows:

“In 1958, after 1958, when I became the Deputy Chief of the section, my area of activity was narrowed down. I didn't handle all the tourists at that time. I worked as the Deputy Chief of the section and I had my own little area—for example, the permanent representative of the American Express Company, and besides that I began to collect all the material on all American tourist firms which have anything to do with Inturist and which send tourists to the USSR.”
