Force Reserve. This report further stated that, in August 1950, he returned from another trip to Germany, where he conducted negotiations for the Harvard Russian Research Center in connection with the equivalent in Munich of a Russian Research Institute and also arranged the details of the Harvard Russian Center's project of sending a group of students to Germany during 1950 to study the Russian migration. Professor Fadzid (FADZID) reportedly inferred that, upon his return, he was working on further work for the Harvard Russian Research Center in order to concentrate on his thesis. George Fadchi (FADCHI)'s principal contact in Germany was Karl von Kievich (VON KIEVICH), head of the Vinnavito program, German Exterior to the Soviet Union lender Richard Fiedler (Military Union for Libraries of Peoples of Russia), the UGCC. On earlier trips he had been in touch with Philip Morris (MORRIS), chief of Cooper's (COOPER'S) security section, but since Eicostern (EICOSTERN) was reported to be suffering from cancer and therefore not active, Viceroy (VICEROY)'s later contacts with him were second-hand. George Fadell is reported to have talked with Colonel Poukinen (POUKINEN) in connection with research which Poukinen (POUKINEN) was doing for Harvard, but Fadell did not have close contacts with him.

(o) A full investigative report on Carol Dury Craig (CRAIG), dated 6 February 1952, stated that an informant of known reliability advised that in October and December 1951 and also in January 1952, Louis Madiel, who then resided at Hotel Duxau, 83 Washington Avenue, New York City, was in contact with Carol Hill, literary agent, 22 East 28th Street, New York. This report quoted a review of Madiel's book, “Littauer in the US by 20th Century England.” This review stated that for 17 years Louis Madiel was the journalist-columnist from New York's liberal wing on the Russian Revolution. The two volumes of Force in May/June 1954 were published on Russian foreign politics and maintained close contact with Russian politicians. According to this review, while dispatches of that time corresponded in content to those objective and full of hostility to Russia, Viceroy (VICEROY) reports were consistently favorable to Russia, and he became the favorite Russian author of Vladimir Nabuchodonosor (NABUCHODONOSOR) and U.S. Democrats. This report also stated that an informant of known reliability advised on 11 July 1951 that Fadell, a well-known Communist writer, was leaving for England, and that another informant of known reliability advised that in 1937 Fadell was active with the Communist forces in Spain. In addition, an informant of unknown reliability advised George J. Bissell (BISSELL) in February 1948 that he had no positive information but believed that Fadell was working for the CBI.

(d) In a full report on Coleman A.ande (AANDE), dated 21 February 1952, an informant of known reliability advised that he met in 1933, reportedly a member of the Committee Intelligence organization in the U.S. engaged in industrial espionage, the team of Louis and Walter Wachsmuth in Moscow in 1949. The report indicated that Coleman was an ex-German writer, author of “[the] And I'm Sorry, Too,” who at that time was pro-German and was in Moscow for the ex-Soviet.
