Continuation of Dispatch. HMA-34792.

e. Upon (LINLUCK)'s return to Mexico he asked whether there was any possibility that he could be kept on after 30 June 1968 for an indeterminate period as LIANCHOR P/A until some outside job showed up. The case officer said he would discuss the matter with Headquarters, but felt that in the interests of (LINLUCK)'s family and his own career it was high time that (LINLUCK) strike out on his own. Replacements were again reviewed and it was decided that the best candidate would be Identity-1, who had turned down membership in LIANCHOR because he wanted immediate fees for anything he wrote. Identity-6 of the LIANCHOR group, a friend of Identity-1, was queried as to Identity-1's personal life and, as far as can be discovered, Identity-1 lives a quiet life with his wife and family and is highly respected in Mexican intellectual circles both as an author/editorialist and as an independent leftist. Reference “B” and “PLANS” below report the Station's plans for possible recruitment and subsequent utilization of Identity-1 as P/A of LIANCHOR.

6. Production of Articles and Features by LIANCHOR:

Separate cover attachment “B” contains a translation of a (LINLUCK) report written 1 May 1968 on articles and feature articles produced and distributed during the period 15 December 1968 to 30 April 1968. Case officer comments are included along with information about articles prepared and distributed in May.

7. (LINLUCK) Involvement in Covert Action Operations Targeted Against Soviet Poet Yevgeny YEVTUSHENKO (March-April 1968):

a. In March (LINLUCK) drafted an open letter to Soviet poet Yevgeny (Yevgenyi) YEVTUSHENKO asking the Russian to use his influence to persuade the Soviet government to end the persecution of Soviet intellectuals, artists, writers and poets. (LINLUCK) managed to obtain the signatures of students, professors, actors, dancers, writers and intellectuals for his open letter and then persuaded the publisher of his books to print thousands of copies, which were distributed by other assets of the Mexico Station. A copy of the open letter was published in “EXCELSIOR” on the day of YEVTUSHENKO's arrival in Mexico for what was originally billed as a personal trip. Because of the open letter and critical press coverage of YEVTUSHENKO's rude behavior towards the press on arriving at Mexico City airport, the Russian Embassy called a special press conference the evening of the day of the poet's arrival. At the press conference YEVTUSHENKO spoke with outrage of the open letter, carefully dodging a number of questions asked by the letter, and chided the signers of the letter for claiming there was absolute literary freedom in Mexico, asking how there can be freedom anywhere in the world as long as there is no freedom in Vietnam. YEVTUSHENKO's remarks about the open letter left no doubt that he had come to Mexico as a Soviet propagandist and not as a rebel poet.

b. (LINLUCK) also produced a handbill quoting the telegram by Soviet intellectuals to the “Consultative Conference of Communist Parties” at Budapest, asking for an end to Soviet persecution of intellectuals in the USSR. The handbill featured two pen and ink drawings of imprisoned Soviet poets Sinyavsky and Daniel. He also arranged for the printing in Spanish of an authoritative study of incidents surrounding the Galanskov-Dobrovolsky trial in brochure form. Thousands of copies of the handbill and brochures were also distributed by Station assets during
