Shall be necessarily proper communication means to cause the mobility of labor and attenuate the prior fluctuations. These oscillations make it possible to decide on the geographic implantation of new industries and on the extent to be given to the development of various zones in line with the overall program.

These shall be considered:

a) The asphalting or cementing of all main roads; the stoning of all secondary roads, and the construction of new roads.

b) The construction of telephones to join certain commodity-producing centers to urban centers.

c) Organization of an adequate railway system.

d) Nationalization of general transportation (transport en commun).

As for marine transportation, our country has not yet exploited its insular position and its geographic situation. Further than developing normally, our coasting vessel is in jeopardy for lack of well-equipped dry docks, also due to the insufficient technical preparation of our sailors. Yet, the marine way remains the cheapest in internal trade.

We shall consider the creation of a Navigation School, the acquisition of a merchant marine for external trade, and we shall give such facilities as can facilitate the modernization of the coasting vessels, the opening of new ports for external trade, the construction of a modern and free port in Port-au-Prince to serve as warehousing for goods consigned to certain South American countries, also the repair and modernization of our existing ports.

In the field of air transportation, there shall be created a national airline to link Port-au-Prince with foreign cities. There shall also be created airports in the large towns of the Republic.

It is obvious that the success of this program, which calls for disbursements amounting to around one billion five hundred million dollars ($1,500,000,000) over 25 years, shall depend largely upon the competence of all engaged in the Public Administration.

We shall also concentrate our efforts on the following points:

a) Complete unification of the Communau (Communes). The Council of Notables shall be re-established on a new basis in both the Commune and the Village (local budget). Local conferences between the Mayors of the same Department and the different officers of this Department shall make possible the preparation of local programs, the execution of which shall promote the general plan.
