Chief, Domestic Collection Division.

Attention: Support Branch “OSS” (RMT).

Chief Working in Field Office, Atlanta Resident Office.

Resume of Contacts with Stephen Von Cleve

1. Jack Kennedy, Ideal Field Office, called on 21 January 1974 to give us a source code on Sam Van Cleve and Mitch Herbel, both from Atlanta, Georgia. Jack briefed us on past mini-contracts with Van Cleve and suggested we might want to contact him concerning his activities in Argentina. At that time we were in the process of moving the office to the present location, so did not contact Van Cleve until 25 January 1974. On that date he called. We identified ourselves and briefly explained the reason for the call. His first question was, “Do you know Mitch Herbel, and does this have anything to do with him?” We told him we did not know Herbel, but our interest was not related to him. Van Cleve suggested we come to his office at 1000 that afternoon.

2. He arrived shortly after reopening at his office at 17th St. W. Stewart Dr., U.F., Atlanta, Georgia. Van Cleve had a one-man office in a modern building located in a neighborhood to the west district of Atlanta. After presenting credentials and a business card, he asked if I could take the interview. We said he preferred to talk to an officer for any future transactions, as he wanted to be absolutely sure any information he gave was reported accurately. I’m sure he’s right. I have a rough draft of the first interview. The actual one has been edited. Some of this information is reported in OJA(S)-102/0635-74, Secret, CIA Internal Use Only.

3. On 9 February 1974, we received a call from Von Cleve at home. He wanted to report in detail on a recent trip to Oakland, California, where he had supposedly met with police officials and discussed the nearest kidnapping, the SIA, etc. We told him this was very interesting but not CIA business.

4. Van Cleve called again on 25 February 1974 to fill us in on a visit to the U.S. by Argentine police officials and an operational opportunity in the Tchamars. He prepared this information for dissemination as COA-(S)’s. In view of recent developments, we assured him neither report should be disseminated. To complete your record of contacts, both reports are enclosed as Enclosures No. 1 and 3. Disregard the Atlanta report numbers; they will be used for future reporting or cancelled.
