Section C. Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

This officer is personally acquainted with almost every senior official or officer in the Vietnamese Government and armed forces, and with a significant number of these this acquaintance amounts to close personal friendships extending back over a number of years. These associations have given this officer truly unique access to senior officials of Vietnamese leadership, and he has exploited this access effectively and to great value to the Station. He has had long experience in this area, and uses his understanding of it to great effect. He works very well independently and has shown considerable initiative. He balks at no assignment, and carries out all assignments without regard for his personal convenience, safety, or well being. In the field of written expression this officer's performance falls somewhat short, but he has made strenuous efforts to improve in this sector with some success. All in all, he is an imaginative and dedicated officer who can be counted on to discharge his duties with high effectiveness and total personal commitment. It has been a pleasure to have had him at the Station.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date. Signature of employee. /s/ Luelen E. Coneln.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 10 September '93. Official title of supervisor: GCSB. Type or paper to be written and signature: /s/ Fund 1-501.07.

Comments of Reviewing Official. By Reviewing Official. Date. Official title of reviewing official. Type or paper to be written and signature.
