Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 012170.

Section A — General.

1. Name: Randall (Last), C. (First), Frederick (Middle). 2. Date of birth: 28 Oct. 1926 M. 4. Grade: GS-13. S, SD. 5. Off/Div/Br of assignment. 6. Current station: Washington, D. C.

9. Check (X) type of appointment: X Special (Specify). 10. Check (X) type of report: Recommendation.

12. Reporting period (From–To): November 1966 – 31 March 1967.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Operational and intelligence exploitation of foreign and American contacts in the FE Division area of interest. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Liaison with Washington Field Office of the FBI and with the Chief, Foreign Liaison Division, U.S. Air Force. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 3: Preparation of operational, intelligence and administrative correspondence. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4.
