Schlumberger and Company and another Schlumberger subsidiary firm, Machines Bull (Machine Bull), a competitor of IBM, are connected with Schneider and Company, 42 rue d'Anjou, Paris. Francois SAAR-DEMICHEL, manager of Compagnie Internationale de Commerce, represents Schneider for the USSR and is a Soviet agent. In September 1961, an investigation conducted in France disclosed that “everything that takes place in the Elysee is known in Moscow within 48 hours and the originator of such intelligence is Francois SAAR-DEMICHEL.” Machines Bull is controlled by General Electric Company of the U.S., and Schneider and Company is affiliated with U.S. Westinghouse Corporation under the name Schneider-Westinghouse.

The study in KAGAN’s file contains the following additional information concerning Schlumberger and Company:

Maurice and René SCHLUMBERGER (Rend SCHLUMBERGER) are affiliated with Lazard Frères and the Worms Bank. Lazard Frères controls Schneider-Westinghouse and has a New Orleans branch office. Closely associated with the Schlumbergers is Charles DOH. DOH was born at Odessa in 1911 and arrived in the United States in 1937 to join the Schlumberger Well Surveying Corporation at Houston, Texas. He became a U.S. citizen on 6 September 1950. Charles has a brother, Jean, who was closely associated with Leonard HOUNAU, a suspected Soviet agent. HOUNAU was closely associated with Francois SAAR-DEMICHEL, previously mentioned, a Soviet agent connected with Schlumberger and Company. Charles DOH was approved for Agency contact use in September 1955 as a member of the Schlumberger Well Surveying Corporation. His file is clear.

Roger Robert Henri HENQUET, executive vice-president, Schlumberger Well Surveying Corporation, Houston, Texas, was approved for contact use on a limited basis in October 1950. He had been an employee of OSS from 1943 to 1945; was given American citizenship and the Congressional Medal of Honor for his deeds during World War II.

Arthur Henry FRENTROP, an employee of the Schlumberger Well Surveying Corporation, Ridgefield, Connecticut, was of contact interest in June 1956. Information concerning his spouse’s critical attitude towards American customs and institutions and the dominant position she exercised over her husband was furnished the contact office.
