25 February 1968

Subject: LIVING/4 Report of Conversation with LIVING/2.

1. LIVING/4 reported to Rowton at 1045 on 24 February 1968 that she had again spoken to LIVING/2 about her entry permit to return to Havana. She appeared depressed and began the conversation stating that she was “fed up” (tabta) with the LIVING office, explaining that she felt that she had been treated very unfairly and shabbily, particularly by LIVING/2. She stated that she had waited for several hours to see LIVING/2 on the morning of 23 February inside the premises of the LIVING offices but had finally to leave after only a few words of conversation with him. She related that LIVING/2 and LIVING/9 were occupied in conversation with Eugenia Clquin (who had recently returned from a three-month stay in Havana with her sister Marcela), and she did not feel it proper to interrupt to ask about her permit to return to Cuba. When she finally buttonholed LIVING/2, he said that he would rather talk to her the following morning—about 1000, since it was Saturday—explaining that he was very busy with a number of difficult cases.

2. LIVING/4 continued that when she returned to his office about 1015 the following morning, 24 February, she again had to wait about 15 minutes before finding LIVING/2 alone. To her annoyance, he again brushed her off, stating that he still did not have a final answer since the matter had not as yet been taken up by the “consejo superior” of the establishment. L/2 continued that he hoped to have some sort of decision by Monday and asked L/4 to see him again. L/4 stated to Rowton that she could not contain her feelings any longer and exploded in a burst of invective against the LIVING office, accusing them, among other things, of giving visas to all sorts of hippies and delinquents and making her wait on pins and needles when she had a right to return. L/4 then stated that just as she was leaving, she turned to L/2 and said: “Oh, I forgot to tell you, but I managed to see the ‘Greek.’” L/4 told Rowton that at this L/2 came suddenly back to life and invited her into his office again, closing the door and ushering her to a chair. She then stated that she had telephoned “the Greek” (Rowton) on the pretext that she wanted him to buy some jewelry for her on his next trip to Switzerland and succeeded in having coffee with him at Basborns. She continued that in the course of conversation she learned that his telephone is actually an answering service and hence operates 24 hours per day, that he is interested in buying sulphur in Mexico, and that his principal client is the Greek shipowner Kiarchos. She then showed L/2 a matchbox on which the Greek had written the name Kiarchos in both Greek and English.
