Charité Hospital in Eastern Berlin: almost three-fourths of the distinguished medical specialists are ready to break away, and we are now hoping to reach some constructive arrangement by which they can maintain themselves in East Berlin. This type of activity—ranging from welfare for prominent individuals from the East to sheltering groups and institutions, and beginning with initial private contact—can transform the Congress from a group of spokesmen for the libertarian ideal into “activists for freedom.”

6. Radio-Broadcasting Project: inaugurating a special series of radio programs to be prepared by the Congress. Liaison (Linson) should be established with RIL, the Free Europe network, the French, Austrian, German, and British stations, including the Voice of America. Plans have been started for the first series—namely, “Dialogues across the Curtain”: a dozen “open letters”—Koestler to Sigmars and Froom, others to Fecher, Eisler, Lukos, Lysenko, Tarle, Threnburg, et al.—personalized five-minute messages (less in hateful opposition, more in open-hearted clarity). This would be a practical follow-up to the Congress’ “Message to the East.” These could be published in various newspapers, later in small book form.

7. Annual Prize-Awards Project: the Congress should award each year a number of Congress prizes to various personalities for distinctive services and contributions to the cause of cultural freedom. This could be given on the basis of a new book, a career, or some special activities. Two types can be distinguished: the Nobel Prize model and the university stipend. The latter would enable the recipient—an American or a Frenchman—to spend four weeks in Berlin, giving a series of five Congress lectures at the Free University, later to be printed as a special Congress volume. This is equally true of an English recipient at Heidelberg, a German at the New School in New York City, a Prussian at the London School of Economics, etc.

8. Publishing-House Project: this could be a modestly conceived annex to the Congress Berlin bureau, which would actually bring out the Congress volumes indicated above. It would also publish the pamphlets and brochures mentioned. It would consider the popular cultural-political library, the Birkiesel proposal. It could be the house to which “Der Fort” would go, if and when this monthly becomes completely independent. It would gradually build up its own list of authors from among prominent Congress writers, Koestler et al. The publishing house could be started from the existing transitional Congress bureau now functioning in Berlin; the bureau director or the executive assistant could be charged with the responsibilities of a normal international publisher in Germany, incorporation as a G.m.b.H., and the like.

9. Newsletter Project: immediate plans for a fortnightly communication to all conference sympathizers, the press, etc., should be started and completed. A two- to four-page mimeographed information bulletin will keep alive Congress interest.
