Fitness Report.

Section A. Name: Charlotte L. Service designation: DI. Official position title: I.O. (FT). Career status: member. Annual reassignment/supervisor reassignment/employee reassignment. Not eligible pending. Declined. Special: to 28 August 1958; 28 August 1957–31 May 1959.

Section B. Evaluation of performance of specific duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise; indicate the number of employees supervised.

Ratings: 1. Unsatisfactory. 2. Barely adequate. 3. Acceptable. 4. Competent. 5. Excellent. 6. Superior. 7. Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Responsible Case Officer for several FT and CE/CI Projects. Rating No. 5/6.

Specific duty No. 2: Handles large volume of correspondence with Station in support of Operations. Rating No. 6/7.

Specific duty No. 3: Supervises maintenance of desk records (deak records) and project files. Rating No. 6/7.

Specific duty No. 4: Consults and coordinates with various Units and components regarding Station's Projects and Operations. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 5: Prepares, reviews and coordinates memoranda. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 6. Rating No. 6.

Section C. Evaluation of overall performance in current position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences effectiveness in the current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects the level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements. 2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects. 3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements. 4. Performance closely exceeds basic requirements. 5. Performance in every important respect is superior. 6. Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Rating No. 5/6.

Description of the employee. In the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee.

Characteristics: Gets things done. Resourceful.
