On November 23, 1968, General Clay (Generalieg Clay) and Campaign Chairman Sturgis wrote to state chairmen (chalecrers) for the RGR, representing their opinions and suggestions on the matter of creating a campaign office throughout the year. They proposed a campaign organization system funded by a drive in the fall. The expenses for this campaign cost $10,000.

The development of a field organization of a proper order would be required to bring the campaign into operation as early as possible and to ensure that the official-file relationship accounted for the 1967 campaign was otherwise maintained. This may be attained in two ways.

The first may be to ensure, at the national level, the consideration and cooperation of national groups in all areas of activity, with the understanding that volunteers’ involvement would be carried out at the local and state levels.

The second may be to work directly in the states from the city and county level.

We are generally staffed to carry out the attached requirements in the state approach at the national level. However, the actual method requires a more organized effort. For organizational purposes, the country should be divided into four groups, with a national representative in each group. This national representative should act and report to a number of individual local elected officials so that he can serve his region on a year-round basis. His functions generally are:

1. To interpret national policy to the state officials.

2. To facilitate the use of materials, news releases, etc., from the national office by the units within the various states.

3. To assist the state chairman in carrying on the national office operations of all kinds.

4. To aid the state chairman in perfecting his organization.

As the time of the campaign approaches, the various state chairmen would, if aware of the national representative, secure the participation of individuals effective at the state level to carry on the intensive phases of the campaign efforts, within budgetary limitations.

Experience in the field of voluntary organizations over the years has indicated that this type of regional representation is effective and economical for the following reasons.

1. The national representative is a full-time employee of the organization, with a knowledge of the broad issues of the affairs of the organization. He is therefore equipped to interpret policy and exercise judgment as rapidly as required.
