MHF#: COMET 31-6320813

Which might be raised, Nikonov personally reviewed KGB files to determine if Lee Harvey Oswald had been a KGB agent. He reviewed five thick volumes of files on Oswald. Nikonov is now confident that Oswald was at no time an agent controlled by the KGB. From the description of Oswald in the files he doubted that anyone could control Oswald, but noted that the KGB watched him closely and constantly while he was in the USSR. He commented that Oswald had a stormy relationship with his Soviet wife, who rode him incessantly. The file also reflects that Oswald was a poor shot when he tried target firing in the USSR.

6. In preparation for establishment of a liaison relationship with the Swedish intelligence service, Nikonov personally performed an inquiry for Bakatin into the fate of Swedish diplomat Raoul Wallenberg (RAQUL WALLenberg). There is still pressure from the Swedish side to have a definitive answer on this matter because of the continuing importance of the Wallenberg family. Nikonov was amazed to find out that the KGB had not been able to previously establish whether Wallenberg had died and under what circumstances. He was able to find partial evidence from fourteen different sources. Nikonov now believes, but found no conclusive proof, that Wallenberg was executed late in 1947. There were indications that Wallenberg was suspected of having contacts with others who were accused of providing false diplomatic identity documents to others beyond Jews saved from the Holocaust. Among these were Nazi war criminals who were allowed to escape. There was no proof of Wallenberg's guilt in any of these charges.

7. Fulbright professor who is Nikonov's former professor and friend is:

Name: E.B. Smith
DOB: c. 1920
Cit: USA
Occ: Professor of history at University of Maryland, retired
Loc: Resides near Annapolis, MD
Other: Fulbright professor for winter 1991 term in St. Petersburg State University, USSR; two previous Fulbright assignments in Moscow and several in PRC and Germany; hosts former students from USSR and PRC on U.S. visits.

There are no base traces on Smith. He served in the military and is very well disposed towards the U.S. government. He volunteered info on Nikonov and other USSR, PRC and German contacts to Heiberg and can provide considerable bio and assessment info on them.

8. File: Defer. Decl OADR DRV HUM 4-82.

End of message.
