Standard Form 818. Civil Office Appointment Affidavits.

I, Robert T. Shaw, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that Arizona.

A. Oath of Office

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter, so help me God.

B. Affidavit as to Subversive Activity and Affiliation

I am not a Communist or a Fascist. I do not advocate nor am I a member of any organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence or other unconstitutional means, or seeking by force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States. I do further swear (or affirm) I will not so advocate, nor will I become a member of such organization during the period that I am an employee of the Federal Government.

C. Affidavit as to Striking Against the Federal Government

I am not engaged in any strike against the Government of the United States and that I will not so engage while an employee of the Government of the United States; that I am not a member of an organization of Government employees that asserts the right to strike against the Government of the United States, and that I will not, while a Government employee, become a member of such an organization.

D. Affidavit as to Purchase and Sale of Office

I have not, nor has anyone acting in my behalf, given, transferred, promised or paid any consideration for or in expectation or hope of receiving assistance in securing such appointment.

Date of issue of appointment: Robert T. Shaw.

Subscribed and sworn before me this 28th day of May, 52, at Washington, D.C.

My commission expires December 14, 1953. Notary Public.

Department or agency: Department of State. Bureau or division: Foreign Service. Place of employment: Washington, D.C. Position to which appointed: Foreign Service Staff Officer, Class 9; Vice Consul; Consular Officer. Date of entrance on duty: May 28, 1952.

Note: If the oath is taken before a Notary Public, the date of expiration of his commission should be shown.
