(American Embassy Section — January 1960–January 1962)

Knowledge as to the effectiveness of United States operations within the Soviet Union, particularly the military attaché collection program. Soviet knowledge of U.S. emphasis upon certain intelligence collection areas has made it possible for them to identify priority intelligence and probably Soviet targets and thereby permitted them to implement specific counteractions. The Soviets over the years must have amassed considerable information concerning the personal habits, problems, attitudes and weaknesses of personnel assigned to the Embassy which can be used by them for purposes of exploitation at any time of their choosing in the future.

Col. Theodore F. Hoffman, Army Attaché in Moscow from May 1959 to May 1961 (a period coinciding with some eighteen months of Nosenko's claimed two years' service in the Embassy Section), has been more specific. Interviewed by CIA, Col. Hoffman recalled instances which the KGB, by monitoring just the conversations held in his office, could have become aware of the vulnerability of service attaché personnel. As examples, he cited the two occasions on which military code clerk Storsberg was reprimanded for absenteeism (unavailable for cipher duties because he was elsewhere with “girl friends”); Hoffman's conversations with America House manager Peter Binder (the personality problems, drinking habits and other incidents relating to America House residents and visitors to the America Club), and the detailed circumstances prompting the decision to remove substitute code clerk Keysers from Moscow (homosexuality). Besides his general duties as Chief of the Embassy Section, Nosenko claims special responsibilities for each of the persons mentioned. He supervised the KGB officers operating against code clerks and residents of America House, and asserts he was personally involved in the KGB attempts to recruit Storsberg and Keysers. (The KGB attempted later to recruit Binder, as well.) In summing up his views, Col. Hoffman said: “To be perfectly frank, I would assume that ... some of our modus operandi, some of our targets, some of the results, and all of our personal weaknesses were compromised.”
