Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in agency personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The agency selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career service; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report.

To the Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate with his predecessor (preSUPERSEITE) to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, through our system of frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

A. Sept. due 10 Dec 55. It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I (To be filled in by Administrative Officer).

1. Name (Last): J. O'Connell. (Middle): P. 2. Date of birth: 10-16-79. 5. Date of entrance on duty: 17 December 1951. 8. Office assigned to: DM/Security. 7. Division: Special Security. 3. Sex: M. 9. Nature of assignment: Departmental or field. 10. If field, specify station. 12. Date that this report is due: 22 November 1951. 13. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 10-16-51 to 11-5-54.

Section II (To be filled in by Supervisor).

1. Current position: Chief, Operational Support/Special Inquiry Desk. 2. Date assumed responsibility for position: October 1953.

3. What specific assignments or tasks are typical of those given to him during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency):

He has been responsible at the supervisory level for supervising all investigative cases of an operational support or special inquiry nature. In this field he has worked in major and delicate areas of Agency activity directing matters of utmost sensitivity and import to the Agency. The normal demands of the matters referred to him require expert, skilled, sensitive investigative activity which can only be accomplished when supervised with outstanding judgment and overall knowledge. He has also served as Deputy Chief of the Operations Branch, handling at the administrative level normal and involved matters arising in Branch level operations. He has also served as Assistant to the Deputy Chief, Special Security Division, where his duties were in the major field of coordination.

Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item.

Section III.

I certify that, during the latter half of the period covered by this report, I have discussed with the rated individual the manner in which he has performed his job and provided suggestions and criticisms wherever needed. I believe that his understanding of my evaluation of his performance is consistent with my evaluation of him as evidenced by this fitness report and I have informed him of his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness. If performance during the report
