a. What was the identity of the agent inside Cuba who gave Goddes the message he brought to the CIA contact in Miami on 11 March 1961?

b. What was the identity—or name or names—used by the CIA case officer in Miami?

c. Was Goddes given any means of clandestine radio-transmission?

d. What were the instructions given to Goddes by his case officer?

4. Mr. Simmons replied as follows:

a. The only means of communication given to Goddes, besides his open code phone contact with his wife in Boca Raton, was a very simple SW system. Goddes was not given any means for clandestine radio-transmission.

b. Simmons then read and related the following chronology of Goddes' activities from WH/4 files:

11 March: Goddes came to Miami on the night of 11 March and made contact with Cabbage/4, a Cuban in Miami who was its contact with the CIA office. Goddes had a message from Cabbage/1, a CIA contact inside Cuba. C-4 put Goddes in contact with a CIA case officer in Miami on 12 March. Goddes claimed to be an active member of the United Revolucionaria, a resistance group inside Cuba of which C-1 was a member. At the latest Goddes said the Cuban Navy has a plan to attack all pro-Castro facilities and then flee Cuba on or about 22 March. Goddes did not ask for any money. His motivation was not known. The case officer instructions to Goddes were related solely to Goddes' report that the Cuban Navy would defect. Goddes returned to Havana.

10 March: Goddes departed for Havana.

20 March: We heard indirectly—Goddes had phoned his wife and indicated that the individual (C-D) with whom he had been collaborating in United Revolucionaria was in trouble. The fact behind this was that one of our agents (member of the CR) inside Cuba had against instructions visited his wife in Cuba. As a result a CR net of three females was arrested including C-1. Besides C-1, some of the others of this network of Goddes' activities.

21 March: Goddes returned to Miami.

28 March: Goddes came to Havana. He was given a simple SW system. Beginning about 28 March we had reason to suspect Goddes as a possible provocateur since the defection had not come off and possibility of keeping the defection of the Navy secret in itself was improbable.

27 March: Goddes sent a SW message to Miami regarding the possible Cuban Naval defection.

28 March: Through open code telecon with wife said defection of Navy net for 3 to 4 April.

29 March: Goddes called wife on telephone.
