Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consistency in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Maksymiec's ability as a staff photographer is undiminished. His photographic ability is considered by all in the Center as excellent.

It has been pointed out to Mr. Maksymiec that the laboratory does not have a basic requirement or a slot for a photographer, and since he is carried as a D & E technician, he should be more qualified than he is in other aspects of photographic and scientific research other than straight “picture taking,” as he does not have the basic foundation, either in formal education or experience, to perform successfully as a D & E technician. This lack of qualification in this area can be partly explained by two factors: (1) Mr. Maksymiec's position description was recently changed due to the reorientation of the laboratory's primary mission and function; and (2) because of his previous photographic responsibilities, he did not have the opportunity to gain the new skills required to fulfill his new duties as a D & E technician. Mr. Maksymiec will have to be retrained from a photographer into a D & E technician so that he can contribute more to help solve the laboratory-assigned tasks.

Mr. Maksymiec still had problems in his relationship with other members of the laboratory during this reporting period. It appears to have been about his concern with his position in the laboratory grade structure and his feeling that he was “ignored” by senior members of the laboratory. Mr. Maksymiec seems to have had a feeling that members of the laboratory, including his Chief, did not recognize his ability as a photographer and pay suitable deference to his age.

Continued on another sheet.

Section D. Certification and Comments by Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 10 Oct 1968. Signature of employee: H. Maksymiec (Mahysmice).

Months employee has been under my supervision: 18. By supervisor: If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 10 Oct 1968. Official title of supervisor: Chief/NPIC/TSG/ESD/FIL. Typed or printed name and signature: H. L. Wallace.

By reviewing official.

Comments of reviewing official.

I concur in the ratings and comments of the rating officer. In the latter part of the rating period the activities of the Exploratory Laboratory were being changed from ad hoc research projects to a directed program of planned investigations against NPIC and community problems. This change in activities reduced the freedom of choice in tasks to be accomplished and increased the demand for versatility in laboratory personnel. The lack of freedom and the assignment of unfamiliar tasks are distasteful to Mr. Maksymiec since he doubts that these activities will provide the personal recognition he has enjoyed for many years as an outstanding photographer.

Continued on another sheet.

Date: 14 Oct 1968. Official title of reviewing official: Cler. ESD/TSG. Typed or printed name and signature: William G. Mathews.
