Information Report.

Central Intelligence Agency.

Country: Cuba. Subject: Operations of Refineries/Effect of Use of Soviet Crude Oil/Jet Fuel Production. Date of info: Aug 60 and earlier. Place and date acquired: Havana/Aug 60 and earlier.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.

1. As of Aug 60 the three major refineries confiscated by the Castro regime are operating in fairly good shape. Their principal problem is that the Soviet crude being supplied is very light and they cannot run as much volume because gas pressure builds up. The Esso refinery, for example, has a capacity of 36 thousand bbls per day on heavy crude, but 26 thousand bbls per day is the best they have been able to do on the Soviet crude, and it has been running at a rate of only 20 thousand bbls per day since 20 Jul 60.

2. The Soviet crude available to date has been compatible with the refineries and will not damage them, but in addition to not being able to get as much volume, the refineries cannot get as much fuel oil because of light ends. This is true of all three major refineries.

3. The refiners were designed for 26 gravity crude which is fairly heavy. The Soviet crude is 33 gravity, and has caused an imbalance in that they are now producing more gasoline than is needed. As a consequence, Cuba is searching desperately for fuel oil. The USSR has said that it is not in a position to supply fuel oil and so Cuba has turned toward Mexico, even to the extent of attempting to arrange deals whereby they will trade gasoline for fuel oil.

4. The imbalance of gasoline is indicated by the fact that the Cabaignan refinery was shut down recently because its gasoline storage was completely filled.

5. Cuba will reach a critical point about 1 Sep 60. The Esso refinery slowed down from 26 thousand bbls per day to 20 thousand bbls per day because it had only a 10-day supply of crude. The supply on hand was sufficient to last only until 14 Aug, but around 11 Aug the refinery was supposed to receive a shipment of 80 thousand barrels of crude. However, this is only enough to operate four days.

19 SEP 1960
