The clandestine publication of a major pro-Chinese Spanish Communist group called the Partido Comunista Revolucionario. In view of recent reports that the MCR group may merge with one or more of the other dissident Spanish Communist groups and that a joint organ will be published, MCR may soon cease (or may already have ceased) publication. What role ANDERSSON may play in new publication efforts of the pro-Chinese Spanish dissidents is not known.

The clandestine leadership of the Partido Comunista Revolucionario has been located in Lausanne, Switzerland, with some representation also in Paris, but this group has apparently been receiving Chinese financial assistance through the GRIPPA party in Belgium. Another pro-Chinese Spanish group in Switzerland, the Oposicion Revolucionaria Comunista located in Geneva, has been publishing La China. The China group has reportedly been receiving funds from the Chinese Embassy in Bern. Still another pro-Chinese Spanish group, the Agrupacion Comunista Proletario, has been publishing Proletario, apparently from Paris but with some representation also reported in Belgium. While the group has apparently had some contact with GRIPPA in Belgium, the Paris-based group at one time at least appeared to be sponsored or aided by VERGES. GRIPPA has played an active role in trying to bring the different Spanish dissident groups to a merger.

The relationship between GRIPPA and ANDERSSON, GRIPPA and VERGES, and VERGES and ANDERSSON is anything but clear. Some part of the confusion may result from GRIPPA's driving efforts to function as the director of Chinese political operations in Europe, and to try to bring the activities of others under his control.

a. GRIPPA was once reported to have said he had "lost confidence" in Revolution. Among his reported reasons was a belief that VERGES wanted to be designated absolute leader in Europe for the "revolutionary movement." Somewhat later GRIPPA was reported as saying that the Chinese were no longer subsidizing Revolution and that it was now being backed by Paris editor Francois MASPERO.

b. GRIPPA or his aides also appear to have been responsible for stories circulating among some pro-Chinese European dissidents that ANDERSSON had been written off by the Chinese as a "Trotskyite." GRIPPA has also been quoted as saying that the printing of MCR would be transferred from Lausanne to Belgium and to GRIPPA's own publishing facility. This is not known to have taken place.

c. There have been reports, unexplained, that there is bad blood between VERGES and ANDERSSON.
