8 February 1956.

Cover Preparation — (Arthur G. Vaiveda)

In compliance with Station and Headquarters requests, I am submitting an outline of my efforts and plans for establishing a legitimate (and permanent) cover occupation that will be suitable for movement and operation almost anywhere in this hemisphere. It is my understanding that there are two local cover proposals up for consideration and these will not conflict in any way with the plan outlined herein, but actually will contribute to the realization of it. That is, during my tour at this station, I can ostensibly develop and strengthen a career in writing to the extent that it may “stand alone” as a cover occupation. It is also pertinent to make it clear at this time that my aspirations for a career in fiction writing are personal, sincere, and not in any way based on a desire to establish a particular type of cover. For this reason, I have divided this outline into two parts, the first pertaining to my personal efforts and activities; the second being in the form of a proposal available to me as a method of providing a writing career with a very legitimate appearance.

I — Palmer Institute of Authorship

When, in the early part of 1955, it became obvious that my University cover was not only weak but also identified with my targets and thereby creating a security dilemma, I began exploring the possibilities of utilizing my secondary cover, which was “street photography.” Financially, this started out well but soon became bogged down with labor and/or immigration technicalities. At this time I had simultaneously enrolled in the Palmer Institute of Authorship at 1680 N. Sycamore, Hollywood 28, California. Frankly, in the beginning, I had little incentive or interest other than taking a “crack” at something I had always desired, but as time and lessons have gone by, there is a very positive indication that I can make the grade. It is a one-year course, considered quite competent, and provides stepping stones into the publishing world. I am nearing completion of this course, have two 5,000-word short stories submitted to publishers, and one short story analyzed by the Institute and recommended for rewrite and probable sale. My intentions are to try and “break the ice” in fiction adventure at the teenage level. (Boy’s Life, New Brunswick, N.J.)

II — Contacts in Paperback Book Publishing Industry

When I realized that, with very little “padding,” such as contacts with paperback book publishers in addition to my legitimate correspondence with magazines, this writing career could be very adequate cover, I made the recommendation to the station sometime in middle 1955.
