Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This officer continues to perform his assigned duties in a superior fashion. Illness put him out of action for some time, but otherwise the Station received the fine performance which has come to be routine with him. This officer's experience and dedication make it possible for him to work effectively with an absolute minimum of supervision. He responds instinctively to items of operational significance, and his experience and knowledge make it possible for him to write penetrating analyses of target personalities and interrelationships among these persons, based solely on what he hears.

This officer has also been called upon to transcribe material from audio operations, in addition to the telephone material which is his normal assignment. He has also handled this well, although his advancing age and less acute hearing make this task much more difficult for him.

While not called upon to use Spanish normally, he has sufficient fluency to handle material in Spanish when required.

This officer uses his time well and takes good care of the equipment assigned to him. He does not handle operational funds nor does he have any supervisory responsibilities.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Signature of employee: S/

By supervisor: If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Official title of supervisor. Date: 20 January 1970. Donald F. Vogel /s/.

By reviewing official: Ops Officer.

Comments of reviewing official: I can add nothing substantive to the above report since I have little opportunity to deal at first hand with Subject's output. The rating officer is both meticulous and fair and I have full confidence in his evaluation of Subject.

Date: 20 January 1970. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, Ops Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: Paul V. Harwood /s/.
