Section VI. Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under subsections A, B, C, D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties adequately; he is incompetent.
2. Barely adequate in performance; although he has had specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.
3. Performs most of his duties acceptably, occasionally reveals some area of weakness.
4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.
5. A fine performance, carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well.
6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equalled by few other persons known to the rater.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? No. If yes, what?

C. Directions: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and any other indications, give your opinion of this person's attitude toward the organization.

1. Has an antagonistic attitude toward the Agency; will definitely leave the organization at the first opportunity.
2. Has strong negative attitude toward organization; take by restrictions; regards Agency as a temporary stop until he can get something better.
3. Tends to have an unfavorable attitude toward the organization; bothered by minor differences; will quit if these continue.
4. His attitude toward the organization is indifferent; has “wait and sleep” attitude; would leave if someone offered him something better.
5. Tends to have favorable attitude toward organization; makes allowances for restrictions imposed by working for organization; thinks in terms of a career in the organization.
6. Definitely has favorable attitude toward the organization; barring an unexpected outside opportunity, will probably endeavor to make a career in the organization.
7. Has an enthusiastic attitude toward the organization; will probably never consider working any place but in the organization.

B. Directions: Considering others of this person's grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibilities normally indicated by promotion?

1. Has reached the highest grade level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.
2. Is making progress, but needs more time in present grade before promotion to a higher grade can be recommended.
3. Is ready to take on responsibilities of the next higher grade, but may need training in some areas.
4. Will probably adjust quickly to the more responsible duties of the next higher grade.
5. Is already performing at the level of the next higher grade.
6. An exceptional person who is one of the few who should be considered for rapid advancement.

D. Directions: Consider everything you know about this person in making your rating—still in job duties, conduct on the job, personal characteristics or habits, and special defects or talents.

1. Definitely unsuitable—he should be separated.
2. Of doubtful suitability; would not have accepted him if I had assumed what I know now.
3. A barely acceptable employee; definitely below average but with no weaknesses sufficiently outstanding to warrant his separation.
4. A T
