6 October 1969

Contact Report

Subject: LIBRARY 1

Date, time and place: 6 Oct., 1100–1200, JET Cafe.

1. Subject arrived at the Cafe five minutes late (unusual for him), fairly bubbling over with “good news.” Subject had a little difficulty getting to LOSINOV’S Embassy des edida at 1900 hrs. as he had planned. It seems that the neighbor with whom he had planned to leave his child was not at home, and so he had to wait until his wife came home, at about 2000 hrs. Subject arrived at the Embassy at about 2020 hours, where he was warmly greeted by LOG. After only a few words of greeting, Mrs. LOG fixed Subject a drink and a sandwich, and LOG excused himself, saying he had to take care of the many guests and telling Subject to make himself at home: “you are more or less one of us.” It should be noted that LOG did not introduce anyone to Subject. Kozlov soon approached Yuri CHERNYSH, and a rather long, innocuous conversation ensued. Mikhail P. DAVIDOVSKI approached the pair and was introduced to Subject by CHERNYSH. (Card attached.) Subject was very taken with DAVIDOV’s charm and simplicity and learned that the latter had at one time been a “locksmith” (?) and, having studied at the “International Diplomatic Institute,” received this appointment as Private Sect. to the Ambassador.

2. During one of Subject’s free moments, he approached Pavel KOVALEV, whom he recognized from the Army Day party which he attended, but he could not recall his name. KOVALEV said he thought he recognized Subject’s face but could not place it. Subject then told him that his mother taught Spanish at the Embassy (actually Subject told me he is not sure she is still doing so). KOVALEV said he was interested in forming a small group to study Spanish and have Subject teach it, and the latter heartily agreed to do so. KOVALEV promised to phone Subject at the earliest opportunity. Subject asked KOVALEV how the latter should be addressed, i.e., what was his position at the Embassy? KOVALEV replied that he was more or less attached to the Military Attaché’s office.

3. Subject met a young lady, Tanya LVI, whose husband’s name is unknown. They have been in Mexico for three months. Very little, if anything else, was said, but Subject was impressed with the girl, physically, that is. Subject left the party because LVI got a bear hug from LOG and was escorted to the door by KOVALEV. Subject, having only had two drinks while at the party, went to Cill’s but she was out, so he went elsewhere (no identification), where he spent the night “talking.”

J. F. DITZLER
