4. His own firm was making the hotel reservations in the Soviet Union for him. Subj said he had met once before with Rothenstreich years ago, but did not know anything about him.

Subj also mentioned a widow in his sixties, David Nosofsky, who left for the Soviet Union on 2 September. Nosofsky had a brother in Kiev.

6. The C/O had noticed a new face among Subj’s employees and asked Subj who the girl was. Subj explained that he had taken on the new girl, Leticia Cieneros, the daughter of one of Subj’s guides in Mexico, as a possible replacement for Miriam Avila Katz, who has an offer to work for the Israeli Embassy in Mexico. Subj said he would not want to lose Miriam because, even though she is a slow worker, she is capable and also a nice girl. If Miriam should leave, Leticia would take over her work, which includes responsibility for non-Soviet travel to the Soviet Union.

7. The C/O questioned Subj about his attitude toward attending the travel agent conference in Moscow. Subj said that from a business standpoint he would want to attend, or, if not him personally, someone from his firm, like Miriam. He was interested in INTURIST business and felt that he should know what plans INTURIST would be formulating, inasmuch as his competitors would be there. He was interested to know what percentage he gets of INTURIST business. He believed that INTURIST would foot 50 percent of the costs of staying in the Soviet Union during the conference. The C/O asked if Subj knew the other travel agencies that were to be invited. Of the twelve from Mexico, Subj felt that the following were included: Garza, Garza Tours, De Carlo Tours, Klajes Kelis, Cook’s, NexAmerica, Pegasus, Excursiones y Viajes (EVISA), American Express, and possibly Autoviajes Internacionales. Subj knew the “jefes” of all these.

Subj plans to attend the International Congress and Convention Association meeting in Israel on 30 October 1966. He is considering the possibility of going to Moscow for the travel agent meeting 24–29 October and then going on to Israel.

The C/O told Subj to let him know Prikhodko’s results regarding permission for Subj to attend the Moscow meeting.

8. Subj requested the C/O to obtain one case each of red, white, and rosé French wine, the “best” available.
