16 June 1964: Asked to list in chronological order the date of his promotions within the KGB from the date of entry, Nosenko stated: “I began in the GRU as a junior lieutenant. While in the GRU I became a lieutenant, and I entered the KGB with this rank in 1953. Not long after I entered the KGB I became a senior lieutenant, but I don't know the month. It was still 1953. In 1956 I was promoted to the rank of captain. I don't know the month. I became a major in 1959. I don't know the month. In October 1963 I was made a lieutenant colonel.... Personnel called me on the telephone and said I had been promoted. Later I was told that Gribanov wanted to see me. I went to his office, but, of course, I didn't let him know that I already knew that I had been promoted. He gave me his congratulations. You never see the attestation. It goes into your official file.”

26 January 1965: While discussing his role as case officer for U.S. Embassy Security Officer John Abidian, Nosenko volunteered out of context that he had never officially been a major. He explained this situation as follows: Having been promoted to the rank of senior lieutenant in April 1953, he became eligible for the rank of captain in 1956. When this time came, however, he was not promoted because a senior KGB official held against him his illegal use of KGB documents to cover treatment for gonorrhea in 1954. Nosenko therefore remained a senior lieutenant until 1959, when he would have been eligible for promotion to the rank of major had he received his captaincy on schedule. Although Gribanov had promised Nosenko that he would be promoted directly from senior lieutenant to major, skipping the rank of captain, an administrative error was made by the KGB Personnel Office, and Nosenko found when the orders were issued that he had instead been promoted only to captain. Instead of rectifying this mistake, Gribanov persuaded Nosenko that it would be to his advantage to remain a captain until he became eligible for promotion to lieutenant colonel in 1963. Nosenko therefore was a captain from September or October 1959 until October 1963 when, as promised by Gribanov, he was promoted.
