C. Indicate if you think that any single strength or weakness outline is a problem for this individual. Not applicable.

D. Do you feel that he requires close supervision? No.

Mail room.

E. What training do you recommend for this individual? Language and area of Indonesia. For purposes of rounding out general knowledge, some formal training in clandestine psychological warfare would be helpful.

F. Other comments (indicate here general traits, specific habits or characteristics not covered elsewhere in the report but which have a bearing on effective utilization of this person): Not applicable.

Section VI. Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under subsections A, B, C, and D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties adequately. He is incompetent.
2. Barely adequate in performance. Although he was not given specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.
3. Performs most of his duties acceptably, occasionally reveals some area of weakness.
4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.
5. A fine performance, carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well.
6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equaled by few other persons known to the rater.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? No. If yes, what?

B. Directions: Considering others of this person’s grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potential for acceptance of greater responsibility? Is normally indicated by practice.

1. Has reached the highest grade level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.
2. Has had enough experience, but no more time in present grade to improve performance to a higher grade can be recommended.
3. To achieve this, as observations of the newest experts must be based, but must be trained in some area.
4. Will produce ability to the new positions of the newest experts.
5. Is having performance on the level of the best experts.
6. Is an intentional preference because it is less positive or negative than if it were.

C. Directions: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and any other indications, give your opinion of this person’s attitude toward the agency.

1. Has an antagonistic attitude toward the agency. Will definitely leave the agency at the first opportunity.
2. Has strong negative attitude toward agency, limited by restrictions, regards agency as a temporary stop until he
