Fitness Report. Employee serial number recorded by CSDA.

Section A—General.

Name: José G. Cassasin. Date of birth: 20 January 1924. Service designation: D. Sex: M. Official position title: Branch Chief. Office/division/directorate of assignment: OC/SR/6.

Career status: Not eligible; member; deferred; pending; declined; denied.

Type of report: Initial; reassignment/supervisor; annual; reassignment/employee; special (specify). X marked.

Reporting period: From July 1960–October 1962.

Section B—Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Supervises large functional branch of thirty-seven staff and fifteen contract personnel. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 2: Plans and programs for operations support, including initiation of new support activities. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 3: Supervises preparation of, and sometimes personally prepares, special studies both on own initiative and on request. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 4: Conducts liaison with various components of the Agency and with other agencies.

Specific duty No. 5: Prepares and presents briefings.

Specific duty No. 6: Supervises maintenance of SR Division records on Soviet defectors, supports exploitation of defectors, and participates in their resettlement.

Section C—Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position and in Reserves.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee’s overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.

2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.

3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
