He is in contact with Grippa and Maspero but is very unhappy about the political line of Maspero's paper.

She went to Albania (anniversary of the Albanian revolution) with some other people from the October group. She went to reproach them for the aid they had given Billiard Denver. Guillard. His wife does many things he cannot do because he is a foreigner. She would act as his agent—did not go in her own size. He does not have much to do with Albanians. Her trip gave him a better impression. But she thought the Albanians were better informed about Europe and the parties in Europe than the Chinese.

He was at one time a member of the central committee of the Russian Swiss Communist Party. Maybe about 35 members. Practically anybody who joined the party was immediately on the Central Committee.

An important fact is that he is known as the man in Switzerland to see if you want to set up a base for any kind of revolutionary movement. Maybe this is how he gets in touch with Supremacy. This is a very active Chur. Curiel group—he had contacts with them. Rev. Father Donde from Lyons, formerly an F.C.N. worker priest, now involved in Congolese rebel groups, etc. Always genial and friendly—with a missal in one hand, a submachine gun in the other. Extraordinary priest. Had high protection in the Church, with Cardinal Jejomáh of Lyons, who recently died. When the priest was arrested, money to help came from the Cardinal.

Some left the Catholic Church. I would say that the Algerian generation or above is the basis for the pro-Chinese element within the French working masses of France. Those who saw the total infidelities of the Party in a cobweb situation and who were former administrative personnel, digested with it and made up for their failure on the part of the Communist Party of Spain, Italian and Portuguese workers in Switzerland. Many are left-oriented and interested.

Of course, they are just workers.

Tiferé, Catalan.

Marxist-Leninist Communist Party made up of three groups—Mundo Obrero, Proletario, and Chispa groups. Two members.

I can perfectly believe it.

Ceased any activities on behalf of the Revolution, which was felt to be undesirable. Whether he is still a contact between groups on the outside and Chinese Communists in Berne cannot say. He is much less active.
