Performance Report.

Section A. U-Name (last, first). Date of birth. Rating letter. Official position title: 26 June 1964, M, 65-75; A/Officer/Non-Commissioned Officer (Second Class). Checklist type of assignment: For all assignments indicate position in field of study. Cation. Resignation. Reordering. Increased commission rate. Since reordered. Signature (if known). Name. Change. Reporting period (begin with): 1 April 1969–31 March 1970.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

U-Generalist: Performance is satisfactory. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on production, to reassignment or to separation. Determine action taken or proposed in Section C.

M-Marginal: Performance is deficient in some respects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P-Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S-Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O-Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duty Letters.

Established and maintains a legitimate unit publishing representation for the purpose of developing natural needs to station targets. Rating: S.

Uses his cover to develop leads on eventual access or support type assets to be used by the Station against the local/MANHAN target. Rating: S.

Responds to various Station requirements including investigative work. Rating: S.

Initiates contact with selected local MANHAN targets and undertakes to develop sufficient support with them to provide operational assessments. Rating: S.

Conducts investigations, research, and problems analysis to determine effects of particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance. Rating: S.

Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, etc. Be sure to indicate whether the employee has any particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

Rating letters.
