In the affair. $20,000 was involved. The person that gave him the news was a friend of Clemard Charles. A newspaper in N.Y. named El Tiempo has written about an invasion of Haiti. El Tiempo reported that someone named Vixama was involved. Pierre was in a store in San Juan, Puerto Rico, buying some cloth when a Cuban girl approached him and asked him if he was Haitian. The girl was accompanied by a Cuban man, and they asked Pierre questions about Haitian history. They asked Pierre if he knew anything about Duvalier. Pierre explained he was opposed to Duvalier. The Cubans said there were people in San Juan planning to “catch” Duvalier. Pierre implies that the Cuban man lives in Mexico.

Gerard Pillard Charles takes the phone. Gerard tells Pierre that someone named Silvie is on the border. Gerard asks Pierre if he has brought the merchandise. Yes. Pierre went to the post office to pick up a package, and they were going to open the package to inspect it, but Pierre told the clerk it was not necessary to inspect it. The post office clerk said the declared value was too high, and he had to open it. When he opened it, he found it was a handwritten manuscript, so the clerk asked no more questions. Everything went all right.

Pierre mentions that during his trip overseas, to San Juan, he met Gerard Latortue. Gerard asks Pierre what Latortue’s financial status was. Pierre thinks Latortue is working at the University of Mayaguez. Pierre says there are a lot of Haitians in Puerto Rico who are interested in doing something against Duvalier, but most are without families. They are petty bourgeois or engineers working in San Juan. The bourgeois Haitians now have stores in Puerto Rico.

Gerard asks Pierre if Latortue mentioned anything about his uncle Francois Latortue. No, he did not. Latortue might come to Mexico soon on a tourist visa. He has to go through some routine to get the visa. Gerard tells Pierre that Francois Latortue is up to his neck in politics in Haiti. Latortue said that the leftist party was really mistreating Manigat, and Latortue did not like it. Every time Manigat opens his mouth, something happens. The leftist parties likened Manigat to Castro. Like Castro, Manigat talked too much and did too many things. Manigat showed his card too much, and that is why they are mistreating him. It was the Communist Party that put Manigat where he is, just as the CP put Castro where he is. Latortue has written an article to counter what has happened to Manigat. Gerard says he knew Manigat 10 years ago in Haiti. Latortue has written an article condemning American intentions of landing in Haiti. Latortue is Professor of Economics at the University of Mayaguez. Latortue is trying to leave Puerto Rico and go somewhere else where he can find better work.

Gerard is talking to Zuzie about a title of property. She cannot find it. She asks about Daniel.
