Application for Federal Employment. Form of record: Budget Form No. S-5046.

Note: Answer every question in this interview. If you are applying for a position with the United States Air Force, indicate which branch of the service you are applying for, active or former. If your application is being reviewed by the Air Force, indicate whether it has already been reviewed or whether any other formal action is required by law. All applications must be received by the Air Force within three days of submission.

1. Name and address of examination center: William King Harvey.

2. Optional subject if mentioned in employment announcement: Kentucky OR 2914.

3. Place of employment applied for: Danville, Indiana.

4. Current city, state and ZIP code: USA. Age last birthday. Male. Female.

5. Date of birth, month, day, year: 9/13/15.

6. Height, inches, or standing residence, state: Married. Single.

7. Weight, pounds: 5 feet 11 inches, 185 pounds.

8. Present grade and date of last change in grade. If now employed by the Federal Government, give present grade and date of last change in grade.

Office: Approved. Grade. Lawful eating: 3 points (less); 10 points; wife or widow; deaf; settling injured. Participation: Yes. No. Initials and days.

Note: Answer “Yes” or “No” by placing X in the proper column.

1. Would you accept short-term appointment if offered for 1 to 3 months? X.

2. Would you accept long-term appointment if offered for 3 to 6 months? X.

3. Would you accept appointment if offered for 6 to 12 months? X.

Would you accept appointment if offered in Washington, D.C.? X. Anywhere in the United States? X. Outside the United States? X.

1. Evidence: You are requested to furnish all information listed below in sufficient detail to enable the Civil Service Commission and the appointing authority of agencies to determine your qualifications and characteristics. When you are recording positions in the same area described below, use a separate block for each position. You may include only pertinent religious, civic, welfare, or organizational activities which you have performed, either with or without compensation, showing the number of hours at least one per week and the period per year during which you were engaged in such activity. Start with your present practice and work back, accounting for all periods of employment. Explain clearly the principal tasks which you performed in each position. Describe your experience in the Armed Services in question, military experience.

(a) If you were ever employed in any position under the same or similar title from that shown in item 4 of this application, give under “Description of your work” for each position a list, if any.

(b) If you have never been employed or are now unemployed, state that fact in the space provided below for Present Position.

Present Position.

Date of employment, month and year.
