Report on Contact with Agent or Defector.

Date: 28 June 1962. Place: Paris. David R. Reinefeld, case officer.

Comments:

CO visited the subject at his apartment and learned that a German firm in Düsseldorf is interested in his invention. Nevertheless, it has not committed itself, and he intends to study the matter. The subject indicated to CO that he has no intention of acting until the Germans make up their minds. He was obviously discouraged by his inability to sell his invention and by the realization that he is no longer needed by CRIME.

As a result of the above, he commented that he is not anxious to go to South America or to any country where we can assist him locally. He even stated that, since he has no funds from the sale of his invention, he is not anxious to return to the Congo and say goodbye to his friends. He had stated several times previously that the only reason he would return would be to see his friends, that he had no business living here, and that he could handle the personal matters himself. We will.

CO informed him that he could inform Germany that the subject is now really anxious to go to America. The subject then brought up the fact that the Düsseldorf firm he visited was very interested in taking advantage of his Congo background and sending him there as a business representative. At first, he would work strictly as a private individual under contract for a business firm, but his situation would depend on some arrangement whereby the American Government would offer him a part of the field of the firm’s activity in the Congo. He agreed that he had no real interest in returning to the Congo for a German firm, since such an act, in his mind, would indicate that he was no longer available to us. He would therefore rather go to a place of our choosing and be available any time he was called upon to serve Uncle Sam. He commented, however, that if we delay his leaving Germany unduly, in his estimation, he may be forced to take the offer made by the German firm. He made it clear that he did not mean this as a threat, but as a straightforward resettlement fact: by taking the job in the Congo he would at least have a job, whereas if he went to South America he would have no job in sight.
