BY-529-68

15 July 1968

Director, Domestic Contact Service  
Attention: Operational Support Staff (Musulin)

Chief, New York Field Office

Letter from Louis A. Brun to Clemard Joseph Charles, to be forwarded via Robert C. Felder, United States Embassy, Port-au-Prince, Haiti.

References: (A) BY 467-68 (20 June 1968); (B) CONTACTS/WASHINGTON 80548; (C) One 47,340.

1. Reference “A” forwarded to you a letter from Louis A. Brun, BB International Corporation, 134 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10019, to Clemard Joseph Charles, Port-au-Prince, Haiti. This letter was to be sent by State Department diplomatic pouch to Mr. Robert C. Felder, United States Embassy, Port-au-Prince, Haiti, and given by him to Charles. Brun had told us that Felder had agreed to act as intermediary for correspondence between himself and Charles and added that he and Charles had already used the system. The letter in Reference “A” was the first time we had been approached in the matter.

2. Reference “B” stated that the letter had been dispatched via Message Center Courier to the State Department on 24 June 1968.

3. On or about 26 June 1968 Brun telephoned us and stated that Charles had not received the letter. We telephoned Mr. Musulin, who double-checked and assured us that the letter had gone to the State Department and that it should go out in the next pouch.

4. On 10 July 1968, Brun telephoned us and stated that on 9 July 1968 he had received a telephone call from a Ray Alvarez. Alvarez identified himself as a State Department employee in Washington and told Brun that he had the letter destined for Charles. Alvarez then told Brun that he would return the letter if Brun would tell him how it had reached the State Department. Brun refused to give Alvarez any information. We then telephoned Mr. Musulin and relayed the foregoing information. Mr. Musulin inquired into the matter and learned that the letter had gone to Haiti in the State Department pouch, had not been delivered to Felder and had been returned to Washington. He and we surmised that the State Department did
