August 26, 1969.

Contact Report

Subject: Jimmy SABORI (P-13,870).

Date of meet: August 26 at Chez Rene at 1400 hours.

1. The meet was prearranged and S came on time. The meet lasted two hours and 30 minutes.

Next meet: Mon.; Sept. 8 at the same place at 1400 hours.

2. S apologized for not bringing the copy of the report he gave to AEDIEHARD; he did not think of it this morning when he left the house.

3. I told S that the fact that AEDIEHARD would remain here at least five additional months did not please me, because I was not able to let things go the way they had been going until now and be just an observer. In reply to my questions, S stated he was ready and determined to do anything we tell him to do; he is willing to drop the association with AEDIEHARD; he is equally ready to do or tell AEDIEHARD anything we instruct him, even if it was certain that AEDIEHARD would drop him; he is willing to go through any doing we consider necessary. I believe S was sincere in his statements.

4. I told S not to call A under any circumstances before their next meet (Sept. 10); keep away from the Chinese Embassy; if he gets the address from Luau Restaurant, S can advise him by phone; take proof of the article as was promised but avoid any communication whatsoever; if Josephine feels like going to the French Club on Sat. (Aug. 30), S can go with her, but I see no point in his going along alone. S stated that he understood what he was told and he would not make a move without checking with me.

5. S asked in a matter-of-fact tone where he could work with us. Did we want him to carry out the work we requested for patriotic reasons? Did we intend to give him a salary or make a worthwhile present? I told him that he could rest assured that we realized he was not in a financial position to be able to work out of patriotic feelings, and consequently, he would be paid for his work as much as it was worth to us.

6. No next meeting: According to the statement of Dr. Enrique SOLANOS Cacho, cousin of GDO, with whom GDO plays dominoes every Tuesday.
