Fitness Report.

Employee serial number: 003820.

Section A—General. Name: MOORE, J.; Walton. Date of birth: 10-05-19. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. SD: IT. Official position title: Contact. Office/division/branch of assignment: DCS/Dallas Field Off. Current station: Dallas, Texas. Type of appointment: Career; Annual. Date report due in O.P.: May 1972. Reporting period: 1 April 1971–31 March 1972.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty no. 1: Locates and develops the potential of domestic organizations and individuals as sources of foreign intelligence. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty no. 2: Collects intelligence information; briefs and debriefs. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty no. 3: Initiates leads and furnishes operational support to other elements of the Agency. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty no. 4: Prepares reports, memoranda and other communications. Rating letter: S.
