Continuation of. Departure symbol and number: UFGA-4703.

Paragraph 15e above, AMFAUNA-1 seems to have an excellent network within Cuban aviation, but how it works remains a matter for conjecture. It is supposed that AMROA-1 is handling the two new pilots.

44. AMFAUNA-21 and AMFAUNA-22, both employees at Rancho Boyeros Airport, first made their appearance during this period, and AMPAN-12 (who has and continues to use his own S/W communications to JMWAVE) found his way into the AMFAUNA operation. All three are known to AMFAUNA-5, and it is believed that she is probably the cutout to them.

45. Identity-55 and Identity-56 were mentioned briefly as active during the period from December 1961 to April 1962. The former had been a contact of ARUNG-1 and seems to have gone into hiding; in any case, nothing more has been reported on him. The latter was an agent of AMFAUNA-1 in Santiago de Cuba in January 1962; he was in hiding and awaiting a chance to go into asylum.

46. AMFAUNA-11 remained active during this period, and AMFAUNA-9, 10, and 12 were added to the operation. For descriptions of these agents, see paragraph 15 above.

47. This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart D. The following people participating in this phase were separated from the operation by known causes:

By arrest and detention: Identity-11; Identity-12.

By asylum or defection: Identity-14; Identity-55; Identity-56; Identity-57.

Production:

48. JMWAVE records do not show the total number of AMFAUNA reports disseminated since January 1961. The figure is at least fifty, and is believed to be nearer one hundred, if the present frequency of dissemination can be a criterion. In content they have leaned heavily toward the activities of insurgent groups, militia movements, location of artillery, and aviation matters. There has been a more recent tendency toward political and economic information, which is being encouraged by JMWAVE. Evaluations of his production are lacking.

Security Analysis:

49. The possibility that AMFAUNA-1 is a double agent is considered remote. His successful LCFLUTTER, the fact (or what is believed to be the fact) that his close friend and fellow agent AMCUSP-1 was executed, and AMFAUNA-1's own character and background, all argue against the proposition that he was originally dispatched by the G-2. However, it must be admitted that the LCFLUTTER can be beaten. Also that there is no proof, other than the fact that AMCUSP-1's wife is in the JMWAVE area and behaving like a widow, that AMCUSP-1 was really executed. There is documentary evidence, in the form of a letter written by a fellow prisoner to AMCUSP-1's widow, that he was held in prison in March and April 1961. However, the person who identified and buried the body was AMFAUNA-1's father, who was subsequently 06 (T-1 of Dina).
