Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 027630.

Section A—General.

Name: Hidalgo, Balmes N., Jr. Official position title: Ops Officer. Date of birth: 27 May 1919. Grade: GS-12. SO: D. Type of appointment: Career. Officer of assignment: DDP/WH/2 Headquarters. Type of report: Initial reassignment supervisor.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W. Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise.

Specific duty No. 1: Responsible for all FI/CI Projects for the Desk. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Initiates, prepares and coordinates all operational communications to the field on FI/CI matters. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 3: Prepares project renewals, studies and papers on FI/CI matters. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 4: Translates Spanish language material for the Branch. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 5: Coordinates FI/CI matters for the Desk with other Hqs components. Rating letter: S.
