and that he has always been a master of his actions at all times and that these actions could have been changed by his own volition. This attitude reveals his tremendous narcissistic investment in his own powers. As far as this project is concerned, it would be unwise to rely upon the Subject's judgments and it would be more prudent to plan every detail for him and require him to abide by directions. He is an imaginative executor but he is a very poor planner according to the testimony of his record. His actions are often impulsive and unreasonable. Such irrational behavior may take place in the context of a relationship with another person despite the fact that the Subject may actually have no particular responsibility to the other person except a tie of affection. The Subject is unable to explain this peculiar aspect of his personality and he is aware that any explanations which he might offer are not rational or sufficient. Consequently, this examiner concludes that his impulsivity and tendency to behave irrationally, and to his own disadvantage, amounts to an unconscious determinant of his behavior and is not available to a rational analysis. His propulsion by an uncontrollable internal force is an important point of consideration as regards his utilization by this project.

In summary, the Subject's chief motivations for illegal activity appear to be the following:

a. The Subject will apparently do anything for a friend or for a person in need.

b. The Subject's relish of novelty, excitement, derring-do, and action. He is a Jesse James type.

c. Emotional outlet as regards the Subject's desires to invent and to realize a success of an invention. The Subject is an inventor by virtue of his temperament and mentality and indulges himself in problem-solving behavior and apparently obtains a compulsive satisfaction if his ideas work out. In other words, he is activated to carry out an action because of his displaced interest in successfully engineering and accomplishing a challenging task.
