Continuation of DistrAch.

S. E. W. -BSAGL emphasized, too, man's military bearing, whether in or out of uniform, and his ability to remain calm (case) and in control of every social relation in which he finds himself. SEABER said that even though he was close to friends, family, students and the like, they were close friends from the time when he left the Soviet Army. Since then, however, concerning BESAGL's background was new information; Station command would be appreciative. He did not indicate to BESAGL that we were not aware of “Bogdan” having served in the Soviet Army.

9. BESAGER was given the following requirements with respect to the above. Seviel is asked to discuss them with MILINGRIND (alias Sani) in Mexico City after his return:

a. Level of social relations, standing, and acceptability of subject involved in local election.

b. Special request: invitation, including involvement with woman, to look for an opportunity, etc. Force subject a separate invitation for BESAGER (if without wife) to visit him at his apartment. This will give him an opportunity to see every side of subject's life in Mexico. She also wants to determine subject's reference to BESAGER if possible, and possibly in connection with mutual business interests.

c. Be alert to any bossiness of escafón, i.e., social relationship and performance of his duties. A. may do so indirectly. Plans for the use of all other individuals in this regard, and to be classified with B. F. R. and handled under the same rules as close group.

d. To be acquainted with A. H. A. in order to discuss it with respect to his job against Soviets. It is clearly clear that his only concern seems to be that A. is overly harsh (粗暴), and in no way sufficiently prepared to appear as and treat as he is. I think it is very difficult to make any decision about it. We have requested that allots be removed and include assessment of lotteries and other close officials, as well as to see whether the present A. is thus inferred. For us to take advantage of his devices is highly disadvantageous. In such a situation there is no conversation which.
