Section E.

Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance. Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement or changes in work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

This officer, who is Deputy Chief of Station and also Chief of Liaison, directly supervises a sizeable number of personnel involved in joint operations with liaison and directs the operations in which they are engaged. In the comparatively short time he has been in this Station he has succeeded in making major advances in our liaison relationship to the point where we can now accomplish considerably more than before his arrival. He is energetic, imaginative, gets things done, and works round the clock — his off duty hours he employs mainly in developing further his liaison and other operational relationships. Furthermore, unlike some officers in liaison he is also most active developing independent operations. As for his qualities as a deputy, suffice it to say that he is the best deputy I have had in my entire career with this organization — a truly outstanding officer, as reflected in the numerical ratings I have given him, whom I would be glad to have with me any place I may be assigned.

Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report. Date: 5 May 1961. Signature of Employee: /s/ Earl J. Williamson.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 7. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify). Date: 5 May 1961. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Archibald B. Roosevelt.

By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official. By means of Mr. Williams's indelibly short term in his present job, it do not feel sufficiently favorable to his performance to comment.

Date: May 5. Official title of reviewing official: /s/ Archibald B. Roosevelt. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Archibald B. Roosevelt.
