(vii) MULE

Nosenko identified Walter Mule as an Assistant Army Attaché and said that he was the case officer responsible for him. Nosenko described an operational approach to Mule, in which he himself participated: In 1953 or 1954 there had been several defection approaches to Soviets in the United States on the basis of money and the promise of a new life. After the KGB Second Chief Directorate decided to try the same measures, Mule was selected because he was only a captain despite his lengthy service in the Army and because material from concealed microphones indicated that he was often disparaged by the other attachés. When Mule received letters from home, he threw them in the trash, and the maids turned these over to the KGB; from this mail it was understood that Mule did not have a house in the United States but lived with his family in a trailer. The father of two children, Mule had sent his wife from Moscow to Germany for an abortion, as a third child would have imposed too great an economic burden. On the basis of all this the KGB appointed N. M. Borodin, a recruiter of the American Department, to attempt to defect Mule. Together with Borodin, Kovshuk, and L. A. Lebedev (from the Second Chief Directorate's special technical section) Nosenko travelled to Leningrad for the operation. Lebedev installed a clock containing a concealed camera as well as microphones in Mule's hotel room, and Borodin entered the room to await Mule's return. When Mule started to enter the room, he caught sight of Borodin and tried to back out, but Nosenko and Kovshuk closed the door from the hall and prevented his escape.

Borodin reviewed for Mule the facts the KGB had accumulated about his lack of success in the Army, the disdain of his fellow attachés, and his shortage of money and then offered him a job as a “consultant.” Borodin had either $5,000 or $10,000 in an envelope to encourage Mule to accept. According to Nosenko, Mule refused outright, telling Borodin to get out, that he would not talk to him, and that he was a captain in the American Army.

CIA files show that Mule reported this incident. He said that he was locked in his hotel room and subjected to a recruitment attempt by an MVD agent calling himself Jack Siegal, who offered him $10,000 for “work” on a long-range basis. Siegal emphasized that Mule would not be required to procure documents from the Embassy, and according to Mule, Siegal was aware of facts concerning Mule's personal life that could have been obtained only from listening devices in Mule's apartment or office. Siegal left after about 20 minutes, having warned Mule not to report the incident. Mule was unable to identify Nosenko's photograph.

(viii) PNG of Benson, Mule, and Stroud

After Nosenko had been transferred to the Tourist Department in 1955, Benson, Mule, and Stroud were the targets of a KGB operation which resulted in all three men being.

Precisely the same role was played by Nosenko in the recruitment approach to James Storsberg, according to Nosenko. (See Part V.E.3.c.ii.)
