Dispatch. To: Chief of Station, Mexico City. Dispatch symbol and No.: HM-7955. From: Chief, WHD. Headquarters file No.: 50-6-32/1. Subject: LIFEAT Project Renewal. Action required: Exploitation of LIFEAT leads. Reference: RE '43-J'. No indexing required.

1. The LIFEAT Project renewal submitted in MPA-12936 was approved on 16 July 1959 for the period 1 July 1959 through 30 June 1960 for a total of $123,830 for fiscal year 1959. The Station will note that monies requested for the support of Woodrow D. GABBOTT (ps) were subtracted from the request made by the Station for project funds. GABOTT (GABBOTT) is supported by the BESMOOTH Project, an EE support project.

2. The following staff comments were made when the Project was submitted for approval:

a. RQM has continued its rating of “C” on the disseminated positive information from the Project, noting a slight increase in the disseminations, and commenting that it provides interesting information to customers on the nature and extent of Bloc commercial activities in Mexico, data useful in economic analyses, and reports on exile activities in Mexico.

b. KUTUBE/D recommended renewal of LIFEAT, observing that the leads produced by the operation have been of operational value to LAURICLE activities conducted in Mexico City in the past year. KUTUBE/D comments also that the Project has afforded and can be expected to continue to afford CO protection from time to time for activities of particular LAURICLE interest.

c. KUTUBE/OPS has observed that Project LIFEAT has been a most useful operational asset in the Mexico City Station for the past nine years, continuously providing KUBARK with a window into important targets. KUTUBE/OPS requests that the next project renewal point out what agent recruitments by the Station have resulted from or been supported by the operational information secured by the project.

d. KUIDESK commented that it is well known that Mexico is being used by the RIS as a base for third country operations directed against the United States. Over a period of years LIFEAT has supplied valuable leads which have resulted in the identification of a large number of persons in clandestine contact with RIS officers; further investigation in several cases produced information which strongly indicated that the persons involved were actively assisting the RIS. While such information is, of itself, of interest and importance, our responsibility in the CI field imposes the obligation to determine what those persons are doing for the RIS and this can be done only by recruiting and doubling them. It is therefore suggested that LIFEAT leads and reports of investigations based on them be reviewed for the purpose of selecting a limited number of the more promising targets. Thereafter, Station assets including LIFEAT should be used to obtain the operational data necessary to determine that a target is recrutable, and then a pitch should be made. Much time and effort will be required for such a program, but the potential rewards fully justify it, and the value of LIFEAT, as a CI asset, will be materially increased.

3. Chief, KUTUBE, in recommending the Project for renewal to Deputy Director, KUBARK, requested that at the time of the next Project renewal, the Division should review the relationship and coordination of Project LIFEAT operations with those active and proposed under Project LIENVOY.
