(Foundations of Nosenko's Claims)

Kovshuk, with the help of the KGB Legal Residency in Washington, learned where the agent was living, identified his automobile, and contacted him at the end of 1955 or the beginning of 1956. Kovshuk had looked for him a long time. He found where “Andrey” parked his car, but “Andrey” lived in a place where there were many other people and it was difficult to get close to him. At first “Andrey” was frightened and refused to work, but when at the third contact he was offered $1,000, the agent accepted the money from Kovshuk because, due to his gambling, he was again in financial straits. From that point on he worked well with the KGB. He again provided good information, information considered important by the KGB. When Kovshuk found him, “Andrey” was working in the Pentagon and he was still working there in 1962.

In reference to his modus operandi for meetings with “Andrey,” Kovshuk knew he was under surveillance by the FBI. His meetings always took place in cars. Kovshuk would lose his surveillance the day before the meeting and travel outside of Washington where he would wait by the highway; “Andrey” would drive by and stop, Kovshuk would sit with him in the car, receive “Andrey's” information, and give him the money. Then Kovshuk would get out, and the American would drive on.

The KGB officer who compromised Rudolf Ivanovich Abel [Reino Hayhanen, who defected in Paris in May 1957] also provided the information leading to the arrest of Roy Rhodes. When Rhodes was under investigation, “Andrey” was called as a witness because he had worked with Rhodes in Moscow. “Andrey” was the only such witness called, and he was called upon several times to tell how Rhodes had behaved in Moscow. “Andrey” could be identified as the only person who testified at the trial. During this investigation of Rhodes, “Andrey” stopped meeting KGB officers, because he was afraid he too would be exposed and arrested. “Andrey” may have feared that Rhodes was involved in his own recruitment, or he may merely have been panicky because he knew he could be accused of the same thing as
