Then Rafael met PRINNODKO (P-2270) at the Plaza Hotel. PRINHODKO later mentioned that he had some business with MARTINEZ concerning tourists and tourism, but did not expound on the subject. MARTINEZ never discussed his association with PRINHODKO, and the subject did not ask. During the latter part of 1962, Rafael went to the hotel and by chance saw four or five Soviets in MARTINEZ's office. He heard them talking, but did not go into the office. He thinks he has seen one of these Russians since, but does not know the name of any of them. MARTINEZ never mentioned them or their business with him.

In September 1968, just prior to the Olympics, Rafael went to see MARTINEZ, trying to drum up some more private Russian lessons. MARTINEZ told him that he was ready to take any more Russian lessons, but that he was very interested in learning German as soon as possible. MARTINEZ said that he was currently taking lessons, but that he did not like his teacher. He did not say who his teacher was. Rafael offered to bring a teacher from his institute. MARTINEZ mentioned that the German Olympic team would be staying at his hotel. Shortly after, Rafael brought a girl from the institute named Gerda (LNU) to see MARTINEZ. While there, they were invited to lunch and met three Mexican men and a tall German who said he was a representative of the German team. They had lunch, conversed about general things, and Rafael and the girl left. The girl later said that MARTINEZ had continued taking German lessons from his old teacher. This was the last time Rafael saw MARTINEZ. Rafael could supply no biographical data on MARTINEZ or any further information on any connections with Soviets. The subject has not heard any other Soviet mention either MARTINEZ or the Plaza Hotel.

B. Relationship Between LOGANOV (P-11712) and JUAN LUIS, Director of the Language Institute on Territory:

In about 1965 or 1966, LOGANOV went to the institute to take English lessons. He took lessons for about six to eight months. The lessons were private, but given at the institute by an American girl named Janet (LNU—Rafael). She does not remember her last name, and she is no longer there. It was in this manner that JUAN LUIS met LOGANOV.
