4. It is specifically understood and agreed that as an appointed employee of the Central Intelligence Agency, you are entitled to receive and retain only the salary, allowances and other benefits which are commensurate with your appointed position and salary grade, except as provided in paragraph three (3) above. The compensation that you receive from ICA will be offset against your CIA salary and you will return to CIA not less than quarterly the amount by which in the aggregate your FSS salary, allowances and other pecuniary benefits exceed your CIA salary, allowances and other pecuniary benefits. In accordance with applicable CIA regulations, you will be reimbursed for any increased income tax liability resulting solely from your reporting your ostensible ICA income rather than your actual CIA income.

5. (a) Your status as a CIA employee will continue in full force and effect during your period of duty with ICA, and you will continue to be entitled to all rights, benefits, and emoluments of such status. Certain variations in procedure will be required, however, to preserve the security of your cover position.

(1) It is presently contemplated that all annual and sick leave which will have accrued to your credit at the time of integration into ICA will be held by CIA pending your transfer from ICA to CIA. While assigned to ICA, you will be permitted annual leave, sick leave, home leave, and leave without pay in accordance with the regulations of that organization. Upon completion of your integration with ICA, your accrued annual and sick leave will normally be transferred to your credit with CIA. If security conditions require that you be given a lump-sum payment for accrued annual leave, you will be required to pay the gross amount of any lump-sum payment to CIA at the time of your reinstatement including any withholding tax deducted by ICA.

(2) Upon your integration in ICA, you will continue to be covered by the provisions of the Civil Service Retirement Act, as amended, and you will be subject to payroll deductions for retirement purposes (now six and one-half per cent (6-1/2%)) on the basis of your FSS salary or CIA salary, whichever is the greater.

(b) Consistent with your cover activity, you will continue to be responsible for compliance with CIA rules and regulations.

(c) You are not assured upon the completion of your period of duty with ICA of any status with ICA based on your services performed with that organization at the request of CIA.

6. If CIA considers it undesirable for you to continue the use of your ICA cover, your services will be utilized whenever possible in some other appropriate capacity as designated by CIA, unless the circumstances are such so warrant your termination for cause.

7. Authorized instructions when you receive from ICA in existing, lost, stolen, or in any other way are a part of this memorandum and are subject to agreement and approval.
