Memo to the File

On 5 February 1963, CO went to Bonn to talk with OCA regarding the KIRGUE case and the BfV request for information on him.

CO discussed the case with KUBARK St. Geier, Clarence Schmidt (true name), and explained that it is true that a Georg Sanders processed through Camp King for his political recognition, but that his name, story submitted for his recognition, etc., were complete fabrications concocted by Camp King to ensure that IRGUE received his political recognition and Reiseausweis. Moreover, since it is a fabrication, that means that there are no reports of any kind which can be passed to the BfV. Finally, CO explained that since the subject is an agent (or rather was) and not a normal defector, he of course did not go through Stage 1 and 2 processing at Cabezone, and therefore there are no routine reports here that could be passed to the BfV.

Schmidt answered that the reason the BfV made an inquiry is that the subject’s statement for his recognition indicated that he defected from the Soviet Union and read like a report of someone who was being debriefed by Cabezone. Moreover, the story submitted for his recognition seemed so weak that it immediately drew the attention of the BfV, the German organization responsible for the security of West Germany.

Mr. Schmidt then went into a long explanation of the function of OCA and its relationship to the rest of the Intelligence (UI) Community and the BfV. He stated that as the sole coordinating body for the entire IBIS community, OCA is the sole office for liaising with the BfV and that any matter of interest to any component of the AIS community must be handled by OCA, whether it be written or oral. It is therefore shown in the present case that since the BfV requested information on a Georg Sanders (Senders), it sent the request to OCA with the realization that OCA would coordinate the matter with all the AIS components, and moreover the answer passed to BfV would not be a KUBARK one (even though the BfV liaison people know OCA is primarily KUBARK), but a coordinated AIS one. It is for the above reason that OCA is very disturbed by the activity of Mr. John Willms of Camp King, who throughout the years has repeatedly refused to clear with OCA and handled any business he had with the BfV directly with the BfV, usually with the Chief of the BfV. CO had explained that even before he brought up the BfV inquiry on Sanders (Senders) with Willms, Willms mentioned that he had already made an appointment to talk with the Chief of the BfV and thus would take up the matter as a service to us. Schmidt answered that Willms uses these ruses as excuses to go to Bonn and butter up the Chief of the BfV.

In any event, Schmidt stated that since he received the inquiry from the BfV, he is obligated to answer it and in order to keep
