28 August 1951

Memorandum for: Chairman, CIA Defector Committee

From: OSO Representative, CIA Defector Committee

Subject: Army Disposal Action on Defector to Chile.

1. On 17 August 1951, CIA received a priority cable (IN 21787) from Santiago advising that the Chilean Consul in Frankfurt, Germany, had requested authority from his Foreign Office to issue an “ordinary visa” to Matlack and Rojas, a Russian defector (actually a Polish defector), stating that American Intelligence had requested the visa on the same basis as in the case of earlier defectors. Santiago indicated that Chilean officials did not look on this with favor.

2. On 17 August the undersigned was able to ascertain that Borowies had defected to the 66th Detachment, CI B, in Germany in late May 1951 and since that time had been held in ECIC.

3. On 17 August CIA queried German Station (OUT 71605) as to why Borowies had not been placed in the DRC and requested that Borowies be sent to Chile.

4. On 17 August 1951, the undersigned telephoned Mrs. Dorothy Matlack, G-2, and requested her to have a cable sent to Germany by G-2 forbidding the disposal of Borowies to Chile. The undersigned provided Mrs. Matlack with the serial number of the pertinent CIC memo. Mrs. Matlack stated that she would do everything possible to have this cable sent even if it required her to come in the next day, which was Saturday.

5. On 20 August CIA advised Santiago (OUT 71940) that it had no knowledge regarding this disposal action and was opposed to any more disposal actions to Colle at this time.

6. On 22 August, CIA received a reply from Germany (IN 22176) stating that this Borowies matter was entirely within the province of CIC and under the circumstances it was impossible for CIA in Germany to have had the body sent to the DRC. It was also stated that IN BECOM was arranging for departure on 21 August 1951. The undersigned immediately advised Mrs. Matlack of this ETD and she stated that she was doing all she could to have a priority cable sent at once.

7. On 22 August about 1500 hours, Mrs. Matlack telephoned the undersigned and stated that G-2 did not have a copy of the referenced CIC memo. She requested the undersigned to come over to the Pentagon immediately in order to exhibit the CIA copy of the CIA memorandum, as otherwise G-2 would not send out the desired cable to CIC, Germany. This the undersigned did and such a cable was eventually sent out priority by G-2 to Germany (IN W 23393).
