9. Preference for next assignment (continued). C. Indicate your preference for next assignment by inserting numbers 1, 2 and 3 (for 1st, 2nd and 3rd choice) in the boxes below.

Be assigned to headquarters for a tour of duty. With respect to possible assignment in headquarters: 1st choice: DOD/Field; 2nd choice: CTR/TSO; 3rd choice: DCI/Staff. This is by far my first choice.

Be assigned to another field station. With respect to possible reassignment to another field station, indicate choice of geographic area or specific station, based on qualifications: 1st choice: Barcelona (COB); 2nd choice: Madrid (DCOS); 3rd choice: Sao Paulo (COP).

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments? Indicate number of work days: 45.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents who will be travelling or moving with you: Wife, 57; daughter, 12; twin sons, 9. Total dependents: 4.

11A. Indicate any change in your personal or family situation which should be considered in determining your next assignment. Children are all of school age. In case of transfer, would prefer assignment to station having good schools.

12. Signature: Complete item no. 5-1, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form. To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training.

It is urged that this officer be allowed to return to Mexico City Station for a second tour. He has excellent Spanish; he has many worthwhile contacts with Mexican governmental, political and business figures not known to other Station personnel. He has excellent contacts with ODURGE (border) officials. His unique (for this Station) ODACID cover enables him to meet persons of interest. He knows and likes Mexico; he is in the midst of a long-range program which can best be done by continuity.

14. Signature: Complete item no. 5-2, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form. To be completed by appropriate career service officer or personnel officer at headquarters.

15. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the component to which he is currently assigned, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training.

WH Division recommends that Mr. Shaw return for a second tour of duty in Mexico City following home leave in the summer of 1965.

16. Name of career service officer or personnel officer: Robert D. Cashman, C/WH/PERS. Date. For use of career service.

17. Employee has been notified of planned reassignment. Employee was not notified of planned reassignment.

18. Typed or printed name.
