Fitness Report

Section A. General Information.

Employee number: 025658. Name: Piccolo, Joseph. Date of birth: 8 Dec 35. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13. 6. 50: DAG. Official position title: Operations Officer. Current station: HQS. Code (C/C T). Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Initial. Reporting period: 1 Oct 76–30 Sep 77. Date report due in O.P.: 31 Oct 77.

Section B. Qualifications Update.

If Qualifications Update Form is being submitted with changes, and is attached to this report, place the word “YES” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “NO” in the box at right.

Section C. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Operations officer for multiple lead highly sensitive CI project. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Case officer for CI/FBI project involving extensive international and domestic travel. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 3: Investigation and exploitation of CI leads derived from Agency and/or FBI operations. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Ad hoc assignments; i.e. CI Operational Surveys, CI training of foreign liaison, etc. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 5: To serve as Acting Branch Chief. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 6.
