6. One Warren McKENNA was on a list of delegates to the Second World Peace Congress that was held in Warsaw from 16 to 23 November 1950. (HDCA-890, 80-54896, 11 Jan. 1951)

7. A reliable informant in the Boston area furnished a copy of the first issue of a new publication entitled “Our Common Concern,” dated October 1950, published by Workers of the Common Life, at Roxbury, Massachusetts. The editors and publishers of this publication are Reverend Warren H. MCKENNA and Reverend Robert MUIR, both associated with the Massachusetts Action Committee for Peace. The instant issue of this publication features the Stockholm Peace Pledge and the address which Reverend Joseph FLEACH of Stockholm, Massachusetts, gave at the Winter Stadium at Ostrava, Czechoslovakia, on 16 August 1950; this speech also favored the Stockholm Peace Pledge. (IFB-6285, 22 Nov. 1950)

8. The Boston Globe, a Boston newspaper, on 5 November 1948, carried an article entitled “Boston Group Plans Welcome for ‘Red Dean.’” This article furnished information that a group of prominent Bostonians had joined into a special “Committee of Welcomes” for the Very Reverend Haslett JOHNSON, British Dean of Canterbury Cathedral, who was to visit Boston after being refused a visa to enter the country the previous year.

The article continues, “‘Red Dean,’ Dr. HASLETT will speak at Jordan Hall, Gainsborough St., November 16 at 8 p.m.” The article quoted Reverend Warren H. MCKENNA, the Minister of St. John’s Episcopal Church, at Roxbury, Massachusetts, as saying, “Dean HASLETT was refused a visa by the State Department in 1947, because his invitation came from the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship. The State Department later recalled and permitted the visa.” (IFB-14689, 5 Jan. 1952, sec. 2)

9. Reverend Warren McKENNA, a delegate to the 2nd World Peace Congress in Warsaw, Poland, in November 1950, testified that Irina C. OTTO attended that Congress, presumably a delegate from some other groups, and that he and Mrs. OTTO had the same committee participation, which he described as “the commission to define aggression.” This same witness testified that upon their return from Warsaw, Poland, both he and Mrs. OTTO spoke at a meeting sponsored by the Minute Women for Peace.

As of April 1955, Irina C. OTTO resided at 140 Purton Ave., Cambridge, Mass., c/o Flo LUBCUMB, who has been identified by informant as a “Concealed Communist.” Subject appeared before the H. H. Commission Investigating.

McKENNA, Rev. Warren
