Promissory notes, and having been accorded by General Panachon. Promissa.

I have to leave around noon. My little girl is at home by herself. Wife working in Tunisian Embassy, 142 a week. She is (isn't) very happy there. Not much money, remember taxes.

Anderson: general background—he is Swedish, 32 years old, born in France of a French mother and Swedish father. His parents settled in Lausanne when he was 6 months old. He was raised in Switzerland and had so little connection with Sweden that when he finally had to go into the Swedish army, he had to learn Swedish. Married to a woman who is the daughter of a prominent Conservative Parliamentarist.

A politician may be a member of the Federal Council. Don't know his name. Husband does not see her parents. He chose Swedish nationality because it was most convenient during the Algerian war and he didn't want to go into the army. Swiss nationality would cost both money and military service. Therefore took Swedish.

In his youth he was involved with literary and dramatic groups, and still has a keen interest in poetry and drama. He is connected with Theatre Populaire Romand. His press serves mainly as material for them. About all he prints. He is forbidden to print any political material, but he can print or have printed Chinese literature, which is classified as philosophical. He can't print October. Printed now pampered by Gugino in Montreal.

He has never incorporated the name La Cité—privately owned press and business, means personal risk. He is mainly a distributor for French books in Switzerland. Has some substantial interests. Literary.

Most of his things are not political now, but has some. Not essentially a political operation. Has two employees, a secretary and a Spanish boy who takes care of the press.

He was for a time very much involved with the FLM. How it happened, I don't know. Operated as far as Paris and Lyons. He was one of their principal agents in Switzerland. He represented the Swiss end of the support network, to do tasks FLM couldn't do themselves. Carrying weapons, money, etc. He operated the Swiss end. Much material was smuggled over Swiss border at Geneva. With Henriette?

Through connection with FLM probably made first contact with Verges and with Maspero. He got into publishing through contacts with Maspero, who was printing books. Algerians wanted these books to continue coming out in French. Proposed that A print them. He took to Gendin, Gugino, who agreed to print, and that is how he became a publisher.

He had no trouble. Swiss police thought his life was in danger. From the 50s.

From the 50s.

Through connection with FLM probably made first contact with Verges and with Maspero. He got into publishing through contacts with Maspero, who was printing books. Algerians wanted these books to continue coming out in French. Proposed that A print them. He took to Gendin, Gugino, who approved to print, and that is how he became a publisher.

He had no trouble. Swiss police thought his life was in danger. From the 50s.
