March–August 1940 — Barcares, assigned to a Georgian unit.  
August 1940 — Paris, discharged at the end of Franco-German hostilities.

Employment History:

1942 — Paris, volunteered for work in Germany. Poelitz, worked for HIDRYER WERKE for one year as an installation electrician. Paris, self-employed at a photo shop, portrait photography. Berlin, photographer of metals for a factory producing electrodes for welding instruments. Berlin, assembly-line worker in a Berlin factory producing steel ammunition (ammition) belts. Received a commendation from the factory director for a labor-saving device he manufactured for the automatic adjustment of cartridge cases. Heugelheim, driver-mechanics course for the WIRK (Fast Party Motorized Corps). Drove trucks during construction of the Atlantic Wall by the Germans.

1943 — Berlin, employed by SCHUPOLIZEI (Schutzpolizei) as a French-German translator.

1946–47 — Paris, employed by Architects Carre Associated as an electrical-installation planner and constructor of prototype models.

1951–52 — Paris, in prison; devised and sold on the French market a pocket automatic transit indicator. Received a cash settlement for this while in prison.

1953 — Rion, in prison; devised and gave to the prison administrator an invention for making cardboard boxes. The device was built and used by the prison administrator.

December 1955 to April 1956 — Cap, employed by M.D. as an X-ray machine maintenance technician and operator.

1956–57 — Cap, invented, patented, and sold a calendar device to the French commercial market.

1958 — Ambert, invented and patented a commercial advertising device, photomechanical in nature. Models were built and sold to French advertising concerns.

1959–60 — U.S., devised and passed drawings for two pieces of equipment for use in Project AEGESTINEL.

July 1960 — U.S., presently working on a low-cost telephone answering device.

Occupational Specialties:

Mechanical and electrical engineering.

Cine or portrait photography.

Research and innovation of labor- and cost-saving devices.
