In a concrete plant and after a reduction of forces, I got a job as a senior engineer in the Bauman Road Repair Department. At this time I was divorced and remarried. My first wife was a bookkeeper. Her stepfather was a major in the Soviet Army. He was later killed, in 1942, during World War II. Her maiden name by her stepfather was Shchegolyeva. My second wife (maiden name—Volsova) was a pathologist. She hid the fact that she could not have children, and we were divorced one month after our marriage. In 1952 I met Rose Kirkina. We were officially married only a few months before our son was born. The cause of this delay in our marriage was the fact that I was born in the United States. Her brother is an aviation engineer, and her brother-in-law works in the field of electronics. Her mother considered that our marriage would harm my wife's relatives. In 1955, after the birth of our son, we began handing in applications for an exit visa from the Soviet Government. At first we tried to get out as visitors to my parents. We received our first refusal at the time of the Hungarian Revolt. Up till 1957, when my father came to visit us, we continued to hand in applications for an exit visa as visitors. After 1957 we continued to hand in applications approximately every six months to leave the Soviet Union permanently. And we continued to regularly hear refusals. I consider that the aggravations connected with these refusals contributed to the causes of my wife's death in March 1961. And only in July 1962, my son and I received exit visas. As I mentioned in Form 444, I filled in two different applications. The first answer to the application I filled out in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow as an immigrant and as a native-born citizen was a Quota immigrant visa. The Board of Appeal of the Department of State, after my arrival, restored my native-born citizenship.

In 1957, due to a reduction of forces, I lost my staff job in the Bauman Road Repair Department. At this time I was working as a freelance translator in the U.S.S.R. Chamber of Commerce and as a part-time translator in the Hydroenergo project. Until January 1956 I worked for these organizations. In 1956 I began working as the Head of the Translators Department of the Scientific Research Institute of Construction and Road-Building Machinery. After having finished the translation of all manuals in this field, I continued working until I left the Soviet Union.
