Section VI. Operational Use—Contact.

1. If subject has been used or contacted before, indicate activity in which he was engaged and the type of information he has furnished.

In December 1963, subject was interviewed by a consulate officer in Paris for information on Lee Harvey Oswald, who reportedly had some contact with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee. Subject was completely cooperative and the interviewer suggested follow-up, but the contact was dropped.

2. Indicate how and from where subject obtains information.

Subject elicits information from his broad circle of friends and acquaintances in the Afro-Asian/liberation movement areas.

3. Indicate what has been told subject as to the disposition of information he furnishes.

Nothing.

4. Detail subject's proposed FI or CI type use or duties.

Subject will operate under freelance journalist cover to develop contacts in the target milieu of Afro-Asian “anti-imperialist” activity and solicit information from them on their activity, plans, and views. It is possible that such contacts may lead to a possibility of employment or association with some organization in this field, but whether or not he will be instructed to accept will depend on the specific nature of the job and similar factors which cannot be anticipated now.

5. Detail subject's proposed PP-PN type use or duties.

No PM duties or use is anticipated. No systematic CA exploitation is anticipated given the risk of compromise. Selective CA exploitation within his cover situation—i.e., as a provocateur or means to surface anti-Soviet material from a “National Liberation” standpoint—will be continually possible.

Section VII. Proposed Liaison or Operational Activity.

1. Detail subject's proposed liaison type contact or operational use.

A. Where subject is an official member of a foreign government:

None.

B. Where subject is an official member of an ODYORKE agency.

Section VIII. Agency Relationship with Subject.

1. Explain nature of agency relationship with subject: i.e., trainer, opposite number, remuneration, if any; agency personnel known to subject.

Subject has a contract for 1 June–September 1965 providing for salary of $500.00 per month, non-accountable expenses of $100.00 per month, and per diem computed at the rate of $20 for days spent traveling to and from Algiers and $10 for period of residence in Algiers. (The $10 rate represents an oral amendment to the contract.) This is to be renegotiated o/a 1 September for extension to two years with 30-day termination clause.
