1 June (continued)

To Africa, is going to Algiers and wants to stay. Is going to Tanzania if he can. Had planned to leave London today, but is staying over. Pablo replies, to see Richard and someone else. Richard thinks this is Dennis Pombey (Pombeau), to whom Mark had written from New York. Richard is ready to find accommodation for Mark and family while they are in London, as Mark has little money. Richard is going out now until 16.00 hours, when he will return to Paris on Sunday 8 July. Then he is due to go out again to the Tunisian Embassy. Richard asks Pablo to tell Mark that he is going to Algeria, that he wants to see Mark, that there are possibly things that they can do together, and that he or Mark could take the job offered by Dennis Pombey (Pombeau) in Dar es Salaam. Pablo says Mark is staying here to see Richard and presumably Dennis, then going to Paris for five days, then on to Algeria. Richard says Mark can call him at home between 12.30 and 13.30 hours or after 16.00 hours.

Richard gives Pablo greetings from Petita (or Betita) who says she is sending Richard and Pablo a new magazine called “Street” to be shared. She is working for the “Student Non-Violent Co-ordinating Committee,” Sue Wright’s group, and has “given up her job at the Nation.” Pablo will send her some collaboration for the magazine. Farewells.

1 June (continued)

33.55 hours: Mark Schleiter calls Pablo (out). Then asks for Yepe. Tells Yepe that they, Mark and family, had slept late and are checking out of the hotel now. Confirms with Yepe that the latter’s wife Galina is at home. Is going to telephone her. Yepe confirms Mark’s having Galina’s number, then remarks that one of the two people Mark had wanted to contact—Gibson—had rung the Embassy. Mark reminds Yepe of their having looked up together the telephone numbers of the Tanzanian Mission. Mark has two numbers, one GRO number and one FLA number. The FLA number is FLA 2327, the home number of Dennis Pombey (Pombeau), Administrative Attaché. Mark had earlier said he had two people in London to contact, Richard Gibson and Dennis. He asks Yepe which is the office number. Yepe checks, then says it is GRO 8951. Mark notes the Mission’s address. Farewells.
