Fitness Report (Part II) Potential.

Instructions for the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

Instructions for the supervisor: This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor and to appropriate career management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is not to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision for at least 90 days. If less than 90 days have passed, complete after the 90 days have elapsed. If this is the first time an employee has been under your supervision, it must be completed and forwarded to the same supervisor on or before the due date specified in item 8 of Section 2 of this table.

Section E. General.

Name: WILLIAMSON, Earl J. Service designation: DI. Position: Deputy Chief of Station. Office/Division: DDP/HH/Habana Station. Period covered by this report: 30 September 1957 – 30 September 1957. Type of report: Initial.

Estimate of Potential.

Instructions: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee’s potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

Rating: 5.

1. Already above the level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.
2. Has reached the highest level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.
3. Making progress, but needs more time before he can do the task to assume greater responsibilities.
4. Needs training in assuming greater responsibilities.
5. Will probably adjust quickly to some responsible duty after further training.
6. Already assuming more responsibilities than expected at his present level.
7. An exceptional person and is one of the few who should be estimated for early assumption of higher-level responsibilities.

2. Supervisory Potential.

Answer: Yes. Indicate below your opinion as to the level of supervisory ability this person will reach: average, good, or excellent. State in detail how to express your opinion in the “Situation.” If your rating is based on observing him supervise, note your rating in the “Actual” column. If based on opinion of his potential, note the rating in the “Potential” column.

Descriptive Rating Number.

0 = Have no opinion on his supervisory potential in this situation.
