not he go ahead and make it, you may ask? His reply is that should he make it, what assurances does he have that his action will satisfy the U.S. As I stated before, Mr. Charles feels that without United States backing, no government can possibly exist in Haiti except under the very same conditions of Duvalier's Government. There would be no reason to precipitate a change if Haiti were to remain under a tyrannical dictatorship like Duvalier's.

What Mr. Charles is asking as a prerequisite of any action to be sponsored or initiated by him is the assurance from a person of established authority in the U.S. Government that the United States will support the provisional government that will necessarily have to assume power after Duvalier.

The dispositions taken by Mr. Charles are that a military coup by a junta will take over and stay in power until free elections are held. The members of that military junta have been already selected by Mr. Charles, who has their commitments to that effect. Mr. Charles believes that if free elections are held he should not have any great difficulty in selling his plans and programs to the people and therefore be elected the next president of Haiti. In my opinion, Mr. Charles is not asking too much. Should the United States consent to his request in the form mentioned above, I feel that the Haitian situation, long a sore note in the U.S. hemispheric relations, could be changed without risk for all parties concerned.

Why should the United States gamble on any other calculated risk, while I feel it can wrap up the situation safely in accord with Mr. Charles' plans? The military junta proposed by Mr. Charles will be made up by high-ranking officers of the Haitian army loyal to him, therefore on the side of the U.S. With U.S. assistance—it is almost impossible otherwise—the steps proposed by Mr. Charles after the junta will take over are as follows:

1. Disarm the Militia and the Tonton Macoutes immediately;

2. Reorganize the Army and the Government services;

3. Prevent the interference of communist forces made of exiles, Haitians based in Cuba or elsewhere.
