Memorandum

4 April 1967

To: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

From: PW/MARCHBANK

Subject: TYPIC/OPERATIONAL — AMSCROLL Progress Report, 1 January–31 March 1967

WPW-1333

Distribution: COS; PW/MARCHBANK; PW/Chrono; REG.

A. Operational Highlights

1. During the quarter under review AMSCROLL continued its campaign to discredit the Cuban regime's economic management. As before, the campaign was conducted by the AMSCROLL radio program and by serious economic studies and comment that were provided its mailing list of sugar brokers, selected firms engaged in international trade and shipping, and commercial and technical journals. The Station continues to be encouraged by evidence of increased acceptance of the AMSCROLL efforts. For example, AMSCROLL received eighteen letters from Cuba during this quarter, all of which were in direct response to the radio program. Of these, twelve were received in March which represents the highest monthly total since initiating the program. This compares with eleven the previous quarter and only three in the corresponding quarter of 1965. In January, the Vice President of the Association of Sugar Producers of Puerto Rico called upon the AMSCROLL offices to request AMSCROLL's assistance in preparing a chapter on Cuban sugar production problems to be included in a book this person is writing. AMSCROLL received requests from four universities or colleges requesting written material, from a graduate student preparing a thesis on the lot of the Cuban peasant, from the U.S. Army Special Warfare School library, and others. The wire services, particularly Associated Press and Agence France Presse, continued to file stories based upon AMSCROLL releases.

2. The AMSCROLL radio program continued as reported for the last quarter—daily except Sunday for ten minutes over AMTHIGH. In addition, on 1 January AMSCROLL began a thirteen minute program each Sunday on AMTHIGH. These programs are in large part confined to subjects of an economic nature with the time on Sunday devoted to an in-depth analysis of what has occurred in this area since the previous Sunday. Typical themes hit throughout this quarter were: Economic and sociological aspects of Castro's “San Andres” speech of 28 January, an unfavorable balance of trade with Spain of $30,000,000, significance of Soviet trade with Chile as compared with Cuba, an analysis of a UN economic study of Cuba which shows that rice production in Cuba has declined 50% since 1960, the Royal British Institute's finding that Cuba's economy makes her a poor trading risk, and a report that Greek ship owners that persist in trading with
