He knew nothing about VENDEL, except that his wife gave birth to a child during his absence, and he added that if VENDEL had returned, he would have heard about it.

6. Speaking about Larel, he recalled the fact that Carola HIRSH, an Ecuadorian girl of approximately 22, returned to Mexico and would be taking an intensive course of Russian from L-1. He stated that he spoke to KARTASUK about this girl: she was here and worked with the Olympic Committee as an interpreter; after the Olympics she went to Ecuador and now she had returned here; she came with her mother, who found her an apartment in Rio Elba, where they had a warming-up party on Friday, May 9; her father is a well-to-do physician in Quito, Ecuador; she has no permit to work in Mexico, which means that her father will pay the expenses of her stay here; in view of his nervous crisis, he did not keep in touch with her, but he believed that her mother had returned to Quito by now. LOGINOV knows her from some of the parties L-1 and his friends were giving during the Olympics or briefly afterward.

7. He forgot to tell me that he was with Andrea CATANO (P-13,546) after she returned from her trip to the US and Canada, and she told him that she had definitely broken with CHERNISH (P-13,042) by telling him that she had a boyfriend about whom she was serious and who was a jealous type; he (C) was welcome to come to her parents’ home when he wished, but she was in no position to meet with him outside.

8. I asked L-1 whether it was possible that LOGINOV, who according to him was driving hard to obtain some success before he left, might have attempted to recruit Juan Luis ALVARES, director of the language school on Tiber, during the past two months. L-1 stated that he doubted that JLA would even want to see LOGINOV because LOG, in many instances, ignored JLA’s requests through L-1 to pass by the school. L-1 went on to say that if by incident LOG got hold of JLA and made an attempt to enlist his services, L-1 was positive that JLA would have turned him down. To LIOVAL. (Note: This leaves unsolved what L-1 was speaking about when he spoke about the good time LOGINOV and JLA had together at an unknown date.)

9. I tried to explain to L-1 that he should do some writing for us along the lines of our previous agreement. He promised.
