Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain why given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Flores was a particularly useful and versatile employee in the WH/SA counterintelligence operations unit. Although he had no operational training or previous operational experience, he learned rapidly and performed well the operational support type duties assigned to him. His fluent knowledge of the Spanish language, his willingness to learn and perform tedious tasks, and his conscientious approach to his work were important factors in his performance. His previous assignments in the RI Division and in WH/SA as a translator and in conducting name traces gave him a good background.

With respect to specific duty #3, on two separate operations in New York City Mr. Flores participated in the training and preparation of agents for dispatch to Cuba. In the first operation he interpreted for training in S/W, OWVL, W/T (medium speed) and related subjects. The second operation involved OWVL only. This experience enable Mr. Flores to perform duties (specific duty #3) relating to communications with agents in Cuba.

Mr. Flores plans to continue his university education and attain a degree. Arrangements have been completed so that he may work in the Agency on a part-time basis beginning in January 1965. He will attend classes at a local university as a full-time student.

Mr. Flores was promoted from GS-04 to GS-05 on 16 March 1964. He has been performing duties at the GS-06 level, and he should be promoted.

See page two.

Certification and Comments. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

By employee. Signature of employee. Date: 6 April 1965.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 15 months. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/SA/CI Ops (WH/C/RR/OS). Type or print name and signature: Richard Tansing.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: Concur.

Date. Official title of reviewing official: C.WH/SA CI (WH/C/SP). Type or print name and signature: Harold F. Swensson.
