Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 112773.

Section A—General.

1. Name: MILER, Newton Scott. 2. Date of birth: 1 March 1926. 3. Sex: M. 5. Service designation: SD/DI. 8. Official position title: IO - CI Br Ch. Career staff status: Not eligible X; member deferred; deceived; pending; declined. 9. Type of report: Initial; X annual reassignment/supervision; reassignment/employee. ID. Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: May to Jul 58 thru Aug 59.

Section B—Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (certificate number of employees supervised).

Rating scale: 1 - Unsatisfactory; 2 - Barely adequate; 3 - Acceptable; 4 - Competent; 5 - Excellent; 6 - Superior; 7 - Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Guiding and monitoring CI activities of a geographic division or those directed against an area target. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 2: CI review of all projects of an area division. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 3: Participates in CI training and briefing through courses, seminars and individual meetings. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 4: Preparing special reports and disseminations on CI matters. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 5: Assists in area CI plans and programs including those affecting foreign liaison & training & briefing therefor. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 6: Guidance and coordination on specific counterespionage cases. Rating No. 6.

Section C—Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance at specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
