Section VI. Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under subsections A, B, C, and D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties adequately; he is incompetent.
2. Barely adequate in performance; although he has had specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.
3. Performs most of his duties acceptably; occasionally reveals some area of weakness.
4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.
5. A fine performance; carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well.
6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equaled by few other persons.

Note to the rater: Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? X No Yes. If yes, what?

B. Directions: Considering others of this person's grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibility normally indicated by promotion.

C. Directions: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and any other indications, give your opinion of this person's attitude toward the agency.

1. Has an antagonistic attitude toward the agency. Will definitely leave the agency at the first opportunity.
2. Has strong negative attitude toward agency, marked by restrictions. Regards agency as a temporary stop until he can get something better.
3. Tends to have an unfavorable attitude toward the agency, bothered by minor frustrations. Will quit if these continue.
4. His attitude toward the agency is indifferent; has a “wait and see” attitude; would leave if someone offered him something better.
5. Tends to have favorable attitude toward agency; makes allowances for restrictions imposed by working for agency; thinks in terms of a career in the agency.
6. Definitely has favorable attitude toward the agency. Barring an unexpected outside opportunity, will probably endeavor to make a career in the agency.
7. Has an enthusiastic attitude toward the agency; will probably never consider working anyplace but in the agency.

D. Directions: Consider everything you know about this person in making your rating: skill in job duties, conduct on the job, personal characteristics or habits, and special defects or talents.

1. Definitely unsuitable. He should be separated.
2. Of doubtful suitability; would not have accepted him if I had known what I know now.
3. A barely acceptable employee; definitely below average but with no weaknesses sufficiently outstanding to warrant his separation.
4. A typical employee; he displays the same suitability as most of the people I know in the agency.
5. A fine employee; has some outstanding strengths.
6. An unusually strong person in terms of the requirements of the agency.
7. Excelled by only a few in suitability for work in the agency.
