Negro-type accent that it is almost impossible to understand him. As a matter of fact, both LOGINOV and CHERNYSH told the undersigned that the latter seemed to understand SALAZAR far better than they did. At every possible moment he could squeeze in some Communist propaganda SALAZAR threw in a CASTROist tirade, whether it was relevant to the conversation and the moment or not. He tried to embarrass the wife of the South Korean representative who was with the group by asking her whether every Korean woman had a wart over her lip as she did. Fortunately, the wife of the Korean representative speaks very little Spanish and hardly any English, and the undersigned just would not translate. He also, in her presence, launched into a tirade about South Korea, which the undersigned cut off by telling him that he did not know what he was talking about and that North Korea was the bottom of the barrel as far as nations were concerned. SALAZAR said that in Veracruz the Americans avoided him, but that this was all right with him since he had no business with them. He boasted that he was at the battle of the Bay of Pigs, which, he said, was one of the most tremendous battles of modern times. Since the Russians were listening to this the undersigned turned towards them and asked how many men had died in Stalingrad. LOGINOV said about a million and a half. The undersigned then turned to SALAZAR to say that if a thousand men had been hurt at the Bay of Pigs he would be very surprised. Both SALAZAR and CICARD on several occasions blasted Cuban exiles in the United States, saying that they were men without honor and social responsibility who were afraid to work. The undersigned maintained that on the contrary the exiles, who arrived without a dime, had given a very good accounting of themselves in the work department, as most of them had started new and successful commercial enterprises in the United States. SALAZAR and CICARD said this might be so, but that in any case they had no courage, as if they did not agree with the CASTRO regime they should be in Cuba fighting it. SALAZAR has the manners of an arrogant dog, whistles at the table during dinner, uses obscene language in front of ladies, and, as pointed out above, never fails to give out with strong "patria o muerte" music. During the banquet at Chapala on 18 May SALAZAR, who had come with an expensive camera as did CICARD, took pictures of each member of the group so obviously that the undersigned walked up to him and asked him if he did not want his signature as well, to the great amusement of the Soviets to an overheard
