Explanation of the Passport Entries

Inside front cover: Contains cachet indicating that subject paid 20 Schilling to obtain passport.

Page 1: This page contains Passport Serial “B” Nr. 546226. The dues stamp of 6 Schilling also indicates payment despite the fact that the opposite page shows 20 Schilling. This is the normal procedure. The ink-written number is the accession number of the passport office, and the last two numbers indicate that the document was issued in 1955. Further entries indicate name and profession and nationality of bearer to be Austrian.

Page 2: Entries on this page indicate the following: occupation as engineer; born in Salzburg on 25 July 1921; present place of residence is Vienna. It is further indicated that the shape of his face is oval, his eyes brown, and hair color brown. Special identification marks indicate the tips of his thumb and index finger are missing.

Page 3: This page shows the picture of bearer, including the dry seal for authentication over the picture. Below is the space for subject to affix his signature. The bottom of the page shows a wet authenticating seal and the signature of the person who issued the document.

Page 4: This page indicates that the passport is valid for all countries of the world, that it is valid until 25 August 1960, and was issued in Vienna on 26 August 1955. The last entry indicates that the passport was renewed until 24 August 1965; for such entry, please see page 13.

Pages 5, 6, and 7: These pages show various entry and exit cachets of simulated travel undertaken by subject. For further explanations, see attached sheet for travel.

Page 9: This entry is a residence permit for West Berlin and valid for three months. Austrians normally do not need a permit for any stay in Germany unless they stay more than three months. This permit was obtained in West Berlin from Div. II Berlin Police. The fee paid was one DM. It was invalidated when a new residence permit was obtained.

Page 11: This page indicates a second residence permit for Berlin, which was placed in the passport when the permit on page 9 expired. It was validated for six months at this time, and again the fee was one DM. Valid from 10 June until 11 December 1960.

Page 13: This page indicates that the passport was revalidated in Vienna at the Police Station at Vienna-Wieden. This Police Station is located at Taubstummengasse 11, Wien IV, and is located west of the Schwarzenberger Park. Entry shows 6 Schilling fiscal stamp, but a payment of 10 Schilling had to be made for revalidation. Document is valid until 24 August 1965.
