Meetings with AMJAVA-4 in Washington, 27–28 June 1965

Subject: Proposed Agency Programs

1. Following the demise of AMWORLD, AMJAVA-4 has become familiar with three other Agency programs, or proposed programs, and he asked if he could have some clarification as to just what we wanted from him and his people. I explained that there were three different functions which needed to be done and that the Agency was trying to develop programs to meet each need. The three functions concerning Cuba are:

(a) To maintain the MRR as a respected resistance organization with a political posture which is acceptable to most Cubans and not inimical to U.S. interests. We are asking approval of a minimum budget for subsidy of the MRR which will pay for its published and radio publicity matter, subsistence to survivors of MRR killed, disabled, or captured, and travel expenses for AMBIDDY-1 as the leader of the movement outside Cuba. We are trying to guide A-1 into a program of Community Development/Civic Action projects in Latin America as a means of projecting an image of the MRR and of A-1 as constructive, forward-looking people instead of simply exile counterrevolutionaries. We would hope that such activities would keep the movement together, give the members practical experience which would eventually be useful in Cuba, and in the meantime, would render useful results in countering problems of insurgency in Latin America.

(b) To prepare a managerial and executive team of specially selected Cuban exiles who would be ready to move into Cuba should relations be resumed with the United States in order to furnish effective direction of necessary governmental functions and assist the United States in denying the island to Communist control. Selected candidates would, hopefully, be fairly young as well as intelligent and capable of profiting from extensive training programs which would be designed for each to prepare him to perform a specific function in a future Cuban regime. The program would be apolitical, each person being considered as an individual and not as representative of any organization. This is the program for which A-4 is being considered for training in the field of internal security for work with the Agency in a post-Castro Cuban regime.

(c) To select and maintain a small cadre of Cuban exile paramilitary people who would be ready for emergency contingency
