Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Recruitment of Dianne de la VEGA, 23, 31 Oct 69

say about anything, whether it be American or Russian. He is only interested in booze and women. I would say this is a pretty accurate description of TUCHIN (who is now gone—replaced by ENFLUTE's friend PERFILITY).

5. Subject has also met LOGINOV, for whom she did not have too much respect. She didn't think him very smart, and he was constantly saying foolish things against the United States. I asked if LOGINOV had ever made a pass at her. She said no; but then she never saw him when his wife was not along. (Again, she has come up with a pretty accurate thumbnail description.)

6. Getting back to SARATOV, they have remained good friends (since the Olympics, and the friendship extends to SARATOV's wife). Subject and Natasha are very friendly, and I would like to keep it this way, for several reasons. I don't think there has been any sex between Subject and SARATOV (although I could be wrong, and I will ask, and I think get the truth). Subject is well aware of the friction between SARATOV and wife, and as a matter of fact Natasha has said quite openly that she intends to leave SARATOV in about a year. They have an 11-year-old son to whom she is very attached, and since he must return to the USSR to complete his schooling, she is going to return with him. In effect, she has chosen her son over her husband. Subject doesn't know whether Natasha's overly close attachment to her son (she won't go out in the evening until he is in bed, etc.) is the result of SARATOV's prying around, or vice versa, but it is a fact, and it irritates the hell out of SARATOV. On the other hand, Natasha is attractive, intelligent, and if anything more firmly attached to the Soviet Union than SARATOV himself. Recently she offered to give Subject Russian lessons. Once Subject is the type of person he just easily gets attached like that, he might have to start working use,

1 November 1969

P-11712

30 31 Oct 69
