Has mailed copies of the booklet to prominent public figures throughout Boston, asking them, Identity 5, and CADONA. About one week after Identity 5 received his copy, Charles telephoned him requesting comment concerning the publication and revitalizing his former requests for U.S. support of Identity 1. (A copy of Bourkeau's booklet was given to John H. Quintance by CADONA. This copy is forwarded under separate cover as Attachment “C”.)

13. It was reported in Reference B that Identity 5 felt that a major portion of Identity 1's financial support stemmed from Identity 10 sources; however, he now feels that what little support Identity 1 is receiving comes from CADONA for the reasons outlined in paragraph 11 above. Identity 5 was aware that Identity 1 had received welfare items from Identity 4 for further distribution among the families of persons who had been arrested for taking part in the 17 June demonstrations. To his knowledge, however, no funds, as such, were ever given to Identity 1 from this source.

14. Nelson G. Henard recently reported that Identity 3 has resigned from his position in Identity 1 and is now practicing law in Western Germany. Henard also stated that he has heard of no recent activity on the part of Identity 1 and has heard of no replacement being named to fill the post vacated by Identity 3.

15. The membership list of Identity 1 as reported in DUN-207 agrees in part with a list forwarded by Henard. For comparison purposes, the latter list is forwarded under separate cover as Attachment “D”.

16. Since it appears that Identity 1, although reportedly not very active, has been receiving a small amount of financial support from CADONA, it is possible that a continued investigation of its activities may be warranted. If so, it is suggested that future queries be directed to John H. Quintance, the EQUITY Case Officer who has direct contact with CADONA. Since the attachments are forwarded in single copies, it is requested that they be forwarded to the Home Office following personal.

Marvin L. Larrison.

Approved.

20 February 1974.

Distribution: Chief, LS (Attn: Geoffrey L. Kageen), with Attachment E; CGI (Attn: Wallace R. Parlett), with Attachments A through D, one each, and Attachment E; BOB/KUFES, via office.

Attachments: Unclassified. A through D described above. E — Identity sheet.

Southern Orange County Office Reopened.

Garden Bureau on December 17, 1973.

11/15/73. Sheet 2 of 3 pages.

Page 1: District Democrat, Orange County. Page 2: December 17, 1973. Page 3: Bureau.
