Fitness Report.

Section A: General.

Name: Vitale, Guy. Date of birth: 10/16/17. Sex: M. Grade: 08. SD: D. Official position title: Intelligence Asst.

Type of appointment: Career-provisional. Type of report: Initial; reassignment supervisor; annual reassignment employee.

Date report due in O.P.: July 1968. Reporting period: 1 July 67–30 June 68.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Analysis and Research of clandestine service documents for information pertinent to the criteria of the CUIS/LA Subversive machine program.

Specific Duty No. 2: Assists personnel with machine name traces and other operational support assistance.

Specific Duty No. 3: Preparation of biographic input sheets for machine processing into the Cuban IS program.

Specific Duty No.
