Seventh Department, January 1962–January 1964.

Johnson's Information

According to a statement given to the FBI, prior to his visit to the USSR Johnson had written a church authority in Moscow requesting permission to preach there. He was informed that some official permission was needed. Johnson subsequently travelled to Moscow as a tourist, and he did preach on one occasion but he suspended further such activity on the advice of Russian Baptist colleagues. During his ten-day stay in Moscow, Johnson wrote and posted letters to some twenty persons outside the USSR.

Johnson reported to the Embassy in Moscow on 5 January 1962 that he had experienced an incident with Soviet plain-clothesmen at the Hotel Metropol earlier that day: Johnson, who had arrived in Moscow on 31 December 1961, explained that he was dining alone at the Metropol restaurant on the evening of 4 January when he was joined by a Soviet citizen who identified himself as “a doctor from Riga.” The “doctor” spoke English poorly, and Johnson agreed to visit the doctor's room at the hotel on the following day, when the doctor would have with him a student friend who spoke English well. Soon after Johnson arrived in the doctor's room on 5 January, the “student” made homosexual advances. Johnson protested and started to leave when two plainclothesmen suddenly appeared in the room and announced that all were under arrest. After signing a statement in Russian, Johnson was taken to another room where he was confronted with a man who identified himself as Georgiy Ivanovich Nikolov, “the Chief of Police.” After threatening Johnson with imprisonment, “Nikolov” offered to dismiss the matter, provided Johnson would sign a commitment not to criticize the Soviet Union when he returned to the United States.

On 8 January Johnson telephoned the Embassy to report that he had been recontacted by the “Police Chief” who reminded him of his pledge and showed him incriminating photographs allegedly taken of Johnson and the “student” in the hotel room previously.

Shown photographs of Volkov and Nosenko, Johnson thought Volkov to be “familiar,” but he could not identify Nosenko as the “Police Chief.”
