71. He got the old passports, which could be easily bought on the black market, and out of those two passports he made a new one for Werwert.

72. David went into detail describing how he prepared the passport, especially how he exchanged the photographs, which were fixed by groundlets and thus could not be removed and simply replaced. He had to use plenty of skilled washing and master photography to remove the old image and replace it with the new one without damaging the passport or the “photograph” itself.

73. Werwert used the passport. He was instructed by Katz to report in Spain to a priest who was in contact with Katz. The signal from the priest came, and Werwert arrived without trouble. On this occasion, Katz disclosed to David that Werwert was not a Spaniard, as pretended, but a German.

74. Now David prepared the documents for Lucas and Vilemain to report as specialists to the Labor Office in Paris.

75. David had arranged with Lucas to acknowledge his safe arrival in Paris. The woman in whose house the Lucases lived in Paris was working in the German Kommandantur (Commandantura) in Paris. Through her, David learned the name and address of the family of a German soldier who operated the switchboard of the Kommandantur in Paris. The family lived in Berlin. Some coffee was given to the soldier, and he was urged to phone his wife in Berlin and tell her that he had received some coffee for her. This was the signal announcing Lucas’s safe arrival in Paris. David said that this signal was used in some ten cases.

76. David had issued false travel documents to some 14 persons. One of them was a friend of Lucas in Berlin, whose name and home address were: Henry JOIGNY, 5 Rue Baretti, Paris XV.

77. Somehow, David got the idea of joining the “Abwehr” of the German Armed Forces, something more important and exciting than his previous activities. He had no good idea of the real scope or structure of the “Abwehr.” He went to the house of the “Amt Abwehr, OKW” (ANT AWENR, OKN) in the Wilhelmstrasse (WILHELIMSTRASSE). The porter at the entrance asked him which branch he wanted to go to. David said “West,” whereupon the porter told him that he should go to “West Einz” (I West), and instructed him which room to enter. There David found an officer who explained to him that the office had been moved to Tallmannstrasse, in Potsdam (PCTZDAHL).

78. David went to Potsdam (POTZDAHM). It took him hours to find Tallmann, an area surrounded by barbed wire and heavily guarded, all the guards being N.C.O.s. He showed his police passport and asked to be brought to the chief of the guards. He was brought—
