Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 027630.

Section A: General.

1. Name (last, first, middle): HIDALGO, Balmes N.  
2. Date of birth.  
3. Sex.  
4. Grade.  
5. SO.

6. Official position title: Ops Officer.  
7. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/SAS.  
8. Current station: Washington.

9. Check type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Initial; Reassignment supervisor; Career-provisional; Annual; Reassignment employee; Special (specify).

11. Date report due in O.P.: 31 January 1965. Rating period: 9 April 1964–15 March 1965.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Participated (with other WH/SA/CI officers) in the handling and debriefing of a defected intelligence officer housed in the Headquarters area. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Served as Headquarters desk case officer for several counterintelligence operations—prepared cables, dispatches, and memoranda pertaining to these operations. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No.
