Chief, R&D/Security

21 April 1960

Chief, Security Staff, OL

Ident-i-Kits

Reference: Memorandum from Chief, FSD/Security, to Chief, 85/CL, dated 21 March 1960, subject as above.

1. On 5 April 1960, the undersigned interviewed Chief McDonald at 700 E. Oakton St., Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, in his office at 1300 N. Market St., and discussed with Mr. C. H. Grasping of Los Angeles, located at 111 North Hill Street, Los Angeles, California. Telephone: HALOEN 5-3416, extension 62401.

2. The attached “Tres Building” article, taken from the February 1960 issue of the Magazine and Harchowski Magazine, was reviewed and discussed. Chief McDonald stated that he was aware of the article and had talked with Mr. C. H. Grasping about the interview. Recently he received a letter of authorization by an order of the U.S. Intelligence Agency, the identification of unewritten by an order of the U.S. Intelligence.

3. The article was written by a freelance reporter by the name of Joseph Frank. Writer Joseph Frank was present at a press meeting in Chief McDonald’s office at the time the information regarding the Identification Kit was made public. However, Chief McDonald made it very clear that the sponsor of the project was not mentioned and that a general figure of $60,000 to $65,000 was given as the cost of the project. Chief McDonald thought much and then stated that he had announced the sponsor as being “an Eastern customer.”

4. Chief McDonald stated that he was at a complete loss as to how the writer associated the sponsor with his intelligence compartment of the government. He believed that it was a “shot in the dark” assumption by writer Joseph Frank.

5. Chief McDonald was very much disturbed by this article and stated that if he could uncover any information regarding some he would promptly notify the appropriate Agency partner.

6. On 8 April 1960, the undersigned interviewed Mr. Courtney Elvell Owens, Sales Manager of the Tresland Engineered Products Co., Santa Ana, California. He was granted a secret contract security authorization on 26 January 1960. Mr. Owens was making writing of the sponsor and a security agreement was taken from him.
