This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Emergency Laws Title 18, U.S.C. §§93 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Mexico. Subject: Financial Aid to Victor Rico Galan. Report No. CS-311/12432-66. Date distributed: 13 September 1966. Date of information: 26 August 1966. Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City, 29 August 1966. Field report No. incl. 10650.

This is unevaluated information. Source grading are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Mexican intellectual who is a personal friend of Victor Rico Galan, although he disagrees with him politically. Source has reported infrequently on Rico Galan's activities. The reported information was obtained from his wife.

1. According to Inge de Rico, wife of Victor Rico Galan, who was arrested on 12 August and who has been charged with conspiring against the Mexican Government, her husband is quite well. She said that she is allowed to see him every day and to take him food, clothing, books, papers, and other things which he has requested. She also said that friends have been very kind. In fact, her husband has told her that he wants the money which has been offered to him to be shared among the other prisoners who have none and who are trying to get bond.

2. As to her husband's chances for being released on bail, she said that a number of legal experts on this type of case have been consulted and their opinions have been rather pessimistic.

3. Mrs. de Rico (Sir. de Rico) has been asked to have her husband prepare a message for students at the University and in some of the Preparatory Schools who are urging that he be freed. Many of Rico's readers are young students who greatly admire him.

1. Headquarters Comment: Her full name is Ingeborg Diener de Rico Galan.

2. Field Comment: An independent, usually reliable source reported that the National Liberation Movement (NLV) had taken $120.00 (U.S.) from its pro-Vietnam fund and given it to Rico Galan. Also, Ramon Zorrilla, teacher at the Ibero-American University, press chief of the National

See file; transcription transcribed by “S”.
