Brought to a lieutenant who took him to a colonel. The latter, having heard that David wanted to get employed, meaning that he did not belong to the organization, got mad, did not believe that an unauthorized person could have penetrated so far into a top-secret area, and asked how he had learned about the place. David told his story. The colonel checked by phone with the police H.O. and got the reply that they had such a man. David was then asked what he could do, his name was registered, and he was told that he would be contacted later.

79. Through a chain of persons linked to LUCAS, David received a request to prepare documents for a Belgian girl's journey to Paris. He consented.

80. He met the girl, like many other persons, outside his living place, at different places, and under good security precautions. For example, somebody entered the meeting place on his behalf and asked the person who was awaiting him to come out. David was at that time outside observing the environs, to see whether somebody was surveilling his two persons. If there was no surveillance, then he followed his people and approached them in a safe place. He never brought them to his living place. But LUCAS and VILEMAIN had been to his quarters.

81. Before he had finished the documents for the Belgian girl, he and ALLUMES found, after an air raid, an unexploded incendiary bomb. ALLUMES had explained that such a bomb, having not exploded when coming down, was harmless. They took the bomb to David's living place, and David cautiously tried to take out the capsule. The capsule exploded. The thumb and forefinger of his left hand were damaged, and ALLUMES got a splinter into his face. The landlady was mad: the fools were playing with bombs, ruining her house, which had been saved in the air raid. She wanted to report them to the police, but David calmed her down, saying that he himself would report the case, that he himself was a policeman, and so forth.

82. At the same time, the Belgian girl happened to come and saw David injured. She showed no grief because of the pain caused to David and the loss of his fingertips; she was angry that she could not have her papers and could thus not start her pleasure trip to Paris.

83. It took injured David three days until the documents for the girl were ready, and an appointment was made to meet her in the ANHALTER BAHNHOF, from which the trains to Paris were starting after the Potsdamer Bahnhof was demolished. The meeting was fixed for 2200 hours.

84. David went to the meeting together with ALLUMES, KATZ, and ASTEREE. They found the station rather empty, and they thought that they had come too early. But then David noticed the
