June 23, 1960

Contact Report.

Subject: James SABCR.I

Date of meeting: June 23 at subject's apartment at Bahia de Santa Barbara 20/508.

1. Arrangements for this meeting were made through the office, and the fact that the phone which the subject left with our office was out of order made it necessary that FERNALD call on the subject at his apartment. It may be noted that the subject is in the process of moving, and the only furniture in the living room of the above-mentioned apartment consisted of two beaten-up easy chairs without armrests and a sort of end table loaded with papers and a telephone; another phone was on the floor in the corner of the room. There was so much dust on the floor that it is difficult to believe that the apartment was in any use during the last 10 days.

2. Subject's new address: Leibnitz 297, Apartment 7, phone 31-53-93. Office: Fraccionadora de Bajio, Insurgentes Sur 429, Office 12 (first floor), phone 64-63-47.

Subject can be reached at home until 0930 in the morning, in the office between 1100 and 1400 hours, and in the afternoon between 1700 and 2000 hours. Subject stated that it would be rather difficult to find him in his office because of his frequent “in and out” work.

3. Communications with us: Subject was told that once he was placed in contact with the “proper people,” he should use extension 870 from then on. He will identify himself as Sr. ARVIZO (allegedly his mother's name) and will ask for Sr. Virgil (FALDINI) FERNAIDS (FERNALD) alias.

4. FERNALD showed the subject his official-looking credentials under the alias of Virgil 2. BALDINI, and after he read them quite carefully, FERNALD stated that now the subject knew that he was speaking to the right person. The subject commented that he was satisfied with its bona fide.

5. He first asked the subject a few personal questions: The phone was out of order because he requested that it be transferred to his new apartment, and on Saturday (June 21), when he saw that the phone was not in operation, he called “his friend Carlos TRICOMIT” to put pressure on the Telephone Company, but nothing could be done in view of the weekend. The elevator in the
