Brief of Activities (Continued)

TET: PLCT: Activities:

C. Period of World War II:

December 1939, Paris: Volunteered for the French Foreign Legion.

1940, Tunis: French Foreign Legion; courses for A.S.O., unfinished. Barcares F.R.L.: Sent to a special Georgian unit; finished. Paris: Discharged after the end of the German/French war.

1942, Paris: Did not join the German/Georgian special unit. Volunteered for work in Germany. Three months, Politz: Worked with HICXER on an S.E. contract for one year. Got acquainted with Pascal. Both decided to flee.

May 1942, Berlin: Contacted some Georgians and said he was going to Paris. A few days later, Aachen: Falsified his leave/travel document; went to the Gestapo and was ordered to return to Berlin. Eupen-Almedy: Illegally crossed the border.

On the train, he had luck and help from French employees. To Paris: Twice escaped German controls.

Paris: Visited the family. Reported again for work in Germany, in another bureau of the German Labor Office, and was sent to a factory in Berlin as a photographer.

Suspected of theft; his living place was searched.

Troubles with German women. Discharged.

Contacted the Labor Office. Was directed to work in a factory at Stahlschreiber Street.

Got Pascal again. They decided to flee to Brazil.

They forged leave certificates, obtained passports for foreigners, and traveled to Paris.

Paris: Visited the family. They started for Brazil.

Spain: Hunger; nobody exchanged their money. They decided to return. Inside France, near Bayonne, they were arrested by German Customs Guards, searched, investigated, ordered to return to Paris, and escorted to the train. They had luck and managed to get tickets, instead of to Paris, to Pau, and crossed to the free zone of France.

Seen by French gendarmes, he invented the story of wanting to join the Free French Legion. Sent to Marseilles, to the Regimental M. Trouble with Pascal's documents. Escaped before being arrested.

Pascal went in the direction of Algiers. David went to Paris.

Lion David contacted a relative to get documents for returning to Paris. Did not get any.

David passed the French border post, showing his German passport. Held by the German post, he requested being brought to an officer, and there he “spoke” himself free and went through to the Zone.

A few days later, Paris: He visited his mother and reported to the German Commandantura for work with K.S.K. in Germany.

Berlin-Mangelheim: Drivers’ courses of the K.S.K.

Brandenburger Tor: In a drivers’ unit of K.S.K.
