F) Lieut. H. Smith — During the period under review, with the exception of short vacation periods, GULLIVER continued in his role as the Lieut. Principal Agent. This assignment entailed regular meetings with the LIEMTS, LIEMTS, and LIETED Base Force keepers (for duties to these bases); regular contact with the operators of the LIETAD mobile photo unit; regular contact with the Lieut. photographic developing and processing base; and numerous operational tasks in support of the AIBD operation. Specifically, this effort involved at least twelve clandestine agent or Case Officer meetings per week, first-echelon financial accountability for the expenditure of $36,000 per annum, in addition to various cover-job duties.

SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS

As outlined above, each individual operational component of the Lieut. project contributed significantly and regularly to the fulfillment of the overall operational program levied on the Station by the AIBD and other directives. Based on the fine performance and overall contributions of this project, the Station concludes that this operation is essential to the fulfillment of the AIBD and should be continued during the forthcoming year.

4. PERSONNEL AND SECURITY

The only significant operations security problems which confronted the Lieut. project during the period under review were those which stemmed directly or indirectly from the overt release of the clandestine LIETED photographs published in the Warren Commission Report. The precise nature of the problems occasioned locally by the public disclosure of this clandestinely acquired information still cannot be measured. However, time-consuming personnel moves, with the attendant loss of coverage and additional cost, as well as otherwise unnecessary expenditures of Station time and effort, were required by this incident. (See paragraph IV of the 1964 Lieut. Project Renewal Request for details.) Other than the above affair, there have been no operational, administrative, or personnel problems which the Station could not readily and securely resolve.

5. LIAISON AND INTERAGENCY COORDINATION

Not applicable to Project LIEUTY.

6. PLANS

A) As further implementation of a program initiated during the latter portion of the past project year, Mexico City Station will continue to give increased emphasis to improving the quality of the photographic product from the Lieut. basehouses. While no concrete reduction in the quantity of photographs is anticipated, the Project Case Officer, with the assistance of the local KURICT representative, will continue to emphasize the quality rather than the number of photographs. An ancillary objective of this program is to replace a significant portion of the equipment now used in the Lieut. developing and processing lab. Much of this equipment is over eight years old.
