It is fine to have good ideas and to carry out thorough feasibility studies, but if you do not have a client who will go into these plans, they will not do you much good. Until Tony came along, ICAP Hellas did four or five studies a year for their own account, which they did not consummate. Now they seem to be in about the same position we are, which is that before we proceed with the full study we have sold the deal, and the study is mostly by way of documentation and background. Most investors come in on our say-so on the telephone, not in response to any documents. Tony has this power, and the others in ICAP Hellas, for some reason, generally do not. If you personally could carefully study every aspect of deals that BANIF might work up, and then present them to individuals whom we might suggest, there is a fair chance that we can do a real job of merchandising, which we can never do on writeups.

The second capability you might be able to develop for us outside the ICAP Iberia channels is related to the foregoing, namely to generate securities business for this office, just as Tony Lykiardopulo does. Our Special Account has the best performance record of any readily available investment medium that a foreigner is likely to see, and it has been getting better as time has gone on. It makes an excellent illustration of our capabilities in the investment management line. You would not be required to actually place our services with individual investors whom you might meet, but if you could identify them, and determine their needs in a preliminary way, on one of my periodic trips I could discuss our operation with them, and in the course of time there is little doubt that we would develop a slowly growing clientele. In addition, Tony Lykiardopulo can come to Madrid from time to time and maintain contact. Alternatively, you might eventually discover a customer's man in a brokerage house who would like to join us in the rather more elegant world of investment counsel, and we could make an arrangement directly with him.

You have spoken from time to time of your desire to increase the proportionate amount of time which you spend on creative writing and your interest in collaborating on a book on the “Establishment” in Spain, which in fact I agree with you is a fascinating subject that I have never seen well written up. Certainly, there is no case I know of where a quite tightly-knit aristocracy (or oligarchy) really runs things the way it does there. Anyway, making contact with some of the figures in that group could certainly tie in nicely with the various activities mentioned above.
