She told him, “I’m going to tell you the truth.” The girl said she was a correspondent of a famous magazine, and Ruiz said she should tell her with his help. Then he or his partner would come. This girl said so, and Ruiz told him that she was going to Ciba (Cuba). He, in turn, said so. Ruiz asked if he could carry a questionnaire to the country. He said no. She always does, he says.

Ruiz tells him that she must talk about the interview, about politics in Spain and its relations with the United States. She must have questions prepared for her, and even possible replacements. She must then be careful, as if they were unimportant, but with a socialist sense.

Ruiz explains to this boy that what is of interest is Spain, the infrastructure, the railroads, the banks, the national organizations, but not the fundamental things, yet well tied up, all the way to the end. He says that people are strong, but later you can ask, “What do you think about a socialist regime in Spain?” The thing is to stop people in the street, one at a time.

You cannot take into account that he is considered one of the most brilliant politicians of all time. He is sagacious, intelligent. If communism had taken hold here, it would have been the first communist country in the world, and yet neither communism nor socialism has anything to do here while France is in.

The girl came from Czechoslovakia, and she talks about that country and Poland, where she has not been, but they have told her a lot about it. She depicts life in Czechoslovakia as extremely sad. She had been there in 1963. She comments that what they did last year in Czechoslovakia was to set the country back tremendously, because this was the first time that people had taken an interest in national affairs. Society was so rotten that people rebelled, but the invasion caused such a great shock that people sank into a state of apathy from which they are not coming out. They are heading for a crisis that not even the Soviets will be able to stand. People have no interest in their work. Machinery is far behind. The level of wages is disastrous. The only people who make money are the physicians and the nurses, who charge for a visit the equivalent of a worker’s monthly salary. Besides, there is tremendous corruption. And so the wage scale, the old machinery, and the corruption make life unbearable. It must be taken into account that they crushed 200,000 persons and that 35,000 Party members are in jail under suspicion. Before, people stood in line to join the Party; now they tear up their party cards in the street. Disillusionment is enormous. Nazism as con-
