Chile

Translation from German

Immigration Visa

a) According to Chilean D.F.L. (Law No. 69), an immigration visa will be issued to persons willing to emigrate to Chile together with their families in order to undertake self-supporting work of a technical nature or in another special field. The visa gives the right of unlimited residence and the right to practice a profession in Chile.

b) In case of the issuance of an immigration visa, the work factor is considered above the capital factor.

c) The belongings of the immigrant are, besides a low fee, free of duty, tax, and storage fees.

d) In order to file an application for an immigration visa, the special conditions outlined in Circular No. 3 have to be fulfilled. Especially, the “Cartilla de Immigration” has to be furnished; forms are to be obtained at the Consulate. The “Cartilla de Immigration” is to be filed in duplicate and executed in Spanish.

e) Visa fees amount to Dsh 9.10 per passport.

List of Luggage for an Immigration Visa

1) In case the application for an immigration visa is filed in Germany, the luggage list must be furnished with seven copies. For proper form, see Circular No. 8.

2) The luggage list can contain only personal belongings and material necessary for the applicant’s profession, which were owned by the applicant before the immigration visa was issued and were produced in the applicant’s home country. The items must be used. In some exceptional cases they may be new, however purchased before the issue of the visa.

3) Items necessary for the practice of a profession are those which serve the applicant in continuing the profession he had been practicing while still in Germany.

4) Household belongings can be imported, however only to an extent in accordance with the immigrant’s situation.

5) In exceptional cases the immigrant may also import a motor vehicle, truck, jeep, or smaller truck. Trucks and jeeps can be imported duty-free; for a delivery van, 100% of the FOB value is charged. Passenger cars or other vehicles cannot be imported. The immigrant can, however, import a tractor, should this be an item necessary to carry out his profession.

6) The luggage must not contain items of art or luxury, such as valuable carpets, gobelins, music boxes, etc.
