21 May 1974

Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report

Subject: Newton Scott MILEK (012773). Reporting period: 1 February 1973–31 January 1974.

1. Mr. Miller is a uniquely qualified senior officer who has specialized in counterintelligence. He has particular competence in background and management of sensitive counterintelligence cases of the Agency and of the other elements of the U.S. intelligence community. He is independent and aggressive in viewpoint, articulate, and personally deeply involved in the current conduct and future of counterintelligence as an operating function. He has excellent potential in the exercise of leadership and command in the counter-intelligence specialty; in this respect I regard him as being without a peer among the younger officers in the DDO.

2. He has been a most dependable worker and counselor in the reorganization that has taken place in the DDO over the past year. He has been an unfailing source of constructive, forward-looking suggestions and ideas, not only with respect to the problems in his own specialty, but in the work of CIOPS as a whole. He made specific contributions to the formulation of the CIOPS Charter (DON 1-1180) and its organizational implementation (DON 1-1216). As a consequence of the reorganization of CIOPS, he has been designated as an Associate Chief, Counter Intelligence Operations for Operations. In conformity with the indication of Chief, CIOPS he has reorganized his component accordingly and reserves resources consisting of 17 officers and junior officers and six clerical personnel (one GS-15, five GS-14s, five GS-13s, three GS-12s, two GS-11s, one GS-08 (A.), one GS-07 clerical, two GS-06s, three GS-05s) through which he covers Penetration operations, Double Agents, Soviet and Bloc operations against Americans overseas, Disinformation and Deception, and Counterintelligence COMINT. He has charged each of his operating sections with appropriate letters of instruction. He is meticulously informed of the work going on in each of his charges. Under his guidance and instruction there has been significant and measurable production and results during the past year. His performance of this task has been a model of conception and execution and reflects most favorably on his capacity to exercise command and leadership.
