Fitness Report. Employee’s binary number: 082.102.

Section A: General. Name (last, first). (Mobile) (state) of birth. S.S.N. Official position title: Operations. Culture of assignment. Department supervisor. Check-in type of appointment: Temporary. Special indications: Special (specify). Career level: Senior. Annual. Assignment division. Reassignment employer. Special provisions. Date report due in O.P.: 03 Mar 78. Reporting period: 17 Jul 78 to 31 Dec 78.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

U—unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to accomplish (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Scientific publication for the journal of research. Develop a procedure to establish standards and methods for conducting experiments and publications against the local method and published procedures. Rating letter. Submit an interpretation of the procedure using the local technique and published procedures as mentioned.

Specific Duty No. 2: Upon request to gain access to information on various areas and subjects including but not limited to, health care, ergonomics and productivity. Submit an overall report on any recommendations. Rating letter. Suggest an interpretation of the procedure using the local techniques and published procedures as mentioned.

Specific Duty No. 3: Develop and disseminate information which when it has been completed as well as disseminated to the whole organization. Rating letter. Suggest an interpretation of the procedure using the local techniques and published procedures as mentioned.

Specific Duty No. 4: Respond to various station requirements including administrative work. Rating letter. Suggest an interpretation of the procedure using the local techniques and published
