“Cuba... in the Communist (Cummunist) Way” (G.D.U.L.)

December 15, 1965: “Why the Cuban Leader Is Beloved Country.” He rebuffed an editorial published by the Havana newspaper “El Abad,” whereby the communist editorialists attacked those Cubans who leave for exile. He pointed to the real course of the Cuban exodus, which we confirmed with the words of MJ. Sergio del Valle, a prominent Castro officer, who in Ciudad Libertad, on December 13, spoke of the harsh life of the prisoners.

“CET CRIST Training Schools Are Its Result.” It has been announced in Cuba that the number of graduates from the terrorist training schools of “Minas del Frío” (“Sinas del Frio”) will be increased to 8,000. This is the school where the Controller trained Latin-American future guerrillas and terrorists in order to use them later in their respective countries. In Venezuela, one of Castro’s favorite targets, a monstrous deed has just been perpetrated by the Communists in the murder of N. R. Panelo, who received a bomb mailed by some of the graduates from those Cuban schools.

December 16, 1965:

News: 1) U.S. bombers destroy huge power plant in North Viet Nam.

2) Castro steps up nicotine harvests for export.

“The Communists Have Lost the Cuban Youth.” In this article, we analyze how Cuban youth, because of its natural thirst for knowledge, first became interested in the scientific principles of Communism, thinking of the possibility of finding the answer to man’s quest for happiness there. However, young Cubans are now disillusioned with the theory and practice of Marxist-Leninism, and they are obviously disassociating themselves from Castro-Communism. That is precisely why, a few years ago, the regime thought it convenient to call a national meeting of the Communist Youth. In this Red event, those leaders who failed in their task to indoctrinate the young were purged, and it was agreed that brainwashing would be a prerogative of the political police of the State. Castro has lost the young. The young are fighting Castro. They must be helped.
