sequently being arrested and imprisoned. Therefore defeat appears to be the first factor in his life experience.

21. At a certain time in his childhood Subject lived near some former Georgian resistants who were fighting against the Soviets. Subject regarded these persons as uneducated but nevertheless ________ and affectionate. He feels he certainly must have been influenced by the exciting stories which they told him about their fights and many exploits. He feels he must also have been impressed by their patriotism. He feels they expressed themselves in a warm and enthralling manner which exalted and deeply impressed him. He feels this particular association may account for his passion which he always puts in the execution of whatever he undertakes. One of the principal determinants of this man's behaviour is apparently the very strong desire to succeed and accomplish.

22. Subject feels that throughout his school experience perhaps only one or two professors understood him. These particular professors thought that it was often necessary in life to "swallow" a great deal of useless "stuff" so that thereafter certain essential problems could be more easily digested. Subject feels that these professors were superior and that he understood them, whereas he regarded the others as apparently idiotic or worthless.

23. Subject was influenced by heroes whom he heard about such as Lindbergh, Edison, Hitler, Einstein, and several others. He realized that if such people existed, it meant that the possibility to act either for good or for evil also existed. He did not identify with any one hero in particular but always wished that he could have been one of them. He did not actually want to be one of them, but wanted to resemble heroes in general. Subject always remains—remembers certain great men mentioned in history. He feels that these great men gave him the concept that a certain order was necessary for the level of the people. However, it appears he was disillusioned in these men and his ideals were shaken because he later learned to his dismay that they could commit abject or monstrous acts. Subject feels he has made many mistakes in life but however big these mistakes may be, he does not feel they have reflected his basic character. He feels that his character was basically based by the desire to become a worthwhile individual, even at the cost of behaving wrongly. He feels that if the only criterion for judging a man is his a
