Free, the other slave. It is within a few feet of the Soviet flag on Brandenburg Gate and the warlike Soviet memorial within the British sector. It is the most dramatic spot for a visible answer to those two symbols of despotism and force that exists anywhere in the world. It is the only place to dedicate a palace of freedom which will be clearly visible to soldiers and officers of the Soviet army.

2. The Reichstag earned this rededication on September 9, 1948, when 300,000 Berliners looked before its steps to defy the Kremlin during the grim days of the Berlin blockade.

3. It was set on fire by Hermann Goering (Hermann Goebbels) and Josef Goebbels, who then presented the world Communist movement with undisputed martyrdom and heroes in the person of Dimitrov (Dinitow) and his co-defendants. Its rebirth as a meeting place for free men of all nations is a more than fitting historical answer to the Reichstag fire.

4. As long as the Reichstag stands in its present ruined condition, it is a cancer feeding on the offended national pride of most Germans. This is particularly true because it is within sight of the strident Soviet war memorial. Even the best German democrat cannot pass this building without being mad at most of the world. In the normal course of events, the building would probably be restored for some narrow German purpose. By making it the House of European Freedom, we kill two birds with one stone:

a) We give normal, healthy German and Berlin pride, as distinguished from its morbid, resentful and chauvinistic manifestations, a positive outlet. This is reeducation through dramatic action instead of Sunday school moralizing which registers with nobody. All Berlin will be tremendously—and healthfully—proud of itself on this day.

b) We strike a blow for freedom everywhere.

c) We deal an effective blow to resurgent German nationalism in Western Germany and in the Soviet zone, by making both its forms seem low, provincial, stupid, and bush league compared to the Reichstag rising like a phoenix out of the ashes in the cause of European freedom.

d) We give West Berlin an enormous morale boost and forcefully remind them that (i) Berlin is a great metropolis (Molotov) and (ii) that it remains part of the free world—a fact, one of the great bastions of that free world.

3. The Stage Sets

No attempt should be made to prettify the Reichstag for the ceremony. Reconstruction will proceed later, with pennies collected from people all over the world. A top limit should be placed on contributions to prevent men of wealth and power from contributing more than simple plain folks everywhere.

At the unveiling, there should be temporary plaques or plaster-cost barriers, bas-relief of the Great Man of Freedom who will adorn the building. Perhaps their names—done in big, bold strokes.
