Just another of his many suggestions, but why not enclose it and ask her to read it and see if she doesn't think there are some good brief annotations (quotes) in it? I.e., you could have a photo of a couple of ordinary USB air pens, sitting at a desk-table, or what have you, and a few examples of CHARS-ATION from Pirogov—where the CIGETS man tells him he'd better inform us of his plans, or else—with the subscript: “Peter Pirogov, ‘my I encased?’ page section.” It wouldn't do any harm to advertise Pirogov, Krasnoyarsk, and Tchernavsky myself, all in the same good cause.

It was on the left-hand page: a photo of Edgar Hissmontag (or almost), one of Mrs. Hecla Kassling (cf. her book) (and quite photogenic, I think), with a caption quoting her on how Hiss and also agreed, after squabbling good-naturedly about interfering with each other's apparatus, “We're both working for the same boss.” Then on the right-hand page, a photo of Kossert, Stalin, and Kiss, with a quote from “Goods of Kresser” on him: at Yeltsa, at one point FBI, JVA, and Kissa (and one interpreter) were located together in the same room. (Kossert allegedly emerging saying, “I don't know how they persuaded me to give in, but I did.”) There is probably a Yeltsa photo showing Hiss standing behind some of the others. Just an idea, but when you stop to think what may have been passing through (a) Kiss's and (b) Stalin's minds at that little tabletop, it might make a dramatic set of photos. But perhaps it wouldn't really buttress any of the main themes.

“YELDTH OF THREE DEGUES.” I'm getting it today. There may be some good caption material in it.

ILLUSTRIOUS DIRECTORS. No one of them, perhaps, is more important even to deserve a photo. But how about devoting two or three pages to photos of the two or three most illustrious figures who have been admirers of the Soviet system and then become disillusioned? Taken all together, they ought to read as a pretty impressive gallery! Gide (Gid), Koestler, Klem(77), Stolz, etc., etc.
