Nationality, the number of immigrants in their areas, and in addition many of the reports note the number of these immigrants who are under CADI control. These reports are all similar, and it is sufficient to quote from one: “More than 50% of the miners in the Loire basin are immigrants; of those, the following percentages adhere to CADI: 96% of the Poles (Foles), all the Yugoslavs, 80% of the Portuguese, 60% of the Italians, and 75% of the Hungarians.” (Field comment: From a report by CADI secretary from the Loire.)

18. Although supposedly dissolved by ministerial decree in December 1948, CADI continues to operate clandestinely throughout France. Its present national president is Justin GODARD, former minister; WYNDHAM (fmu), a member of the Comité d'Unité de la Défense Juive, is vice-president; GAROCHÉ (fhu) is secretary-general. National headquarters are located at 100 rue de l'Université, Paris. The principal organisations supporting CADI today are those listed in paragraph 3, except for those organisations which have ceased to exist.

19. CADI functions in conjunction with these organisations and in addition has its own delegates scattered throughout France in the industrial and mining regions. Among the CADI delegates are the following:

HORCAUDO — delegate of the Fédération des Espagnols. Resident in France.

LOUKA — delegate of the Conseil National Polonais en France.

GIOVETTI — delegate of Italia Libera.

KOVACS, Muranyi — secretary-general of the Union Démocratique des Hongrois en France.

PAHAJ — member of the Front National Hellénique (Hollonique).

MELIK — member of the Front National Arménien.

VINCIOURRA — president of the Union des Volontaires Étrangers (Xtrangete).

SOEU — delegate of the Front National Roumain.

CONTI, Emo. Germaine — secretary of the CADI in Paris (Parie).

ZELENY — delegate of the Union Nationale de la Colonie Tchécoslovaque (Celonie Tobaco-Slovaque) en France.

GURTURERO — member of the Fédération des Immigrés Portugais.

HOLLAND — delegate of CADI in Eastern France.

FRYDMAN — vice-president of CADI; delegate of the Comité d'Unité de la Défense Juive.

PETIT, Louis — one of the organisers and responsible officers of CADI.
