Can be made by Diddle himself, calling only from a pay telephone, never from his house or office.

In regard to GE affairs, Diddle made two comments which he suggested I might want to do up with Easby.

a. He asked me if I had met or talked with Noel Lindsay, vice president of Grant Advertising S.A., at the dinner given by Diddle on some Christmas night, and on learning that I had, he commented that Lindsay's cultivation of him had been so assiduous that he was beginning to wonder if he was not dealing with someone who might be visualizing himself as his future British case officer. There was something about Lindsay, he said, that made him feel that he was assessing Diddle quite carefully. He asked if we could run a file check on Lindsay himself and on Grant Advertising. I said I would check.

b. Pearl Gonzalez has been pursuing him much too actively; asking him to her house out of turn, wanting to do a profile on him for the English-language news, of which she is the society editor. What a perfunctory cover for acquiring biodata, he explained, and what odd friends for an American, newspaper woman or not. She is listed as a U.S. national in the Anglo-American directory and is, according to Diddle, either separated or divorced from a Mexican husband. One evening a month or so ago, he had gone to dinner at her house, found most of the other guests sped on their way rather unceremoniously, and was left with only Mrs. Gonzalez and two men, whom he found, to his surprise, were both Russians. Their names were not recalled and were never very clearly given during the initial flurry of introductions. These two engaged him in serious conversation:

Russians: How do you feel about Communism?

Diddle: There is something to be said for many, if not all, of the important systems under which various countries are governed; however, my primary concern is not with Communism in the abstract, but with the best way for Ghana to be governed. We must take the best of all and fit them to our country.
