Dave likes to watch cowboy and gangster films, and children’s programs. He liked that letter because the participants spoke very slowly and he could understand the language.

Periodically, Dave would question the undersigned on the schedule for the day, and when told what it would be, it seemed that he would fail to hear what was told to him and later propose the same question. Dave did not like the idea that he had to start English from the basics; he wanted to have something more advanced.

Dave liked to test others, and it seemed that he would continually do so throughout the course.

Dave did not seem impressed with the idea that he had to be debriefed all over again. His comment was that he had told this over and over so many times and that it was not necessary to do it over again. At times when he did not want to answer a question, he would state that he had already told this to George and drop the matter there.

1 May 1959:

Shortly before Dave’s departure for another safehouse, Dave remarked that he was not much concerned about the training that he would have to undergo during the next phase but was more concerned about “der Tat.” What he was driving at was trying to elicit what information he could regarding the work that he would be required or expected to fulfill once training was over, i.e., the mission. Dave was assured that this naturally would follow only after the completion of the training; then he would be informed by the people concerned, but at this time such information could not be given to him.

That evening, the undersigned stayed with Dave and Albert at the new safehouse. At supper, Dave remarked about the manner in which the food was served, that it was not according to French custom. Albert said, “You eat the way you want,” yet at the same time was filling up his plate.

After supper, Dave queried Albert about the property, asking to whom the land belonged, etc. All Albert could say was that it all belonged to the man who owned the house, and he left matters at that.

Dave was quite witty at the supper meal today. This was the first time that the undersigned seemed to see him in such jovial spirits. Both men seemed to hit it off very well. Dave seemed to recognize Albert’s brawn.

Dave seemed to like the cooking better at the new location. He stated that this place was much better than the other place. He stressed that the housekeepers here were much better than the others.
