Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to improve or make better. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and his assuming responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide a basis for determining future personnel actions.

This is Mr. Randall's first experience in a staff position. During the period under review he took firm control of his job and showed substantial improvement over his previous competent performance. His operational background and good sense have combined to make him an excellent officer, deserving of further responsibility in a field position. It should also be noted that Mr. Randall performed in excellent fashion in replacing the rater during the latter's 7-week TIV in the Fall of 1960.

This report has been prepared specifically for this purpose by the rater against the general satisfactory performance.

Certification and Comments.

By Employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Due to the special value of this report, it is dedicated to the good intentious (intentions) of the rater. Signature of employee.

By Supervisor: If this report has not been shown to employer (employee), give explanation why not.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 30 days. Report made within last 30 days. Other (specify).

Official title of supervisor. Type or printed name and signature. C/FS/PO/C. Horace E. Feldman.

By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judgеe (judge) these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Dated. Official title of reviewing official. Type or printed name and signature. DCFE. Peter Steward.
