(American Embassy Section — January 1960–January 1962)

Nosenko's Information

Keysers was Storsberg's replacement as military code clerk, and the KGB “sensed at once” that he was a homosexual, and the case preoccupied Nosenko to the exclusion of everything else. Nosenko and other KGB officers, for example, chased Keysers all over Moscow, attempting, without success, to confront their target in compromising circumstances. The American ice ballet (Ice Capades troupe) came to Moscow, and Keysers became involved at America House with some of its male homosexual members. The Embassy Security Officer learned of Keysers' activities at about the same time Nosenko learned of them through a KGB agent. The KGB would have preferred to attempt to recruit Keysers, but it learned that he was to be withdrawn from the Soviet Union. The KGB then sent a letter to Keysers, at his room in America House, pointing out the trouble he was in and offering him asylum in the USSR. Keysers did not respond to the letter. On the day of Keysers' departure, KGB surveillants reported that he had left America House for the airport, accompanied by an Assistant Army Attaché. Nosenko sped to the airport and in the terminal building found occasion to approach Keysers alone. Nosenko asked if Keysers had thought about the offer in the letter, but Keysers did not respond and immediately reported the approach to the officer escorting him.

In the 1965 interrogations, Nosenko added only that at the time Nosenko approached Keysers at the airport, the KGB had concluded that Keysers had not reported receipt of the letter inviting him to defect, because no information to this effect was obtained from microphones or telephone taps in the Embassy.

Keysers' Information

Prior to his departure from Moscow, Keysers acknowledged to his superiors his homosexual tendencies and admitted involvement in three homosexual incidents, all at America House. He was rebuffed by a Marine guard in March 1961, and he twice engaged in homosexual acts with members of the Ice Capades troupe in May. He denied any public display of his homosexuality but said he could not be sure that someone had not entered his room at America House while he and a homosexual partner were asleep.
