Personnel Evaluation Report for the Company: Jusuf Iskandar, S.S., M.Pd.

1. Name (Last, First): Fredrick C. Rudill. 2. G.R.I.: G-11. 3. Position Title: I.G. (3) 50-7. Office Staff or Division Branch. Departmental. If field, specify station. 5. Period covered by report: From 9 Sept. ’54. 6. Type of report: Annual.

List your major duties in approximate order of importance, with a brief description of each. Write down duties.

In June 1954 transferred as Chief FE/5/CE Section to Indonesia FI Desk Officer. As of June 1954, major duties include:

1. Responsibility to initiate and act as Washington case officer for all FI operations operating from the Djakarta station.
2. In cooperation with the Chief FE/5 Reports, to insure that all intelligence reports are properly disseminated to customer agencies and foreign friendly intelligence services.
3. To share in the planning of the FI program for Indonesia.

8. List courses of instruction completed during report period. Dutch reading — CIA Language Lab. — 2 months — approximately January 1954.

9. In what type of work are you primarily interested? If different from your present job, explain your qualifications (aptitude, knowledge, skills).

Desire and plan to continue as a FI desk officer until opportunity for a field assignment arises. At that time desire to do both FI and FP case officer work in the field.

20 September 1954. Date. Friday, September 20, 1954. Signature.

Date as follows it will be completed by Supervisor.

11. Prefer descriptive [sic] performance on the major duties listed under the above is as follows:

Subject has performed his duties as listed in Section (7) in a very creditable manner. The monthly letter of the Senior Representative to the Director has, without exception, stated that Headquarters support of the Djakarta Station has been more than adequate. Since Subject is a relative newcomer to his present position and has had no field experience, he occasionally is hesitant to initiate action. However, he is clearly willing to assume responsibility when he is sure of his footing, and it will be only a question of time before he is willing and able to act in full capacity in all situations.
