Memorandum

19 October 1968

To: Chief of Station, JMWAVE  
WPW-1207

From: PW/MARCHBANK

Subject: TYPIC/OPERATIONAL  
AMSCROLL Progress Report, 1 July–30 September 1968

A. Operational Highlights

1. This quarter opened with an internal reorganization of AMSCROLL becoming effective. The reorganization had been undertaken in the interests of efficiency and economy. The Departments of Labor, Women, Foreign Affairs, Coordination, and Youth were abolished. This action got rid of largely ineffective people who had been receiving salaries and will prevent dissipation of AMSCROLL funds and energies. The new, streamlined organization is better able to concentrate upon the field it knows best: economic action. With its present staff it is also able to undertake action in political, youth, and the other fields should this be desirable.

2. The major activities of AMSCROLL during this quarter fell into four categories. They are economic activities, Free World shipping to Cuba, dissemination of propaganda, and the AMSCROLL radio program.

a. In the economic field AMSCROLL continued its analysis of the 1968 sugar harvest that officially ended at 11:00 p.m. of 27 June—though wind-up activities continued into this quarter. The point of the post-mortem was to publicize why Cuba fell so far short (2,044,745 tons) of its announced goal of 6,500,000 tons, which goal was set by Castro in his May Day, 1965 speech. Sources of information were the daily production figures of Radio Havana; analyses conducted by other experts such as F. O. Licht, Czarnikow-Rionda, the Merrill Lynch Weekly Sugar Letter, etc.; information the Station was able to pass; and the background of such experts as AMSNAKE-1, AMRAIN-1, and AMWASP-1. The Station has seen stories based upon these releases in the Miami Herald; the Miami News; the Economic Intelligence Unit, a London publication; Alerta, a publication in Guatemala; the American Marine Engineer; the Times of America; and Diario La Nueva America. In addition, appropriate Station assets such as AMHIM replay much of this information. The point of this was to demonstrate to Free World commercial circles and to the Cuban radio audience that Cuban economic promises are not reliable and hence that Cuba is an unreliable nation with which to trade. In support of this theme this quarter also marked the beginning of the campaign.
