And his position as a newspaper editor and publisher in the French press. He was always talking of going back to Algiers, going to shoot Algerian Gérard Chalion just because Chalion had double-crossed him with the staff. He thought, well, since I have these Europeans, they won't be able to take over the magazine so quickly! He's very clever. He surrounds himself with people who are in a weaker position than he. Kirschenberg says, in other words, a defense. Things that took place in Algeria, other side, but Chalion made a deal with the Ben Bella people and kept the entire staff on.

(Revolution in Switzerland or Paris)

Once he saw that the old charges against him on account of the Algerian War would not be satisfied, that the French Government had forgotten all this, and that the Ministry of Justice had no intention of prosecuting this—not only him, but France, but also him—was sitting there. He was under sentence of death. And Jean... no one had ever bothered him.

(Embassy to Germany)

He claimed he had contact with somebody in Paris, Davis's office. He had—well, the only person who worked with the magazine was somebody in the Ministry of Finance who writes under the name of Jalet. He does the economic section. I forget his real name—maybe Roget. He handled articles about Common Market things. That's why his special interests for Revolution always deal with the Common Market. Maybe he writes one paper for the Ministry and another for Revolution.

(How long did he stay in Switzerland? In France.)

He never really stayed in France at all. He just came through there and stayed a few days. And he was traveling on an Algerian diplomatic passport. He still has one. I don't know how he went to Japan, because he had been very reluctant to reply to the demand—the request—for renewal of his ordinary French passport. It was quite possible to have dual nationality—French-Algerian. I don't know whether the Algerians recognized this. I think that he must have had a normal Algerian passport, or that he only had a diplomatic one, which should, I think, have been cancelled once he ceased to have anything to do with the government. So he didn't want to travel on it. He wanted to come to London on several occasions, but he didn't dare to try his Algerian passport. He could travel around much of Western Europe with his expired French passport. Most European passports are considered valid for five years after the date of expiration.
