9 March 1968

To: COS/Mexico City  
From: Douglas J. Freapane  
Subject: Status Report, Project (LIOGLE/LIMIX), Covering Period 1 February thru 29 February 1968

I. Actions Taken:

(1) LIMIX-1 prepared and published 5,000 copies of the monthly LIMIX political newspaper for distribution in offices of the PRI in Mexico City and to selected officials in the provinces. Copies are included as Attachment A to this report. This issue contains good photographic coverage of the national convention of the PRI; an article on page 3 based on previous speeches by the new President of the PRI, Alfonso Martinez Dominguez; a series of interviews with political and intellectual figures regarding Martinez Dominguez on page 4; an article boosting the future leader of the federal workers union, Prof. Edgar Ropledo Santiago, on page 13; and a “plug” for the Olympics on the back page, in addition to other serious and light features of general interest.

(2) LIMIX-1 also prepared the monthly ideological magazine-supplement (see Attachment B), which contains the inaugural speech of the new President of the PRI and the new PRI “oficial mayor,” Fluvio Vista Altamirano, and which is included as an insert with the Attachment A newspaper.

(3) LI-01 MIX-1 (LIMIX-1) provided the Station with information from very reliable sources on the reasons for the dismissal of Lic. Francisco Galindo Ochoa from his post in the Presidency and on what the government expects of Martinez Dominguez in the PRI.

(4) IDENTITY A and LI-MIX-1 continued a close relationship with ex-Deputy Salvador Padilla Flores, who is supposed to be a good friend of the new President of the PRI.

(5) The representative of the Municipal Government of Mexico City in Atzcapozalco, Ing. Raúl Garza Montemayor, provided the IDENTITY A group with a second office, also located in a building owned by the Municipality.

(6) The IDENTITY A group continued, now with official support, to organize athletic events, show motion pictures provided by QKFLOWAGE and the West German embassy, and conduct activities related to the organization of PRI youth activities in this zone of Mexico City, Atzcapozalco.

(7) The LIMIX “Ateneo,” headed by IDENTITY B, suffered a “temporary loss” of its TV programs, and IDEN B was busy trying to find governmental contacts with sufficient power to force Channel 11 to return the TV time to the “Ateneo.” LIMIX-1 believes the loss was caused by the dismissal of Galindo Ochoa from the Presidency; Galindo had given IDEN B unofficial support in his relationship with the TV station management. It is believed that “Ateneo” time can be recovered; however, IDEN B is also investigating the possibility of obtaining time on a commercial TV channel and a radio station.

(8) IDEN B and LIMIX-1 continued cultivation of Lic. Esteban Ruiz Ponce, who is employed as a “secretario adjunto” to Lic. Joaquín Cisneros, the Private Secretary of the President of Mexico. LIMIX-1 also had several
