To: Chief, Finance Division. Via: Contract Approving Officer. From: Chief of Station, Mexico City.

Subject: Engagement of LIRING-3 as Independent Contractor.

1. Term and project charge: The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under Project LIRAVINE and is chargeable to LIRAVINE. The effective date of the oral contract is 1 December 1968, subject to termination by ODYOKE upon 30 days' actual notice.

2. Security approval: The appropriate security approval for subject's use has been terminated. Type: Date: 3/20/68.

3. Citizenship: Subject is not a foreign national.

4. Compensation: The subject will be paid 4,000 per month. The approximate equivalent of this amount in US$ is 320.00 dollars. Subject will not receive a Christmas bonus equivalent to ________. Other compensations in the nature of bonus commitments, gifts, paid vacations, etc., include: None.

5. Taxes: Subject is not subject to perpetual income taxes. If subject is subject to perpetual income taxes, payments and/or deductions will be made in the following manner:

6. Quarters and/or subsistence: Subject will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence allowances. The following commitments have been made regarding additional compensation to accommodate increase of cost-of-living and quarters expenses:

7. Operational expenses: Subject will be reimbursed for operational travel. Subject will be reimbursed for operational expenses. Nature of operational expenses for which subject will be reimbursed: operational entertainment, inducement payments, cover expenses.

8. Contingent obligations: The following have not been promised the individual but may have to be met by ODYOKE. Give reason for each contingent obligation:

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

Signed: Wallace B. Rowton, Case Officer.

Approved: Willard C. Curfis, Field Contracting Office (FC).

Reviewed: Contract Approving Officer. Jan. 7, 1968.

Distribution: 3 authentic copies of Hqs; 1 file P-12729; 1 support.

Special Contracting Officer.

Reviewed: Paul R. Ween.
