Committee Office.

Training Report: Grammar and Punctuation. 20 hours, part-time. Number of students: 23. Date of course: 16–26 May 1966.

Distribution Information. Section I, name of student: Maksymiec, Myroslaw A. To whom: 1917. Date: November 1961. Office: NPIC. GE: 08. ID: IP.

Section II, Course Objectives—Committee and Instructors.

This course is taught 2 hours a day for 2 weeks. A test is given to evaluate the student's proficiency. The course is conducted through lectures, examples, and exercises; and the evaluation is based on a series of quizzes and a final examination.

The objectives of the course are the review and application of basic grammar principles and fundamental punctuation rules.

Section III, Method of Evaluation.

Student achievement is judged on the basis of competence in understanding and applying the principles and rules presented in the course objectives.

Achievement Record.

This trainee's rating is marked by an asterisk.

Subject: Grammar; Punctuation. Ratings: Poor, Fair, Satisfactory, Excellent.

Excellent: Thorough knowledge of material presented and above-average performance in meeting course goals.

Satisfactory: Average knowledge of material presented and adequate performance in meeting course goals.

Fair: Borderline knowledge of material presented and limited performance in meeting course goals.

Poor: Inadequate knowledge of material presented and unsatisfactory performance in meeting course goals.

Section IV, Comments.

This review course in grammar and punctuation was too advanced for Mr. Maksymiec. He needs an elementary course on the English fundamentals, preferably on a tutorial basis, before he can adequately apply the rules of punctuation and grammar to his work.

In a personal conference with Mr. Maksymiec (Maksymioc), the instructor analyzed his weaknesses in grammar and punctuation and suggested ways in which he might improve his performance in those areas.

Comments on reverse side.

For the Director of Training.
