Fitness Report.

Employee Serial Number: 035655.

Section A — General.

1. Name (Last, First): Maksymiec, Myronlaw A.  
2. Date of Birth: 06/29/17.  
3. Sex: M.  
4. Grade: W-09.  
5. SD: TP.  
6. Office/Classroom of Assignment: FRC/TCSS/FSD.  
8. Current Station: Washington, D.C.

9. Type of Appointment: Career.

11. Date Report Due in O.P.: 30 October 1967.  
12. Reporting Period (From–To): 30 September 1967 to 30 September 1968.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to termination. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Conducts experimental laboratory investigations related to the photographic process. This involves the determination of what approach to take to a given problem; keeping detailed records of various experiments tried; determining results and making recommendations for possible solutions.

Rating Letter: W.

Specific Duty No. 2: As senior photographic technician has the responsibility for maintenance of all photographic equipment and also in the selection of new equipment. Helps in the procurement of photographic supplies.

Rating Letter: P.
