Section IX. Qualifications for Other Operations

1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications possessed by subject which could conceivably be of value for other operations. Subject has a printing plant and therefore could be necessary to provide printed material clandestinely.

Section X. Commitments

1. If it is proposed to pay subject a regular salary, indicate the weekly amount. If payment to be made in exchange for commodities, subsidy, or other method, specify and give details. Subject will be given gifts at appropriate times during the year.

2. Explain any promises, otherwise not covered herein, made to subject. None.

Section XI. CE and Security

1. Indicate the field agencies and field files with which subject's name has been checked and the results. Station Havana and Headquarters files have been checked regarding subject.

2. Indicate other investigative measures taken to verify biographical information furnished by subject. A financial check by Dun and Bradstreet was also run on subject.

3. Indicate whether or not provisional operational approval or operational approval for subject's use has been previously obtained.

4. Date approval obtained: 8 January 1967.

5. Evaluate subject's character, reliability, and security, citing evidence where possible. Subject is a liberal Cuban businessman who dedicated time and money to the Cuban 26 of July Movement in Mexico during 1957–68. He is of strong character and highly thought of by most members of the Cuban colony in Mexico. He is an independent thinker and cannot be pushed around.

6. Explain any situation or indiscretion in which subject may have been involved which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security viewpoint. The Case Officer has met LITAMIL-1 on several occasions during the past year at his business office. While at the office, Ricardo Vidal Dominguez, Cuban Chargé d'Affaires (Chargeas), has been in contact with the office and on two occasions talked with Case Officer. LITAMIL-1 believes that VIDAL will not talk about these contacts to Cuban officials.

Section XII. Subject's Personal Habits

1. Use of liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours. Subject not known to have any obvious vices.
