5. Charles claims the support of a substantial segment of the clergy, intelligentsia, teachers, and students, as well as tenants in the rural areas. As a devoted Roman Catholic, he maintains a close relationship with the church authorities and also interferes with Benito Juárez, Mexican president at the time, and his successor at the Jesuitless Church's St. Philippine Cathedral in Port-au-Prince. In addition, he claims to have several important compatriots on his payroll.

6. Charles is fully aware of the danger confronting him and his fellow conspirators, but they are determined to “eliminate” Duvalier (Devallier) and his key supporters. Bule Charles “controls” Charles Desclaux through Colonial Louis, and the Coast Guard through Chaimel Chilliard. He is confident that, in the event of a successful coup by a military junta, he and his associates will be able to round up the principal supporters of Duvalier. Although he has his men, Captain Fronal, in the Presidential Guard, he realizes that high-ranking officers loyal to Duvalier could cause trouble. Charles and his associates expect violence during the initial stages of their coup. No definite date has yet been set for action, but Charles is convinced that the coup must be carried out “within the next few months” to save the country from economic and political chaos. In any case, Charles and especially his military friends feel that 1967 is the year of decision.

7. At present, Charles has no contact with British students. However, initial steps to establish a good relationship with exiles in the United States have been taken. In early May 1967, Brinet met Leslie Hanover in a prominent anti-Duvalier strike, whose entire family was killed by Duvalier's gangsters. Hanover agreed to support Charles in case of a final objection with Premier Duvalier. Moreover, he promised to line up some of his fellow stylists for Charles and his friends. Negotiations between Charles and Hanover are in progress.

8. Mr. Fourand, an M.D. in Haiti, is no longer trusted by Duvalier. Bar Duvalier and his family have the services of four doctors: Dr. Modaré, an orthopedist; Dr. Tivensay, another orthopedist; Dr. Buntape, a general practitioner; and Dr. Martineze Bagulay. Duvalier's secretary is Mrs. Edouard Mettu. A male nurse, Tungo Sami, is entrusted with taking personal blood samples to test Duvalier. Sami is well liked by the President, who made him a member of the legislative Chamber.
