Continuation of dispatch. Operation symbol and number: ATT TO UFGA-19569 PG 2.

6. CAS source asked Mrs. Orozco into which area did her husband intend to infiltrate Cuba. Mrs. Orozco said that he planned to go into northeastern Matanzas Province, to the Marti area, where he had several contacts who had helped him in the past. CAS source pressed for other details of the actual site of infiltration, but Mrs. Orozco protested ignorance of further details. She said that her husband had with him an “expert” named “Mateo,” who knew the area completely. “Mateo” was later identified as Alberto Gonzalez Ortiz. CAS files indicate that Gonzalez has made a number of clandestine trips to Cuba while contracting to bring out relatives of exiles for money. His reputation is unsavory, based upon the generally accepted fact that he has accepted large sums of money to bring families out and has frequently failed to make good his promises. It is also a commonly accepted fact among the exile fishermen that Gonzalez will never undertake such a trip unless he has been previously paid or is completely certain that the money will be made available upon his return.

7. Mrs. Orozco said that she did not know the name of her husband’s intended primary contact in the Marti area. She mentioned one “Candido” Diaz, a fisherman, and one Pedro Barbi, the owner of the Bate Marino Restaurant in Cardenas. Orozco had told his wife that he intended to see these persons to help him with transportation to Havana and to provide him with funds. Mrs. Orozco contends (CONTENTS)—and it is a sure point with her—that Orozco left with only a few counterfeit pesos. Once in Havana, Orozco planned to go first to the home of Mario Gil Gonzalez (his patronymic has also been spelled “Hill”). From there, Orozco planned to go directly to the address of the Cabrera woman, which he had received from Orizondo, pick up Vasquez and group, and leave.

8. Mrs. Orozco said that her husband told her that he would send a telegram to her as soon as he reached Havana safely. Shortly before his departure, he would send another cable in pre-arranged code to indicate that he was on his way out. Mrs. Orozco was then to call Orizondo, who was to arrange an air search for the boat. As later told by Mrs. Orozco, inclusion of the word “bien” (good) in a cable indicated that Orozco was safe in Havana. Inclusion of the word “salio” (left or departed) would indicate that he was on his way out.

9. Mrs. Orozco said that Orizondo had called Havana on 30 December 1964, presumably to the Cabrera woman’s home. Vasquez himself had answered the phone and stated that there was no news from Orozco or from anyone else. Vasquez and the group were still waiting for contact.

10. CAS source asked Mrs. Orozco how much money Orozco had left behind for her support. She replied that her husband had left
