7. Koten's Arrest and the KGB Agent

a. Information from Nosenko

Nosenko was asked in Geneva on 26 January 1964 whether he had been involved in the arrest of an American tourist in the USSR in the fall of 1963. Almost at once, Nosenko recognized this as the case of Bernard Koten, a guide for Alton Tours in New York City (and hence an employee of Alexander Svenchanskiy—see below) who had been apprehended on homosexual charges in Kiev. Nosenko explained that, while he had not personally participated in the arrest and had never met Koten, he had supervised the case from KGB Headquarters and “the case was reported to me.”

Nosenko said that Koten had long been a member of the American Communist Party and was a frequent visitor to the Soviet Union after World War II. On these trips he had a large number of contacts with dissident literary figures and with Soviet citizens in general, particularly among Russian Jews. Because of these many suspicious contacts, both the KGB First and the Second Chief Directorate had come to the conclusion that Koten might well be a provocation agent planted in or recruited from the ranks of the Communist Party of the United States. Moreover, on the eve of Koten's 1963 trip, the Tourist Department learned from V. B. Barkovskiy of the First Chief Directorate's Scientific and Technical (S&T) Directorate that Koten was carrying with him the address of relatives of an important agent of the KGB's Legal Residency, and that Koten intended to visit them while in the USA. Nosenko said he did not know the name of this agent.

This agent was a naturalized American citizen, about 40 to 45 years old, an engineer born in Russia, who was employed in an “interesting industrial company or technical organization in the New York City area.” For some time he had been working.

CIA told Nosenko of this information about Sokolow in March 1965. He recalled that a woman named Sonya worked for Svenchanskiy but said that “we considered that he (Svenchanskiy) was doing it (spotting the tourists).” Nosenko did not know of any Soviet Intelligence ties to Sokolow.

Nosenko has explained in another context that the Second Chief Directorate is wary of foreign contacts with Soviet Jews because the Israeli Intelligence Service has frequently sponsored such contacts.
