to make a friend of any U.S. girls. He did pay one girl to give him lessons, but he felt she lacked background in grammar. I joked with him and implied that he was looking for something more than English lessons and that Mexican girls struck me as being far sexier. He accepted the innuendo that his interests in girls were broader than just language training, but he insisted on U.S. girls.

E. Svetlana defection. Val said that the Svetlana defection bothered him. He feels the U.S. bought Svetlana, that she is crazy, and that her defection will hurt U.S.-USSR relations. I offered to be bought by the USSR to balance the defections. He said I wasn't worth anything to the USSR.

F. Trips. Val is going out of town this weekend. He was in Acapulco recently.

G. Known at club. Many people greeted Val at the club.

H. Embassy holidays. Val said the embassy would be closed May 1–4 and that no receptions were planned. This contradicts Nick.

3. Susceptibility. Nick is an anti-Vietnam (Viet-Man) person. He believes that U.S. politics are in the hands of 16 men, the Rockefellers (Rockefollors), etc. Those men make fortunes off military armaments and want the war to continue. He claimed that Vietnam (Viet-Man) is a civil war fostered by the U.S. The U.S. will win because the U.S. has formed an artificial barrier dividing one people. I suggested that it was not unlike Germany, which is one people divided. He seemed annoyed at the comparison and tried to explain it in complex terms, which I chose not to debate. I told him politics discouraged me since I know from history that the actions of today are governed by secret agreements which we will not be privileged (privolaged) to learn of for another 50 or 100 years. Val hastened to say that he did not insist on talking about politics. If at any time I should like to discuss politics, he is at my disposal, but is willing to discuss anything at all.

4. Houston. Val has always wanted to visit Houston. He regrets the U.S. restrictions on travel there. He supposes the U.S. has many secrets there to hide. I said that he was obviously a dangerous person.

5. Girlfriend. Val spoke of his girlfriend in Moscow whose sister is dying of cancer. He used the word “girlfriend,” but his English might be weak here. He might have met a false acquaintance of his wife and him.
