Chile. March 18, 1952.

Press Friedman Committee—The President will form a committee for the purpose of studying laws which include repressive measures against the freedom of the press, on March 18 at La Moneda. Press representatives are Emilio Pacul, Juan Honorato, and Mario Vergara. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, March 17, 1952, 2322 GMT—R)

Coal Situation—Reports from the coal region state that the situation is normal and that the workers have decided to work with provincial authorities in trying to reach an agreement after the failure of the Santiago talks. Metallurgical workers at the Lota and Coronel mines have returned to work in accordance with union directives. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, March 17, 1952, 2325 GMT—R)

Chamber Presidential Line-Up—Since the Chamber of Deputies will meet March 18 to open the special session which will extend to May 21, it is interesting to note the position and strength of its members in regard to the roster of Presidential aspirants: Favoring Arturo Matte Larrain are 33 Liberals, 21 Conservative-Traditionalists, 5 Agrarian Laborites, 2 Liberal-Progressives, and one Independent Democrat, or a total of 63. Favoring Pedro Enrique Alfonso are 42 Radicals, 9 Conservatives and 5 Democrats: total, 56. Carlos Ibanez del Campo: 9 Agrarian Laborites, 5 Socialists, one People's Democrat, and 2 Independent Conservatives; total, 17. Salvador Allende: 6 Socialists and one National Front; total, 7. The only unknown positions and numbers are those of the National Falangists, and the Independent Deputy, Melendez Anfruns. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, March 16, 1952, 2350 GMT—R)

Gath y Chavez (Cath y Chavez) Closing—Gath y Chavez has announced a closing-out of its entire stock of merchandise, thus terminating the career of one of Santiago's best-known business houses. The company closed its doors last Christmas as a result of a strike declared by its personnel. (Santiago, AFP, March 15, 1952, 0000 GMT—R)

Immigration Program—The bill drafted by the Government Immigration Committee, presided over by Under Secretary of the Interior Gres, is designed to legislate all matters connected with the immigration of foreigners. The plan proposes the creation of an immigration department or office which will be under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which will be in charge of orienting all immigrants arriving in Chile. Also under consideration is the plan to exempt all immigrants from paying taxes for a period of 5 years. This would include customs duty on their property and machinery as well as income tax. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, March 14, 1952, 2326 GMT—R)
