Amilcar Cabrera.

That was a name used, not a pseudonym, a false name. It doesn't represent anyone; it represents the FALN of Venezuela in Europe. They have a bureau in France. I didn't really know them. I knew there were several people. One of them, a graphic artist, whose drawings were printed in Revolution. They brought the things to him. They are authentic. Because when Verges had a young French boy traveling through Latin America, he went to Venezuela. They got him into the guerrillas. They got him all around. We had some very authentic first-hand reports. So whoever they are, they are authentic. They were very, very cautious, probably suspicious of me because I was an American, so I never had any real conversation with them.

Do you know anything about who Verges's link to them was?

No.

Do you know if he still has them?

I know this: they asked him to remove the name Amilcar Cabrera, and it has been removed because it was identified with them. He then put in a note in the twelfth French edition that in the future he would receive an article from the information department of the FALN. They'd be foolish not to send material, but they didn't want to be identified with the editorial policy of the magazine. This may reflect various tendencies inside of the FALN which I have read about. I don't know anything first-hand, that they split between a hard line, those who want guerrilla to continue the real struggle and the sabotage struggle, and those who want to look for possible negotiated solutions. One group that is a little more pro-Chinese.

In any case, these people did represent the FALN; there is no doubt about it. I didn't know any of them. They never had any dealings with me.

Patricia Magowan.

I know very little about her. She did this book on Portugal. She was connected with the British Communist Party but also with Trotskyists. She was the one who found Rosalind Ainslie to work here in London for the magazine. She is the mistress of a man named Carlos.

I'm not certain. That might be it. He is a European born in Mozambique, a Portuguese, who has been kept going by various African movements for years because he represents (laughing) an民族 conference leader, what the French call an interlocuteur, when they want to call him out.
