Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number.

Section A: General.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Maintenance of effective WOC status and functioning as a WOMACE officer in this situation. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 2: Maintains direct long-term contact with CRPOLAR personnel and exploits these contacts for operational objectives. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 3: Provides spotting reports on wide range of contacts and follows up with additional meetings when an individual is of special interest to Station. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4: Responds to Station requirement for information on individuals or organizations. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 5: Operational reporting. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 6. Rating letter.

Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position, such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
