Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or fill in gaps given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, tools, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

During the past year Mr. Christ has attempted to consolidate the large areas of responsibility in his Applied Physics Division which now encompasses effort in positive audio surveillance, countermeasures, micropower and micro-technology, and emplacement. He continues to be conscientious, responsive, and aggressive in the management and development of these technical programs. Further, during the past year giant strides have been taken in the coordination of many of these efforts with their eventual consumers. This coordination has been above and beyond that required by existing Agency regulations.

His managerial talents encompass a wide range of activities and it must be acknowledged that they are responsible in large measure for many of the forward-looking, highly productive programs under his direction. On occasion his enthusiasm for some of the Division efforts tends to lead to over-acceleration in some cases where perhaps careful reassessment would be in order. However, his generally cooperative and thoughtful exercise of initiative has resulted in truly large steps forward in technical areas where the cost effectiveness cannot yet be determined. His judicious application of other-agency funds has directly saved this Agency many hundreds of thousands of dollars.

Mr. Christ received a QSI for his efforts during this reporting period.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: April 29, 1968. Signature of Employer: J. Vincent F. Christ.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 54.

If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation.

Date: 29 April 1968. Official title of supervisor: Director of Research and Development. Type or printed name and signature: Robert M. Chapman.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: No appropriate reviewing official. Date. Official title of reviewing official. Type or printed name and signature.
