Section C: Narrative Comments.

During the period covered by this report, Subject has settled into his new cover job as an upper-level executive in an international organization. This salary offsets approximately 40% of the cost of maintaining this NOC in Paris. His cover is, however, excellent for other than financial reasons: Subject's experience and skills are such that he is admirably qualified to perform the job and is doing outstanding work in the eyes of his peers and supervisors, all of whom are unwitting. More importantly, it places him in a situation where he has normal, daily contact with numerous Soviet officials and by skillful use of his cover job he concocts logical reasons for contacting Chinese officials to whom he does not have natural access. In addition to direct contact to target individuals, Subject uses his position to spot and assess co-workers having access to Station targets.

The area of Subject's performance most in need of strengthening is follow-up development of operational targets. His cover situation is somewhat unique for an NOC in that it puts him in daily contact with his priority target group: Soviet officials and other potential agents having direct access to Soviet officials. This access is not fully exploited. He should make a concerted effort to expand social and/or business contacts with the four or five Soviet officials who work in close proximity to him and to seek out and assess eight or ten third.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 15 Feb 74. Signature of employee: /s/ Thomas B. CASASIN.

By Supervisor. Official title of supervisor: Operations Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Oleg N. Selsky, for Joe Irl Saltsman.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the supervisor's letter ratings and with the substance of his narrative comments. Put as simply as possible, Subject has done an outstanding job in establishing superb access cover; it now remains for him and the Station to exploit it operationally. On the basis of his ability during the reporting period to establish meaningful relationships with target Soviets or to spot and assess leads to potential agents who can, Subject's retention in this assignment would not be justified in terms of costs. The 40% rebate does make this effort entirely defensible, however, but Subject should understand that we expect more concrete results now that his cover position has been solidified.

Date: 12 Feb 74. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ John W. Berg.
