6. Benefits.

(a) You will be entitled to death and disability benefits equal to those authorized under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended. Claims by you, your heirs, or legal representatives under this paragraph will be processed by this organization in accordance with its procedures in such manner as not to impair security.

(b) You will be entitled to the continuance of pay and allowances in a manner similar to that set forth in the Missing Persons Act (50 U.S.C.A., App. 1001–1015).

(c) You will be entitled to sick, annual, and home leave, including travel expenses incident thereto, equal to and subject to the same rules and regulations applicable to government-appointed employees. Annual leave may only be taken at times and places approved in advance by appropriate government representatives. All accrued but unused leave credited to your former account as an appointed employee of this organization will be transferred to the leave account established for you hereunder.

(d) As a government employee under contract converted from staff status without a break in service, it is required that you continue to make contributions to the Civil Service Retirement Fund. Such contributions, presently six and one-half percent (6-1/2%), will be deducted by the government from the basic compensation due you hereunder, presently $19,880 per annum.

(e) You are herein authorized to apply for enrollment in a health insurance program for certain selected contract employees of this organization, subject to all the terms and conditions of that program. If accepted, this organization is presently authorized to bear a portion of the premium cost; you will bear the remainder. Your financial contribution will be effected either by payroll deduction or by direct remittance at periodic intervals to be established by this organization.

(f)(1) This organization is authorized to pay the cost of necessary hospitalization and related travel expenses for illness or injury incurred by a United States citizen full-time contract employee in the line of duty while abroad.

(2) This organization may pay certain necessary costs of hospitalization and related travel expenses for illness or injury incurred by the dependents of a United States citizen full-time contract employee permanently assigned abroad, while they are located abroad.

It is understood and agreed that the eligibility and extent of the participation by you and your dependents in the above medical programs will be in conformance with the rules, regulations, and policies of this organization in effect at the time an illness or injury is incurred, that all claims will be submitted only to this organization, and that adjudication of such claims by this organization shall be final and conclusive.

7. Offset.

Emoluments, including benefits in kind, received from or through your cover activities are the property of the U.S. Government. Procedurally, such emoluments will be offset against amounts due you under this agreement and are acknowledged to be payment by the government hereunder and for federal income tax purposes. If cover emoluments exceed those due you under this contract, you will dispose of this excess amount in conformity with governmental instructions.
