Contract for Civil Commitments.

Date: 5 March 1965.

To: Chief, Finance Division.  
Via: Contract Approving Officer.  
From: Chief of Station, Mexico City.  
Submit: Inherent in 1967- as independent contractor.

1. Pay and Project Summary: The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under Project LIMATE and is chargeable to LEAVING. The effective date of the oral contract is 3 March 1965, subject to termination by notice upon 30 days' actual notice.

2. Security Approval: The appropriate security approval for the subject's use has been obtained. Type POA in process. Date: [blank].

3. Citizenship: Subject is not a foreign national.

4. Communication: The subject will be paid 5000 pesos per month. The approximate equivalent of this amount in PPP's currency is 10 dollars. Subject will receive a Christmas bonus equivalent to one month's pay. Other compensation in the nature of bonus commitments, gifts, paid vacations, etc., includes small Christmas and birthday gifts that may be given. No commitment.

5. Taxes: Subject is not subject to PAYE income taxes.

Quarters and/or Subsistence: Subject will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence allowances. No commitments have been made regarding additional compensation to accommodate increased cost-of-living and quarters expenses.

7. Operational Expenses: Subject will be reimbursed for operational travel and operational expenses. Any minor operational expense approved by the Case Officer, such as transportation to a meeting site, will be reimbursed. Subject has never submitted a claim for any such expense to date.

8. Commitment Obligations: The following have not been promised the individual but may have to be met by notice. Subject may have to be provided safe haven if his government halts awareness of his activities for notice. This does not imply any action on the part of the Government.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

10. Comment: This MDC was submitted because the subject's salary was raised from $4000 to $5000 a month effective 1 March 1965. Authority: DIR 69922 (IN 5455) of 5 March 1965.

GUEST: Case Officer.

Approved: Silvestre G. Cсти, Field Contracting Officer (CSO).

Signed: Contract Approving Officer.

Distribution: 2 authentic copies to Ins.; 1 file P 6079; 1 Support.
