Section C — Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in mind a prospective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention of performance of money or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If appropriate, needs to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Flores is a part-time staff employee who works a minimum of nineteen hours per week; he is also a full-time college student in his senior year, majoring in political science and specializing in Latin American studies. Subsequent comments should be prefaced by the statement that Mr. Flores' overall performance of his assigned duties would be considerably more efficient if he were able to devote full time to his assignment. On the other hand, Mr. Flores is preparing himself academically for a useful career with the Agency and in the rater's opinion shows promise of becoming a very capable and competent officer.

Mr. Flores is bilingual and has served very efficiently as a translator for the Branch. He has gained very valuable experience as a case officer in the handling of two contract agents of WII/COG/CICS and in doing so has demonstrated tact, sound judgment and a fine ability to handle people. Mr. Flores is very personable, intelligent and makes an excellent appearance. With the completion of his studies he should be able to make the transition from Intelligence Assistant to Junior Case Officer, which the rater heartily recommends.

Section D — Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have been Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date. Signature of employee.

30 November 66. J.A. Castoro.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 11 months.

If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation.

Date: 30 November 66. Official title of supervisor: DC/WII/COG/CICS. Typed or printed name and signature: John A. Castoro.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

Mr. Flores has worked closely under my direct supervision in the handling of the two contract employees listed under Specific Duty No. 1 and 2. I concur with the rating of Mr. Castoro and can only emphasize that I believe Mr. Flores will make a good Case Officer and I plan to recommend him for CT
