Section C

Status: Yes / No. Reason: Other.

(To be filmed if possible by the officer, e.g., 5-10/91. Service agreement will be forwarded to a local judge.)

Yes—I am a current Agent of the State of New York. Service agreement will be forwarded to a local judge.

No—because of the temporary inability of the State of New York to service agreement. Service agreement will be forwarded to a local judge.

Yes—Agent may stay over 18 months on agency service期 is 30 days. Please contact me directly if I am not able to complete my service agreement. If this has caused a delay in the processing of my claim, please let me know so that I can begin processing it again.

No—I am合格的Agent and a valid “Applicant” for membership in the Current Staff of the CIA. I am not listed in his office. Request him from his office to send me his membership record to the office. The office will then inform me whether he is eligible for benefits under the Agent’s service agreement.

Section D

Recommendation of Head of Career Service

1. Based on his career assignment and past and progressive performance of qualifying service, this employee is recommended for designation as a Special Service Agent in the CIA Retirement and Disability System. He is serving in a career field which normally requires the performance of qualifying service as an integral part of a career in that field.

2. Type name or title. 3. Signature of head of career service. 4. Date.

Section E

Recommendation of CIA Retirement Board

1. The record of this employee has been reviewed and the CIA Retirement Board has recommended on that this employee: (Date)

Be designated as a participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability System.

Not be designated as a participant.

2. Type name or title. 3. Signature. 4. Date.

Section F

Determination by Director of Personnel (Persondue)

1. In accordance with Regulation 20-50, this employee is designated or not designated as a participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability System.

2. Signature of director of Personnel (Persondie). 3. Date.

Section G

Additional Information

I certify, subject to any conditions I may impose in Section 3 of this document, that I have read the contents of the attached copy of the Agent’s service agreement.
