To: Chief, WH Division. Headquarters P.O. Record No. 201-119523; 50-6-74/1. From: Chief of Station, Mexico City. Date: 23 November 1960. Subject: Raymond H. GERENDE (ps)/Emergency Contact Arrangements. RE 433. Action required: No sending required. Marked for indeterminate.

Reference: HMMA-15979, KAPOK-1842, dated 18 November 1960.

1. In compliance with the KUBARK regulation, CSI-F No. 230-60, Annex A, concerning contact arrangements under emergency conditions, the following information, including recognition signals and bona fides, is forwarded for Headquarters records. Due to the sensitivity of the information, it was believed more appropriate to forward it separately rather than to include it with reference (Request for Renewal of Project LIEMPTY).

2. Insofar as can be determined at the present time, GERENDE could probably be contacted at one of the following places: Present residence: IDENTITY A. Mother’s residence: IDENTITY B. Cover employment address: IDENTITY C.

3. The following oral recognition signals, using the English language, are to be used as indicated:

CONTACT: “Mr. (GERENDE-true name), I bring the most sincere wishes and greetings from your Aunt and Uncle.”

GERENDE: “Then you are referring to the IDENTITY D.”

CONTACT: “No, I am referring to your other relatives in South Carolina, the IDENTITY E.”

GERENDE: “Yes, Auntie is my Mother’s sister.”

4. For use as physical bona fides, the Station is forwarding a one peso note with the serial number T348510 for Headquarters files. GERENDE has been given a one peso note with the next higher serial number, T348511, to keep in a safe place pending his having to show it to some future KUBARK contact. It has been explained to GERENDE that he is to show his half of the physical bona fides only after the recognition signals have been completely and accurately recited and his new contact has requested to see his physical bona fides. GERENDE has also been instructed to assure himself of his contact’s bona fides by asking to see the contact’s one peso note (T348510).

5. Assuming that adequate time will be available at the beginning of an emergency condition, it may well be possible to instruct GERENDE in Secret Writing so that correspondence could be conducted using IDENTITY D or E addresses.
