Section II. Motivation and Control.

1. Estimate subject's motivation. (Be detailed, if possible, some evidence. Do not use stock comment such as “anti-Communist.”) Subject is anti-Communist and pro-U.S. She wants to prove that she is anti-Communist by providing information to OJOKO on her activities inside the PREMEN Embassy.

2. Indicate what control, if any, exists over the subject. (If no control, or if there is none of real control explain.) Station Mexico City has little control over Subject except to reveal her activities to PREMEN authorities.

Section III. Cover.

1. Cover used by subject and case officer in their meetings. Meetings are held at the home of LITANEL-9 and if necessary the Case Officer could represent a visiting “friend.”

2. Cover used by subject in obtaining his information and in contacting his informants. Subject is employed at the PREMEX Zabasey and her information is gathered during the course of her working day.

3. Indicate service for W-10 subject thinks he'd all use, if useful. Subject knows she is working for OJOKO. She does not think in terms of intelligence agencies.

Section IV. Intelligence Connections and Training.

1. Explain subject's know of past or present connection with other intelligence service. Indicate the extent of such connection is known overtly. Subject has had no connection with any intelligence service in the past.

2. List other individuals (agents, relatives, friends) who know of subject's present intelligence activities. LITANEL-9, who introduced Subject to Case Officer and frequently attends meetings with Case Officer. LITANEL-9 suspects that Subject is working for OJOKO. He knows she is in contact with LITANEL-9 and he knows I-3 is in contact with Case Officer.

3. Explain any training subject has had in clandestine operations. Subject has had no training in clandestine operations. She is becoming increasingly aware of intelligence techniques, however, and her production has improved for this reason.

Section V. Collaboration Potential.

1. Indicate other foreign power subject would be most likely to collaborate with because of his ideology or past associations. Explain... Subject, being a Mexican, would probably collaborate with the Mexican Government if approached by high authorities.
