Separate Court Attachment to HHH-ALCOHOL

31 October 1957

Visa Section

28 August 1957

Attached

Max Edgardo GESCKIN Merendas

The following information is furnished as of interest to you in determining subject security status:

1. A. A report from an official source described as reliable, dated 28 December 1954 and evaluated as basically true, stated that groups from the Ortodoxo (Or soluble) Party led by subject recently collaborated with the Partido Socialista Popular in the planning of the protest campaign against the Cuban Government's plan to build the “Via Cuba” canal. The report went on to state that on 16 December 1954 the Cuban press published an article concerning a call made by subject in the name of the national executive committees of the Ortodoxo (Or soluble) Youth, to all youth organizations, including the Incorporated Socialist Party (C.S.P., Cuban Communist Youth organization), and other organized sectors of public opinion to attend a meeting at radio station C.O.C.C. on 10 December 1954 in order to join in the protest. Approximately 55 persons were reported to have answered the call, of whom 75 were described as Communists and the remainder an ortod course, many of whom had close ties with the Communists in the past.

B. Several subsequent investigations failed to confirm that there was any collaboration between the SP and other opposition groups in the protest against the Canal Via Cuba. All indications were that the legitimate opposition groups opposed this measure to attack the Government and thus found themselves accused of necromancy linked with the Communists, a favorite target of the Government. Subject's version of the incident was that only one Communist, Raoul VALENN Viver, showed up at the meeting and was promptly asked by subject to leave, which he did.

2. A. Another report from the source mentioned in paragraph 1 above, dated 5 January 1955 and evaluated as basically true, stated that a plot between certain Ortodoxo (Ortodoco) leaders and the SP had been concluded for the purpose of combating the socialist resistance. Subject: Mario RIVADILLA, both Ortodoxo (Ortodoco) Youth leaders, Francisco CAZETE, Ortodoxo (Ortodoco), Jose PECHEVARRIA, F.R.I. president, Amalio FIAMAC, Catholic Youth leader and PRIO follower, and Carlos Rafael BRORUTA and prencipe CATIECA Suárez, both Communists, were said to have attended some of the meetings leading up to this act. Anti-Politico propaganda issued by the “Frente Verde Ortodoxo Comunista” was said to have been found on the person of an Ortodoxo (Ortodoco) leader from Oriente Provinos gained by JIM on 3 January 1954.

201-20925-8
