CIA Request for Evaluation by State Department. Evaluating agency. Date of distribution: 27 January 1961. Chief. Country: Mexico/Cuba. Distribution number: CS-3/463,061. Field number: HM-5400. Date: 10 Apr. 61. Subject: Mexican Technicians Going to Work in Cuba.

Evaluator: Please complete this evaluation within 60 days of receipt of request. Need for completion within this time is priority standard. Indicate choices by “x.” If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under “Evaluator’s Comments”; normally, put one “x” in each appropriate section. Otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further notes on use of this form, see reverse.

A. Subject of this report is of major, moderate, little, or no importance in relation to our needs.

Collector’s comments and questions.

P. Contributes to our knowledge of the subject: significantly, substantially, moderately, or negligibly.

C. Accuracy: substantially true, credible, definitive, false, or cannot be judged. See D.

Relation to other information: useful for confirmation; useful for new information; sufficiently known; at present or lack other information to judge accuracy or usefulness; conflicts with previous information; appears to be fabrication.

Evaluator’s comments and follow-up questions.

E. Usefulness would have been greater with: more detail; less detail, more summary; less fragmentary approach; better organization; better observation or better exploitation of source, or both; stated in comment; no effect affecting usefulness.

This report would have been of greater value if it had included some comment on the political orientation of the technicians (if any) and whether they were being sent by the Mexican Government or were hired on a purely personal basis.

F. Other reporting needs: our important needs; our minimum needs; most of our minimum needs; few or none of our needs. Report satisfies it? Fully. Requirement can be closed. Partially. Portion of requirement may be closed. Partially, but need continues. Negligibly.

G. If subject is important to you, other reporting does not meet minimum needs, and you have filed no requirement: we will present a requirement soon; our need does not warrant a requirement for CS reporting.

M. Evaluator name (please print). Component. Phone.
