Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number.

Section A. General.

Name: Flores, Daniel (Middle). Date of birth: 4 Aug 35. Sex: M. Grade: GB-05. ID: D. Official position title: Intel Clerk. Type of appointment: X DDP/WH/COG. Current station: Y FASH, D.C. Type of report: Initial; Reassignment Supervisor; Annual; Reassignment Employee. X Special (Specific) recommendation for promotion. Date: 1 February 1967–15 June 1967. Reporting period: 1967–15 June 1967.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

W. York. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to termination. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Performs intelligence operations support work in connection with Cuban CI operations in third countries. Assembles lead files, collates data on hand and additional information received in preparation for target analysis.

Specific Duty No. 2: Screens Cuban Spanish language publications for information of value in the branch counter-espionage-counterintelligence records and for operational data. Rating letter: S.

Specific D
