Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of magnetic or highly mobile and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be commented on if applicable.

Section C: Attach a separate sheet of paper.

Since her arrival at this Station, Subject's performance has truly been outstanding. She has, on her own initiative, reorganized many of the operational files and procedures of the PBRUMEN Section. She has made particularly useful exhaustive analyses of the documents concerning a number of Station targets, not only per request of this Station but also on her own initiative. She has revamped the Section's travel program, curtailing the watchlist to a more manageable size and expediting the reporting of travel information to the many customers for such information. Her thorough review of the take of several technical operations has increased their usefulness as well as emphasized their weaknesses.

Subject has shown great potential and is very capable talent for administration. Her initiative, sharp analytic mind, and good knowledge of Spanish have greatly facilitated the operation of the PBRUMEN Section of this Station at a time of almost complete personnel change. She has not been directly involved with the actual running of operations, both because she appears much better suited for the support-type work entrusted to her and because she frankly would not have the time under present circumstances to do so. Subject is carrying the workload usually handled by more than one person.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 16 Jan. 1968. Signature of Employee: /s/ Charlotte Bustos-Vidola.

By Supervisor.

Months Employee Has Been Under My Supervision: 5 months.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 16 Jan. 1968. Official Title of Supervisor: Ops Officer. Typed or Printed Name and Signature: Francis Sherry.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of Reviewing Official: The Reviewing Officer fully concurs in the evaluation of Subject by the Rating Officer. Subject consistently turns in a superior performance, whatever her task, and for a Station Chief the only problem she presents is to determine where best to assign her. She is a source of strength to her Section, and has the knack of making herself irreplaceable.

Date: 17 January 1968. Official Title of Reviewing Official: Chief of Station. Typed or Printed Name and Signature: Winston D. Miller.
