All the information I have been able to gather suggests that the combination of Muñoz Marín (Munoz Marín)/Figueroa, as far as Washington is concerned, is unbearable and that Artime (Arttime) has little choice but to align himself with their way of looking at things—or at least to pay lip service to it.

3. Another angle I would like to explore is President Betancourt (Botancourt). The more I read of his accomplishments as president, the more impressed I am. What would you think of having Artime, armed with a letter of introduction from Figueroa, pay Betancourt a call before he relinquishes the presidency. Artime’s approach would not be that of a supplicant or solicitor of support, but that of a young man making a pilgrimage, sitting at the feet of a revolutionary who has been successful, absorbing knowledge of how it was done. He could ask Betancourt, after he is out from under the daily grind of government, to address himself to the problems of post-Castro Cuba. He could invite him to chair a seminar attended by the MRR leadership. The objective would, of course, be to involve Betancourt in the affairs of the MRR, without putting his name on the masthead and without asking him to contribute anything but reflections of his lustre as a Latin American leader who bequeathed his country a constitutional and democratic regime. Undoubtedly Artime will have to cast off ideological ballast in order to accommodate his reluctant sponsors (Figueroa, Betancourt), but Havana “vaut bien une messe.” As a minimum objective, Artime would in any case have to strive to neutralise the latent animosities of the moderate left, denying Manolo Kay an unchallenged ascendancy in monopolizing its support, which he can probably get for the asking.

4. A welcome by-product of the resuscitation of JMHART is “Combate,” an influential periodical with strong readership appeal in Latin America among elements of the moderate left, edited by Monje. A German national named Dr. Rich Hersog who is a member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) has been lecturing in San Jose on an “Ideological Inquiry into Communism.” His program, indirectly sponsored by the Federal Republic, JMHART, its wield considerable influence in molding the thinking of Central America’s left-of-center leadership. The First Secretary of the Israeli Embassy in Guatemala has also been mentioned as influential among the intellectual elite. A Puerto Rican named Santiago Poliante.
