Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for the relevant position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

May 15, 91. Maj. Wigren (Wigan): Mr. Wigren continues to make an excellent the high quality of performance noted in his preceding fitness report.

His analytic work is characterized chiefly by his ability to view a case in perspective. He brings extensive experience to bear upon current undertakings and thus looks at a given RIS operation or project not as a picture in a frame but rather as one part of the history of Soviet intelligence.

His work is further characterized by flexibility, thoroughness, and sound judgement. He has a knack for getting at facts; he does not jump to conclusions. He organizes material well and writes with lucidity.

Mr. Wigren is also genuinely interested in his field. He reads and studies publications about the USSR during off-duty hours. He is able to read Russian and uses this language skill in his work.

Although he does not need close supervision, he is very responsive to guidance. He is also a congenial person whose relationships with his colleagues are uniformly cordial. Although he has no present supervisory responsibilities, both his past record (continued).

Section D: Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 4 December 70. Signature of employee: Lt. H. Wigren (Wigan).

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 24. Date: 4 December 70. Official title of supervisor: Chief, CI/R&A. Typed or printed name and signature: Donovan E. Pratt.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the high evaluation given Subject by his supervisor, Mr. Pratt. Mr. Wigren handles extremely sensitive operations in a competent, thoroughly professional manner. He relates well with his co-workers and is respected by them. I too believe he is performing his duties in an exceptionally proficient manner.
