For by the German Government and USEP. The Karlsfeld project will hopefully attack the problem causing poor attendance, namely lack of interest and poor social adjustment.

(2) The World's YMCA conducts language training in Valka and Karlsfeld. Other classes were discontinued due to lack of attendance, but a campaign is now in progress to rebuild the program.

(f) Questions: What housing projects have been projected?

No further housing projects are contemplated until:

(1) The agency counsellors visit each family and definitely determine the problems facing them, and

(2) The present 126 to 146 spaces are effectively utilized.

13. Question: What are future plans for the items listed in paragraph 127?

The fundamental shortcoming in the USEP program to assist Soviet escapes is the fact that the counselling program has not been completed. Once this has been done, EPD Germany and the voluntary agencies together will develop a comprehensive program for meeting all of the needs of the Soviet group. This plan will undoubtedly include inter alia:

1. Development, improvement and completion of the projects now in operation.

2. Increased supplemental aid as families are visited and their needs determined. Close supervision will be exercised to ensure that the agencies relate this aid to the solution of the families' problems, including health difficulties and housing.

3. All escapes will be registered for emigration, the employables among them will be trade-tested, and arrangements will be made to ensure that the proper vocational training is available to those requiring it. In addition, assistance will be extended in clearing up legal problems faced by escapes which might bar them from resettlement. The agencies will be required to submit special reports on their activities.

4. Special efforts are being made to revitalise the vocational training and language training programs. Past experience indicates that success in this endeavor will be limited. However, it is hoped that effective individual counselling will eventually induce the escapes to take proper training.
