Information Report.

Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Honduras. Subject: Economic Conditions in Rural Areas/Unemployment/Lack of Economic Development.

Report No.: 00-K-323/33118-67. Date distributed: 10 Nov 67. No. pages: 1. References: CIRL C-DC7-53550 (356). Date of info: Oct 67 and earlier. Place and date acquired: Oct 67 and earlier.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: Cuban national and engineer who has worked and lived in Honduras for the past two years. During this period he has developed social and business contacts with officials in government, the Armed Forces, and the business community.

This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. My work takes me to the rural areas in Honduras where I have opportunity to talk with the peasants. It is my considered opinion, based on personal observations, that the peasants in the rural areas are bitter and disgusted with their lot. They have little or no faith left in anyone. Economically, their condition is second only to Haiti, in comparison with the countries in the Caribbean. The prices of staples compare with prices in the US, but Honduran wages are far below US wages. Unemployment is a very grave problem. My company hires unskilled labor but does not need more than 200. We have had to refuse hundreds who applied because we had no need for them. A small fraction of those turned back will be able to find work, the rest will remain unemployed.

2. There is little economic development in the country and almost complete lack of initiative and vigor. Seldom is a man found in Government or industry who is not afflicted with the two major vices among this segment of the population: wine and women. The economic inactivity at times appears to be the result of indifference, other times the result of intentional delays by Communist infiltrators in Government. As an example of this “lack of initiative” I will make reference to the road in the Olancho area. The loan for this 110 kilometers of road was approved in October 1963. The road is badly needed to move agricultural products from this region, to provide employment for hundreds of needy people, and to provide the only access for the construction of a US$20 million pulp and paper plant in the area. Until the summer of 1967, these funds remained idle. Preliminary studies were not even made. With luck, construction may commence in 1963, but by this time payments on the principal and interest are due to start.
