(Seventh Department – January 1962–1964)

Nosenko's information.

Slesinger came under suspicion by the KGB First Chief Directorate because of his business transactions with a number of Soviets who visited his store and in whom he seemed to show more than casual interest. The First Chief Directorate was of the opinion that Slesinger was trying to become closely acquainted with some Soviets, to study them. Slesinger had visited the Soviet Union several times. Learning Slesinger planned another trip to the USSR, the KGB suspected that “he might make some contacts or do something interesting” while visiting the Soviet Union. The KGB wanted to resolve its suspicions that Slesinger was possibly an agent or operational contact of the FBI. The KGB had a file on Slesinger, and a senior case officer in the American Section of the Seventh Department, Yu. M. Dvorkin, was the responsible case officer. An agent of the Seventh Department who was director of a photographic shop in Moscow was instructed to become friendly with Slesinger while the latter was visiting the Soviet Union, and the two men later exchanged correspondence. Slesinger went to Odessa to visit relatives, and Dvorkin directed the Odessa KGB to “surround” him with agents who could watch his behavior. If there had been any indication of intelligence activities, the KGB would have attempted to recruit Slesinger, but since no evidence was developed, no approach was made. Slesinger had travelled to the Soviet Union before, several times.

Comment: A sensitive source had reported to the FBI that the KGB suspected Slesinger to be an FBI “plant” and that KGB officer “might be trying to develop Slesinger to act as a courier or in some other agent capacity.”

Nosenko's information was substantially correct. Alfred Lazarevich Slesinger reported to the FBI in July 1962 on his June 1962 visit to Moscow and Odessa. In Odessa Slesinger was contacted by a Soviet official who exhibited “intimate knowledge” of his business in New York City and had asked whether Slesinger had “ever been bothered by the FBI.”
