6.

“After about three or four hours an army truck arrived, driven by a sergeant who appeared to have been drinking heavily (it was Holy Saturday and a festive occasion in the village). He ordered us tied hand and foot and literally thrown into the back of the truck. He then took off at reckless speed without any thought of the pain he was causing us (our hands were tied behind our backs and we were forced to remain lying on the floor of the truck). At one point he stopped and instructed the soldiers to shoot us if we made any attempt to escape. Later one of the soldiers brutally kicked Eden A. in the side when he moved suddenly, apparently to ease the strain on his arms.

“We were finally taken from the truck at the village of Buenos Aires, on the outskirts of Huesguerensano, and escorted into another military institution where we were again interrogated. I stuck steadfastly to my original simple story, and, although I am sure that they did not believe me, there was no incriminating evidence in my luggage or on my person to serve as a basis for their suspicions. After several hours, from a good vantage point just inside the rear door, where I had been deposited (still tied up) by the last interpreter, I overheard an officer sending a radio message to the Ministry in Guatemala City reporting our arrest and asking for instructions. He must have been told that a helicopter would be coming to pick us up, because I heard him reply that a helicopter would not be adequate and that a plane should be sent, since we were “dangerous types.”

“The plane, a twin-engine military aircraft, finally arrived and we were hustled into it and forced again to lie on the floor even while in flight. When we landed at the Guatemala City airport we were not removed from the plane for several hours. I recall hearing someone say, ‘Leave them inside. The Minister hasn’t arrived yet.’ Shortly thereafter, a North American army officer came aboard the plane and came straight toward me. He rolled me over roughly with his boot and began interrogating me. He appeared under the impression that I was a FAP leader and at first did not believe me when I gave him my true identity. I remember him very well since he spoke with a distinct North American accent and had a bandage around one of his legs (apparently he had been wounded in a skirmish).

“We were finally removed from the aircraft and taken directly to the 2nd Police Corps Headquarters in Guatemala City and assigned to cell block 400, which is reserved for political prisoners (incidentally I later learned to my disappointment that there are more than 40 political prisoners in Guatemala—the others all having been executed before trial).”
