Note: The information you furnish on this form will be held in confidence.

Applicant's name: HYCOELA A. MAKSYMINS. Position applicant is: Photographer. Class No.: GS-9. Exam of ME: FT-58.

The questions and explanatory statements in this table are given as guidelines to the type of information we should like to have, and need not be answered specifically if you consider other factors to be more pertinent.

1. During his period of time, how well, and in what connection has your employer, personnel acquisition, etc., been able to satisfy your requirements, i.e., employment, personal acquisition, etc.? Employer since January 1962.

2. Ability. How would you rate the applicant's knowledge of and interest in his specialized technical field? Is he better or less informed than the average? Is he enthusiastic or an authority? Does he conduct himself well in writing? Does he keep up with new developments? Does he contribute some useful, proper old methods? Average. At present, employee is under close supervision; he will continue this until he is capable of assuming duties assigned.

3. Personality. How would you characterize the applicant's temperament and stability? Is he moody? Is he stable? Is he cooperative? Sometimes stubborn? Is he unstable or uptight? Self-confident? Is he impulsive or cautious?

How would you evaluate the applicant's ability to get along and deal with others? Is he friendly, approachable, reserved, or hostile? Does he make a poor first impression? Improve on acquaintance? Does he talk frequently, haltingly, too much, or negatively? Applicant gets along well with fellow employees and is cooperative. Applicants are friendly.

Do you know of anything in the applicant's background, or does he have any characteristics or personal habits which might adversely affect his efficiency or his relations with fellow-workers? If your answer is yes, please give details. No.

Do you have any knowledge of behavior, activities, or associations which would indicate that the applicant is not reliable, honest, trustworthy, and of good conduct and character? If your answer is yes, please give details. No.

4. Loyalty. Do you have any reason to question the applicant's loyalty to the United States? If your answer is yes, please give details. No.

To your knowledge, does the applicant belong to any organization whose activities involve overthrowing or altering our constitutional form of government by force or other means? If your answer is yes, please give details and list the organizations. No.

To your knowledge, does the applicant associate, or has he associated, with any person who is loyal to the United States who belongs to or is of the type of organization described above? If your answer is yes, give details. No.
