Much less happy, light.

The Uncler wore Nickod, and Orpin said so. Stalin is history's greatest slave-master. Say so. It's not an adjective. It's a fact. Throw the book at Idn, Dallin, Kravchenko, Pirogov. Anything and/or everything that it takes to ram home the fact. If you can do it without Kravchenko or any other “affirmed anti-Stalinist,” so much the better, I entirely agree. But let's do it. Stalin keeps the 15,000,000 hidden, so we've got few photos. So if you have to use a photo of a few slave-laborers and caption that “there are millions like them,” OK. Or use a “there is all this smoke, and it's because there is all this fire” argument, OK. I.e., if you have to use the cumulative technique of quoting a few sentences from Tchernavin and Dallin and Kravchenko and any others, let's do it. The fact of the slave-camps has got to be in there. If it isn't made credible, you haven't told the story.

For example, re-read “Boots of Treason.” Chambers says that what made the scales fall from his eyes was “I SPEAK FOR THE SILENT” by Tchernavin. (I've never read it, and had forgotten it; you'll do no harm if you mention it somewhere. Of course Tchernavin is an anti-Stalinist.) If that was good enough for Chambers, it should be good for other CP readers, even, too.

What I'm getting at is: I DON'T BELIEVE IN CRAMPING YOUR STYLE BY ARBITRARILY RULING OUT THE USE OF “ANTI-STALINIST” WITNESSES. Let the motto be:

ANY truthful means that tells Stalin's story is OK. He made the story, we didn't. It's his fault if you have to say: Pirogov was only one airman who escaped, and a mere lieutenant, but there are thousands like him.

PIROGOV. Just a random suggestion, but I see no reason of principle why you shouldn't have, say, a photo of Stalin, sounding off about the worker's paradise, juxtaposed with a photo of Pirogov (a nice clean-cut-looking type, smiling), and a quote from Pirogov (he's definitely eloquent, as you say) to the effect that he didn't like to leave his native land, but couldn't stick.
