1 August 1967

1. At a meeting with Rowton at 1700, 31 July 1967, L/3 reported that Crozco's Crozco Leal, who claimed to be L/3's new FAR liaison for procurement of arms, was currently staying in his apartment on Calzada Tacataya. L/3 explained to Rowton that at a 2200 meeting with Crozco on 29 July, the latter stated that he had instructions from FAR headquarters to escort L/3 to Tapachula for contact instructions and instructed L/3 to procure immediately before or Walter C= automatic with 52 three clips and at least 50 cartridges plus detonators with normal or electric fuse and three poison tablets of the highest possible potency, which he would need on the trip from Guatemala City to Montes headquarters. Crozco, however, insisted that L/3 bring these items with him to Tapachula and added that he would himself go there if they were safely delivered to Guatemala City for eventual pick-up by L/3.

2. At the end of the meeting, Crozco asked L/3 to put him up for the night at his home “since it was very late and in any case he wanted to discuss their travel plans further.” L/3 did so without the least suspicion of Crozco's true motives, and appeared to Rowton to have accepted Crozco's bona fides, although he admitted that he had never heard of Crozco before the latter's unexpected approach to him on 25 July. L/3 stressed to Rowton that Crozco revealed an astounding knowledge of the Guatemalan revolution, Cuba, as well as L/3's past activities and the dates of his trips to Guatemala.

3. Rowton stated to L/3 that his preliminary checks revealed that Crozco was in all probability a deserter from FAR who was actually using L/3's apartment as a hideout. Rowton confessed he could not understand why Crozco would want to return to Guatemala without or without LIRINGC/3, but urged L/3 to attempt to get the truth from Crozco, posing as sympathetic but indicating that he was aware of Crozco's true status, in the hope that Crozco could be moved to a safehouse and made available for thorough interrogation. L/3 agreed, and arrangements were made for a Rowton/L/3 meeting at 0800 midnight, 1 August.

4. When L/3 appeared at CC30, he reported enthusiastically that he had succeeded in breaking Crozco down but that he had had to call on his friends Sergio Valdez and Raúl Moreno. Crozco stated that he had been sent to mountains (toOUNtains) to organize guerrilla bands but found everyone “stupid” and his talk impossible. He added that David Casasola, who was with him, was undisciplined and made mistakes that led to the capture of many of his men and probably to his own capture. Crozco continued insisting that he was the
