Q gives the impression of not being easily moved. He has already survived violent attacks, questioning by legislative committees and police (including abroad), and public denunciation; now that he has KUBARK as a friend, he should resist at least as well as before. One negative trait is his need to take revenge for injury, and this tendency must be controlled; his instinct to be spiteful to an enemy could conflict with a longer-range plan.

It is to be hoped that the present situation regarding his wife (who believes him to be working for the arch foo of BRIE) will be possible to maintain. She doesn't like the situation much, but accepts it, and apparently hasn't betrayed his “confidence.” If he is moved to another city which both Q and his wife would consider agreeable (Rome), she would probably be even happier and less likely to revolt, especially if a quarters allowance helped them get out of their present financial straits (they can pay rent and buy food but not save or repay debts—so his wife says he is doing an unpleasant thing without even being able to say they are better off than they were in Paris). If he were sent to a less agreeable place for six months or a year (say Dar), he would want to settle his wife in a desirable place (London but preferably Rome) for the children's schooling; here too her attitude would depend on their material position and on the possibility of his being able to visit on occasion (if he were in Dar, say, and she in Rome, he would return for visits—which would also be cover for his meetings with his case officer). Rodigast recommends that once in place, Q's basic wage be raised (as promised in June 1965) from $600 to $800, but that he also receive quarters and, if possible, an educational allowance.

D. Q says he is a local PBPRIMER. He now does act like one. Rodigast feels the evidence for this loyalty is at least as good as it is for most other PBPRIMES (PBRIMES) he knows. Early in their relationship (probably mid-June 1965 in Paris), Q had said he had turned away from the revolutionary movement and toward his own country; even though there were opportunistic reasons for him to have done so, he is seemingly not anti-PBPRIME. His views on Negro problems in PRIME probably have not changed, but he never was a black nationalist, and has many friends, besides his wife, who are white. He might not agree with ODYSSEY policy in Vietnam, Cuba, or elsewhere—he obviously has not been questioned on his personal beliefs—but his dissent, if dissent there be, is not disloyalty, and in any case should not prevent him from executing KUBARK policy to the letter. Undoubtedly he has a leftist economic orientation, but there is no evidence that it is an orthodox Marxist one (or that it ever was).

He seems to like Rodigast; in any event, they work well together. He has made no effort to develop a warm relationship with Rodigast, however, apparently feeling that this is not necessary, might not be appreciated, and would conflict with the compartmentalization so obviously kept in force by Rodigast (who hasn't told Q his true name, address, marital status, or any other personal fact which might lead to identifying him). Seemingly Q does not believe the name which Rodigast used at their introduction was a true name, for he didn't bother to remember it (the last name), and all this would tend to discourage the building up of a personal friendship.

It is probable that he respects rather than scores KUBARK for its decent treatment of him. KUBARK through Rodigast has always kept its promises, and Rodigast has never been a minute late for a meeting (Q has
