3. David's father needed money for his inventions. David gave him 100,000 D. through a third person, his father not knowing from whom the money came. This was before David's “journey to Brazil.”

4. David had plenty of money, mostly earned by selling coffee on the black market. Once he bought a car, an Opel, in Berlin for ten kilograms of coffee.

5. The Georgians in Berlin did not know much of his doings and relations in Berlin, although he lived with them, nor did Media know anything and was puzzled by this. When arranging the wedding party of his sister, in May–June 1942, he asked Media for his car. The request was refused. David then hired four or five cars for a full day, paying with coffee, and it happened that Media saw him coming with his caravan of cars, loaded with vines and other good things which he had bought on the black market for the feast. Media had asked him about the caravan, and David had replied that Media could now see that David could have as many cars as he liked, although Media did not give his when asked.

6. For the move of his parents from Berlin to Vienna, David had reserved an apartment in the train, again using false documents. To this he said that it is difficult to get a seat reserved for one person in a train, but it is easier to reserve a full apartment of a car for one person, or a complete railroad car or train for a special reason, because the greater the request, the higher authorities make the request; the higher authorities decide the issue, the less effective is the factual check of the genuineness of the request and of the documents by which the request is made.

7. As to the motives for his not joining the Georgian Legion: He, David, does not feel that he is Georgian, or too much of a Georgian. He hates the Russians in general, although he has nothing special against any particular Russian. The Russian communists he dislikes even more than the ordinary Russians. There was no real reason why he did not join the Media group—he simply disliked the idea. Note: This contradicts his statements made during the first day of the debriefing, according to which he was ready to fight together with anybody, even with the devil's grandmother, against the communists.
