Economic Research Bureau,  
Unidad Revolucionaria,  
10 S.E. 9th Street,  
Miami, Fla., U.S.A.

Cuban Trading

We expected by now some action from your end or from the American authorities to whom we had sent our previous copied communication to you (Washington, Foreign Ministry, and U.S.A. Embassy, London), but regret that, at least to our knowledge, no action has been taken yet. We assume this by virtue of the fact that the ships we mentioned previously just carry on the voyages for which they have been fixed, and their owners openly negotiate further similar business from Cuba, as most of the trade to Cuba is presently done by red-flag ships. However, we supplement our previous letter by giving you some additional information.

A. Some merchants in Cuban trading, but mainly D'Enree (D.'Enree), of Paris and Genav (Genav), fix vessels or large contracts, with a long list of options as to where the cargo will be discharged, as often cargoes are shipped and not sold until after shipment and sailing of the vessel from the loading port. These options start from Casablanca/Continent and continue into all Mediterranean, Red Sea, Persian Gulf, India, Colombo, and Malaya ports, sometimes as far as Japan, freight rate depending on at which port cargo is discharged, and final orders are usually given seven days after sailing from Cuba. As stated, the Lebanon authorities ostensibly allow Lebanon-flag ships to carry these cargoes to Arab countries only, always subject to license. Owners apply for such license for Arab countries, and then if the merchant orders the ship to, say, Italy or Germany or Japan, the ship just carries the cargo. Some owners just do not apply for a license at all, and the Lebanon authorities know what goes on, but turn the other way.

B. Greek and Lebanon-flag ships just carry on trade in Cuba, and if you say they do not, then either you do not know about it, or they must camouflage their flags, or must fake, as regards eventual destination, their documents, such as charter parties, bills of lading, manifests, etc. Even the number of ships trading in Cuba, given in your circulars, is not correct; it is much larger. Maybe you do this intentionally for political reasons, or maybe because you do not know.

C. Both the Greek and Lebanese governments are in a position, in accordance with their famous laws, to stop immediately any ship, to take the flag away, and to impose upon the owners very heavy fines. If the owners do not pay the fines, then the ship will be immobilized, since the government will refuse cancellation of the registry certificate, meaning that the ship cannot be put under another flag, and therefore becomes virtually nonexistent. They can do lots of things, those governments, but only if they want to and only if they want to apply their laws. To our knowledge, and we can assure you, we are very well informed, no such thing has taken place; no ship has been stopped and no one has been fined, and maybe, and most likely, never will be.

D. Whilst owners we mentioned in our previous letter continue business as usual, and others, we notice with some surprise, that you are continuously accompanying and mentioning the name of Tsavliris firm. Whereas we naturally condemn and deplore this firm's continuation of this trade, let us also be just and fair. This firm at least continues in a lawful manner, since they are sending only ships with flags whose governments permit such trading in an unrestricted manner. So this firm are not lawbreakers, whatever else they can be accused of. On the contrary, you do not mention names of other owners, who among other things are also lawbreakers and amongst them the biggest and most influential.
