A new last name: DE PANASKHET, which he took sometime in 1946 or 1947. Panaskhet is the name of the village in Georgia where the family originated.

The official full version of Achilles' name is now TZITZICHVILI dit DE PANASKHET. For his children, the full name is DE PANASKHET.

During World War II, Achilles was an officer in the French Army, in Africa and in Germany.

In 1944, Achilles married Nathela JORDANIA, a daughter of the former President of the Republic of Georgia (1917–1921).

They are divorced now. Of their three daughters, two, both born in Paris, are living with the father: Maria-Helene (14) and Irene (12). Catherine (6), born in Gap, is living with the mother, who, since 1959, has remarried. Her second husband is a physician, Dr. Louis ELET. The last name of this physician was formerly BORREAU. He changed it because of the bad meaning: bourreau = the hangman.

7. Cousin Mathé KERESSELIDZE, who had joined the Germans during World War II and was parachuted to the USSR. He was captured there, sentenced to 15 years of hard labor (1943–1958), and was then allowed to repatriate to France, where he arrived some six months to one year ago. Now he is in Stuttgart, Germany.

Before returning to France, he occasionally met in Moscow Helene, who had told him about herself and her father (see items 3 and 5). Asked by the debriefer whether Helene had said anything to Mathé about her husband, David mentioned having heard nothing about Irakli. He explained this by the bad relations between Helene and Irakli: the initial big love had faded soon. No questions were asked about the children of the couple.

8. Cousin Leo or Leon KERESSELIDZE, a brother of Mathé. His nickname is LOULOU.

9. Father of Leo and Mathé KERESSELIDZE. He was mentioned by David together with Leo. His address, possibly common with Leo: VESINET, Seine-et-Oise.

10. Uncle Djibo KANTCHELI, brother of David's mother, a taxi driver who taught David's father the taxi business; he knew how to drive. Uncle's address: 37 Rue de Larochefoucauld, Paris IX.

11. A far relative, Guiga TZITZICHVILI. He tried to help David in Chalon in 1942, but failed. He died later.

12. Redik JORDANIA, a brother of Nathela, Achilles' wife.

13. Atia JORDANIA, a sister of Nathela, Achilles' wife.

14. David's father probably had one brother and three sisters.

15. Cousin Givi, in the U.S.A.; details known to Georges.
