Dispatch. Processing.

To: Deputy Chief, WH/SA. Proposed action: Accent published.  
Info: XX. Marked for delivery; no omission required.  
From: Only qualified headquarters or can be omitted.  
Subject: Chief of Station, JMWAVE / RYBAT/TYPIC/Operational/AMWORLD — The Private Life of AMWORLD’s First Family.

Action required — references. Action required: None, FYI. Reference: UF-N-3514 of 6 April 1984.

1. The following AMOT report concerning the not-so-private affairs of AMBIDDY/1 and his fiancée may be of interest to BECKHOFF. According to AMYUM/19, AMBIDDY/1 intends to formalize his relationship with Iden B sometime within the next few months. The marriage will probably take place in Latin America and Iden B will make her home there to avoid a public scandal which would have a harmful effect on the AMYUM organization. Attention is called to paragraphs 14, 17, and 26, which answer, in part, some of the questions raised in the reference dispatch concerning ODYOKE involvement in AMWORLD. The Station has forwarded reports of this nature which concern claims by members of the Cuban exile community of KUBARK sponsorship of AMBIDDY/1. Of the specifics cited by the Cuban, intelligent or otherwise, to support their allegations, those statements attributed to the AMWORLD principals themselves appear to be the only ones which can make a claim to “knowledge” as opposed to conviction based on AMWORLD’s affluence. To date, no tangible evidence of KUBARK involvement with AMWORLD has come to our attention.

2. Source: Iden A.

Source states that she has known AMBIDDY/1 since they were children in Esmeralda municipal term, Camaguey province, from where both of them come originally. Source further states she is also a close friend of Iden B, who is now AMBIDDY/1’s mistress and a homosexual like source, according to source’s statements.

Attachment: Identities, under separate cover. Continued.  
Distribution: S — DC/WH/SA. CS copy.

Date typed: 15 Jun 64. Date dispatched: 16 Jun 64. UFGA-16512. Headquarters file number: 19-8-3/8. 19-134-27/3.

GACN reference to. Closing band. SEC-CONT.

Group I. Approved from automatic distributions and delivery instructions.
