Continuation of dispatch.

OSHA-26417.

Called the embassy to advise the duty officer that he (AMAUTO-1) would be leaving for the Amusement Park. There were no OUTIMID reports supporting this theory. The fact that the telephone call was made soon after SAMKO's arrival leads us to suspect that the call was made to establish a surveillance of SAMKO and AMAUTO-1 at the park. As noted in references, SAMKO was specifically briefed on this possibility and was alerted to report any absence of AMAUTO-1 from the room.

6. We were confident that AMAUTO-1 would be the first to ask the cover questions, but instead his wife asked both questions: What are you doing here? and How did you get our address? SAMKO repeated the cover story and at the end of the second—how did you get our address—AMAUTO-1 said that it was quite possible. (AMAUTO-1's wife remained cool and suspicious throughout the initial confrontation, but later reacted warmly toward SAMKO.) As we noted above, SAMKO embellished the story to his satisfaction. He also shed a few tears when he repeated the story of his wife's death and the doctor's recommendation that he take a vacation. He continued his softening approach of AMAUTO-1 by adding: "Bill, when my wife took ill some years ago, she asked me to divest myself of all business interests, but if you were there with me, Bill, you could have handled my affairs and you might have been a millionaire today." SAMKO sensed that AMAUTO-1 and his wife were moved by this comment and were literally drooling with the thought of being millionaires. The wife asked a number of questions regarding SAMKO's wealth, his real estate activity, collection of silver and his success in general. The wife was astounded with the simple explanation of how SAMKO went about building and financing apartment houses. SAMKO made a suggestion that AMAUTO-1 invest in silver because the scarcity of this metal would eventually raise the market value. He explained to AMAUTO-1 that he was collecting all silver coins stamped prior to 1965. The next couple of hours were spent at the amusement park where, on arrival, AMAUTO-1 steered SAMKO to a cafeteria near the main entrance. In short order two men arrived on the scene, friends of AMAUTO-1. They were introduced to SAMKO, but SAMKO could not remember the names. After a few moments a couple arrived and they, too, were introduced to SAMKO. (SAMKO could not identify the persons he met from the photographs in our mug book.) AMAUTO-1's friends took a number of photographs of SAMKO and AMAUTO-1 and after a short while together, they left. The conversation at the park was aimless. They discussed the kids and SAMKO repeated how delighted and proud he was to know that one of AMAUTO-1's children was named Alexander—his namesake. AMAUTO-1 had a wide grin while SAMKO was talking about Alexander. He asked AMAUTO-1 about the oldest boy. AMAUTO-1 replied that the oldest was in Havana studying civil engineering. SAMKO suggested to AMAUTO-1 that he should give his children the best education and have them stay away from politics and political courses but concentrate on the professional fields, engineering, law, medicine, etc. AMAUTO-1 admitted that his intention was to keep his children away from a political career. SAMKO said he would send Alexander some commercial slides of Cape Kennedy and other points of interest in Florida.
