Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 003620.

Section A: General. Name: Vitale, Guy. Date of birth: 16 Oct 17. Sex: M. Grade: GS-08. SD: D. Official position title: Intell Asst. Type of assignment: DDP/WH/COG. Current station: Washington. Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career-Provisional (see instructions—Section C), X. Type of report: Initial; Reassignment Supervisor; Annual; Reassignment Employee; X; Special (Specify). Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: 1 July 1966–30 June 1967.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Maintains project and agent 201 files for the Branch's paramilitary program. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Locates and maintains material for use in briefings and in the conduct of liaison with other government agencies. Rating letter: A.

Specific Duty No. 3: Aids in conducting name traces and in processing operational clearances. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 4: As Branch Records Officer, insures compliance with CS records directives, including authorization for destruction of CS documents.
