d. General SOMOZA, at A/1's strong recommendation, agreed to start pushing Civic Action programs through the National Guard in an effort to enhance his personal image preparatory to the next Presidential campaign. SOMOZA asked A/1 to assist and advise in this effort.

2. The next meeting with General SOMOZA by A/1 was on 4 August, with the following points:

a. SOMOZA said that the latest program of Fidel CASTRO is targeted against Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama. Part of the plan includes assassination of the presidents of the three countries as part of a terror campaign to soften them up. He said that in Panama, particularly, President Marcos ROBLES is a prime target, but the Communists are exploiting a recent turn against him by the National Guard because he has cut down on their costs, pensions, and other privileges. If ROBLES is eliminated from power, the Communists feel the chief of the National Guard will take over and they think they can handle him more easily than they can ROBLES.

b. The source for the above, according to SOMOZA, was a close associate of Marcial AGUILUZ, whom he described as the top Communist in Costa Rica and one who had recruited (fnu) FONSECA, a Nicaraguan now living in Mexico. FONSECA is a bastard son of one of SOMOZA's foremen, a Communist, and an agent working directly under the orders of Fidel CASTRO.

c. A/1 and SOMOZA talked again about a Civic Action program in Nicaragua, and SOMOZA said again that he would support it. He will assign Father LUGO, a Cuban priest who served with the Bay of Pigs forces, to a position similar to a chaplain in the National Guard in order to assist in the program. SOMOZA will support MRR community development programs with whatever authorizations are required and with whatever official or personal prestige he may offer.

3. A/1 next returned to Managua on 17 August and met with Major PEREZ of the Nicaraguan Customs Service, a personal aide to the General. PEREZ said SOMOZA was very angry—not at A/1 or his people—and difficult to see. He said three Colonels were under arrest for three days each for disobeying orders. PEREZ was afraid to see SOMOZA for fear he might be arrested also. However, A/1 called SOMOZA by phone and was invited to visit him the next day at Tipitapa. A/1 met him the next day, 18 August, and had lunch with SOMOZA and (fnu) BENITEZ, a Puerto Rican, former politician there who is now in business but remains in contact with and working for the U.S. Government. After lunch, BENITEZ left.
