Clerical & Communications Report of Interview.

Date and place of interview: 31 May 1956, Washington, D.C. Source: Gordon B. Lamb, another applicant. Clearance requested. Full professional availability date.

Name: Piccolo, Joseph Stephan. Marital status: Single. Date up to date: 8 December 1935.

Permanent address: 1636 N.W. 20th Street, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. Telephone: Logan 4-5834.

Temporary address: 2210–20th Street N.W., Washington, D.C. Telephone: Adams 4-2355.

Position recommended (grade and title): OS-4 Clerk. Test scores: LAP-5; WILE. Typing. Shorthand. Other.

Acceptable station: Washington, D.C. Limitations: U.S. by birth. U.S. by naturalization date. Previous nationality. Other (specify).

Health: Good.

Foreign relatives.

Background and evaluation. Military service, if any: Member, D.C. Air National Guard. Rank: Airman 1/C. Draft classification: 1-D.

Evaluation and background data. 1953–Present, Georgetown University (School of Foreign Service), Diplomatic & Consular, grade average: “75”. August 1953–September 1955, F.B.I., Clerk, OS-4 ($3150), to attend school full time.

Mr. Piccolo is of medium height and weight, dark hair, and rather quiet, pleasant, not very talkative and does not give one the impression of being a ball-of-fire. Has no area knowledge. Has had slight knowledge of Spanish, which he is taking at the present time in school. Claims good health.

Although he has had some nervous disorder which was an aftereffect of a gland virus, he had psychiatric consultation for about five months but no treatment. Apparently after this disease (this virus) he could not concentrate on his studies and consulted a psychiatrist to obviate the situation. Claims no restrictions otherwise. Tentatively planning to go to law school. Really is not certain what to do in the future. No 10-9 that he knows of. Several years’ clerical experience with FBI. Based on past government clerical experience, believe he is worthy of consideration. Might be a possibility for regular FI/RI job.

Scheduled him for the OS-4 clerk test on 5 June 1956 and gave him forms.

Hold for forms and test scores. Shop to Ernie Hardt for FI/RI.

Date report and forms processed to Mo'Olaili's. By C.I.E. George S. Rad.
