Continuation of dispatch. Dispatch symbol and number: FVST-3044, page 2.

5. It has not been possible to maintain strict personal security for Schwickrath. He is known to many Vietnamese both in the North and the South as having been engaged in various intelligence activities in Vietnam since 1945. In addition, the Station has judged that his best utilization has been as a representative of the Chief of Station in various committee meetings and liaisons where it was necessary he be identified as the representative of the COS. It would be both impossible and counter-productive in Schwickrath's case to attempt to hide completely his affiliation with KUBARK.

6. During his current tour, Schwickrath has acquired increasing skill and familiarity in the intricacies of KUBARK staff work, both at the inter-station level and the INTGA-mission level. This is a new capacity for Schwickrath, who has heretofore been known as a very aggressive action officer. Schwickrath has performed these new duties with considerable finesse despite a very rapid buildup of paramilitary assets within Vietnam and an extremely fluid command relationship with the Commander of the U.S. Military Assistance Command, Vietnam. It is worth noting that Schwickrath was the only Station representative in a recent conference convoked by CINCPAC in Hawaii to recommend procedures for implementation of a ten million dollar project involving a year-long turnover of civilian irregular assets in Vietnam from the Station to MACV. Schwickrath's performance at that conference resulted in the conference's adopting all STJIVON recommendations in respect to its future role in civilian irregular activities. At the same time, Schwickrath's performance was such as to maintain close, harmonious relationships between KUBARK, CINCPAC and MACV.

7. I have personally found Schwickrath to be an invaluable member of our staff with an indispensable depth of knowledge and background on South Vietnam and on all matters pertaining to guerrilla warfare. It is a distinct pleasure to have him working here as a member of the Station.

Stephen P. Shorden.
