3. Indicate the approximate number of months the rated employee has been under your supervision.

4. Comments concerning potential: Mr. Christ's greatest potential is in a combined administrative technical supervisory position. January 16, 1992. AH 80.

Section M. Future Plans.

1. Training or other developmental experience planned for the individual: Some specific training courses might be useful as his scope of activities increases. In general, because of his ability to quickly master situations, occasional TDYs to the field should suffice.

2. Note other factors, including personal circumstances, to be taken into account in individual's future assignments: Mr. Christ is presently being reassigned as C/TSS/ASD. This will be a serious loss to TSS/APD but has been concurred in because it is to the best advantage of TSS.

Section I. Description of Individual Directions: This section is provided as an aid to describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret the words literally. On the page below are a series of statements that apply in some degree to most people. To the left of each statement is a box under the heading “category.” Read each statement and insert in the box the category number which best tells how much the statement applies to the person covered by this report.

Category number: X. Have not observed this; hence can give no opinion as to how the description applies to the individual. 1. Applies to the individual to the least possible degree. 2. Applies to the individual to a limited degree. 3. Applies to the individual to an average degree. 4. Applies to the individual to an above average degree. 5. Applies to the individual to an outstanding degree.

Category 4 — 1. Able to see another's point of view. Category 4 — 11. Has high standards of accomplishment. Category 5 — 21. Is effective in discussions with associates.

Category 5 — 2. Can make decisions on his own when needed. Category 4 — 12. Shows originality. Category 4 — 22. Implements decisions based less on own feelings.

Category 5 — 3. Has initiative. Category 5 — 13. Accepts responsibilities. Category 4 — 23. Is thoughtful of others.

Category 4 — 4. Is analytic in his thinking. Category 4 — 14. Admits his errors. Category 5 — 24. Works well under pressure.

Category 4 — 5. Strives
