9. Supervisor's comments (continued)

3. If he had been looking for me, it could be that he has been asked to step in where Val failed. That is, as an American friend, I never invited Val to my home. He never met other Americans through me. Note, however, that he never invited me to his home either—though he did invite us frequently to various events which were under the auspices of the Soviet embassy. We did not, but rarely, accept. One such occasion was the Moscow circus.

4. If he had been looking for me, it could be that he wants to assure his acceptance by our tennis group, where Gloria Pinto is a possible target. Oleg has gotten to Gloria, but I, the American who is somewhat and sometimes hostile to Soviets, might be considered a stumbling block. Perhaps he, Oleg, will try to reach all the other members of the group individually so that an invitation by Gloria to one of our functions will meet with general acceptance.

Scenario of contact

I arrived about 0900 and took an instructor.

About 0950 Oleg arrived to play with an instructor on the adjoining court. He made no effort to greet me. He had been pointed out to me by Val, but I had not been pointed out to him to my knowledge—though it is certain that Oleg and Val must have discussed the “players” in their “game” and counted me as possibly on the other team. That is, I am sure that Val has pointed me out to Oleg, but Oleg would not have wanted to acknowledge this.

At 1000 my hour was up and I told my instructor I was through—I did not want to continue for another hour. As I was paying my instructor, I noticed that Oleg was paying his. It is very unusual and possibly even bad form to take an instructor for less than half an hour. I am suggesting that he wanted to be free to contrive an accidental meeting with me.

I set a course for one of the several gates from the courts we were using. I could see that Oleg had headed for the same gate (this could have been perfectly natural) and at a speed which after some thirty yards would bring him to the gate at the same moment as I (this was not entirely natural).

Since I had an excuse to greet him, having had him pointed out in front of Pepe Pinto the preceding week, I did so. I said “Good Morning” and asked if Val were here. He looked very pleased (I thought he was possibly relieved) when I took the initiative and recognized him.
