(Foundations of Nosenko's Claims)

Questions to be asked of "ANDREY". Since Seleznev came to these meetings in civilian clothes, whereas Nosenko later saw him in uniform in his visits to the American Department, Nosenko speculated that Seleznev may have attended some of the meetings with "ANDREY". Although Nosenko did not know how the KGB exploited him, he repeatedly emphasized "ANDREY's" great importance to the KGB during the time he worked for them in Moscow. "Thanks to his help they were able to read your State Department codes. To date we have never been able to read your military codes..." "ANDREY" brought no military code material to the KGB, only State Department material. Mainly, he described the operation of code machines and what daily or other periodic settings were made.

"ANDREY" supplied valuable material from the time that the first recontact was made in the United States until he ceased meeting the KGB because of the Rhodes trial. Again, after the trial, he was able to furnish good material. This was true both while Kovshuk was handling him and while Bagrichev was the case officer. Between June 1962 and January 1964, while Nosenko was in Moscow, he heard that "something is going wrong with this operation".

Comment:

"ANDREY" was identified as former U.S. Army Sergeant Dayle W. Smith, who served as a code machine mechanic while assigned to the office of the U.S. Military Attaché in the Embassy in Moscow from April 1952 to April 1954.

Nosenko's information has been confirmed as substantially correct by admissions of Roy Rhodes and Dayle W. Smith ("ANDREY"). Rhodes informed the FBI in a 1963 interview that among other American enlisted personnel of the Embassy in Moscow, he reported on Smith to the KGB. After denying involvement with the KGB in interviews with the FBI in 1964 and 1965, Smith admitted that he had been approached by the KGB in Moscow in late 1953, that he had been offered a large sum of cash and gems in exchange for classified information concerning Embassy cipher systems, and that he had provided
