Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

Country: Haiti. Report No. CSDB-312/01428-67. Subject: Plans of Clemard Joseph Charles, President of the Commercial Bank of Haiti, to Overthrow the Duvalier Government. Date: 22 May 1967. No. pages: 2. Date of information: Early May 1967. Place and date acquired: 9 May 1967.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: A foreign businessman with wide contacts in Port-au-Prince. Source reports infrequently, but his information is believed to be reliable. He received the information from a person close to Charles.

1. In discussing the possibility of overthrowing the Duvalier Government in the near future, Clemard Joseph Charles, president of the Commercial Bank of Haiti, said he now is ready to execute his long-planned scheme to seize power with his military and civilian friends in Port-au-Prince, with or without the help of the U.S. Government.¹ If he fails in his efforts to obtain U.S. support for his plan, Charles still intends to go ahead with the plot, but he said the execution of his scheme will take more time. However, Charles believes that it is in “the best interest of the U.S. to give him all necessary help in his effort to get rid of President Duvalier who has brought Haiti to the brink of total economic collapse.²

2. Charles said that he has rifles and hand grenades hidden “somewhere in Haiti” and that through his good friend Colonel Octave Cayard,³ commander of the Haitian Coast Guard, three Haitian boats, which carry cannons, will be under his control. Cayard cannot furnish enough ammunition for the cannons, but Charles hopes to obtain the necessary amount from the U.S. Government. He would like to get the ammunition from the U.S. aircraft carrier, BOKER, which has been on duty in the Caribbean area for some time.

3. Besides Cayard, Charles has the support of an unnamed high-ranking Haitian Army officer.⁴ Charles and his military and civilian friends plan to set up a provisional junta and get rid of the “enemies of Haiti,” that is, Duvalier and his supporters. After the consolidation of power
