Applicant for Federal Employment. Name of examination or kind of applicant for: Application for Electronics position. Date of this application: 7/24/50. Name: Mary Benson. Address: David Larsson Christ, R.D. #2, Mountain Top, Pa. Office phone: Mountain Top, Pa. Legal or voting residence: Pennsylvania. Marital status: Married. Announcement: Tamagua, Pa. Height: 6 feet 9 inches. Weight: 185 pounds. Last grade: GS-10.

Experience: It is important for you to furnish all information requested below in sufficient detail to enable the Civil Service Commission and the appointing officers of agencies to give you full credit for meeting your qualifications. Use a separate block for each position. Start with your present position and work back, explaining clearly the previous tasks which you performed in each position, accounting for all periods of unemployment. Experience gained more than 15 years ago which is not pertinent to the work for which you are applying may be summarized in case it arises out of the blocks. If your duties changed materially while working for the same employer, use a separate block to describe each position. You may include any pertinent religious, civil, welfare, or organizational activity which you have performed, either with or without reference herein, showing the number of hours per week and weeks per year in each. If you were engaged in such activity, military experience should be described as the species taken to its proper sequence.

(a) If you were ever employed in any capacity other than a name different from that shown in Item 4 of this application, give under “Description of your work” for each position, the exact words used.

(b) If you have never been employed to engage in any unemployed, indicate that fact in the space provided below the “Present Position.”

Present position. Dates of employment: From February 1950 to present time. Last title of present position: Instructor, Ind. Electricity. Classification on basis of Federal Service. Study of learnings: starts 8:40 a.m. per month; present: 3:00 p.m. per month. Place of employment: Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Immediate superintendent: Mr. George Bierly.
