be authorized to close the deal. Subject agreed to emphasize the attractiveness of the commission and the advantage of the fact that the deal is handled in Switzerland and consequently the commission is also paid there. F told Subject that he wanted to know in detail LOG's reaction concerning the commission. Subject should also play around with the theme that it would be ideal if LOG could travel to Switzerland to introduce him to the right person (Sov) and similar.

11. Subject commented that the buyer is serious and it remains to be seen whether the Sov are willing to sell at a price convenient for them but still fair. Subject went on to say that if the deal was to go well he would have to go to Switzerland, and this raises another problem, i.e. how long would it take for him to get an American passport, because he is presently documented by his birth certificate. F told him to start thinking about crossing that bridge when he comes to it.

12. Subject appeared to be satisfied with F's attitude in the above conversation and he commented that with this matter showing up, plus the tennis hat and the written report, there should be enough for a meeting with LOG. F told Subject that he wanted a carbon copy of the report he would hand to LOG, and Subject promised to make one.

13. Then, Subject observed that in order to place the business talk with LOG in the right perspective he would have to see LOG before Mr. Secc and his companion leave, which means no later than Wednesday noon. F told him to go ahead and make arrangements which would be normal if he was trying to push the platinum deal, but if he gets to see LOG before Thursday at his (Josephine's) apt., he should advise F by phone, i.e. leave a message for F to ring him up.

14. Comment by Fernald:

b. Even if nothing comes out of the platinum deal, which is quite likely, conversation about it and the associated commission should give us some reading on LOG on one hand and, on the other, shed more light on the personal relation between Subject and LOG.

b. The so-called social relation between Josephine and LOG is interesting, to say the least.

Fernand?
