taken home leave in 1962, 1964 and 1966, in accordance with regulations. In line with what appeared to be Agency policy as of November, 1968, writer has made plans for home leave from 5 August to 15 September, 1969. Writer feels most strongly that he and his family should be allowed to take this leave at government expense.

7. Future of Project: Writer would be less than candid if he did not point out that the present success of the project is owing in large measure to contacts which writer has developed over an eighteen-year period. The precipitous forced retirement of writer will preclude an orderly and intelligent period of transition, with a concomitant loss of effectiveness. Even though he is being retired, writer is still interested in preserving the results of his work in Mexico, which writer regards as being of continuing importance to our country.

8. In conclusion, writer wishes to state that he has thoroughly enjoyed his association with the Agency during the past nine years, and is proud of his part in the accomplishments of the Mexico City Station. Owing to the nature of writer's position, his personal contacts have been largely limited to the personnel of the station here. The writer has the highest professional and personal regard for the Chief of Station, with whom he has been privileged to serve, as well as the highly competent case officers who have worked with writer on the project.

It is a source of great satisfaction and pride to the writer to have known and worked with a truly great American, Mr. Allen W. Dulles, whom the “San Francisco Chronicle” (generally a hostile critic of the Agency) described posthumously as “...The most creative, powerful and eminent U.S. intelligence officer of modern times”. And, as one's career comes to a close, the words of President Nixon, in describing Mr. Dulles' great contribution to his country, have a very particular significance: “...In the nature of his task, his achievements were known to only a few. But, because of him, the world is a safer place today”.
