Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 027630.

Section A—General.

1. Name: HONOLULU, Palmaus A., Jr. 2. Date of birth: 27 May 1919. 3. Sex: M. 4. Grade: G-12. 5. SO: D. 9. Office position title: C.O.S. Officer. 8. Current station: Headquarters.

9. Type of appointment: Career. 10. Type of report: Annual; Reassignment Employee.

12. Reporting period: 16–30 October 1965.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Headquarters desk officer responsible for the support of Miami Station CI/CE activities and operations. Rating: P.

Specific Duty No. 2: Advisor to various components of the WH and WE Divisions on Cuban operations with specific reference to the Cuban Security Intelligence Service, organization, modus operandi and personnel. Rating: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Briefing representatives of foreign liaison services and selected agents visiting in Washington on the Cuban Security and Intelligence Services and his own unique experience in the Communist
