File PDQUICK

Memo of telephone conversation with Jim Burnham in New York, 10 a.m., Thursday morning, 15 June 1950.

a. Contact with Burnham. In reply to my suggestion that I stop in New York Saturday morning to see him, discuss Congress affairs, and deliver a pistol, Burnham replied that he was leaving this afternoon for his camp in Connecticut, would not return until Saturday night, and was flying on Sunday morning. He suggested that there was little necessity for additional discussion of the Congress, that if any papers or articles (the pistol) were to be delivered to him, they could be sent by mail or otherwise to his New York address, care of Mrs. Claude Burnham, 3 E 69 St., telephone Rhinelander xx-47890; the address is a safe one, he says, with a trusted doorman (coorman) on duty and a maid in the residence. (Not safe from our point of view—but presumably nothing classified is to be transmitted.) Discussed this with Smith, who says he will arrange to get the pistol to Burnham.

b. Between now and Saturday night, Burnham will be at his camp in Connecticut, telephone: Kent 78, Ring 1–2.

c. Matter of extra expense to be allowed Pearl Pluger for gathering signatures for cablegram to Congress, and for certain other incidentals connected with travel of delegates. Burnham estimated this would not amount to more than $100. I authorized him to spend up to $150 for this purpose.

d. Matter of closing New York office. I authorized continuation after July 1 only in the form of one week’s part-time employment of Pluger, a couple of hours a day, and use of the telephone.

e. Matter of permanent continuation of Congress office (presumably in Berlin). I said this should be discussed in Berlin, that we would expect a cablegram of recommendation before the first of July, and would immediately respond with a decision, possibly as to project amendment calling for funds for support of continuing office. (Impossible, I think, to anticipate decisions now, as they would depend on success of Congress in attracting world publicity, furnishing a base for committing continuing propaganda, and arousing communist opposition.)

L. G.
