Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II — Operational Information. PPQ No. Dispatch No. EMMA 21526.

Instructions to Case Officer

1. This form must be filled by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requested to furnish answers to all questions in PRC Parts I and II. Elsewhere, in an emergency, provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of II B 21-215, paragraphs (a), (g), (12b and 12d). Thereafter, the usual method to document and complete the case must be followed as set forth in PR 10-215.

3. Three completed copies of PR Part I, including a copy in the subject's handwriting if possible, and two completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRC format in two copies.

5. Fill in all items of information obtainable. If an item is not applicable, write “NA.” If additional space is required for an item, use the reverse side of the page keyed to the appropriate item number.

1. Crypto. 2. Previously: LITAMIL-7.

Section I — Contact and Development

LITAMIL-3, a former superior of LITAMIL-7 in the PRINCIPAL Embassy, handled her for several months before turning her over to Clyde K. SHILOCK on 7 May 1962. SHILOCK is known to L-7 as “Roberto.” Direct contact with L-7 was made in order to get better and more detailed information regarding PRINCIPAL Embassy personnel and activities.

2. Indicate whether subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate how.

Subject could be turned over to any Spanish-speaking case officer through LITAMIL-3, who continues to be her closest and most trusted friend.

3. List other case officers who have handled subject or shown her 400's or has known her; give names by which they have been known.

Not applicable.

ENCLM 16 HMMH-21539.
