HARVARD needed time to establish Headquarters interest in the amount and type of assistance Subject should be given. Also he was still an unknown quantity, restless, and from early cable traffic a potential troublemaker. In view of these considerations we were anxious to make his stay in Frankfurt reasonably pleasant and reduce his desire to return to the Congo; therefore, he was provided with subsistence and comfortable quarters.

DARONNAT introduced David E. COULLIARD (MKTOPAZ), explaining to Subject that we would be wise to discuss documentation for him since a long time might elapse before we had the answer to Subject's possible employment with us and, if the answer was negative, we should be prepared to take steps to legalize him. COULLIARD explained the merits of a Fremdenpass and a Reiseausweis; i.e., a Fremdenpass could be obtained without much difficulty, but control and security would be limited to the time Subject remained registered at the place from which the Fremdenpass was issued. Therefore, the Fremdenpass might well be a short-range solution unless Subject could get an immigration visa to the desired country of resettlement in a short time. On the other hand, the issuance of a Reiseausweis could completely legalize Subject, but would have to be issued on the basis of a false defection story and should not be done unless absolutely necessary. Subject stated that he hated Germans and, no matter what happened, would not stay in Germany. He suggested that he be helped to immigrate to the U.S., Canada, England, Australia, etc. C. O. told him that with his criminal record of arrest and imprisonment in France, immigration to other than S.A. was out of the question and even this was in doubt. He stated that if KUBARK employment was not possible, he would hope to get legal documentation in the name of de Panaskhet (his brother's name) and take up legal residence somewhere.

By this time (June), HARVARD C.O. had an inkling that Subject was not eager to return to the Congo but surmised that his nuisance value might be such that he could parlay his position into something better. HARVARD C.O. felt that Subject's dislike for the Germans was real but was emphasized by him in order to benefit as much as possible from a prolongation of his new association with KUBARK. He also stated that he was willing to discharge any responsibility to the Congolese by mail, thereby confirming C.O.'s suspicion that he did not in fact want to return to the Congo and was only interested in prolonging his stay in FF/M and benefiting therefrom.
