Section II: Motivation and Control.

1. Estimate subject's motivation. (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence. Do not use stock comment such as “an-communist.”) Subject's lack of funds and a job are of primary importance. His need for cash (evidenced to some extent by his attempt to peddle articles to China Quarterly, Encounter and Atlantic Monthly in the fall of '64) was critical. But of even greater significance is his desire to effect his long-range rehabilitation in order not to be stuck in the morass of the impecunious and “morally fraudulent” extreme left.

2. Indicate what control, if any, exists over the subject. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control exploit.) For the rest of his life. Also important in Subject's motivation is the sense of adventure connected with “The Game”, which is enhanced by his desire to deceive (to put one over on) those persons, such as Verges, who exploited and deceived him. Subj. evinces deep contempt for these professional revolutionaries and what he refers to, with feeling, as their “moral fraud”. Control exists quite strongly in the area of Subject's material welfare and need for rehabilitation.

Section III: Cover.

1. Cover used by subject and case officer in their meetings. Subj. explained to his wife that “Wilson” (Katzenbach), who telephoned his home was an American publisher's representative. Subj. and Rodigast will use a journalist/literary agent cover in the unlikely event their clandestine meetings are compromised.

2. Cover used by subject in obtaining his information and in contacting his informants. Freelance journalist, author; sympathetic sister.

3. Indicate service for which subject thinks he is working: KUBARK (KIBARK).

Section IV: Intelligence Connections and Training.

1. Explain subject's known past or present connection with any other intelligence service. Indicate the extent such connection is known overtly. Subj. applied for association with KUBARK (KIBARK) in 1950 and again in 1960; his enemies have tried to discredit him by calling him a KUBARK (KIBARK) agent, but there is good evidence that this rumor campaign has not hurt him among his friends, even his friends on the extreme left of the political spectrum. No known I. S. connection.

2. List other individuals (agents, relatives, friends) who know of subject's present intelligence activities. None.

3. Explain any training subject has had in clandestine operations. Basic security tradecraft briefings in London 1–7 June 1965; SW training in Paris 14 June 1965.

Section V: Collaboration Potential.

1. Indicate other foreign power subject would be most likely to collaborate with because of his ideology or past associations. Explain. British. Subj. resided in London from June '64 to June '65. His wife is a British subject.
