Powder Keg

Continued

Rather, he is sitting in the upstairs gun room of his home in Powder Springs, Ga., a 66-acre estate-armory situated amidst the rolling red-clay hills and pine forests 25 miles northwest of downtown Atlanta. It is a place where the pastoral air is occasionally shattered by the flashing of a red light that goes on whenever the electronic gate is opened, by the staccato barking of machine guns from the test firing range or by the pulsating roar of a combat helicopter hovering low overhead on a test flight.

It is from this base of operations that, it appears, Mitch WerBell has been meddling again, this time in the affairs of the about-to-become sovereign state of the Bahamas.

His activities—although no one is completely sure just what they entail—have prompted Bahamas Prime Minister Lynden Pindling to denounce WerBell and attorney Edwin Marger, an associate, on the floor of the Bahamian Parliament. Pindling called them “international fortune hunters” with “designs on the territorial sovereignty of the Bahamas.”

WerBell’s involvement in the Bahamas—as an advisor to a faction that wants the island of Abaco either to remain a Crown Colony or to become a separate nation when the rest of the Bahamas becomes fully independent on July 10—has also prompted some concern by the U.S. State Department’s Caribbean Affairs Desk.

It is not a completely unfamiliar experience to WerBell to have elements of the United States government at least concerned—if not outright displeased—with some of his free-lance foreign-policy maneuvers. He relishes recalling how a visitor flew down to Georgia once to give him the message: “The functions of the foreign policies of the United States are the business of the State Department in Washington, not of Mitchell WerBell in Powder Springs, Ga.” In another incident, a congressional subcommittee questioned him about his role in an aborted attempt to launch an invasion of Haiti from South Florida.

The subcommittee, the investigations arm of the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, was concerned with the role played in the invasion preparations by CBS News. The network was attempting to film a documentary on the military coup being planned by an alliance of Haitian and Cuban exiles. The Haitians wanted to topple (tepple) François (Papa Doc) Duvalier; the Cubans wanted to establish an anti-Castro base in Haiti. CBS was steered into the project by Andrew St. George, a freelance journalist-adventurer who also introduced Producer Jay McMullen to WerBell in the process.

The network, after spending upwards of $170,000 on the proposed documentary, Project Nassau, decided to scrap it. “As it is,” a CBS News vice president wrote in a Dec. 13, 1966, memo, “we see simply the non-adventures of a rag-tag crew next to whom Duvalier himself looks good, a gang openly flouting U.S. law, in the end to no purpose.”

The answers to “why” WerBell got involved are, in the language of the subcommittee report, “at variance” with each other:

Answer No. 1: “... I felt then and I feel now, and I will always feel that any effort or any activity that any American can give to a group that is attempting to kill the boil and cancer
