Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his difficulties in doing his job and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

In most respects, this officer is one of the best I have known in this agency. He has a broad and deep knowledge of his target area, as well as of his “host” country; an excellent and proven degree of operational “know-how”; the ability to write and speak lucidly and effectively and with apparent ease; and a very high degree of motivation and devotion to duty. He can be expected to continue his dynamic and imaginative pursuit of a most difficult target. It is my opinion that this officer has great potential and is ready for increased responsibilities which would involve the promotion for which he has been recommended. As for training, a good managerial course might help to bring into even sharper focus his many talents.

This report has been prepared in accordance with F.E. Division standards which recognize the principle of rating the individual against the group. Thus an “average” rating reflects an entirely satisfactory performance.

1. Certification and Comments by Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report. Date: 23 June 1960.

2. Signature of Employee: Jacque Richardson's/ on transmittal.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days.

Other (Specify):

Date. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature: signed on Adam Brindle(F) transmittal.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature.

Official title: COS, Tokyo. Typed or printed name and signature: John Baker's/ on transmittal.
