Dispatch.

To: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division.

From: Chief of Station, Mexico City.

Subject: Raymond H. GERENDE.

Reference: EMM-12284 dated 24 January 1964.

1. Station Mexico City fully agrees with Headquarters evaluation of Subject as a “valuable long term asset with stay behind potential.” In order to place the matter of the 2,100 pesos in the appropriate frame of reference it is felt that a few background points should be noted.

In January 1956 the LIEMPTY/LILYRIC basehouse was set up and placed in operation in a site which provided visual coverage of the LIMERICK installation. A deposit of three months rent was made per terms of the rental contract at that time (2,100 pesos). In April 1961 the building in which LIEMPTY/LILYRIC is located was sold by the owner. Normally the rental deposit would have been transferred to the new owner as part of the sale transaction. However, approximately three months after the transfer of the property to the new owner, the rental deposit was returned to the basehouse operator, LIEMPTY-15. The deposit was then returned to GERENDE. GERENDE did not inform the then LIEMPTY case officer nor the present case officer of the return of the LIEMPTY/LILYRIC deposit. This 2,100 pesos continued to be carried on the station books as an outstanding operational advance charged to GERENDE. GERENDE used part of this 2,100 pesos to make loans to two sub-agents (LIEMPTY-6 and LIEMPTY-9). It is probable that he also used some of this on occasion for his own purposes.

On 16 October 1963 GERENDE returned the 2,100 pesos to the case officer and the Station adjusted its books to reflect the return of this money. GERENDE noted at the time of the return that he had this money intact but did not know how to go about returning it so long after having received it. This is the same as he stated at the time of the LCFLUTTER interview. GERENDE was obviously impressed with his inability to “beat” the LCFLUTTER. He was sincerely remorseful when talking to the case officer.

Distribution: 3 C/WED.

Cross-reference to dispatch symbol and number: HMA-22920. Date: 17 February 1964. Headquarters file number: 201-119523.
