2 May 1965.

14.2 continued to Mexico.

Does Miric have anything (reaction) from Europe? Nothing press-wise, but M. has the impression that there is reaction—also with Vietnam, perhaps less British press. Miric listened a little to Moscow radio—in Spanish. Says a lot of silly things. Brings out a lot of Socialist Popular Party—silly things. That is the most stupid policy. VAG says that Radio Habana committed the same error by pointing out the Communist Party as being active. Pointed out 14 de June (Party): VAG gave them the complete information but thought they were to filter it. Had to call them today to tell them about this. The U.S. efforts to pacify public opinion in South America, and there is a contrast. They say that there are about 58 communists and give their names, original, etc., over the radio. One is a Spaniard, one is a correspondent of Prensa Latina (Pressa Latina) there, in the Dominican Republic. But AP says that there are 18,000 armed people—military and civilians. They will see the results of the O.E.A. Commission. VAG says they have information to foresee things a little. Miric points out that the visit of this Commission is really an approval of the intervention.

VKG is in bed. Has not slept in 48 hours. Will try to sleep. Has to write early tomorrow.

Miric will hand in about 10 pages of cable text. He is working on this. He is including in this the commentary which Miric mentioned today—on political situations, the results, etc.

When can they talk tomorrow? VAG wants to exchange impressions with Miric. VAG is going to “Sip-pre” early. Miric has some “second order” things to resolve early tomorrow, but it will not take long.

16.5. Out to 30-07-61. VAG asks WO, who answers, for Dr. Emilio Cordero. Not there right now. Nothing urgent.

16.7. Out to 25-80-62. VKG with WO, who answers, for Dr. Emilio Cordero.

EC takes the phone. VAG says there is nothing on Prensa Latina (Pressa Latina). They are beginning transmission and will have something later, but VKG is going to sleep now, mostly because this call will probably come in early tomorrow.

VAG also talked to Miric again. He is going to send all his information out by cable at night—10 pages.

They will talk tomorrow. VAG says the Habana line is not working, so he cannot pass any information that EC might give him, in case EC gets a call from Santo Domingo, until tomorrow.

Reel off at 13.2, 0620, 3 May 1965.
