29 July 1970

Contact Report on Alexander Samko, on 28 July 1970.

1. On the morning of 28 July, I called Sam to check in with him after being away on TDY for almost 6 weeks. He sounded a bit upset at not being contacted during this period, so I dashed out to his Hollywood home to explain what had happened and set him at ease.

2. It was plain to see that the trip had changed him. He is now a bit presumptuous, cocky, and know-it-all James Bond. He told me all sorts of wild stories about being tailed in Madrid “by 7 or 8 ‘Chivatos’ (Castro agents)” and leading them on long “8 or 9 mile hikes through Madrid.” Castro agents were also “watching” him on the day he was in Barcelona and during the short layover his Pan Am plane had in Lisbon on his way home. At no time, however, was he molested by these “agents.”

3. The Castro surveillance continued—so Sam says—in Hollywood. “About the second night after I got home,” approximately 14–15 June, a car parked across the street and a little to the rear of his house “after it got dark.” When Sam got into his car and went to the gas station, the car—described as looking like a white Volkswagen, without headlights on—followed Sam’s car on his short trip in the neighborhood and back to his home. He could not make out the physical description of the driver of the Volkswagen. He has never seen this car again.

4. The only other suspicious individual near his home was “a tall, thin man,” described as about 5 feet 11 inches to 6 feet and 170 pounds, with black hair and no distinguishing features visible; once wearing slacks and a white shirt, another time wearing a suit. This individual showed up across the street from his home “just as the sun had gone down, several evenings during the first week that I got home” (approximately 14–15 June). The man just walked past the front of the house back and forth a few times and appeared to have his car around the corner from Sam’s house. He could not identify the car or anything else about the man.

5. Again, during the first week after his return, Sam received several telephone calls where no one would answer when the phone was picked up, or the person calling would say, “sorry, wrong number.” Sam has not experienced any other suspicious incidents after the first week home from Spain. I should note that Sam does not talk of these incidents with fear, but rather in the vein of a paperback detective story.

6. Sam would not admit that he enjoyed himself somewhat in Madrid as a tourist, although he did not deny that he stayed in a luxury hotel, ate and drank well, saw the sights, and even went to a nightclub, all on the house. He went so far as to say that if he had “known it was going to be like this, I never would have gone.” Yet, in the same breath, he told “William” that he would be back in Spain in September. Of course, Sam would go again if we asked him. CIFHA-2231.
