He had led almost a “charming existence” in the USSR and that neither life in the USA nor the Soviet authorities mistreated him.

e. According to Subject, he was never arrested in the Soviet Union.

f. In reply to my query, Subject indicated that in 1958 the KGB tried to co-opt him into reporting a fellow student at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. However, Subject states that he rejected the pitch. In reply to various queries which were posed to him about the fellow student (name allegedly now forgotten), Subject states that he did render an unfavorable report on the person. Despite this, the particular Soviet was ultimately assigned abroad as an interpreter. Subject later heard that the Soviet worked and traveled to both Japan and Italy.

g. In reply to a general query about life in the USSR, Subject indicated that life in the USA has made him into “an accomplished prevaricator.”

h. Subject was less than fluent in relating the story of his life to the undersigned. He made mistakes frequently, he contradicted himself, he altered dates to accommodate other aspects of his activities to correspond with what he had mentioned earlier, etc. Also, Subject repeatedly tried to digress from relating his story into presenting his views of life; it was a chore to keep him on substantive matters relating to his own background.

i. Subject’s brother, Eugene, is now employed as an engineer of the Freehall Township, New Jersey. Additionally, he has a private office in Rockland, New Jersey, called the Civil Engineer Associates.

j. Subject’s account of how he acquired Soviet citizenship—see above—is a very weak item in Subject’s story. He will have us believe that he got Soviet citizenship “by default” as a result of his mother’s application for Soviet citizenship for herself. He himself admitted to the undersigned that this is illegal as his brother, Eugene, whose status was no different from Subject’s, never acquired Soviet citizenship “by default,” though Subject did allegedly without any action whatever on his own part. Moreover, Subject admitted that he was legally of age (16) by this time and no longer a dependent, as a result of which he would have had to apply for a Soviet passport and for Soviet citizenship of his own free volition rather than through his mother.
