Dispatch. To: Chief of Station, Paris/LCPIIT. Info: Chief of Station, Brussels. From: Chief, KUGOLF. Subject: DEDORIC/QRPREY/STEBONY. Action required: References. Ref. CFA-241, 22 June 1965.

1. Subject to Brussels Station views, Headquarters believes that STEBONY's proposal in Reference is a good one and very consistent with our interests that he develop his access and acceptability within the circles of which Ref Iden A is a significant figure. We realize that the picture is a complicated one, and that Iden A of Ref may or may not yet prove to have the staying power of the successful political figure. At the same time, it does seem that he is the most outstanding leader of the anti-revisionists today, and as such merits our attention.

2. With regard to Reference para 4's concern about possible damage to our national interest by publication of the book in English, we tend to side with STEBONY in feeling that the support which such a publication might render to our enemies could not really be detected by the naked eye. Similarly, while agreeing with the sentiment that would critically scrutinize all proposals by new assets, we note that STEBONY is, indeed, supposed to be seeking to regain status among his former associates, and that Ref proposal does not, to our view, contain any hint which would suggest that in following out this line of action at our direction, he is motivated by any ulterior or concealed aim different from that which led us to impose the commission in the first place.

3. We are attempting to get a rough translation done on a priority basis. STEBONY, of course, should understand that such a translation will be unfinished, and should be carefully reviewed for the proper “feel,” to rule out usage or interpretation which STEBONY, with his background, would never have inferred from the French text. Nonetheless, as the document has come to hand only on 2 July, and given the holiday weekend, the limitation on the number of translators available, the existence of other translation assignments, and, finally, the pouch transit time back to Rome, we regret that it will not be possible to get this product to RODIGAST for his 15 July meeting.

Distribution: 2 - COS, Paris/LCPIIT; 2 - COS, Brussels.

Cross reference to. Dispatch symbol and number: OFU-1152. Date: 15 JUL 1965. HQS file number: 2018306052. Originating office: CA/CP. James M. Murphy. Typist: NCM. Extension: 7767. Coordinating office symbol: CI/IC. Officer's name: Ralph Bergland (in draft).
