Just before they arrived they heard on the police radio that the Army had just “shot down” a twin-engine Beechcraft (beache craft). When they arrived, a search of the wreckage yielded a few weapons. A short firefight (about 15 minutes) ceased with insurgents that left two soldiers dead. Masferrer said he did not know the number of insurgent casualties. One insurgent was captured along with his .45-caliber pistol.

9. The captured insurgent turned out to be a U.S. citizen, white, male, approximately 27 years old. (Masferrer claimed he forgot the prisoner’s name, but that he had it in Miami.) Bravo did not trust the Acapulco or the Guerrero state police and had his men take the prisoner to the detention house outside of Cuernavaca. Masferrer said he witnessed the interrogation in which the prisoner’s head was extremely dunked in a rain barrel to make him talk. The prisoner eventually revealed the following information about “Force Seven”: participating Americans were ex-Ranger, airborne, Marine, or Special Forces types, many with Vietnam combat experience. They were armed with CAR-15 (M-16) rifles and some had M-79 grenade launchers. Other Americans operated elsewhere in Latin America. “Force Seven” provided training to the insurgents and, whenever possible, supplied weapons. In return, the Americans were paid in money and drugs, mostly marijuana, but some cocaine. Masferrer said no heroin was mentioned. The prisoner said the insurgents used the money from the drug smuggling to finance operations. Bank robberies had become increasingly difficult since the Army began posting armed guards at banks. The prisoner said he had worked under Genaro Vasquez (Mexico’s infamous bandit-turned-guerrilla; killed in a car accident last February). The prisoner put guerrilla strength at about 1,000 men. Masferrer, however, said Bravo felt that figure to be high. The prisoner also mentioned that some of the insurgents had previously received guerrilla training in North Korea.

10. Masferrer said that later, upon Nazar’s orders, the American prisoner was shot and killed. The whole affair was never reported in the local press because, according to Masferrer, such information, if revealed, would damage the area’s tourist trade.

Jeffrey G. Peterson
