Shipment had been successfully infiltrated to his group during his absence and again urged that more such shipments should be stepped up in the future. Rogers then briefly discussed the SINTEF operation and asked AMBING-1 if he did not think this area for the DZ was already “blown” due to the number of people who already knew of his operation. (This includes 5 other people besides AMBING-1 and AMBING-1.) AMBING-1 stated he was not sure, but would investigate this upon his return. However, he felt that this was an excellent DZ site and should be utilized for any subsequent airdrop scheduled in the Pinar del Rio province. Rogers informed AMBING-1 that his overlays on various LZs and DZs had been received and were being reviewed by the operations people. He complimented AMBING-1 on the excellent work of his cartographer and expressed the view that these DZ areas would be put to good use. Finally, he assured AMBING-1 that no stone is left unturned to provide his group with the necessary materiel support which is critically needed and that this support will be stepped up as our infiltration capabilities are increased both by air and sea. In parting, he cautioned AMBING-1 not to take any unnecessary chances when he resumed operational activities in Cuba, since his leadership in the AMBING group was vital to our overall interests. The meeting was terminated about 1720 hours as Rogers and Peters took their departure.

5. Some of the more significant highlights of the conversations which took place between AMBING-1 and the undersigned prior to his meetings with the W/T operator, Francisco, and Rogers are noted herewith:

a. Security: Castro has taken stringent action in tightening up his internal security against counter-revolutionary forces inside Cuba. The militia are being used to search houses for concealed weapons, usually by a block system, and anyone failing to produce proper identification is removed for questioning by the CIE. Hence, AMBING-1 and his organization are largely confining their activities to the daylight hours from 0700 to 2000 hours. He considers night operations—particularly on the streets of Havana—as highly dangerous inasmuch as the police, security organs, are constantly on the alert to stop individuals on the street to check their identification documents.

b. Documentation of Agents in Cuba: AMBING-1 suggested using an identification card issued by the Havana University for their students. He had a sample copy in his possession, which he claims was readily accepted by Castro security forces as being valid. Similarly, a driver's license properly authenticated along with a health certificate were considered to be good “cover” documents for agents operating in the Havana area. A supply of blank identification cards will be turned over to the Station by AMBING-1 for transmittal to headquarters for any subsequent documentation of
