Personnel Evaluation Report. Items 1 through 5 will be completed by Administrative or Personnel Officer.

Name: Fredrick C. Grade: GS-9. Position title: Intel Off (DE). Department: UPD. Staff or division: FE. Period covered by report: 2-10-52 to 2-10-53. Type of report: Annual.

Items 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

List your major duties in approximate order of importance, with a brief description of each. Omit minor duties.

As Chief of CE Section of Branch 5, supervise and perform the following:

a. Promulgate and coordinate espionage and counter espionage operations designed to obtain adequate coverage of the host and all other foreign intelligence services operating in Indonesia and Malaya.

b. Maintain CE card and index file, personality and subject dossiers, notebooks, etc.

c. Disseminate counter espionage information to interested customer agencies and appropriate sections of CIA.

d. Formulate research studies on host intelligence services, and plan and conduct operational analyses, etc.

e. Conduct correspondence on CE and personality cases with other government agencies and with field stations.

List courses of instruction completed during report period.

Counter Espionage. Location: CIA Washington. Length of course: 1 week (first week of two-week course taken in 1951). Date completed: 9 May 1952.

Thesis (AM). Location: George Washington University. Length of course: Indefinite. Date completed: To complete May 1953.

In what type of work are you primarily interested?

If different from your present job, explain your qualifications, aptitude, knowledge, skills.

I am interested in my present job as a Washington Counter Espionage Officer, but desire to broaden my knowledge of intelligence through future field tours as an intelligence and counter intelligence officer in the Far East.

10. Date. Signature.

Items 11 through 18 will be completed by Supervisor.

Briefly describe this person's performance on the major duties listed under item 1 above.

Subject's performance is best described as excellent. He is doing competent work and is laying a good foundation for a career in intelligence.
