Section E. Narrative Description of Rating of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is conscientious, industrious, and willing to accept all responsibility given him. He has performed capably in a function for which he was specially trained; he has previous experience or training, and has shown a marked interest in learning all facets of his job. He has handled large sums of money with few errors, and maintains the necessary statistical records in a competent manner. Mail Room.

Subject should strive to develop more confidence in himself and in his ability to perform the duties assigned him. His lack of assurance and his naivete are sometimes disconcerting to those with whom he deals.

This report has been prepared in accordance with F.E. Division standards which recognize the principle of rating the individual against the group. Thus an “average” rating reflects an entirely satisfactory performance.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 3 May 1961. Signature of Employee: James B. Wilcott (signed).

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 8.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify).

Date: 3 May 1961. Official title of supervisor: Elwood Martin.

3. By Reviewing Official.

X I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not
