Fitness Report. Contract: Career Agent.

Section A—General. Name: DEVICHO Irving C. Date of birth: 14 June 23. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13. Position: JMWAVE. Reporting period: 1 January 1966–31 December 1966.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W—Work performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional that in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Supervises 25 Field Agents and two WOFACT personnel engaged in Special Operations missions. The Agents comprise crews of 4 SO Infiltration Craft, 2 SO Infiltration Teams, and a Special Alert Team. These Agents perform overwater infiltration, exfiltration, and caching operations into a denied area (donled area) (PBRUMEN).

Specific Duty No. 2: Supervises the training of 25 Field Agents in operation of small craft and all related activities, PM operational techniques and tradecraft. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Develops operational plans and programs for specific SO Operations. Tests and evaluates new equipment and techniques for possible use by SO Branch or other Station activities. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4: Administers all personnel and administrative matters for 25 Field Agents. Handles real estate, subsistence and logistics for 25 Field Agents. Rating letter: P.

Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
