Section C. Narrative Comments: Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

During this reporting period subject had very successfully increased the tempo of his activities and contacts. Many agent prospects have been screened and contacts were established with people of interest to several elements of the Station. Subject is particularly thorough and outstanding on specific investigations where he utilized cover in a skillful and imaginative way. He has improved in terms of people development but in this respect he is still best with people in a professionally related context rather than a contrived social context. As mentioned in the previous report subject's cover assignment does not allow him to make recruitments. Subject has a high degree of cost consciousness and does not exercise any supervisory responsibilities.

Section D. Certification and Comments: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Signature of Employer. Date: 11 June 1969. /s/ Thomas B. CASASIN.

By Supervisor. 2 months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Official Title of Supervisor. Date: 5 June 1969. Op's Officer. Typed or Printed Name and Signature: /s/ Murat Natirboff.

By Reviewing Official. 3. Comments of Reviewing Official: I do not concur in this rating. I would have given the employee STRONG in the performance of his cover responsibilities, that is to say in the manner in which he has created and expanded his cover. I would have restricted myself to PROFICIENT, however, in assessing his exploitation of that cover for operational purposes. For a fuller treatment of this staff agent's performance, suggest that reference be made to the NOC Status Report, submitted 26 May 1969, via OPFA-89925.

Official Title of Reviewing Official. Date: 23 June 1969. Chief of Station. Typed or Printed Name and Signature: /s/ David K.E. Murphy.
