Have been compelled at this stage to seek a more popular label for its economic and social policies. . . If this commitment is to be more than a design to steal the opponents' electoral thunder, the Congress Governments at the Centre and in the States have immediately set about the task of translating the new principles into policies. . . The only way to make the policy of Congress Governments accord with Congress principles is self-criticism, and yet there were responsible Congressmen at Avedi who saw danger even in the condemnation of malpractices by Congressmen. . . The road to full employment—for which the Congress has for the first time laid down a time-limit—is by no means easy. It demands a complete renovation of life in the countryside on the one hand and speedy industrialization, making the country as self-sufficient as possible, on the other. (etc.) Digest of Mr. Nehru's speech on Jan. 24th.

He spoke of the unsuitability of totalitarianism in the Democratic Republic of India and the incoherence of capitalism, stating that there was left only a Socialistic approach open to the country.

He stated that the acceptance of the Socialist society as ideal meant the nationalization of institutions that could be immediately nationalized with advantage. The prescription in so doing, said Mr. Nehru, was that socialized production would be more profitable. He, however, cautioned that if experience showed that view, the step might have to be retraced.

He stated that a Socialist ideal which received the support of the people could achieve the two objectives of increasing national income and enhancing individual divided.

He stated that India had established economic stability, though at a rather low level of prosperity during the first Plan period. He said the credit for the achievement went not merely to economic management and planning but included other factors, among them assistance from friendly nations. The United States, he said, had contributed the largest share of foreign aid.

Miss Bindi and Mr. Hodson (private secretary of Mrs. Gandhi's and reception clerk at Prime Minister's House), over an easy cup of tea in their quarters, told the following story:

While in China, at the first big banquet given there, Mr. Hahn and his daughter (and others) were served tiny baby live fish (clipped in honey). Mrs. Gandhi (his daughter) was so shocked that she collapsed at the sight and turned away. None of them could eat the delicacy. It was not ever served again to them while they were in China.
