Section C: Narrative Comments.

In reviewing my previous fitness report and those of my predecessors, on this fine officer, I find myself hard put not to repeat what has been said so often before. She has been the backbone of this section and of those where she has worked previously. Her work has always shown excellent judgement and ingenuity. A self-starter with tremendous drive and discipline, the amount of work she has produced has been prodigious. An excellent team worker, she has never shirked when—as so often happens—she is asked to take on additional work or work on a matter outside of her regular field. While forceful, she is diplomatic and tactful and is able to present suggestions and criticisms in a pleasant manner. She is one of the most dedicated persons I have met in the Organization, and exceptionally dependable. While, as a woman and a Specialist, she has had little opportunity to handle agents, she has done very well with those we have given her to handle. She has showed great ability in the training of two transcribers and in the debriefing of two female agents and their husbands. This is in large part due to her in-depth knowledge of the targets this section is working on. The past few months have been difficult, requiring the complete reorganization of this Section and the termination of the majority of our assets. Under this stress, she has performed in her usual outstanding manner. Perhaps, even a little better. Her handling of a great deal of file work has been excellent, probably in part because she was the one who set it up and has maintained it in its present very good state.

(Continued)

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 7 Aug 1972. Signature of employee: /s/ Charlotte Z. Bustos-Videla. By employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 7 August 1972. Official title of supervisor: Operations Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ John M. Burke. By reviewing official.

Comments of reviewing official: Without any hesitation I concur with the outstanding ratings above. Subject is now up for rotation and we will miss her immensely. For years she has dedicated her entire time to her job which she has done so well. She has been creative, thorough and accurate. Although she has not had supervisory experience at this station, she has performed in a manner which clearly reflects that she would have no problem with supervising. A truly outstanding employee with growth potential.

Date: 7 Aug 1972. Official title of reviewing official: DCOS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ George A. Fill.
