Section IX. Qualifications for Other Operations.

1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications possessed by subject which could conceivably be of value for other operations. Subject is an artist.

Section X. Commitments.

1. If it is proposed to pay subject a specific salary, indicate the weekly amount. If payment to be made in each week is subsidized on another method, specify and give details. As of 15 June 1963, Subject will be paid a monthly salary of 4000 pesos.

2. Explain any promises otherwise not covered herein, made to subject. No commitments or promises, but it is assumed that KUBARK will assist Subject to leave the country if this is necessary because of his activities on behalf of himself.

Section XI. CE and Security.

1. Indicate the field agencies and field files within which subject's name has been checked and the results. Station files. Close friends of Subject such as LITAMIL-3, LITAMIL-2, LITAMIL-7, LICAZE-1, and any other contacts of the Cuban Embassy.

2. Indicate other investigative measures taken to verify biographical information furnished by subject. See paragraph 1.

3. Indicate whether or not professional operational approval or operational approval for subject's use was previously obtained. Submitted 27 July 1962, EMMA 19455.

4. Date approval obtained.

5. Evaluate subject's character, reliability, and security, citing evidence where possible. Subject is of high moral character, proud of his family background. Sincere, extremely security conscious, reliable, punctual, and highly intelligent. A cosmopolitan type, somewhat arty, yet cognizant of what it takes to get a job done, i.e. KUBARK's job.

6. Explain any situation or indiscretion in which subject may have been involved which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security viewpoint. Subject's relationship with COTRUST is unknown to Jose CARRAL Escalante and Dolores CUEVAS de YCHEANE per MEXI 3450. CARRAL and de YCHEANE are not believed to be security risks.

Section XII. Subject's Personal Habits.

1. Use of liquor, drugs: sampling, pharmacies. Subject drinks moderately. Subject is not known to have any flagrant vices.
