Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds, as to be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

During the period covered by this report, subject began a new job in an upper-level, executive capacity with an international organization. He obtained this job without BHEWALD assistance and the salary offsets approximately 40% of the total cost of this activity. This cover job was possible because of subject's extensive, solid background in scientific journalism and his French fluency. His cover is impeccable because he is capable of a first class, professional performance on this job and he was selected for the job solely on his professional qualifications in competition with other highly-qualified persons.

A solid cover situation is useful only to the extent that it serves as a base for BHEWALD activities. Despite a full time job and unwitting superiors and co-workers, Subject has done a full time job for BHEWALD. He has maintained an intensive dialogue with one Soviet official, frequent contact with others, and he is developing additional Soviet contacts in his cover organization. He has also established initial contacts with Chinese officials and has laid the foundation, through the cover organization, to develop and maintain direct and long-term contact with certain of these targets. He has been effective and ingenious in devising direct access to this difficult target and to others having access.

Subject devotes about 50% of his operational effort to the Soviet and Chinese targets. His operational reporting reflects these priorities and it is timely,

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date. Signature of Employee.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature: /s./ Joseph I. Saltsman.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

During the period under review, this NOC moved into a highly sensitive but potentially very valuable new cover situation, in which he has infinitely greater access to Soviet and Chinese targets. The NOC is also superbly equipped to handle this new position, by virtue of previous experience, linguistic competence and substantive knowledge of the field of endeavor. He should, in our judgment, do a first-class job, both for the cover employer, and for the Organization as well.

With respect to the specific duties set forth in the first section of this report, this reviewer would not have rated specific duty number two at the "O".

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Hugh R. Montgomery.
