Continuation of Dispatch. LIMNA-13951 -1705.

L-10's statement that he did some photographic work for ODACID. There was no newspaper or other publicity pertaining to L-10 or LIENTRAP.

10. During his visit to Secret Service Headquarters WARE discovered that L-10 had not been booked or formally charged with an illegal act and that neither LIMON nor MENDIOLEA could recall L-10's name. L-10 was not placed in jail during the 26 hours he was at Secret Service Headquarters but, rather, was permitted to remain in the Secret Service agents' duty room. No bribes were necessary to obtain his release; however, per LIMEW's request, $500.00 pesos were given to LIMEW to give to his source. LIMEW said that in addition to notifying him about L-10's detention, the source was also responsible for all equipment and film being returned intact to L-10.

11. TESSAROLO was advised, as soon as LIMEW became involved in the case, that the criminal lawyer should not pursue the matter any further. Two bottles of scotch whiskey were given to the lawyer through TESSAROLO for the few tasks he had already performed.

12. After his release, L-10 reported that he was not interrogated and that he did not reveal any data about other operations he has worked on nor did he give the names of anybody connected with operational activities. Based on the developments in the case, the Station has no reason to doubt the veracity of L-10's statement. L-10 was reprimanded for his use of statements to the Secret Service about being employed by ODACID. He was told that the revelation of such employment was to be made only by the Station and that henceforth he is never to use such a cover story. L-10 was also reprimanded for his lack of judgment in remaining in an area where there was a strong concentration of police; it is believed safe to assume that L-10 will never make this same mistake again.

13. In retrospect, it is interesting to note that L-10's use of the ODACID employment story is possibly responsible for his not being interrogated and thus compromising other operations and individuals. This case has pointed out to the Station the desirability of having casual contacts in the Secret Service and other local police-type organizations so that the Station, rather than ODACID and ODENVY, is the first to learn of incidents of this type. Considering the multifarious activities handled by the Station, it must be assumed that the police will occasionally apprehend an agent and that the Station must be geared to handle such emergencies.

14. The Station is allowing a one month's cooling off period for the LIEN-TRAP (LIENTRAP) vehicle and LIEMPTY-10. The vehicle will then be painted another standard color and re-registered in the State of Mexico. After these security precautions are observed, the Station sees no reason why carefully selected photographic surveillance operations should not continue with L-10 as a wiser and more prudent LIENTRAP operator.

Willard C. CURTIS

15 October 1959.
