The International Rescue Committee

Since the start of the Cold War, the International Rescue Committee has organized voluntary American assistance to aid refugees fleeing from Communist oppression.

When the tide of persons fleeing Soviet-dominated countries into the free city of West Berlin reached more than 3,000 per day during the spring of 1945, the Committee successfully marshalled more than $700,000 in gifts and donations of clothing, drugs, and other necessities. This earned the commendation of President Eisenhower and leaders throughout America.

As the historic emergency increases, the Committee's work continues to uphold America's belief in the indivisibility of freedom.

The International Rescue Committee

Leo Cherne, Chairman  
Admiral Richard E. Byrd (BYRn), Honorary Chairman  
David F. Sederhill, Treasurer

Board of Directors

A. A. Borie, Jr.  
Joseph A. Snow  
Pall M. Brisbenson  
Mrs. Kermit (Kernit) Roosevelt  
Joseph Buttinger  
David Shea  
Henry Schoult Gandy  
George P. Skoutas  
William J. Casey  
General Carl Spaatz (Spartz)  
William J. Donovan  
Stuart D. Spiegel (SPIEGE)  
Christopher Emmett (EMMET)  
Shelby Streusky  
H. William Fitzelson  
Tilford Taylor  
Samuel Goldwyn  
Msgr. Bell A. Varca  
A. E. Jolis  
Arthur K. Watson  
Jesus Lawrence  
L. Hollinsworth Wood  
David H. Marx  
Admiral (ARMIRAL) E. M. Zacharias  
Charles S. Zimmerman  
Abram (AUBRAM) G. Becker, Executive Director

Leo Cherne, Chairman  
International Rescue Committee  
62 West 45th Street, New York 10, N.Y.

I am glad to add my contribution to help refugees from Communism.

Enclosed please find check for $____ as my subscription for the continuance of this vital work.

Name

Address

City, Zone, State

Checks (Cheeks) should be made payable to the International Rescue Committee. All contributions deductible from taxable income.

He stood between you and this.

Check should be made payable to the International Rescue Committee. All contributions deductible from taxable income.
