Qualifications Update. Read instructions carefully before completing; type or print, avoid using light-colored inks.

Note: All your qualifications are a matter of computer record; they must be substantively updated. This is done automatically for much information; however, some must be obtained directly from you. This form is for that purpose. Some must be completed in all cases. You need provide other information if there have been changes since the last submitted Form 144, “Qualifications Supplement,” or a previous update form. These are to be deleted whether information has been previously submitted, except in the appropriate section. The signed and dated forms should be returned through each administrative channel to the Post Office Box of Personnel, Room 58-13, Headquarters, whether information is added or not.

Additionally, a qualifications update may take place at any time there is information to be added or changed, simply by completing and returning an update form on your initiative.

Section I: Biographic and Position Data. Name (last, first, middle if any): McCORD, James W., Jr. Date of birth: 26 Jan 1924.

Section II: Education. High school. Last high school attained: No Change. Address (city, state, country). Residence (date–to). Graduate: Yes / No. College or university study. Name and location of college or university. State. City. Profession. From–to; number of months. No Change. If a graduate degree has been noted above which registered submission of a written thesis indicates, state the title of the thesis and briefly describe its content. Trade, commercial and specialized schools. Name and address of school. Study or specialization. From. To; number of months. Other non-agency education or training not indicated above. Name and address of school. Study or specialization. From. To; number of months.

Section III: Marital Status. Name. First (last). Date of birth; place of birth (city, state, country). Gender (M/F). No Change. Present employer. Home and neighborhood—first contacts (city, state, country). Same as previously.

Section IV: Occupational, children and dependents; stay home only. Notes.
