Section C. Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in the following sections to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties is described, if applicable.

Mail Room. Mr. Hicks' primary responsibility has been to provide Headquarters support and guidance for the PM activities directed by the Miami Station against the Cuban target. Mr. Hicks has shown a high degree of professional judgment in carrying out his duties, and his judgment is respected by senior officials who are required to submit the PM programs for high-level approval. During operational phases of the PM programs, Mr. Hicks is frequently required to be on call to act on emergency situations on a 24-hour basis. He has accepted this responsibility willingly. He has consistently taken the initiative in investigating technical developments which might provide assistance to the Station in the conduct of PM operations. He now supervises two professional and two clerical employees in his Section and runs his unit smoothly with no discernible friction. He does a good job of briefing and indoctrinating junior officers. While his experience has been predominantly in the PM field, he has acquired FI experience in the last two years because of the unique nature of Cuban PM (FI) operations. In his consideration of budgetary matters, he has demonstrated an understanding of the need to curtail expenses, where feasible. I would be glad to have Mr. Hicks work with me at any future time.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 19 Jan 1965. Signature of employee: C. Simms Jr.

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Months employee has been under my supervision: 24. Date: 1-19-65. Official title of supervisor: Chief, WH/SA, Miami Operations Branch. Typed or printed name and signature: John S. Tilton.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Concur. Though I have reservations as to characterizing this officer as "Strong," (in point of intrinsic ability when compared to others who are clearly strong performers) such reservations are vague and impressionistic and not related to the actual performance and period to which this report is addressed. Date: 15 February 1965. Official title of reviewing official: Under Deputy Chief, WH(SA). Typed or printed name and signature: Edward A. Marelius.
