Hungary. January 26, 1953.

“This same Warburg (arburg), who, with one hand, scribbles humanitarian and charity appeals and pockets with the other—so a chief shareholder of I.G. Farbenindustrie—rich dividends resulting from the manufacture of poison gas for the Auschwitz death camp, where several million people, including many hundreds of thousands of Jews, were killed. This same Warburg (arburg), who pronounced about helping the victims of the war, is one of the main architects of the Cold War and, with the golden rain of dollars, he helps to get back on its feet again the bloodthirsty and money-hungry German imperialism.

“Such is the likeness of philanthropists for whom every life extinguished, every bomb dropped means the clinking of gold. Under the expert direction of Mr. Warburg, the principal task of Joint has been spying and the organization of sabotage for the overthrow of the People’s Democratic regime. This was the organization which directed the base activities of the doctor-wreckers and gave instructions for the extermination of the leading cadres of the Soviet Union. At the same time, however, it does not look with contempt upon currency deals and black marketing or smuggling. Spying and sabotage have proved excellent business also. Through the illegal emigration movement in Czechoslovakia, for instance, Joint made a profit of 9 dollars for every dollar invested. The damage which these criminals have caused the Czechoslovak People’s Republic would have covered the costs of 20,000 room flats or 177,000 carloads of wheat.”

Joint, though important, is by no means the only espionage and terror organization of American imperialism. The U.S. Government long ago made an institutional and an official governmental activity of the organization of combinations and acts of terror. The Mutual Security Act provides 100 million dollars for the recruitment into armed formations of “war criminals and other criminals who fled from the USSR (USRC) and the People’s Democracies,” for action against their countries of origin.

“Since the end of World War Two, the war incendiaries have been tenaciously and systematically building up their interwoven and world-embracing espionage network.” The sum total invested for the purpose is far in excess of the amount stipulated in the Mutual Security Act.

“The Swiss paper DIE TAT estimates the annual operating costs of the Central Intelligence Agency, employing 6,500 permanent and temporary staff, at 300 million dollars.”
