Assume that Congress intends to conduct a Europe versus Soviet Union Congress. It should be understood that these words are merely propagandistic, and that they do not intend to suggest any aim at the present time other than with theutification aimed at the wrong targets. That will make this show doubly effective. Therefore, the working details should be made known to as few people as possible.

The National Committee for Free Europe should assist in all technical preparations and furnish the necessary language announcers for broadcasts of the proceedings in the appropriate languages. But it is essential that the contents remain secret until the show goes on the air. This is not only security in the ordinary sense; it is also a matter of delivering the blow with maximum effect.

2. Adequate guards should be posted at all broadcasting and transmitter facilities in Berlin. I am thinking particularly of the transmitter in the British (Brits) section of Berlin, which is far too close to the Soviet line for comfort. While I am convinced that the Russians would make no attempt to start a disturbance at the Reichstag (if we take normal security precautions), I think they may well attempt to sabotage some of the radio installations. I would not trust any except proper American and/or British public safety officers and guards to protect these.

Alternate transmitting and broadcasting units should be held in readiness in case of sabotage against British (Brits) installations or elsewhere. I believe RIAS has two transmitters, but I don't know whether they are both in British (Brits) or not.

3. The number of persons at the Berlin end to be informed of the project should be kept as small as possible and steganography transmitted at the last possible date consistent with an effective production job. Everything which can be recorded at the New York end should be taken along on standard unbreakable platters and put on German tape when at the Berlin end, when the operation is in the final phase. This is a simple matter. It should be done regularly with 10A transmissions sent to Germany.

4. No one in RIAS need know of this operation until the final preparatory stage.

5. All policy considerations must be cleared in such fashion as to prevent any form of bureaucratic sabotage, including buck-passing at the Berlin end of the operation.

6. One American, thoroughly familiar with the aims, large and small, of this project, should maintain close personal liaison with Major Ernst Reuter of Berlin. That may be in agreement with the general aims and objectives formulated above—and that he is precisely the man to present these aims in terms which all Berliners, decent Germans, and the rest of the world will understand and admire. I know is the case. He is the perfect host and master of ceremonies. He speaks German, English, French, Russian, Turkish—and believes that freedom is indivisible.

Please excuse excessive wordage. Insufficient space.

Boris Shub
