4 May 1961

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Briefing of Mr. Maurice Oldfield, MI-6, by WH/4, Clark Simmons

1. In view of the request of Mr. Maurice Oldfield, MI-6 representative, for identification and further particulars regarding the Robert Norton Geddes case, a meeting was held on 2 May 1961 with WH/4/C1, Clark Simmons, with Mr. Cleveland C. Cross and John C. Roberts of WB/6 also present.

2. At the outset Mr. Oldfield provided the following information:

a. Robert Norton Geddes is a British subject born in Lima, Peru, on 7 April 1932. He holds British passport No. C-34880, issued at Masagua on 14 June 1958. He was not registered at the British Consulate in Havana and was regarded as being American or Canadian.

b. Two employees of the British Embassy, Havana, had visited Geddes in the Havana jail (Military G-2 section) on Sunday evening, 30 April 1961, and had a 15-minute conversation with Geddes alone under circumstances which they felt were not monitored. Geddes stated to them: (1) On 19 April he was arrested by the militia (in civilian clothes) at his hotel; (2) He had been interrogated three times and gave the impression that he had not disclosed anything of importance; (3) He was accused of being a CIA agent and told that he could be shot because of the existence of civil war; (4) During the third interrogation Geddes was shown that their radio transmitter signed by Geddes which was sent allegedly by air by radio transmitter asking that CIA send arms to Cuba.

c. The British Embassy in Havana learned on Saturday, 30 April 1961, that Geddes had regularly been “picked up” at the Havana airport on his trip to and from Miami. (Mr. Oldfield was not certain what exact interpretation could be given to the term “picked up.”)

d. After relating the above, Mr. Oldfield stated that his service is interested in obtaining an estimate of the sort of story the Cubans might use against Geddes or in provocation against the British Embassy, perhaps to prove that the British Embassy had been in collusion with the U.S. He referred to the following specific questions which he had submitted earlier on 2 May and which were relayed by WB/6 to WH/4; R. Hopkins for answers to be given in the afternoon session by Clark Simmons.
