Dispatch. Chief of Station, Mexico City. Chief, WHD. Subject: PERRYEN/LIEUVOY.

Action required—references. References: A. MEXI 5648; B. MEXI 5487.

1. The referenced cables describe two recent incidents in which the Mexico City Station made use of LIENVOY information to take investigative or punitive action against security suspects. The first reference reported the identifying and “trapping” of a PERPIME citizen who was offering his services to the Cuban Embassy, and the second reported the deporting of a Cuban IS agent identified by LIENVOY material.

2. In both of these cases, there seems to have been departure from the extreme caution with which the Mexico Station has always handled the LIENVOY material. Admitting that the cables do not set out enough facts to enable us to make a final judgment, we still feel a little uneasy about this use of LIENVOY material. In the first case, the Station sent an agent to the suspect’s hotel, posing as a Cuban Embassy official to “trap” him into revealing his intentions. The scheme, which was admittedly clever, succeeded, but we were concerned about what would have happened if the Cubans themselves had decided to contact the individual. Would not the LIENVOY operation have been exposed to some extent? We grant that the Cubans and other bloc personnel in Mexico City may suspect LIENVOY exists, but they do not know it—yet. Incidentally, we had no traces on the PERPIEMR involved.

3. The second case involved the detection, apprehension and deportation of a Cuban IS agent whose whereabouts were learned through LIENVOY. From the few facts we know about this case, we cannot really judge the possible risk to LIENVOY. The Mexico Station created LIENVOY and has always guarded its security with scrupulous care. Has there been a change?

4. Finally, please note that both these cases should have been reported to Headquarters before action was taken. In general, arrests, deportation, trapping, or other action against security suspects should be approved by Headquarters, except where in the opinion of the Chief of Station, the added time needed would seriously impair ODYOKE security or the security of our operations. The Mexico Station has always done this, and the coincidence of two recent cases where it was not done inspires us to query you. Please let us know your views.

Distribution: 2—Mexico City.

Cross reference to dispatch symbol and number: HAW-11831. Date: 7 August 1963. HQS file number: None HLA-01-95/3. Originating officer: C/WH/3. Officer: John M. Whitten:cmy. Office type. Date: 6 August 1963.
