Section D: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State supporting comments for rating. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide better understanding of future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If necessary, a plan is needed to complete Section D; attach a separate sheet of paper.

Although Subject has only been under my supervision for some four months, I can but agree with earlier comments on his performance. Subject has an encyclopedic knowledge of the organization, function and history of the various Soviet intelligence and security organs. He is a highly skilled researcher and a gifted writer. His work in preparing classified studies on the various aspects of the Soviet intelligence services and operations has been consistently impressive.

Subject has not had the field experience usually associated with his age and grade, but the lack of this has not been a drawback in his chosen research duties. In the future Subject will profit from seeking out opportunities for further activity rather than, as at present, waiting until assignments are given to him.

In addition to his research abilities, Subject is a highly effective lecturer, much sought after by other agencies who are conducting training in the CI field.

Subject has encountered some slight problems with his staff during the reporting period, but these are essentially minor. In my opinion Subject is in the forefront of research personnel at his grade level.

Section E: Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 4. Official title of supervisor: AC/CIRA. Typed or printed name and signature: W. Hugel; William J. Hood.

2. By Employee. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance: Have attached. Official title of reviewing official. Date: 16 Jan 75. Billings No.: Lorillard Vignola. By not attached. Typed or printed name and signature: Raymond G. Rocca.

3. By Reviewing Official. I endorse Mr. Hood's Section D evaluation. I have found Mr. Wigren to be a very dependable and resourceful individual in undertaking the extensive research commitments that the staff has undertaken in meeting very heavy obligations of sensitive liaison exchanges over the past year. Mr. Wigren is above all a gentleman in his attitude toward and treatment of others. I would say in the long run this works to his disadvantage because his contribution and his modesty tend to be overridden by the pretensions and bluster of others. Mr. Wigren has what has now become a most precious commodity to the DBO in counterintelligence and that is a grasp on many of the aspects of the collegial memory. He is therefore in a position not only to contribute useful ideas for new projects, but to correct, amend, and modify suggestions and courses of action put up by others who do not have the facts. In other words, this is a man whose continued utility and potential are considerable in my judgment.

Date: 17 Jan 75.
