He never did anything else. Just a student, he has graduated now. I think he is working in the government somewhere.

(Did he get paid)

No—oh yes, he did, he got a commission on subscriptions. He got 30-some subscriptions from students at the university, in one week as I recall, which was unheard of. Just a student, and just by sheer chance he handled the magazine.

(Mme. Michele Mestre)

Oh, my, Michele Mestre! Madame Mestre—I don't know anything about. Michel Mestre is one of Maspero's (Caspero's) people. I thought it was a man. I've never met him, don't know anything about him. I know there is a Michel Mestre who has written a number of books on the Congo for Maspero. Had nothing to do with Verges although Verges did put out feelers to get this person, man or woman, to work for Revolution. He wasn't successful. It was part of his general campaign of leaving Maspero with no authors at all.

(Rosalind Ainslie)

She's married. She works for the East German news agency APN. She is obviously connected with the South African Communist Party. She is a member of the Congress Alliance in South Africa and she is married to an Indian.

She has some children and she lives here in London. She comes from a wealthy family in South Africa, I imagine. She was found by Patricia Magowan Pinheiro to work for Revolution. That flopped after a short period. They didn't know which way to go, to stick with the Algerians or stick with Verges. The business of the magazine being pro-Chinese by no means was obvious, nor even clear in Verges's mind. The magazine was pro-Chinese for an awful long time, it wasn't a question of being pro-Chinese. Certainly not when I was hired. It was Algerian, that was all.

(Americans attending subversive sabotage school in Prague)

I never heard of a subversive sabotage school in Prague. The Americans (who were) that I have known going through Prague have gone to Havana.

(Between Moscow and Havana en route)

Yes. I don't know anything about a subversive sabotage school. I don't doubt that there might be one. I imagine there's one in Washington too.

(I never heard of it. Either one)

(Laughs)

(Current addresses of some of these people)

Well, who do you want? Now, has no address. He sleeps around
