Continuation of Dispatch. HEMMA-15319 1803.

c) Advance information was provided on the following travel: Soviet Ambassador Bazykin to leave 21 June 1960 for home leave in the USSR; planned departure of Vladimir Novikov, Cultural Officer, for home leave in the USSR and return to Mexico; departure for home leave 31 May 1960 of known RIS officer Colonel Dmitriy Kuznetsov; that thirteen Soviet officials are returning to the USSR during the months of July and August 1960 with no indication that these are to be replaced. Five of these are known RIS officers: Yuriy Chelpanov, Pavel Kovalev, Yevgeniy Lapshev, Vladimir Makovkin, and Grigori Yefremov.

d) Due to advance information provided through LIFEAT/LITMUS, the Station was able to cover a clandestine meeting of Alexandr Bekier, Polish Counselor of Legation in Mexico, and provide identification of Bekier's contact. Through coordination with MKCHARITY and the Station's KURIOT representative, both audio and photo surveillance of the meeting were arranged.

e) LIFEAT/LIERODE significantly supported the Station's efforts in the Cuban operations field by providing leads that lead to and assisted in the recruitment of agent LITALUS-3, a penetration of the Cuban Embassy who is to be handled by LITALUS-1. LIERODE is also utilized as a continuing check on the activities of the newly recruited agent.

f) The Station's CE priority has been supported through coverage of the phone used by PCM members Juan Luis Campos Villalobos and Mario Perez Maria. This coverage has provided information of value concerning addresses, phone numbers, and contacts of other PCM members. It has also been employed as a cross-check of statements made by Campos to Howard O. Moschiano.

g) LIFEAT provided information on travel planned and accomplished by associates of the American Communist Group in Mexico (ACGM), particularly that of Maria Wicher to Moscow, the return of Albert Maltz to Mexico, and the planned travel of Noah Seborer to Moscow in August.

b. Processing of Material

During the month of May 1960, the quantity of raw information processed was noticeably reduced, and thus the amount of positive intelligence derived was also reduced, due to the “outage” on certain of the most productive LIFEAT lines. Principally involved were the Soviet lines, including a one-week break on an Embassy line, three weeks on the Soviet Motion Picture Office line, and one week on the Soviet Commercial Office line. These “outages” were primarily due to the telephone company pulling the LIFEAT crosses, or the target telephone being out of order.

c. Liaison

As in the past, the only liaison connected with Project LIFEAT is in passing reels from coverage of the American Communists in Mexico to ODENVY for their processing. No other liaison is considered necessary or desirable.

d. Security

No security problems arose that were not readily solved by the personnel concerned, nor did these jeopardize the operation.
