Office of Personnel Officer.

Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance: Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development, and state the assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is so well qualified to meet the requirements of deputy chief of a large area division that there may well be a tendency to lose sight of his ability to run an organization of his own. This capability was amply demonstrated when he was chief of the China Branch of FE Division.

Subject is unusually strong as a supervisor. His flair for warm but impartial relationships with subordinates has enabled him to develop a first-hand understanding of the capabilities, shortcomings and problems of a very large proportion of all FE personnel. His direction of personnel does not lack firmness but is expressed in such a way that feelings are considered and best results are achieved.

Subject's operational judgment is entirely reliable. He has an encyclopedic knowledge and understanding of the Division's operations and a full grasp of political implications throughout the area.

I have noted no weaknesses in Subject which would inhibit his successful assumption of increasing responsibilities.

This report has been prepared in accordance with FE Division standards which are the same for all employees. Training the individual against the great, though infrequent, chance of ill health reflecting an entirely satisfactory performance.

Section F. Certification and Comments: I certify that I have read Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

By Employee. Signature of employee: William J. Kinn.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 7. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Subject on extended trip abroad. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 3 months. Report made within 30 days. Original date (special).

Date: 9 April 1959. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Far East Division. Type or print name and signature: Desmond Finfords.

By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 19 April 1959. Official title of reviewing official: C FI. Type or print name and signature: K.J. Georgia.
