SENSIND: RYBAT

MHFNO: 96-3068322

Sour in the next few months. I still like to consider myself as a friend of the (NVTAG). But sometimes you people make it extremely difficult. The enclosed fax is just intelligence matter that someday may play an important role in one of your investigations.

Text of page two:

To: Robert Vernon  
From: WM R. Plumlee, aka WM H. Pearson

January 28, 1996

Dear Bob:

In November 1980, I sabotaged the Denver Magazine article, “Fear and Loathing on the Assassination Trail,” because the documents and information I was giving to the magazine, to verify certain events I alleged, was being given to the Denver (NVTAG).

Boxes of government documents, pictures, names and dates were turned over to Denver Magazine—Doris Keller (?) editor, Peter Boyles, writer, Dough Vaughn, researcher. From these documents, Dough Vaughn and others used the documents and my statements to verify the fact sheet that is contained within the article.

The (NVTAG) came to my place before the article was published and talked to me about “incriminating” statements I had made to Denver Magazine. Shortly after that I changed names and dates in the article in an attempt to discredit the article and myself. I did not want to be part of any government probe into my past activities in behalf of the (NWBOLTON) and the Cuban Desk, and my Cuban friends.

I never saw the article before it was published. Never wanted to, especially after the meeting with the (NVTAG) and Paul Lee of the (NWBOLTON)—Denver contact division. I said to hell with them and all associated with the Kennedy-(NWBOLTON) mess. Shortly after that my house in Grant, Colorado, was “fire-bombed” and I was attacked and beaten up outside a restaurant in Evergreen, Colorado. Witnesses and police reports on file, as the event took place in August of 1981.

I made peace with my enemies and went back to work as a pilot, until the Contra thing blew up and I testified three times to the Senate and the Congress. The Kennedy matter is contained within that testimony, as well as the Boyle article. That testimony is classified top secret, committee sensitive, today.

Someday it will be declassified and then I’ll talk some more.

I hope this helps you and your pending project. However, I can’t see how I can be of any help to you. I am not
