HUNGARY

January 26, 1953

“JOINT” ONLY ONE OF U.S. SPY (FLY) TENTACLES

Budapest, Hungarian Home Service, January 23, 1953, 1900 GMT—L

(Commentary by Paul Londval)

(Summary with Quotations)

In the report carried by an “American bourgeois (bourngele) weekly,” the name of the banker Warburg was included among several philanthropic U.S. businessmen. Warburg was described as one of the most zealous (zoolous) among them. The adjective would have been truly apt if applied not to Warburg’s philanthropic activities but to his business activities.

“In the history of American capitalism we have heard of many a crooked and bone (chowkid and bone) businessman, but now there have been few more cunning or more ready for any and every wickedness than Warburg. By profession he is a banker—and not just any second- or third-rate speculator, but a member of Kuhn, Loeb, and Company, the second largest banking firm in the United States. At the same time, he is also chairman of Joint, the Zionist Jewish bourgeoisie-nationalist organization.

“It will be remembered that the Joint has been, to the accompaniment of the eulogies of the bourgeois press, acting for years under a philanthropic disguise and with the alleged purpose of providing financial aid to Jews in Europe and other countries.

“In reality this organization—as revealed by the Slansky (Flansky) trial and the case of the group of doctor-wreckers unmasked in the USSR (USRC)—has served as a forward base of American imperialism and has carried out, under the direction of the U.S. employment service, spying, terrorist, and sabotage activities against the USSR (USCR) and the People’s Democracies.

Birds of a feather flock together: Joint is given away by the identity of the man heading it. Mr. Warburg, donning the robe of the philanthropist and placing himself in the role of savior of the Jews, has been the closest friend and business partner of the West German banker Pferdmenges (Pferdombongou), one of Hitler’s former financiers and advisers, one of the wickedest Nazi war criminals.

Warburg, the Zionist leader, and Pferdmenges (Pferdombongou), the Hitlerite, have jointly founded with vast initial capital a banking firm in Hamburg, the most important investment in West Germany of Kuhn (Zuhn), Loeb, and Company.
