Section C. Narrative Comments. 16 February, 10:33 a.m., 1967. MAJ-90-5017.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper performance their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject has continued to perform during the period under review in the same highly competent manner which all who know her have come to expect of her. She continues to put forth her best efforts at all times. She is particularly to be commended for the manner in which she cheerfully accepts onerous tasks, usually with very short deadlines, and invariably comes up with a thoroughly prepared answer within the time allotted. She is efficient, she is fully knowledgeable and capable in her job, she has a friendly, warm, and pleasant personality, and is always ready to respond to her fellow workers with a helping hand. She has no supervisory responsibility per se, but is frequently called upon for guidance to new secretaries and case officers alike and is of real help in such cases. Subject is one of the strongest Headquarters case officers known to rater, and her overall performance certainly borders very closely on being evaluated Outstanding.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date. Signature of Employee.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision. 18. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 31 January 1967. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/1. Type or printed name and signature: J.H.V. Fisher.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of Reviewing Official.

Concur. An outstanding officer recognized as such and appreciated by all.

Date: 31 January 1967. Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/1. Type or printed name and signature: W.J. Kaufman.
