Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in Item 8 of Section A below.

Section A: General

Name: Richardson, Jacobsen. Office/division branch of assignment: Tokyo Station. Period.

Date of birth: 20 June 1924. Sex: M. Service designation: DI. Grade: 08-26. Type of report: X.

Section B: Certification

For the rater: This report has been shown to the individual rated. Completed at Headquarters; subject not available.

Check appropriate statements:

X This report reflects my own opinions of this individual.

X I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where he stands.

This date: 16 Oct 1957. Typed or printed name: Edward Marceling. Supervisor's official title: Chief S&V Branch, Japan Station.

For the reviewing official, record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

This date: 23 Oct 57. Typed or printed official: Lloyd George. Official title of reviewing official: COS, Tokyo.

Section C: Job Performance Evaluation

1. Rating on general performance of duties

Directions: Consider only the productivity and effectiveness with which the individual being rated has performed his duties during the rating period. Compare him only with others doing similar work at a similar level of responsibility. Factors other than productivity will be taken into account later in Section D.

Rating number: 6.

1. Does not perform duties adequately; he is incompetent.

2. Carefully adequate in performance.
