Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him about his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-37Q. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in Item A of Section A below.

Section A. General.

Name: Bagley Tennet Farrington. First: Tennet. Middle: Farrington. Date of birth: 11 November 1925. Sex: M. Service designation: DI. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/EE/Poland. Official position title: I.O. (VI). Grade: GS-13. Date report due in Office: 24 July 1957. Period covered by this report: July 1956–July 1957. Type of report: Initial. Relocation/supplement, rearrangement/employer. Special: none.

Section B. Certification.

For the rater: This report has been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

A. Check appropriate statements.

This report reflects my own opinions of this individual.

This report reflects the consolidated opinion of myself and previous supervisors.

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where he stands.

This date: 16 July 1957. Type or printed name and signature of supervisor: Peter K. Heirmann. Supervisor’s official title: Jr. Staff, EE/P. Copies.

For the delegating official: Record is substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

By date: SAUG, 1957.

Continued on attached sheet.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

This date: 1 July 1957. Type or printed name and signature of reviewing official: Howard B. Rogers. Official title of reviewing official: ACCP/EE.
