Section VIII continued from page 4.

4. Are you now or have you ever been a licensed or certified member of any trade or profession, such as pilot, electrician, radio operator, teacher, lawyer, CPA, medical technician, etc.? No.

5. If you have answered “yes” to above, indicate kind of license and state issuing license. Provide license registry number, if known. NA.

6. First license or certificate (year of issue): NA. 7. Latest license or certificate (year of issue): NA.

8. List any significant published materials of which you are the author. Indicate the title, publication date, and type of writing. None.

9. Indicate any devices which you have invented and state whether or not they are patented. None.

10. List public speaking and public relations experience. Have spoken in my father's church and other churches approximately 150 times. Met and assisted public in embassies during my tour of duty with the Marine Security Guard.

11. List any professional, academic or honorary associations or societies in which you are now or were formerly a member. List academic honors you have received. None.

Section IX. Employment History.

Note: List last position first. Indicate chronological history of employment for past 15 years. Account for all periods including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Give address and state what you did during periods of unemployment. List all civilian employment by a foreign government, regardless of dates. In completing item 9, “Description of Duties,” consider your experience carefully and provide meaningful, objective statements.

Inclusive dates: From 1949 to 1953. Name of employing firm or agency: (Hillburn's) Drug Store. Address: (San Marcos), Texas. Kind of business: Drug Store. Name of supervisor: Mr. William (Hillburn). Title of job: Fountain attendant. Description of duties: Employee at soda counter. Salary or earnings: $100.00 per month. Reasons for leaving: To participate in school events (football).

Section IX continued to page 6.
