Section IV.

This section is provided as an aid in describing the individual. Your description of this person should be favorable or unfavorable in itself but acquire its meaning in relation to a particular job or assignment. The objective words are to be interpreted literally.

On the left hand side of the page below are a series of statements that have been grouped together to form categories. Select one category from each group and within each category indicate whether it applies to you. Look at the statement on the left, then check the category on the right which best tells how much the statement applies to you.

Place an “X” in the “Not Observed” column for each category unless you can see any reason why it does not apply. Place an “X” in the “Does Not Apply” column if you have the definite opinion that the description is not at all suited to the individual.

Statements. Categories: Not Observed; Does Not Apply; Applies to a Limited Degree; Applies to a Reasonable Degree; Applies to an Above Average Degree; Applies to an Outstanding Degree.

A. Able to see another's point of view: Does Not Apply.
B. Practical: Applies to an Above Average Degree.
C. A good reporter of events: Applies to an Outstanding Degree.
D. Can make decisions on his own when need arising: Applies to an Above Average Degree.
E. Cautious in action: Applies to an Above Average Degree.
F. Has initiative: Applies to an Outstanding Degree.
G. Unemotional: Applies to an Above Average Degree.
H. Analytic in his thinking: Applies to an Outstanding Degree.
I. Constantly striving for new knowledge and ideas: Applies to an Above Average Degree.
J. Gets along with people at all social levels: Applies to a Reasonable Degree.
K. Has sense of humor: Applies to an Above Average Degree.
L. Knows when to seek assistance: Applies to an Outstanding Degree.
M. Calm: Applies to an Outstanding Degree.
N. Can get along with people: Applies to a Reasonable Degree.
O. Memory for facts: Applies to an Outstanding Degree.
P. Gets things done: Applies to an Above Average Degree.
