Section IV. Comment:

Subject's grades speak better than any comments could. There is no question but that he brought more to the course and consequently had less to gain from it than any of his fellow students, which makes his performance the more worthy. His assistance to the instructors with past material was much appreciated.

For the Director of Training.

Chief of Training.

Chief Instructor.

Section V. Rating and Comment for Optional Use by Staff Training Officer:

This rating takes into account the student's age, education, grade, Agency experience, and projected assignment. It is an estimate of the implications of this Training Evaluation for the student's assignment and career potential. Considering this student's age, grade, experience, and assignment, this performance:

Is inadequate.

Is barely adequate.

Is acceptable and typical.

Shows high competence.

Shows extreme competence.

Staff Training Officer.

Objectives and Characteristics of the Course.

Training Objectives: To provide the student with an understanding of the operational objectives, regulations, and procedures, and the basic policy considerations and operational security standards of the Clandestine Services of CIA sufficient to allow him to perform professionally an initial assignment under supervision within the DD/P organisation. Specific objectives of the major elements of the course are those:

A. Organization of the Clandestine Services.

1. Mission, objectives, and commitments: The student should be familiar with the general content and source of the directives underlying clandestine objectives and activities, as they might appear in a country plan.

2. Organisation and function at Headquarters and abroad: The student should be familiar with the organisation, functions, and levels of responsibility of the Area Divisions, the Senior Staff, and the Field Station. He should appreciate the effect of local conditions in determining the organisation of a Field Station. He should be familiar with the general nature of the HQ Support Organisation, the assistance provided, and the coordination requirements to be met by the Field and the HQ Desk in matters of personnel administration, funding, logistics, communications, and TSS activities.

B. Operational Activities of the Clandestine Services.

1. Approaches to operational activity: The student should be familiar with methods of obtaining objectives, i.e., liaison and agent assets, and the policy considerations and other factors affecting the choice of particular methods.

(Revised, please)

S-I-C-B-I-X
