M-8303

22 June 1970

Subject: Jules Chopin

At 2200 hrs on the evening of Saturday, 20 June, Jules Chopin entered the Embassy offices as instructed. His face showed the strain of the situation, yet he managed to force a smile. He was taken to a convenient office and for the next 3½ hours was debriefed. While sipping Scotch throughout the evening he managed to control some of his natural fears of the present and future.

In all fairness, he must be commended for answering our questions in a straightforward, sincere manner. While not every question—from the various interested parties—was put to him, the majority were. In some cases, he was given requirements for the next meeting, and in addition, he offered several worthwhile reports.

Apart from the business aspects of the meeting, there were two dominating themes running throughout: His passionate pleasure for the personal safety of his family in the US and my stand that after his conduct on 12-13 February 1970, he had to prove his worth and good faith; not to me, but to the powers that be, who were highly distrustful of his intentions.

Specifically, the following matters were discussed:

1. Asked if he knew what the DGI was, Chopin was confused, but understood when I said “DSE” or “G-2”. In his circle, the intel people are known as “Seminario del Estado” or “G-2”. He denies that he has ever worked for them fittingly. He doubts that he has ever worked for them unfittingly, because he has never had more than a passing working relation with them. Chopin states that he has never known officially who the intel personnel are, “but after while, you can hear and see things that leave no doubt.” Asked to identify those persons who he feels are intel and their hierarchy, Chopin stated:

A. In early 1969, Amando LOPEZ appeared to be Chief of Intel and DIAZ Vigo, the number two man.

B. When Orlando CASTRO defected in c. March 1969, LOPEZ was immediately recalled to Havana and has not been heard from since. DIAZ Vigo assumed head of intel, and Havana sent Emilio VALENTES Martinez as a replacement. With VALENTES came his wife Magda (her husband’s ESPIONGA Viver) who went to work as DIAZ Vigo’s secretary. Chopin considers her to be an intel agent as well.

C. In c. late February or early March 1970, Diaz Vigo was recalled to Havana. He has not been heard from again and there is
