8 December 1965

Subject: Contact/Report/LICO:3  
8 December, 1900–1945, subject's office.

1. The C/O arrived at the subject's office while the subject was on his way down to the street to meet Valentin Loginov, who had called by phone to ask the subject to step down to the street. It turned out that all Loginov was interested in was giving the subject two tickets for the ballet for 9 December. Loginov finaglingly asked the subject if he had gone to the meeting of the two presidents at the border, and the subject rejoined that he had not attended that meeting but would be on hand for the turning over of the Chamizal (Charnizal). Comment: The C/O was not aware of any Soviet littering about as he entered the subject's building.

2. The subject reported that Alexander Prikhodko had dropped in to the office unexpectedly on 3 December, but was prevented from talking to the subject because the subject's wife and son were there. Prikhodko asked when he could have lunch with the subject, and the subject told him to call next week, but that he was terribly busy during the Christmas rush.

The C/O took the opportunity to impress on the subject again that he was to do nothing, absolutely nothing, for the Soviets. Even if the Soviets only wanted to know about charged visa requirements for travel in Latin America, the subject was not to give them the time of day.

3. The C/O brought up the subject of Jacobo Zabludovsky's mention to the subject of Echevarría (Echeverria)'s interest in assisting the support of influential Jews in his bid for the Presidency, and asked if the subject had heard anything further on this. The subject said, “No.”

But he related the story again for the C/O:

Back in October 1965, Echevarría (Echeverria) was attending a conference at which the subject was present. Echevarría (Echeverria) came down off the presidium directly to the subject's table and greeted him.

The subject related this to Zabludovsky, and it was then that Zabludovsky told the subject that Echeverría (Echeverria) had spoken to him and said he felt he was a strong candidate for the Presidency, and would like to have a committee of five people in the Jewish community to coordinate with him. Zabludovsky told the subject he was intending to propose the subject. Zabludovsky did not care about any others.

The C/O asked the subject who he thought some of the other likely Jewish leaders might be. The subject said it was hard to say, but he named two: Wickay Feldman, a marker, and Fernando Jana, the head of B'nai B'rith.

The C/O asked the subject to check with Zabludovsky on the whole matter again when he had the opportunity. The subject said he would do so.

4. The subject is intending to take a two-day trip to Colombia, either 9 or 10 December, in connection with the Petroleum Congress.

PRM
