Training Report: Operations Course (Full Time). Course No. OC-1-3/4-6S. Dates of course: 07 May–16 August 1963.

Student Identifying Information. Name of student: Flores, Daniel. Year of birth: 1934. EGD date: March 1960. Office: CTP. G5: GS. S5: SD.

Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak: Ranges from inadequate to less than satisfactory (in terms of a new and inexperienced case officer).

A — Adequate: Has achieved the basic level required. Satisfactory, characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: More than satisfactory. Has acquired a solid beginner's proficiency. This rating may be interpreted as representing “average” on our rating scale.

S — Strong: Exceptional proficiency, characterized by thoroughness, initiative, originality, and an exceptional student understanding of the case officer role in clandestine operations.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of other students doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Course Objective. This course is designed to prepare selected staff officers from the Career Trainee Program for field operations officer work with the Clandestine Services. The student's understanding of the Clandestine Services doctrines, policies and operational concepts and his ability to apply these related items is measured by a series of practical exercises. Successful completion of the Operations Familiarization Course (OFC) is a prerequisite for admission to the Operations Course.

The trainee also received basic instruction and practical work in photography, including the use of a 35mm camera and in darkroom procedures; in audio-surveillance, and in the use of S/W and agent radio communications systems. In addition, he was given general familiarization on such subjects as surreptitious entry, documentation and authentication, observation and sketching.

Rating Letter. Tradecraft: P. Intelligence and Operational Information Reporting: P. Clandestine Services Operational Programs: P.

This rating corresponds to the statement which most accurately reflects the student's level of performance and takes into account everything about him which influenced his effectiveness. This rating is a reflection of the degree to which the instructors feel that the student is both suitable and competent for overseas service in the Clandestine Services.

Overall performance ratings of all students in this class: Weak: 0. Adequate: 0. Proficient: 40. Strong: 40. Outstanding: 0.
