OF NYOR 3748 STUNT? SULLIFF 39654 WILLIAM DONALD HARRIS HARRIS MONDAY 8 APRIL JANUARY 1963 WEST HAVANA DIRECTOR, Hispanic-American (HisPAng-American) Department, Board of National Missions, New Jersey (AMEN JERSEY) Presbytery. No difficulty. Never stopped a Soviet Eastern European. No one. An indefinite. He Matanzas. Dr. Stockwell (Methodist), John Dentley (Episcopal), Dr. Larsen (Baptist), Dr. John Sinclair (SINCLAIP) (Prescot(r)ane (FRESCOTRANE)). Dentley. No definite. Harris. General Assembly, Des Moines, Iowa, May. Mexico City.

Indian country in 1962, the Spaniards, the Swiss and the Polish brought with them a new technology that would change all of them. It was the cable.

Of the day, we did not come alone to Indonesia, but with other church people.

For General Assembly, Des Moines, Iowa, from 15–19 May, they would like to have the boundaries of the proposed church expand up to the coastline, but we do not seem to be able to get the needed papers. The only possibility is for the church to get themselves to Mexico City and take a chance that the U.S. embassy there will grant them permission to come into the country.

The names of the proposed delegates are Sergio Manezias, father of the church in Cardenas, and his wife, president of the Prescot(r)ane (FRESCOTRANE) women’s organization in Cardenas; also Dr. Pene Castellanos, a layman from Cardenas and a former university professor.

4. On the basis of our rather short visit we cannot make much of an assessment of Harris. He was extremely cordial, entirely sympathetic with our interests while at the same time wanting to be assured that this contact with us would not become known. He said that naturally many people assumed he was connected with the CIA but that if there were any basis in fact for this assumption his usefulness would be at an end. This would lead us to think that he would not be willing to do anything on our behalf during future trips to Cuba. We also think, however, that he is enough of a realist that he would not be unduly upset by the request and that he would give it serious consideration. Whether he would be more amenable if something could be done to enable the Cubans mentioned above to come to Des Moines, we don’t know. We think he would turn down any request to help during his next trip since it would be made in the company of other church people.

5. We would like to make an appointment to talk with Harris at great length. Could you give us any idea of what the possibilities are of helping his Cuban friends, and we could then transmit that information to him at that time. Thank you.

For General Assembly, Des Moines, Iowa, from 15–19 May, they would like to have the boundaries of the proposed church expand up to the coastline, but we do not seem to be able to get the needed papers. The only possibility is for the church to get themselves to Mexico City and take a chance that the U.S. embassy there will grant them permission to come into the country.

The names of the proposed delegates are Sergio Manezias, father of the church in Cardenas, and his wife, president of the Prescot(r)ane (FRESCOTRANE) women’s organization in Cardenas; also Dr. Pene Castellanos, a layman from Cardenas and a former university professor.

4. On the basis of our rather short visit we cannot make much of an assessment of Harris. He was
