Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 056361.

Section A. Name (Last, First, Middle): Hicks, Calvin W. Date of birth: 8 Nov 24. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13. 3D: D. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/FI/INT/IW. Current station: HQS.

Type of report: Career. Date report due in O.P.: 31 October 1972. Reporting period: 1 Nov 71–31 Oct 72.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

U—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

C—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1 (Note: DDO is the closest qualification code to describe the work of a Watch Officer)—Prepares TO dissects from Intel Cables and releases them to the U.S. Intel Community for the CS exfiltrating their delivery by electrical transmission when appropriate. Also dissects certain FI/D Cables. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Consults with area division officers, as necessary in his judgment, regarding disseminability of the info and to ensure adequate protection of sources and methods with minimum impairment to info reaching policy levels. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Reviews subdata and authentication statement in intel cables and deletes any sensitive operational data before any distribution is made. Effects distribution of the deleted portion within the DOP on a strict need to know basis. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4: Reals current on the general and special requirements of customer agencies including the White House for cabled info, i.e., info on narcotics, hijacking, detection of U.S. and foreign dignitaries, etc. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 5: After hours, grants clearances (in consultation with responsible area division) for the use of disseminated CS information in finished intel publications in a manner denied by dissemination controls. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty
