Air. HCH-A-1310. Chief, WHD. Chief of Mission, Habana. Operational. Angel Boan Acosta. 15 December 1954. Information: COS Guatemala; COM Mexico.

1. On about 20 November 1954, Arthur C. Vaivada (Identity A) met Subject by chance on the street in Habana. Vaivada states that he knew Subject from February to May of 1954 in Guatemala City, where they lived in the same apartment building. Apparently Vaivada's wife was of considerable assistance to Sra. Boan Acosta when the latter was sick, and by the time Vaivada left Guatemala, a fairly good friendship had arisen between the two families. Sr. Boan Acosta was cultivated by Vaivada because of Boan Acosta's known high-level CP contacts in Guatemala. Apparently Boan Acosta was of some assistance to Vaivada at the University of Guatemala.

2. Angel Boan Acosta is a Cuban, born in April 1925 at Camagüey (Camagay), Cuba. He is currently a political writer for the weekly “Semanario” (”Semenario”), an anti-Batista magazine. He is married to Iraida Montalvo of Las Villas, Cuba, and has one child six months of age. They are currently residing with a sister-in-law in Santos Suarez, Habana. Subject was more or less an exile after 10 March 1952 because of his opposition to Batista. He went to Mexico first, and then received a fairly well-paid job in the Government communist radio headquarters in Guatemala, where he was a political commentator and radio scriptwriter.

3. Vaivada plans to continue here in Cuba his friendship with Subject with the idea of obtaining some local leftist youth contacts of value. Vaivada does not believe Subject is aware of Vaivada's employment by KUBARK or PEPRIME.

4. This Mission's files indicate Subject and a number of communists and communist sympathizers signed an anti-Batista declaration in 1952, according to the communist newspaper, Hoy.

5. The Mission would appreciate any information tending to confirm Subject's communist affiliations, or indicating that Subject is aware of Vaivada's employment by PEPRIME.

Attachments: 1 separate cover enclosure to Mexico and Guatemala.

Distribution: 3 to Washington; 1 to Mexico with enclosure; 1 to Guatemala with enclosure; 1 to Files.

10 December 1954. SHK/emp.

Stephen H. Karmany.

201-163 871.
