Section C. Narrative Comments. APR 24 the relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. A comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described if applicable.

Although I have known and worked closely with Mr. Bagley many times over the past ten years, this is the first time he has served directly under me. This experience has confirmed my belief that he is without question one of the most gifted counterintelligence officers in the Clandestine Services. The past several months have seen many changes in the organization of the SR Division and in its operational responsibilities. It should be noted that Mr. Bagley perhaps more than any other officer in the division contributed heavily to the broad concepts and ideas which took final form in the new organization and the operating instructions which were accepted in the Clandestine Services as a basis for an expanded effort against the overall Soviet target. At the same time he produced a number of specific plans and directives pertaining to the conduct of our operations against the Soviet intelligence services. These directives are representative of the depth of his experience in this field for they cover problems ranging from the often neglected but absolutely essential problem of collecting and recording data on Soviet intelligence officers to a highly imaginative program for increasing our level of contacts with such officers. In whatever he has undertaken in this regard, the quality of imagination is probably the most outstanding but his work would not be as effective as it is were it not for his amazing fund of knowledge concerning the Soviet intelligence services, their personnel, organization and operations, and just as important, awareness of the level and nature of the western counterintelligence effort.

Section D — Certification and Comments by Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 21 Apr 64. Signature of employee: Tennessity of Bagley. Months employee has been under my supervision: 8. Date: 21 Apr 64. Official title of supervisor: Chief, SR Division. Type or printed name and signature: David E. Murphy.

By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 21 Apr 64. Official title of reviewing official: ADDP. Type or printed name and signature: T. Karanam VS Thomas (II. Karamessine).
