Att. No. 74 to UFGA-21693

UFGA 21693/14

Subject: VIDAL, Ricardo

1. Source met Subject in June 1959 at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City where Subject was the first Secretary. During this period source became a friend of Subject's. While in Cuba source heard rumors in late 1960 or early 1961 that Subject had defected from the Castro regime. When source returned to Mexico in March 1964, and after he was denied his entrance into the U.S. he went to see Subject at a printing shop where Subject was employed at calle Sandalo #93, Mexico D.F. The source made this visit to Subject because source knew that Subject had very good relations with many U.S. Diplomats, and also had good contacts in Washington, D.C. (Source knew Subject had been a career diplomat for more than 30 years.) Subject orientated the source in the steps he should take such as writing a letter to the State Department and to others. During the time source was in Mexico from March to December 1964 source saw Subject about six or seven times, sometimes in the streets, or visiting him at the printshop. Subject resided at calle Cholula #109, Apt. 3, Colonia Hipodromo, Mexico, D.F. Since source arrived in the U.S. he has had no contact with Subject. Source believes that Subject has never been a Communist and that if Subject was in a post in Mexico it was because he was an experienced Diplomat and the Cuban Government needed him. Source believes Subject has never traveled to any Communist country. Source believes Subject has his immediate family in Mexico with him, and does not know if Subject has any relatives in Cuba or in the U.S. Source does not know if Subject has received any military, political or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: FPOS: circa 1910, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'4", 140 lbs. Hair and eyes source can't remember. Shape of face: round. Physique: medium. No visible scars. Wears mustache.

3. JEWAVE Traces: Subject above believed to be identical with Ricardo VIDAL Dominguez, 201-390894.
