Dispatch. To: Chiefs, All WVI Stations and Bases. Processing action: Mailed for inclusion. From: Chief, WVI Division. Subject: Christian Democracy in Latin America. Action required: None, FYI.

The following analysis has been prepared in WVI Division and is transmitted to all WVI Division Stations and Bases as a review of the current status of Christian Democracy in Latin America and an updating of Headquarters' view on the movement. We believe the subject matter merits close and careful study by all Station operations and reports officers whose comments are solicited. FYI, this material, in a shorter and sanitized form was published in the 3 March issue of the Current Intelligence Weekly Review, and will thus be widely disseminated throughout the intelligence community. However, the WOGEAR study could not include much of the "Conclusions" section since it was interpretative and had operational overtones. Thus we've decided to send the full text herein in book dispatch form.

1. The decisive victory of Eduardo Frei in the September 1964 Chilean Presidential election led many to hope that Christian Democracy might develop significantly throughout Latin America competing with Communism on ideological grounds and offering an alternative, democratic route to social and economic progress. Christian Democracy's advocacy of "Third Force" concepts plus frequent manifestations of anti-Yankee syndrome caused some observers to swallow hard, but there was no denying that these concepts had an emotional appeal. This political charisma, coupled with a commitment to basic social reform and opposition to Communism, and presented within an ideological framework stressing the dignity of the human person, comprised a package of considerable attractiveness to the Latin American, particularly the student and middle class elements. This dispatch will review the current status of the CD parties and the role of organizations—ODCA, CLASC, Party youth and student wings and European CD groups—which

Cross reference to: Book Dispatch 5961.

Coordinating office: Joseph DiStefano. EAT. WH/CA: gb (8 March 1967) 5006.

Coordinating office symbol: WH/1. Officer's name: (in draft).
