Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 703 and 704, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Chile/Costa Rica/China. Report No. 00-B(L) 322/06021-64. Subject: Manuel Tello, Chilean Diplomat/Anti-US, Pro-Communist Sympathies/Expected Prominence if Allende were Elected/Business Interests/Hector Burr, Chilean Consul in San Francisco. Date of information: Dec 63–Sep 64. Place and date acquired: Dec 63–Sep 64. No. pages: 2.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: US national, college student.

Source has been successful in a modest building construction operation, and appears to have access to investment funds. It is a new source. His cooperation is by way of a prominent US police official, long a friend of his family.

1. A US friend of mine and I first met Manuel Tello, then Chilean Consul General in San Francisco, late in 1963, probably December, at the San Francisco Press Club. At that time, Tello was accompanied by several attractive young women, one of whom was his daughter, Carmen. Tello proved to be a gracious, polished diplomatic type and we all hit it off well together. As a matter of fact, we hit it off so well that Tello visited my friend's home from time to time, managed to interest him in a number of business ventures to be launched in Chile and later in Costa Rica.

2. Tello was quite active in the San Francisco area. Among his official interests were the sponsoring of a Chilean or pro-Chilean youth group, and an attempt to organize a group of businesspeople able to finance commercial ventures in Chile. Integral parts of his plans were the Alliance for Progress funding and the recent California-Chile commercial and cultural programs. Ventures were to include the construction of several hundred thousand dwellings in Chile, a commercial fishing venture, to be based on a unique establishment of a fish meal plant also at Iquique, and the acquisition of a huge ranch or finca near Punta Arenas (Puntaarenas) in Costa Rica. In a latter project, however, seemed more personally Tello's, whereas he was to be but one of several other investors in the others.

3. As months went on, suspicions of Tello's motives began to grow. Normal avarice is easily understood, but in the course of visits to my friend's home Tello began to hazard unusually anti-American expressions. We were to learn that he was an attorney and came from an old and wealthy Chilean family, but was something of a black sheep. He spoke of his mother's apologetic references to him as "her Communist son". Tello claimed intimacy with Salvador Allende and made it clear that "when", not "if", Allende was elected president, Tello was to be extremely influential in the new hierarchy. Incidentally, he also stated
