Foreign Travel Request.

Name: James W. Moore. Title: Chief of Station. Grade and salary: OS-12, $6600. Office or branch: FDZ. Official station: Calcutta, India.

Justification for trip: Designee. Amendment to UV-287-49 to authorize travel by privately owned automobile at .07 per mile, not to exceed the cost of common carrier for subject alone and as being more advantageous to the Government if accompanied by dependents. All other provisions of the original order remain in effect.

Date of travel: Permanent change, temporary duty, home leave.

Mode of travel: Commercial transportation, common carrier, air, sea. Government transportation: motor vehicle, air, sea.

Privately owned automobile at .07 cents per mile. Not to exceed cost of common carrier. More advantageous to Government (justify) if accompanied by dependents. Subject alone.

Special provisions: Extra fare train or plane, official courier designations, excess baggage, travel advances, separation allowances, etc. Define and justify.

Dependents traveling with employee or to travel within one year. Names, relationships, and dates of birth.

Shipment of personal and household effects: From and to. Shipment of personally owned car: From and to.

Per diem recommended: Shipment of personal and household effects and personally owned automobile (returnees and field transfers only).

We are unable to designate next post of duty; therefore personal and household effects are to be packed for shipment and placed in storage as employee will be transferred to new post.

We are unable to determine whether or not employee will be returned to present post of duty upon completion of leave and/or temporary duty; therefore personal and household effects are to be loose-packed and placed in storage at Government expense, providing employee gives up his quarters during absence from post.

Personal and household effects and privately owned automobile are to be shipped to next post of duty in connection with PCS.

Home leave only.

Employee (is, is not) to report to Washington for consultation prior to home leave. Consultation not to exceed the specified number of days. Employee (will, will not) be reassigned to his present post of duty.
