Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 056361.

Section A: General.

1. Name: III JAS, Calvin. 8. Official position title: ATCH Officer. 2. Date of birth: 11-17-94. 3. Sex: M. 4. Grade: G-12. 5. SO.

9. Type of appointment: Career. 10. Type of report: Initial; Annual; Special: Promotion Submission.

II. Date report due in O.P.: 24 October 1968 – 28 March 1970.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W – Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A – Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P – Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S – Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O – Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Prepares TD disseminations from cabled field information reports and releases them to the U.S. intelligence community for the Clandestine Service, expediting their delivery by electrical transmission when appropriate. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Released cables as disseminations to the intelligence community, interpreting broad instructions from TID on various categories of cables disseminated. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 3: Consults with area division officers during off-duty hours, as necessary, to insure adequate protection of sources and methods with minimum impairment to the value of the information reaching policy levels. Rating letter: S.
