Fitness Report.

Section A—General.

Name: Miler, Newton S. Date of birth: 1 March 1926. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. Service designation: D. Official position title: Chief of Station. Officer/assistant of assignment. Career staff status: Not eligible, number, deferred, pending, declined, denied. Type of report: Annual; initial; reassignment/supervisor; reassignment/employer. Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: From March 1961 to 31 March 1962.

Section B—Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise; indicate the number of employees supervised.

Rating scale: 1. Unsatisfactory. 2. Barely adequate. 3. Acceptable. 4. Competent. 5. Excellent. 6. Superior. 7. Outstanding.

Specific Duty No. 1: As COS, directs and guides the operational activity of an 8-man Station and 2-man Base engaged in liaison with a local service, compatible and incompatible activities. Represents the organization in its field relations with other ODYOKE departments and components and the British Intelligence Service.

Specific Duty No. 2: In joint collaboration with Headquarters, helps determine KUBARK’s operational country program. Prepares and processes operational reports and covertly acquired intelligence product. Continued next page.

Specific Duty No. 3: In the rating bases below, check (X) the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee.

Rating No. 3: Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.

Rating No. 4: Performance clearly meets basic requirements.

Rating No. 5: Performance in every important respect is superior.

Rating No. 6: Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Section C—Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.
