Office of Personal.

Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties.

Directions: State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties described during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of those specific duties. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty. Compare, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. Be specific.

Examples of duties that might be rated: Oral briefing; has and uses area knowledge; conducts interrogations; giving lectures; develops new programs; prepares summaries; conducting seminars; analyzes industrial reports; translates German; writing technical reports; manages files; dripping shotguns; conducting external liaison; operates radio; keeps doors; typing; coordinates with other offices; drives truck; taking dictation; writes regulations; maintains air conditioning; supervising; prepares correspondence; evaluates significance of data.

Descriptive Rating Number: 1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty. 2. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty. 3. Performs this duty acceptably. 4. Performs this duty in a competent manner. 5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.

Specific Duty No. 1: Supervision of large operational branch. Rating number: 6.

Specific Duty No. 2: Has and uses area knowledge. Rating number: 5.

Specific Duty No. 3: Develops new programs. Rating number: 5.

Specific Duty No. 4: Coordinates with other offices. Rating number: 6.

Specific Duty No. 5: Evaluates significance of data. Rating number: 6.

Specific Duty No. 6.

Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Directions: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job.

Subject is an extremely well-rounded, highly capable officer. He has considerable executive and organizational ability. He is mature, reasonable, cooperative, and very highly motivated. He tackles all assignments with energy and tenacity. No significant weaknesses have been observed. I would rank him very near the top of personnel known to me at the same grade level.
