Indicate if you think that any single strength on behalf of this individual is all other considerations.

None.

Do you feel that he requires close supervision? No. Why?

What training do you recommend for this individual?

Employee has expressed desire to study Russian.

Other comments (indicate here general traits, specific habits or characteristics not covered elsewhere in the report but which have a bearing on effective utilization of this person):

Section VI.

Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under subheadings A, B, C, D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties accurately. He is incompetent.

2. Barely adequate in performance. Although he has had specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.

3. Performs most of his duties acceptably. Occasionally reveals some area of weakness.

4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.

5. A fine performance, carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well.

6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equalled by few other persons known to the Water. Selected.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? No. If yes, what?

B. Directions: Considering others of this person's grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibility, normally indicated by promotion.

1. Has reached the highest grade level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

2. Is making progress, but needs more time in present grade before promotion to a higher grade can be recommended.

3. Is ready to take on responsibilities of the new higher grade, but may need training in some areas.

4. Will probably adjust quickly to the new responsible duties of the new higher grade.

5. Is currently performing at the level of the new higher grade.

6. Is an exceptional player and is one of the best and most able of considering the upward advance worth. Selected.

Explain good or bad characteristics.

C. Directions: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and other indications, give your opinion of this person's attitude toward the agency.

1. Has an antagonistic attitude toward the agency; will definitely leave the agency at the first opportunity.

2. Has a strong negative attitude toward the agency; regards the agency as a temporary stop until he can get something better.

3. Tends to have an unfavorable attitude toward the agency; bothered by minor situations; will quit if these continue.

4. His attitude toward the agency is indifferent; has a “wait and see” attitude; would leave if someone offered him something better.

5. Tends to have favorable attitude toward agency; waives allowances for restrictions imposed by being with the agency; thinks in terms of a CIA…
