5. Transfer to the Tourist Department in January 1962

In the autumn of 1961 a decision was reached, on the basis of Nosenko's own request, to return him to the Tourist Department. Gribanov had originally wanted to promote Nosenko from the position of Deputy Chief of the U.S. Embassy Section to the post of Deputy Chief of the American Department; Nosenko's superior and friend Kovshuk had long had his eye on this job, however, and was the personal choice of the Chief of the American Department for it. In fact, Nosenko said, Kovshuk had once held the job, losing it in 1959 because of some misbehavior. Nosenko did not want to be placed in the difficult situation which his own promotion to this post would have created. Nosenko described his transfer in the February 1965 interrogations. The following is from a protocol signed on 26 February 1965:

“The decision for me to return to the Seventh [Tourist] Department in January 1962 was actually made in about September or October 1961. Gribanov planned to appoint me Deputy Chief of the First [American] Department, but the new Chief of the First Department, Fedoseyev, wanted Kovshuk to take this position. Since I did not want to be placed in this position by Gribanov's order against the wishes of Fedoseyev, I went to Gribanov and requested that I be transferred back to the Seventh Department, in any position. I had already spoken to [V.D.] Chelnokov, who was then Chief of the Seventh Department, about this matter and he had suggested that I go to Gribanov and ask to be returned to the Seventh Department as Chief of the First [American-British-Canadian] Section with the understanding that I would be appointed Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department as soon as this position would be vacated by [B.A.] Baldin [who was retiring in July 1962]. ...Gribanov did not tell me his reasons... for wanting to appoint me Deputy Chief of the First Department in late 1961 or for appointing me Section Chief and later Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department in 1962. He did not discuss with me my personal qualifications for each of these positions.”

Aware of his impending transfer, Nosenko took the opportunity during December 1961 to spend several hours each day in the Tourist Department. There he talked with Department Chief Chelnokov, familiarized himself with certain files of the American Tourist Section, and discussed current operations and operational possibilities with the officers assigned to this section. The formal order for the transfer was signed by Gribanov on 24 or 25 December 1961, and Nosenko officially signed over the Abidian case file and the U.S. Embassy security file to his successor as Deputy Chief of the American Embassy Section, G.I. Gryaznov, within the next few days.* As he had when he transferred from the Tourist to the American Department in 1960, Nosenko said, he took his active agents and his safehouse on Vorovskiy Street with him when he returned to the Tourist Department in 1962.

*These specific dates were arrived at under interrogation in February 1965. On all earlier occasions Nosenko had said that he was transferred in January 1962 (or some later date); he said in February 1965 that he was “officially” transferred at the end of December and reported to his new position at the beginning of January (see below).
