NY-419-67

5. Veriquin (Veriquin), who was in charge of the TIN in the Pétionville (Potionville) section of Port-au-Prince, was dismissed by Duvalier because the President suspected him of aiding the Dominique clique. Dominique, an Army officer and son-in-law of Duvalier, was offered a military attaché position either in Spain or Italy, which he refused to accept as his wife is reluctant to leave Haiti at this time. This situation is complicated by the decision of Duvalier's wife to side with her daughter. The rift in his own family as well as the attempt of his enemies to disrupt the celebration of his 60th birthday and the 10th anniversary of his taking office prompted Duvalier to remark that the only man he trusts is Gracia Jacques, commander of the Presidential Guard. This statement antagonized even those who have hitherto been loyal to Duvalier. Moreover, even the most faithful Duvalier supporters now fear for their lives. Colonel Gallard, who is in charge of the Coast Guard, bitterly complained to Charles about Duvalier's remark and reassured the banker that he and his friends were ready to set up a military junta.

6. In addition to the Coast Guard ships, Charles would have the use of Vilaire's converted LO, which normally plies the waters between JMaios and Port-au-Prince carrying flour, fuel oil, etc. Vilaire is convinced that Charles has no choice but to carry out the coup with or without foreign help and that his chance of success are good since several of the new Duvalier appointees to key military and civilian positions are Charles' friends. Vilaire feels that Charles must exist now since the morale of many of the military and civilian supporters of Duvalier has reached an all-time low and the Haitian Treasury is almost empty. Since Duvalier has been unable to obtain foreign capital, he has again resorted, through his Secretary of State for Commerce and Industry Lebert Jean-Pierre, to a shake-down of commercial and industrial enterprises. In a circular letter, dated 2 May 67, the Secretary suggested for "voluntary contributions as a fitting message to the Vatable President for Life, Chief of the Duvalierist Evolution." A copy of the letter is attached.

7. Jean-Pierre and Henri Stelait, confidants of Duvalier in charge of the Baguis de Taba and doo Alliameses, are among the strongest supporters of the president. Both men have stolen considerable amounts of public funds and succeeded in emulating some of their mayoral elects.
