ARTICLE XV. Special Provisions. The following special provisions shall apply to the Employee under this contract.

Part (a) of Section 3 of ARTICLE II shall not apply to employees who have served in a departmental position with CIA or who have served an overseas tour of duty with CIA, and in such case, part (b) of Section 3 of ARTICLE II shall be deemed amended to read as follows: “(b) If the Employee desires to terminate or return to the United States prior to the expiration of twenty-four months from the date of his arrival at his overseas post of duty, he shall pay all expenses for the travel and transportation of himself, his immediate family, household goods and personal effects to the United States.”

ARTICLE IX does not apply. The employee shall receive an annual salary of $4,600.00 (OS-9), and, during the period of official duty overseas shall receive allowances based on such annual salary (including subsequent increases) computed in accordance with applicable Foreign Service Regulations. Initially, the sum of $4,290.00 per annum (PSS-9) (plus in-class or class promotions), plus appropriate allowances based on this amount, will be paid to employee directly by the Department of State. The difference between the authorized CIA salary and the salary paid by the Department of State, plus the difference, if any, between allowances based on the authorized CIA salary and the allowances based on salary payments by the Department of State and paid by them, shall be paid to the employee in accordance with his written instructions.

A lump sum payment for annual leave is to be paid up to 24 May 1975. Sick leave is to be held in escrow until such time as subject matters back to OS-Status, at which time, accrued sick leave will be credited.

In the event any of the provisions in this Article are inconsistent with the provisions of any other Article in this contract, the provisions of this Article XV shall govern and be determinative of the rights and obligations under this contract.

U. S. Department of Labor

BY: Charles W. Clarson  
Assistant Chief, Personnel Division, C.

WITNESS:

Chief, Overseas Branch
