Date of birth: 29 January. Grade: CS-15. Current position title and grade: Current office, 1961–1965. Date of PCS arrival in field: 10 September 1962. Expected date of departure from field: September 1965.

Other duty stations or field bases during current tour.

Description of major duties during the current tour of duty:

Staff agent assigned to a major overseas station, exploiting the cover provided by a major firm of technical periodical publishers. I take my instructions from a section chief within the station, and report in writing on the progress of my cover development and its operational application.

For operational reasons, I develop and assess operational leads in the FI, CI and CA areas, principally against denied area targets. I also handle local investigations and such cases as the station determines will fit into my cover, or which it can otherwise handle in alias. I travel to other field stations to handle such tasks as they request or ask directives. I handle all cover tasks as they appear.

Preference for next assignment:

I would like to continue to serve essentially in the same capacity as described above, although I would like eventually to add more supervisory and managerial functions to my responsibilities. I would like to expand the operating base provided by the cover organization by taking one several journeyman case officers to work with me against both denied areas and host country targets, and to take the cover facility and the access it provides of more versatile use to both the station and to KUDOE as a whole.

My second choice would be to return to Li, and use the knowledge and experience I have gained in my present job to (1) select staff personnel who will be placed in non-official cover, (2) select the cover mechanics properly, (3) train our personnel for the proper discharge of their total responsibilities while serving under such cover.

Training I believe I should have in order to increase my value to the organization:

The completion of work toward a master's or doctor's degree in the physical or life sciences, or in the management/administration of the sciences and their personnel.
