Section C. Narrative Comments. J. Hicks.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for future development of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required; current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mail Room.

There has been no change in Mr. Hicks' overall performance from the last rating period. It is still characterized by exceptional proficiency. He continues to be a highly motivated, hard-working, and dependable officer.

Since joining IW in June 1967, he has served on a rotating schedule with seven other officers doing identical work, three of whom are currently in grade GS-14 and one in grade GS-15. There have been as many as five GS-14 officers serving at the same time as Mr. Hicks. He has, therefore, been performing duties commensurate with a grade higher than his present one.

His outgoing personality and extensive knowledge of the IW operation has gained him the confidence and respect of not only his colleagues but also of the numerous division representatives with whom he deals.

He has no supervisory duties and is cost conscious.

There has been frequent consultation with Mr. Hicks concerning the performance of his duties.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Signature of employee: Celsis L. Kish. Date: 31 December 1970.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 16 months. Date: 31 December 1970. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Intelligence Watch. Typed or printed name and signature: Joseph A. Procaccino.

By Reviewing Official. Joseph A. Procaccino.

Comments of Reviewing Official: While I am physically separated from this officer and not in daily contact with him or his work, all secondary evidences are that this is a conservative but generally accurate evaluation.

Date: 12 Jan 1971. Official title of reviewing official: C/FI/INT. Typed or printed name and signature: Thomas F. Thiele.

Thomas F. Thiele
