22 December 1966.

Subject: Contact Report/LICOZY-5. 22 December, 1155–1245, subject's office.

1. The C/O dropped by the subject's office on 22 December, after having delivered a Christmas gift of liquor to the subject's home the previous day. The subject was very appreciative of the gift.

2. The subject showed the C/O the reservation card for travel of Soviet Georgi Visko and his family, Nina, Irina, and Marina. They were booked for departure from Mexico on 25 December by Air France, for Paris. From Paris they would travel to Brussels, where Visko had four days of business, and continue by flight from Brussels to Moscow on 30 December. Visko had visited the subject in company with another Soviet whom the subject was told was Visko's successor: Victor M. Ivanov, Consejero Comercial de la Embajada Sovietica, according to the latter's card.

The invite was contained in a Summer'sgraatengeneem in the form of a

3. The subject stated that he had received a letter from Sidney Weintraub, a U.S. State Department official then in Chile, inviting the subject to visit him. Weintraub, formerly stationed in Mexico and later in Washington, had been of interest to the Soviets in Mexico, who had the subject try to maintain contact on his Washington trip. Please forward this information to Gerald F. Gestetner in Santiago.

4. The subject said he had received a firm invitation from Mr. Hawking (phonetic), manager of Air France in Mexico, to go on the inaugural flight of Air France to Red China, possibly in April 1967. The subject was competently neutral about going, but asked the C/O if we had any interest in his taking the trip to Red China. The C/O said we would let him know about that.

5. The C/O asked the subject to have the door to his office closed, so that they might discuss a serious matter. The C/O said he wanted to explore frankly the status of the subject's relationship toward the Soviets. The C/O stated bluntly that there was a feeling “higher up” that the subject had not achieved a sufficient degree of cutoff from the Soviets, and that his posture of friendly compromise weakened his stance. In reply, the subject mentioned the two elements that went into his attitude toward the Soviets:

a) Regarding the financial gain from associating with them, the subject said that had fallen to such an insignificant level that it had no effect in his dealings with the Soviets. He said that level would sink even more when the Soviets inaugurated Aeroflot flights from Montreal and New York; the Soviets did not handle bookings on Aeroflot through agents.

b) Regarding his personality, the C/O had asked if it were possible for the subject to become cool or even unfriendly toward the Soviets. The subject said he could not change his personality. In the past year he had cooled off noticeably, having resisted all cooperation with them, avoided them, put difficulties in the way of meetings, and so forth. But it was against his grain to be unfriendly toward people with whom he might be thrown into association. He cited proudly that he was not beholden to the Soviets for anything and never went out of his way to seek anything from them. For instance, he had been told that Panel Yatskov (Pavel Yatskov) had brought back caviar for the subject on his return from the Soviet Union, but the subject made no move to call Yatskov. When and if Yatskov called him, he would see him and could not understand how he could be unfriendly to Yatskov under such circumstances.

6. The C/O mentioned to the subject the latter's equivocal reply of “maybe” when Loginov had asked if the subject would report the name of the CIA chief in Mexico if he knew it. The subject replied that he had told Loginov that the latter was crazy.
