Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Hicks has an exceptional knowledge of and experience with the problems involved in the conduct and support of covert PM operations. He has shown a high degree of initiative in providing the training and other support required and in preparing material for staff presentation to higher echelons. His attention to detail is a strength in accomplishing his duties but he must try harder to overcome a tendency for too much detail in his staff communications, oral and written. His written work in particular shows a weakness in synthesizing which it is believed could be overcome by available courses of training. Mr. Hicks has also reached the point where he must broaden his outlook as to the wider political and operational implications of PM operations. To this end, it is intended that Mr. Hicks will attend the Inter-Agency Counterinsurgency Course in the near future. Under an experienced Chief of Operations, Mr. Hicks could handle PM operations at most Field Stations; in a major operation such as Viet Nam or Cuba, he could adequately handle a large segment such as PM Training, the handling of a large indigenous group, or the duties of Chief/PM Operations or Deputy Chief, PM. He would be a definite asset, in the field or at Hqs., in any type of task force operations.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 5 Jul 1963. Signature of employee: C.A.H. Med.

2. By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 6 months. Date: 2 Jan 1963. Official title of supervisor: DC/SAS/PM. Typed or printed name and signature: C. W. Matt.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official.

The undersigned has been Mr. Hicks' supervisor for approximately six months, for the period ending December 31, 1962. Mr. Hicks is a highly motivated, sincere and capable person. He works well with others, and his knowledge and ability are recognized and respected. He assumes responsibility and can be counted on to get a job done without close supervision. He is capable of assuming greater responsibility. He is continuously striving for greater knowledge and broader fields of activity.

Date: 8 February 1963. Official title of reviewing official: C/SAS/PM.
