Personnel Evaluation Report. Date: 16 November 1953.

Items 1 through 6 will be completed by Administrative or Personnel Officer.

1. Name: O'CONNELL, James P., Jr. 2. Grade: GS-13. 3. Position type: Investigator (Gen.). PUD. Estt. Jun 50.

4. Office: Security. Staff or Division: Special Security Dir. Operations Dr. Branch: Dept'l. Field.

5. Period covered by report: From 17 Dec 52 to 16 Dec 53. 6. Type of report: Initial; Reassignment; Annual Special; Reassignment of Supervisor.

Item 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

7. List your major duties in approximate order of importance, with a brief description of each. Omit minor duties.

During the first period of this report from December 1952 to May 1953, I served as Chief, Project Unit. This involved the direction of six supervisors and five clerical employees. This unit concerned itself with the handling of covert clearances on personnel being utilized in the larger Agency projects. In addition, I was designated the Security Office representative of the Projects Administrative Planning Staff which required my making spot decisions regarding security aspects of the projects under discussion. From May 1953 until October 1953, I was designated Deputy Chief, Operations Branch. This assignment carried with it administrative and supervisory duties as delegated by the Chief, Operations. I also assumed the duties of the Chief in his absence. This involved the supervision of the Cover Records Section and the six desk components of the Operations.

8. List courses of instruction completed during report period.

Name of course. Location. Length of course. Date completed.

9. In what type of work are you primarily interested?

If different from your present job, explain your qualifications (aptitude, knowledge, skills).

10. Date. Signature.

Item 11 through 18 will be completed by Supervisor.

11. Briefly describe this person's performance on the major duties listed under Item 7 above.

Mr. O'Connell's performance is described as outstanding. It is pertinent also to note that Mr. O'Connell's performance has been characterized by a splendid motivation flowing from an obvious disposition on his part to place the interest of the Agency and Division above personal considerations.
