Continuation of Dispatch. UFGA-14923.

Organization of a basic net, communications and reporting techniques. In the course of this training, AMBIDDY-1 expressed a particular interest in the subjects of security, cover and compartmentation.

Charles F. MASENGILL was the primary instructor for this bloc of training, and he reports that AMBIDDY-1 was a keen student who appreciated the opportunity to learn as much as possible about clandestine operations. MASENGILL believes that AMBIDDY-1 at the completion of his training was probably weakest on the topic of how to report intelligence information.

c. Resistance Activity and Guerrilla Warfare: AMBIDDY-1 received training on the principles and concepts inherent in organizing an infiltration team. In addition, he was trained relative to the principles of organizing a resistance net. Additionally, he was trained in caching, demolition and sabotage techniques. AMBIDDY-1 also received instruction in the principles and concepts of guerrilla warfare. AMBIDDY-1 was also given an opportunity to familiarize himself, through actual range firing, with those weapons which are normally used by anti-AMTHUG-1 forces.

Alton T. PIRNACK was the principal instructor for this bloc of training. PIRNACK reports that AMBIDDY-1 was responsive to the subject material which was presented to him. AMBIDDY-1 did not hesitate to ask questions nor to seek clarification of points which he did not clearly understand. AMBIDDY-1 did indicate that he was a neophyte in the subject of PM operations, and, as a result, he was most appreciative of the training which he was receiving on these subjects. It was evident during this bloc of training that caching was an entirely new facet of clandestine operations for AMBIDDY-1.

3. Comment: Phase II of AMBIDDY-1's training concentrated on exposing AMBIDDY-1 to those management techniques and principles which are applicable to a major clandestine operation against a target like PERUMEN. This part of the training was carried out exclusively by Andrew K. REUTEMAN and Stanley R. ZAMKA. In this phase of the training, AMBIDDY-1 constantly expressed a great deal of enthusiasm for the subject material which was being presented. Throughout the training, AMBIDDY-1 gave every indication that he was absorbing the major portion of the training. At the same time, it was clear that he was overwhelmed by the material and the implications of what this training meant in terms of his conduct in future operations. After the management phase of AMBIDDY-1's training was completed, REUTEMAN and ZAMKA reviewed the 83 hours training program in its totality with AMBIDDY-1. In addition, the program was reviewed with all of the instructors who participated in the training. As a result of this review, a consensus was reached that, while AMBIDDY-1 is an intelligent and responsive student, the training which he received does not qualify him for the position of senior officer in a major clandestine undertaking against PERUMEN. The training did, however, alert AMBIDDY-1 to a number of problems and pitfalls which he should avoid in his activities. This training also provided certain guide posts for AMBIDDY-1, but these guide posts were laid out in such a concentrated dose that they cannot be considered as an adequate substitute for experience or training in depth over an extended period of time.

End of Dispatch.
