Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 007667.

Section A—General. Name: Bustos-Videla, Charlotte Z. Sex: F. Official position title: Operations Officer. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/WH/1. Current station: Mexico City. Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Annual. Reporting period: January 1971–December 1971.

Section B—Performance Evaluation. U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C. M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described. P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected. S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency. O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Prepares operational target studies on PBRUMEN officials and assists in the planning of operations against these targets. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 2: Screens all raw reports dealing with PBRUMEN targets for operational and positive intelligence. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Conducts name checks, file reviews, prepares finished memos, cables, and dispatches. Assists Case Officers in preparation of operational reports. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 4: Prepares draft intelligence reports from raw agent reports, technical operations and defector debriefings. Rating letter: O.
