1. Preference for next assignment (if applicable). C. Indicate your preference for next assignment if, in selecting number 1, 2 and 3 (for 1st, 2nd and 3rd choices) in the boxes below:

1. Return to my current station.

2. Be assigned to Headquarters for a term of 5 years. With respect to possible assignment in Headquarters, indicate choice of component. 1st choice: OS/IOS; 2nd choice: OS/PPS; 3rd choice: OS/Staff.

3. Be assigned to another field station. With respect to possible reassignment to another field station, indicate choice of geographic area or specific station, based on qualifications. 1st choice: San Francisco / Los Angeles; 2nd choice: Miami.

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments? 30 days. Indicate number of weeks/days: 20.

11. Indicate the number and age of department's and will be travelling or moving with you: four; ages, 36, 11, 9, and 7.

12. Signature: Complete item No. S-1, transmit as copy to indicate completion of above portion of this form.

To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training:

Subject has rendered outstanding performance while assigned to the German Station. His preference to return for an additional two years after home leave is accepted with great pleasure. Full consideration should also be given in the future for his request to attend the National War College.

14. Signature: Complete item No. S-2, transmit as copy to indicate completion of this portion of this form.

To be completed by appropriate personnel officer at Headquarters.

15. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training:

Events have overtaken this FFL and Subject will be returning in the summer of 1964 to attend the Air War College.

16. Name of personnel officer: Lt. Col. Rader. Date: 10 December 1963.

17. Employee was not present at time of assignment.

Typed or printed name: A. X. Evaluation.

If not, EGYEST HALDT 20% for 6 mo. / 20% for 6 mo.: B. X. Evaluation.

If not, EGYEST HALDT 20% for 6 mo. / 20% for 6 mo.: C. X.
