Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

Country: Cuba. Subject: Contact with Defectors. Date of information: 1962 and earlier. Place and date acquired: Moscow, 1960–61. Report No. 10-75473. Date disseminated: July 9, 1968. References: C-303.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: Cuban national, A 12 170 210, who arrived in the US in June 1962 as a political refugee.

Source is a graduate engineer who served for a year in the Ministry of Public Works following the advent of the Castro regime, and then was assigned to the Ministry of Foreign Relations and went to the USSR as Economic Counselor. He was in the USSR from October 1960 to February 1961. Shortly after his return to Cuba he took asylum in the Argentine Embassy where he remained more than a year until his safe-conduct was arranged. This is one of several reports from source.

“This report emanated from the Caribbean Admission Center at Opa-Locka, Florida.”

1. From October 1960 to February 1961 I served as Economic Counselor of the Cuban Embassy in the USSR. During my stay I met and became fairly well acquainted with a number of defectors from the West, including Douglas McLean, who defected from the UK, and Maurice Halperin from the US. I did not meet Guy Burgess, because I was told that he is in bad physical condition due to excess drinking. McLean, who is now known as Frazier, likewise drinks heavily, and at a party the hostess put down on his liquor saying, “If he drinks too much, he gets in bad shape.”

2. McLean and his family are living in Soviet Government-furnished quarters in a new, but not elaborate, apartment building near the Ukraine Hotel. His wife made a number of remarks to my wife about how far it is necessary to talk to get food, or anything else, in the USSR. Otherwise she did not complain. McLean made numerous jokes about shortcomings of living in the USSR, including comments about the elevator in his apartment building never working. He also made some half-hearted jokes about the Soviets always spitting when they spoke.

3. At the time I knew him he was on the staff of an English language publication, “Economic Affairs.”

4. Maurice Halperin was a US national, and I believe taught economics at a US university. He subsequently worked at the National Bank of Mexico, but was expelled about 1956 and went to the USSR. Halperin is now a lecturer in economics at Moscow University. Halperin assisted in gathering data used by “The Times” in his speech at Punta del Este, and commented about it when the speech was published.

Report No. 10-75473. Date disseminated: November 9, 1968.

Within State and Defense, to the interim commander, other office producing RIS documents, and High Mountain with their immediate supporting staff. Not to be distributed to consultants, foreign policy or reserve personnel on short-term service, except as required by the procedure for the promising office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Control Reference C/A.
