Insisting on a Coca-Cola. He appeared genuinely happy to meet Rowton and explained in quite serious tones that he was engaged in the training of a Mexican ballet group under the auspices of Bellas Artes to present a performance of the Folklorico Cubano in the near future. He added that he had been the founder of the Folklorico Cubano in the early 60s in Havana and had a wife (ballerina) and young daughter in Havana whom he was anxious to return to.

5. Since Rowton felt that Rodolfo was at the moment the best target for assessment, he invited him to join him in visiting the Señorial night-club to see the Greek dances put on by a group of Greek musicians. Rodolfo accepted eagerly and they both left the party at about 0030. Rowton had previously obtained the office telephone of Carmen Molina (34-60-32, ext. 38) at the office of the Olympic Committee where she was working and had promised to take her to lunch the following day. Rowton had also gotten in a few private comments (i.e. compliments) to Carmen Lozada so that he could follow up at a later date if this was considered desirable. He found Carmen Lozada in excellent spirits and at times definitely provocative, despite her current marital situation (she had that same day notified her husband, Enrique Ramirez, a civil engineer working in Havana, that she had begun divorce proceedings).

6. When Rowton and Rodolfo Reyes arrived at the Señorial, they were refused entrance into the main room since Rodolfo was not wearing a tie and jacket. Fortunately, however, the Greek musicians, in their native costumes, were relaxing in a corner of the entrance lobby and Rowton was able to introduce Rodolfo Reyes to them and speak enough Greek to convince Reyes that he knew them well and was himself a Greek. The musicians, who probably assumed Rowton was a Greek-American, did not speak enough Spanish to talk directly to Rodolfo. They invited Rowton and Rodolfo to return on 31 October when they expected fewer people in the audience and when they could show Rodolfo some of the most popular Greek dances.

7. Rowton then invited Rodolfo Reyes to the Kinneret Restaurant for a late supper (no food was served at the Carmen Molina party) and he was able to continue his conversation with him there. Rodolfo revealed that he plans to visit Chile in mid-December 1967, to organize a Folklorico Cubano group there, and then return to Havana. He said Rowton could contact him daily at the Ballet Folklorico de Mexico from 1100 until about 1130 and gave the telephone as 21-04-18 or 21-16-09. He appeared from his conversation to be an admirer of the Cuban revolution and Castro although.
