In mind that the things that are mostly meaningful to these groups of people is whether they are working, the price structure, and just the general bare economic needs that are met by any government. I want to talk now for a moment about the Alianza para el Progreso (Alianza para Progresso) and some of my impressions about how it's doing, not only in El Salvador, but in Guatemala and some of the other countries that I observed. One of the most immediate impressions that I get is during the last few months is that the Alianza para el Progreso has been terribly overpublicized. I think we made a serious mistake in arousing expectations in Latin America that may not be met. As a matter of fact, I know from talking with many of the people there that the expectations they have simply are not within the reckoning of what the United States has planned. I even think it's unfortunate if we have a slogan, that the Alianza para el Progreso as a slogan is open to serious attacks both humorously and satirically. As a matter of fact, already many people, even our friends, are beginning to use the slogan by way of criticism. I have in mind recently that the foreign minister of Honduras was in Mexico and in a public statement said, “We have a lot of alliance but no progress.” And of course in the schools in El Salvador, there are all kinds of turnings about, twisting the words around by way of criticism.

What I mean by overpublicizing and sloganizing is the fact that almost all over Latin America, the newspapers are reporting an outpouring of millions and millions of dollars, and as you might expect they convert the figures into pesos, or other local currency, whatever you happen to be, so that there is an announcement saying that the Alianza para el Progreso has allocated 10 million dollars and then they convert that into 120 million pesos; it sounds like an awful lot of money. Immediately people have grandiose ideas about what is going to be done with all this money when in effect it is only a request for that kind of money that has been made. We have, basically speaking, still some problems among Congress as to how much money is going to be allocated. Let me give you a specific case about what I feel is an overpublicizing of the Alliance's program. In El Salvador there was an announcement in the papers that three million dollars had been allocated by the United States Government for the building of schools. Now, 3 million dollars converted into local currency is something like seven and a half million colones. That's a big sum of money down there and, of course, it got tremendous play in all the newspapers. Well, it turned out, what the Alliance had in mind, along with the Junta, was to build one hundred small schools. This would be 100 schools worth around $30,000 apiece. Well, one of the model schools, right now, is in the process of construction in one of the neighborhoods in El Salvador. While I was there, there was
