September 11, 1969

Contact Report

Subject: Jimmy SABORI (P-13,830)  
Date of meet: September 10 at Saborns-Lafragua at 1700 hours.

1. Prearranged meet, and S came 10 minutes early.

Next meet: Friday, September 12 at Chez Rene at 2000 hours.

2. Instead of receiving the Agency contract from the Moon Valley Corporation, Dallas, Texas, he received a phone call (his phone was connected) on September 10 in the morning and was requested to sign the contract immediately and return it by registered mail. The caller, Leater MacGhee (Lester McGhee), told S that the contract was mailed “Registered—Return Receipt” on Monday, September 28. S concluded that he expected receiving it on September 11, but more likely on September 12.

3. S was disappointed because he counted on showing the contract to AEDIEHARD that evening, and the absence of the contract will necessitate another meet with A when the contract arrives. FERMALD repeated to S that he needed a Xerox copy of the same and decided to meet with S on September 12 to debrief him on his meet with A and get a copy of the contract.

4. S will not have much to report to A when he meets him that evening. S went to the Hotel Geneve, where a friend of his used to be a manager, and was disenchanted when he found out that he no longer worked there. The new manager did not want to show him the register of guests, and his attempt to spot a girl or girls who lived in the hotel and appeared to be working bore no results, because all he was able to see or exchange a few words with were tourists. S spoke to TANG by phone to inform him that the Luau manager wanted to check with the embassy on the size of the ad he was to place in the monthly MISSION. TANG stated that he would take care of that, and he reminded S that WANG wanted to see the article before it was printed. Other than to capitalize on the information that Echeverria would be the next President of Mexico and speak about the platinum deal, S had practically nothing to report.

5. F repeated the instruction he gave S on September 8 with regard to stalling IS activities with A, and as far as the platinum deal was concerned, it was made clear that his fair and square will determine our attitude.

BHFernald
