Fitness Report.

Section A: General Information.

Employee number: 036130. Name: Flores, Daniel. Date of birth: 08/04/35. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13. SO: DQG. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDO/LA/COG. Current station: Hqs.

Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Annual. Reporting period: 1 Dec 76–30 Sep 77. 31 October 77. Date report due in O.P.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Supervise the LA/COG/EA and Canada section which includes two operations officers, one intelligence analyst, and a secretary. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 2: As section chief, provide operational guidance and support to the field stations' efforts to develop and recruit Cubans in that area. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 3: Assume direct case officer responsibility for sensitive on-island reporting sources, including TDY travel for debriefing purposes when the
