Office Memorandum, United States Government

To: Chief, MI Division  
Attention: Miss Charlotte Zehnung

From: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Operational Support)

Subject: S-9546, 112569

Date: 20 July 1960

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 12 April 1960 wherein an amended covert security approval was requested to permit the POS of Subject, a career agent, from Mexico to headquarters and specifically, to permit his utilization in translating documents pertaining to Cuban matters from Spanish to English and English to Spanish. The Subject will also assist the Division by making suggestions for PP and FI purposes. It is understood that Subject will work under a cover established for him by COD/IC and that he will have no access to official Agency buildings or installations. It is further understood that he will not engage in clandestine operational activities in the USA.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction—Field No. 10-5, a covert security approval is granted for the use of the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1, above.

3. A memorandum containing pertinent information regarding Subject is being forwarded to CI/CA this date. CI/CA should be contacted and this information reviewed prior to any utilization of Subject.

4. Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

5. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, if you should desire at a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

6. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's services are not utilized within six months of the date of this memorandum.

For the Director of Security:

Fred H. Hall

201-16887
