Mr. Wiener—

An information copy of the letter sent by Mr. Jackson today. Mr. Danewood is receiving a copy via regular channels.

M. McCrum

March 10, 1958

Dear Transiber Varga—

As I wind up my year with the National Committee for a Free Europe, I thought it appropriate to send you a letter—not a letter of farewell, but rather some thoughts on the Hungarian National Council as I have observed it during the year.

In the first place, I would like to congratulate you and your associates on having done an extraordinary job of holding a very volatile situation together. In fact, it was a unique job, and one whose value we may never fully appreciate because so many of the benefits are intangible.

I hope, therefore, that you will continue to work with unfailing will to hold the Council together, as it would present a very serious problem to Admiral Miller if the Hungarian group were to fall apart.

I would also like to congratulate you on the effective work the representatives of the Hungarian National Council have done abroad, particularly in France and Germany. You know how important I consider this work. It seems to me that the real task and duty of a national council is to help the exiles, and the front lines of this work are in Europe.

Aside from the obvious necessities of food, clothing, and shelter, the most important aspect of the work is what I would call a “consular” service, as these poor people do not know where or how to turn. In this consular-type work, I think that General Hennsey (Hennessey) and Mr. Auer have been doing an excellent job, and my personal feelings in this matter are completely confirmed by reactions I have received from the International Refugee Organization and the official foreign and American administrations in these countries.

To my way of thinking, all political matters in New York and Washington should take a definitely second place to helping human beings in distress, and although there are some who do not agree with this order of priority, I am delighted and grateful that the work of the Hungarian National Council indicates that you share these ideas.
