Office of Personnel.

Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Include a profile of their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for further training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

During the reporting period this employee as a staff member has continued the solidification of his cover and the expansion of his operational activity within his cover to a point where he represents as deeply buried a staff officer as can be found in anyone with his past organizational background. From the point of view of the host country authorities he appears to be completely legitimate. From the more important point of view of his targets, he also apparently has been accepted, and not through a lack of opportunity for scrutiny, for what he claims to be. He thus represents for KUBARK an asset who has not only solid status and access cover, but also the demonstrated capability for exploiting his cover for specific and aggressive operational undertakings.

As has been stated in past fitness reports, his present capability directly and openly to approach operational targets through the vehicle of his cover is the result of his own efforts, in which he has devoted a tremendous amount of work not only to establish and enhance the foundations of the cover, which requires a considerable amount of work for the cover company, but to devise and exploit ways and means by which the cover activity may be applied directly to operational tasks and programs. In addition to operational activity in his country of assignment, he has also been used in Hqs-directed activity in other countries, usually involving direct contact with target individuals, and in addition he has contributed greatly to the acquisition of operational information for the use of Hqs components in their overall approach to Soviet scientific and technical targets.

It would be difficult to fault this employee with respect to energy, professional skills, and mental capacity. He is a keen student of his operational environment and very skillful in analyzing the possibilities it offers for application toward operational objectives. He shows considerable resourcefulness in devising logical and credible (continued).

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Signature of employee: /s/ Thomas B. Casasin.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 1 June 1965. Official title of supervisor: Ops Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ James M. Flint.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

Since the Reviewing Officer in the field has not indicated his views on this Fitness Report, I would like to make a comment of my own. Without wishing to detract from anything the Supervisor has said about Subject's performance, I feel obliged to note that the ratings given him in this report are higher than those given, for example, to any Branch Chief in this Division, and, as such, are inconsistent with the grading pattern of the Division as a whole.

2 June 1965. Chief, External Ops. /s/ Robert E. Owen, Reviewing Officer.

Date: 24 June 65. Official title of reviewing official: DC/WB. Typed or printed name and signature: Edward Ryan.
