Continuation of Dispatch Indexing Information. Document symbol and number: CPOA-28382. Instructions: Insert “ASSIGN” after 201- if number needed.

Name: ELIZAS Felix. Given name. Middle name. 201-. Date of birth. Country of birth. City/town of birth. Citizenship: Venezuela A. Occupation: Manufacturer. Residence: Venezuela, Caracas St., Caracas. Other names—state type (AKA, alias, maiden). Nº N° d’Ordre d’Aide.

Additional information: One alien resident of another country is allowed in Venezuela on the condition that he/she is a citizen of Venezuela and his/her sponsor is a citizen of Venezuela and is a national of Venezuela and has a valid passport of at least 5 years duration. This restriction applies also to family members of the alien and to all dependents of the alien.

This visa is issued by the National Immigration Service in Venezuela and may be renewed or canceled by the Venezuelan Government.

The purpose of this visa is to allow an alien from another country to live temporarily in Venezuela as a guest. The holder of this visa must have a regular job in Venezuela and will be allowed to remain in the country for a period not exceeding two years. This visa is issued for one year. If the alien does not continue to hold a regular job in Venezuela within one year of obtaining this visa, the alien will be required to leave the country within six months of obtaining this visa.

The alien must have a permanent job in Venezuela and have paid all expenses related to his/her stay in Venezuela before obtaining this visa.

The alien must have been a permanent resident of Venezuela for three continuous years prior to the date of application of this visa.

The alien must have been a naturalized citizen of Venezuela for five continuous years prior to the date of application of this visa.

The alien must have a high school diploma or equivalent from any recognized American institution or equivalent from any recognized European institution and be able to read and write English fluently.

The alien must have a high school diploma or equivalent from any recognized American institution or equivalent from any recognized European institution and be able to read and write Spanish fluently.

The alien must have a high school diploma or equivalent from any recognized American institution or equivalent from any recognized European institution and be able to read and write Spanish fluently.

Name: SUSANNA DORIS Manuel. Given name. Middle name. 201-. Date of birth. Country of birth. City/town of birth. Citizenship: Cuba. Occupation: Communist. Residence: Venezuela, Caracas. Other names—state type (AKA, alias, maiden).

Additional information: One alien resident of another country is allowed in Venezuela on the condition that he/she is a citizen of Venezuela and his/her sponsor is a citizen of Venezuela and is a national of Venezuela and has a valid passport of at least 5 years duration. This restriction applies also to family members of the alien and to all dependents of the alien and to all citizens of Venezuela and to all non-citizens of Venezuela and is a national of Venezuela and has a valid passport of at least 5 years duration. This restriction applies also to family members of the
