Fitness Report. General Information.

Section A. Employee number: 020090. Name: Keenan, Thomas J. Date of birth: 30 M GS-14 D. Official division or office of assignment. Current station: DDO/WII/7 Kingston. Official position title: Chief of Station. Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Annual reassignment; special. Reporting period: October 1973–30 June 1974. Date report due in O.P.

Section B. Qualifications Update. If Qualifications Update Form is being submitted with changes and is attached to this report, place the word “Yes” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “No” in the box at right.

Section C. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory. Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal. Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Prominent. Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise; indicate the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Chief of Station, Kingston. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 2. Rating letter. Specific duty No. 3. Rating letter. Specific duty No. 4. Rating letter. Specific duty No. 5. Rating letter. Specific duty No. 6. Rating letter.

Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position, such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperation, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee’s overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance. Rating letter: S. 1 June 1974.
