These plans of equal importance are linked together. Therefore, they cannot be separated without hindering the whole pattern. Of course, errors have been made repeatedly. However, the straightening, which is a must, calls for a general review of the principles and objectives of our economic and financial policy, which should be considered the first steps to be taken towards a true economic start.

For a long time, the people responsible for our economy and financial policy had built their programs upon illusions. The continuous demographic pressure and the influence of social progress, together with the normal desire of the different classes of the population to benefit from a reasonable part of the national revenue, have made indispensable the development of a well-balanced economy. This development can be conceived only in terms of industries using to the latest extent the raw materials and resources of the country. As a matter of fact, the mobilization of these resources is paramount for the achievement of true progress in the way of political liberty and for the improvement of material living. Education, medical care, transportation facilities, and the improvement of living conditions are the primary requirements for modernizing the living conditions of the population. To sum up, the increased production of riches through the creation of industries and the systematic exploitation of our subsoil, added to other natural assets, shall furnish the resources necessary to the adequate operation of our system. For lack of considering the situation from this point of view, any and all ideas of generalized social welfare and national grandeur will remain purely a dream.

The modernization of agriculture, and the improvement of the rural way of living which will result therefrom, should go abreast with industrialization. The rapid increase of the rural population and the recession of infantile mortality, as well as the extension of the life limit obtained through the application of hygiene rules, make it necessary to use to the largest extent the rejects of agricultural production in processing manufactures in order to assure surplus subsistence to the surplus population and, through the export of the thus processed agricultural products and products, supply the Treasury with the proper foreign exchange stock necessary to maintain a well-balanced economy.

The improvement of the living standard, as said before, is subject to the adequate development of the production assets, which cannot be attained without the improvement of the people. Brought up to a level which makes them aware of their needs and of the role that society and the development of their region require from them, those people will understand that the essential data of the problem reside in the following: better cultivated land, adequate equipment, provision of industries, application of improved agricultural techniques, processing industries, skilled labor.
