Dispatch. Banked for receipt. No invoice needed. Costly qualified copy can be obtained by KIRKMAN (KIERMAN).

Chief of Station, Madrid; COS, WH, Miami. Attention: Roger S. Kirkman.

From: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division.

TYPIC continued operational interest in AMAUTO-1. Action required: See paragraph 5, below.

References: A. OSMW-11585. B. MADRID 9655.

1. Headquarters has just completed, with the able help of AMEDIT-2, a thorough review of QUDOZE tapes for the last quarter of 1969. We have added pertinent file material where necessary in order to round out the picture, but the review emerges primarily as an assessment of AMAUTO-1 as a personality and as a recruitment target. We forward this study as an attachment hereto, under separate cover, for your consideration.

2. Headquarters has not lost its keen interest in AMAUTO-1 as a long-range recruitment target, foreseeing the possibility of defecting him in place (at least for the remainder of his posting to Madrid), or defecting him outright (which would admittedly be less desirable). In line with these purposes, we offer the following readings, which may or may not be entirely applicable to AMAUTO-1:

a. AMAUTO-1 is a shrewd, articulate person who has reached heights that probably he might not have reached under normal circumstances. His work in Spain has been effective in general, and he seems to be very confident of himself and of the backing which he thinks he has from PBRUMEN.

Attachment: As described, paragraph 1 above (USC).

Distribution: 2 - COS, Madrid, with attachment USC. 1 - COS, WH/Miami, with attachment USC.

Cross-reference to CS copy. Dispatch symbol and number: OSMW-11726. Date: 12 February 1970. Headquarters file number: ~201-735296.

Distribution: 1 - EUR/IB. 1 - WH/COG/CHRONO. 1 - WH/COG/OPS.

Originating office: WH/COG/OPS. Richard Wheeler, 2/4/70. AC/WH/COG, 8 February 1970: Wesley L. Laybourne. LIF 18, 6 February 1970.

Releasing office symbol: C/EUR. Releasing officer's signature: John L. HART.
