The candidate: no name used; circa 43–45. 1.75–1.78 meters, strongly built, broad shoulders, circa 85 kilos, slightly oval full face, blond hair combed straight back, thinning at the corners and on top, rosy complexion, eye color not noticed, worker’s hands, thin nose curved outward slightly, thin lips; chin full but not fat. Makes impression of a handwerker. Has been in Santé prison twice (burglary); name does not begin with A, B, C, or D—otherwise would have gone to Fresnes prison. Not known whether convicted. Has own car; free to travel; spent five years as a POW in Germany. M.’s impression: good nerves; composed; can open usual safe; would work with someone previously unknown to him; M. would use him; willing to use a gun; did not ask for money; Hugo wants his cut. Lives 250–300 km from Paris; legal occupation unknown. Contact through Hugo: can cut Hugo out with money. This candidate is ready any time. Has no passport, but can get one. Can also get a passport under a phony name. M. likes this one as a candidate.

Saw G and G’s candidate 28 April with local in Paris; G contacted this candidate directly. Candidate Henri: description: circa 45–48, 1.75–1.78 meters; dark brown hair, full and deep on the forehead, shiny and combed back, with a half-part on the right; brown complexion; not quite square face; brown eyes; heavy dark-brown eyebrows with a connection between the eyebrows; bridge of nose depressed, nose somewhat small; normal ears; mouth slanted when he speaks; small scars on left cheek and a small scar running from the middle of the nose on the left side; brown hair on hands, no mug; well dressed; hands well kept; fingertips [unclear]; smokes Gauloises cigarettes; not a drinker. Lives in Paris; frequents Bar Le Corsaire, 110 Avenue de Suffren; can be found there every day from 4:30 p.m. Specialist in safes—owns tools; also commits holdups; was in Santé prison; belonged after the war to the Lyon–Saint-Étienne underworld; gave some facts about this that M. knows to be true. Wanted to know if he should be armed for the job—ready to go to the end; has a colleague with whom he wants to work; not behind the Iron Curtain and not in France; would be expensive; has an expired passport, but can renew it without difficulty. M.’s impression: would follow orders; better action man than Hugo’s candidate, but not sure whether he has safecracking experience to the extent Hugo’s man has. Has a car—a beige (?) Dauphine, #2461HS75 (Paris number); not married. M. can contact him at telephone SUF 46-90—this is the bar. M. told him two weeks to three months (also told Hugo’s man the same), but Gaillard’s candidate wants to know within a few weeks whether there is still hope. Could bring both candidates together into a team.
