2. Loginov tried again: “A good friend of yours was appointed Chief of the U.S. Travel Service—Paul Giedro—he’s a friend of yours?”

The subject became a little heated in reply: “Yes, he’s a good friend. I will always be close to him. But you get this very clear—any plans you have for Paul Giedro, forget about them, is that clear? I won’t do a goddam thing. I hope you understand that. We’re friends (you and I), but besides being friends—period!”

Loginov took out a piece of paper and started to read from it, asking the subject if he knew the man “Eduardo Wetelman—approximately 55 years old—a Mexican Jew.” Attached is a photocopy of the piece of paper Loginov had been reading, which he left behind on the subject’s desk apparently by mistake. It is in Russian, and the subject was not able to translate it completely at first glance. The subject plans to return the original to Loginov when he comes by on 27 June. While Loginov was reading, the subject said insistently: “I don’t know the man, and I’m not going to do anything …” Loginov replied: “I’m not asking you to do anything—it’s just that I don’t know about him. About Paul Giedro, he’s a good friend of yours …” The subject said: “Forget it.”

4. The subject asked the C.O., “Did I do wrong?” The C.O. replied that the subject had done beautifully, but he has to expect that the Soviets will keep up all kinds of pressures—subtle, small, or even great, and not so subtle. But the way is clear—all he has to do is say “no.”

The subject said that Loginov had brought him a box of “Punch” cigars (Cuban), and the subject, as usual, offered to pay, but Loginov pressed them on him. The subject then said to the C.O. he wanted an expression of policy on how he should handle that kind of thing from the Soviets—take the gifts after offering to pay, or refuse outright?

The C.O. said we would give the guidance he needed for that situation.

5. The C.O. will drop around to the subject’s office early next week.

Addendum: The C.O. told the subject that there was a rumor that Oleg Knochiporenko was seen around town. The subject said he knew of nothing on that score, but doubted it strongly, since he was sure Oleg would have contacted him. The C.O. underscored that the subject do nothing about the rumor.

PRU
