Binghamton, New York plans to use the following prayer which came from “Prayers for Men in Service”:

“For the Oppressed; O God, The Creator of men and of nations, we implore Thy fatherly care and protection in behalf of all Thy children everywhere who suffer persecution. In all their trials and tribulations be Thou their Refuge and Strength. Impart to them Thine own comfort and courage. Turn the hearts of the oppressors from evil to good. Stop the hands and convert the wills of those who would array brother against brother in racial strife. Restore to all men everywhere the blessing of religious freedom. Fill our hearts and inspire our minds with a desire firmly to establish peace and justice, liberty and fraternity throughout the world; for His sake, who suffered for all mankind, Thy Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.”

Duluth, Minnesota:

“…pleased to join all Christians of this country in a Crusade for Freedom. Daily we are praying for the restoration of religious freedom to the peoples behind the Iron Curtain. May God bless your effort in promoting Christian freedom and peace in this world.”

Wheeling, West Virginia:

“With deep emotion we … assure you of our wholehearted cooperation … Religious liberty throughout the world has long been a special intention remembered here. We shall not fail to ask Him to inspire Pastors to encourage their congregations to do all possible to cooperate.”

Chambersburg, Pennsylvania:

“…it is planned in our congregation to place special emphasis in our Sunday Bulletin on March 23 upon the matter of prayers, personal and corporate, for restoration of religious liberties to repressed people. We shall, also, make a personal announcement calling attention to the printed program and trust that in this way, we may share in the ‘Crusade for Freedom.’ Your move seems to be one that should enlist the thinking and efforts of all Christian people.”

Fort Smith, Arkansas:

“…we conduct a Novena here … every Sunday night using the booklet, ‘Crusade for Peace.’ During this Novena we include all the intentions of the entire world, and in a special way the intentions for your Crusade for Freedom.”
