Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance. Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming other responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, solutions given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is a technical man who combines a taste for action with exceptional competence, producing excellent leadership for the specialized branch he heads. His treatment of personnel is direct, frank, unusually honest and just. He helps the men and their families in times of trouble and personal difficulties and has earned their respect for his technical competence. He is imaginative and bold in his approach to the responsibilities of his branch and is a fertile source of ideas. He has driven hard towards raising professional standards.

Although he is a good innovator, he sometimes pushes harder on new approaches than on completion of programs in being, and on occasion his devotion to a program leads him to heavy emphasis on it and too little on other aspects equally as important. However, this was in the earlier part of the rated period rather than recently. I believe he will continue to grow with his job and that he can undertake more responsible and broader assignments.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

1. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report. By Employee. Date: 8 July '60. Signature of employee: David F. Christ. SEP 15.

2. Months employee has been under my supervision. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. By Supervisor. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Other (Specify). Date: 22 July 1960. Official title of supervisor: AC/TSD/TA. Report made within last 90 days. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert K. Craven.

3. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Christ contributed very substantially to the conception and establishment of EARWORTH, the program under which TSD procures and supplies audio equipment for field use. He is learning how to convert the intense enthusiasm which he has at the start of a project to the steady continuous push required to carry the work through to completion. Date: 17 August 1960. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, TSD. Typed or printed name and signature: C. V. S. Roosevelt.
