Dispatch.

To: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division.  
Info: Chief, Operational Services.  
From: Chief of Station, Rio de Janeiro.  
Subject: Request for Review of Retirement Status—Michael C. CHOADEN.

Action Required—References. Action required: See paragraph 9 et al.

1. During his RVROCK career Michael C. CHOADEN (CHAADEN) has served as Contract Agent, Cover Associate, Staff Agent and Contract Employee. On one occasion CHOADEN resigned from RVROCK, became a Contract Agent, then returned as a Staff Employee. The purpose of this dispatch is to request a review of exactly what CHOADEN's status has been over the years, what must be done to repay retirement funds for any periods of creditable service not now covered, and to study the possibility that some periods of tenure might be converted from uncreditable to creditable status.

2. CHOADEN served in the Air Force from February 1943 through October 1945, with total service of two years, eight months and 19 days.

3. The dates of CHOADEN's first RVROCK service in Santiago, Chile, are very hazy to CHOADEN. He does recall that he was first recruited by the COS, but cannot recall if this was on a formal, salaried basis. At some time during 1950 or 1951, probably the latter, CHOADEN signed an RVROCK contract, for at least two years, possibly longer. The salary is remembered as US$500 per month, and on one occasion this salary was paid in advance to allow CHOADEN to purchase printing equipment. Please check the contract covering this period and advise Rio (a) the duration of the contract and (b) if any provision for deductions (or future payment of) was made. If, as CHOADEN suspects, there were no deductions, even for Social Security, CHOADEN would appreciate Headquarters comment on the possibility that this period might be retroactively converted to creditable service status (after payments into retirement system, of course). In this connection it is suggested.

Distribution: Chief, WHD; Chief, OPSER.

Dispatch symbol and number: HBRT-7797. Date: 25 March 1970.
