Fitness Report. Employee serial number: DZ73090. Name: Irving. Date of birth: 14 June 1923. Contract, EDP/S.A.S., JENAVE.

Section A: General.

Official position title: Career Agent X. Type of appointment: Department: Temporary. Special: Career Agent. Date report due in C./P. (technical reporting period): 1 May 1962 to 30 September 1963.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W. Weak performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty no. 1: Supervises a 30-man Commando Group and supervises the Group's implementation of operations, which includes pre-strike rehearsals (rerearings) and briefings and organization of logistical support. Ratings: A; P.

Specific duty no. 2: Maintains the training of the Group at a proficient level in all weapons, tactics, and related PM activities. Ratings: S; P.

Specific duty no. 3: Develops operational concepts for raids and caching operations and prepares operational plans and operations. Ratings: P; A.

Specific duty no.
