(Do you know anything about the formerly dissident PDP of Montreux, the pro-Chinese Communist Party of Switzerland?)

They've got it wrong. There's only one pro-Chinese Communist party, and that's the so-called Naxxur Parti Comuniste Suisse, started in Verve, not Montreaux, Verrey, or Nestle's headquarters. Headed by Gerard Builliard, a small businessman who has become a member of the PLP, that is, the Communist Party. He went to Albania last year, in the summer, as a tourist, and sold the Albanians on the idea of supporting a breakaway Marxist-Leninist party. He came back to Switzerland and, with five people, formed this Swiss Communist Party, which grew to be an enormous one.

Banker Andersson was at first, but when the Chinese took a more hostile view of it in Berne, he went along, and he may have received some money from the Chinese, I don't know. But we know that he received money from Albania. He became increasingly quarrelsome. He was very much worried about Andersson because Andersson was printing his newspaper, too late. He owned this offset press in Lausanne. Andersson also was recruiting people for the group, and he had more connections inside the Communist Party, the PLP, than Builliard did, since he had been only a recent member. The Lausanne group became larger than the Verve group. I don't know what happened after that.

But then relations deteriorated rapidly, and both the Albanians and the Chinese realized that they had made a drastic mistake. Builliard then phoned the Albanians and the Chinese in Berne and told them that if he didn't receive 3,000 francs by a certain time of day, he would denounce Andersson to the police. Obviously, he didn't receive the 3,000 francs, and he went to the police. Apparently, they knew more than Builliard about him. Then he got a delegation and went to the Federal Council, requesting the Parliament in Berne, and they made an open public statement that this foreign agent, this Swedish national, who had taken advantage of Swiss hospitality, was expelled. The Federal Police came in. They banned it, and there was the general blowup. Revolution. They didn't get very far, except that now it is suspected that he is more or less subsidized by the Swiss police, that he is keeping his group going, and that it is down to about 15 people, according to Andersson.

He obviously has a small amount of money, which he is not getting from the latter Chinese. He told Andersson, and proposed that Andersson retire from politics if he would be paid the sum of 5,200 Swiss francs. The reason for this was that he wanted to keep the mimeograph machine (mismeograph machine) that Andersson had given him, and he was deducting from—I think he wanted 7,000 francs altogether—for his exit from politics.
