Country: Haiti. Subject: Clément Joseph Charles believed to be President Inverlier's Personal Financial Manager; biographical data on C. J. Charles. Report No. OO-E-SW/K3496L. Date distributed: 5. No. pages: 5. Date of information: February–March 1966. Place and date acquired: Port-au-Prince, February–March 1966.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: U.S. national, sales representative of a U.S. tobacco manufacturing company who has had 40 years' experience in the industry. Source makes frequent business trips to Latin America and recently returned from a six weeks' visit to Ecuador, Panama, and Haiti. He has excellent contacts in the areas he visits, speaks moderate Spanish and French, and is a shrewd observer.

1. During the period 1952–53 I tried to establish business association with certain Haitians including such characters as Eric Tippenhauer, Colonel M. Prosper, Senator Louis De Joie, George Lager, and many others. On the occasion of my first visit to Port-au-Prince in five years, I encountered a new set of characters, but they are obviously of the identical “cut” as my previous acquaintances.

2. A reportedly privately-owned tobacco company known as Le Tabac Haïtien, S. A., is directed by Clément Joseph Charles, a black Haitian who also happens to be President of the Commercial Bank of Haiti. This cigarette manufacturing firm is the direct descendant of the long-defunct Haitian-American Tobacco Co. Some six months ago Le Tabac Haïtien began ordering moderate quantities of leaf tobacco and providing letters of credit to pay for the leaf. When I held my first series of conferences with Mr. Charles, he immediately attempted to impress me with his political, social, and economic influences in Haiti and then proceeded to enlist my principal's financial participation to the small sum of US$300 thousand. Fully cognizant of the Haitian style of business, I deferred the offer and proceeded to discreetly inquire of Mr. Charles' status in Haiti.

3. As a matter of convenience Mr. Charles provided me with a curriculum vitae which I quote as follows:

Clément Joseph Charles: President and General Manager of the “Barbe Congressionale d'Haïti.” President of the Chamber of Commerce of Haiti.
