Background use only.

The most important Congress document was a political declaration which had been drafted in the Political Commission mainly by Abu El Hassan and Abi Farhan, an Arab British, a British citizen of Indian descent who is chairman of the pro-Chinese British-Vietnamese Solidarity Front (BSZ). Source comment: Manchanda confided that he was not completely satisfied with the text of the document, but considered it worthwhile nonetheless because it came close to what he considered were general Chinese positions, although it did not condemn the Soviet Union by name. Abu El Hassan and other Palestinians congratulated Manchanda for his success in running through such a hard-line political document. Manchanda had in fact dominated the final plenary session of the Congress on 28 December which voted affirmatively on the declaration. On one occasion during the discussions in the Political Commission, Yazid tried to persuade the Commission, whose revolutionary commitments he claimed to share, that it should go easier in its condemnations of the United Nations.

K. Delegations from the following countries were represented at the Congress:

a. Austria — Represented by an observer from the Moscow-line Communist Party of Austria.

b. Belgium — A divided delegation headed mainly by Risto Rahtio, but which included a few supporters of Jacques Grappa, a current political enemy of Raindorj.

c. Brazil — Represented by a youth named McGill who lives in London.

d. Great Britain, two rival delegations. Delegation led by Manchanda as follows:

(1) Manchanda, representing the Solidarity Front for the Liberation of Palestine and the Arab Peoples, and the Revolutionary Marxist-Leninist League.

(2) Diana Langford, of the Women’s Equal Rights Campaign.

(3) Mike Krylitsis, of the Revolutionary Marxist-Leninist League.

(4) Wishek Chinamasa, of the Zimbabwe Students Union in Europe (ZSUE). Field comment: An official British Service reported in August 1969 that Chinamasa was expelled by the executive committee of the Zimbabwe African People’s Union (ZAPU) as president of the ZSUE.

(5) Richard Gibbon (G 1 b o n), journalist for the United Kingdom. Date of birth: 13 May 1931, USA. Date: 10 June 1961.
