2.

To which, in the course of a worldwide basis, [Subject] had been invited. In the case of the so-called “Soviets,” there was not an instance of such an invitation without a visit. In Mexico, too, there was no reception without the visit of Subject’s representative, and the first thing he told Subject was that he knew Subject had been a “traitor” and had been difficult in Mexico. Subject, in his half-serious manner, acknowledged the idea that he was a rebel and told Mechiporenko earnestly that he needed neither the fire, effort, nor inclination to initiate the cooperation that was expected of him. He gave Mechiporenko the old line about friends “that in Europe but that he couldn’t and wouldn’t put out the old effort.” Mechiporenko said that was too bad, because he had wanted to present Subject to his chief, but Subject shrugged this off.

Mechiporenko asked Subject if he would be willing to use his office as a letter drop. Subject said, reasonably, that this was not a very smart idea—since agents writing to his firm and to him would then know of Subject’s connection with the Soviets and he would be exposed. Another time, Mechiporenko told Subject to think it over and talk to Valentin (Valentinov) in Mexico about it. Also, Mechiporenko told Subject that they hadn’t forgotten about the “branch office” and that Subject shouldn’t feel bad about the delay in getting it set up. Subject ridiculed that idea, saying that it was the Soviets who should feel bad; as for him, he couldn’t be bothered in the future with the trip and one line involved.

Mechiporenko, still not chartered, asked if Subject would provide information on all changes in visa regulations for travel in Central or South America. Subject said he had given this information to the Soviets in the past. Mechiporenko then asked Subject to continue to give such information to Valentin.

Subject elicited from Mechiporenko that he was working in the Latin American Section of the Foreign Ministry, and that he was allowed to come and go as he pleased to visit Subject. In the context of telling Subject that he saw that Subject was not getting along with his Soviet friends, Mechiporenko said that he would be coming back to Mexico next year.

One day, while Mechiporenko was in the hotel room, the phone rang and Subject picked up the phone. A female voice asked for “Givy.” Subject hesitantly replied in Russian that “Givy” wasn’t around, but wouldn’t have done so. In the ensuing conversation, Subject found out that the caller was a 25-year-old student, obtained her address and telephone number, and made a date to meet her the following day at the Lenin Station exit of the Metro. Mechiporenko was all in favor of Subject making the date and, as a matter of fact, came the next day to take Subject’s son to the circus so that Subject would be free. Comment: Subject said that he never did go to meet the girl, but told Mechiporenko that he had gone and the girl had not shown up. Subject was of the opinion that this was not a provocation by the Soviets, but he shied away because he did not want to be involved in anything indiscreet.

Then Aleksandr Frikodko dropped in unexpectedly at Subject’s office on 3 December, while Subject’s wife and son were present. The Soviet asked when he could have lunch with Subject, and the latter put him off, telling Frikodko to call the following week. Comment: Frikodko did not call.

On 9 December, Valentin Loginev (Loginov), who had called Subject’s office by name to have Subject come down to the street, saw Subject for just a minute to present him with two tickets to the Bolshoi Ballet for 9 December. Comment: Subject attended.
