Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions for the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report. For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him about his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-170. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 90 days after the date indicated in Item B of Section A below.

Section A. General. Name: WILLIAMSON, Earl. Date of birth: J. Sex: M. Service discrimination: DI. DDT/M/H/Havana. DCUS. Grade: GS-13. Date report due in OF: 30 September 1956. Period covered by this report: 30 September 1955 - 30 September 1956. Type of report: Annual.

Certification. I, for the rater: This report has or has not been submitted to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

A. Check appropriate statement(s): This report reflects my opinions of this individual. If individual is rated “I” in C1 or D, a rating list was sent to him, a copy attached to this report. This report reflects the combined opinions of my supervisor and previous supervisors. I cannot certify that the rated individual’s redesign was evaluated [for] his job performance because (specify). I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses as well as how he stands.

B. This date: 16 October 1956. C. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: CALL BILL, William. D. Supervisor’s official title: Chief of Station.

For the reviewing officer: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

Date. By J. S. Lippincott. 11/19/56. 11/20/56.
