Showing up-to-date payment of the loan at the “Nasa 31a.” No further action has been taken by LIEPTY-19 or her lawyer on this matter, but the charge has not finally been settled and is still pending. The charge is, of course, unfounded and is awaiting the proper “lubrication” in order to be filed away.

c. Neglect—this charge was made by LIEPTY-19 in December 1969 at the 7° Juzgado Mixto de Paz, claiming that GERENDE had abandoned LIEPTY-19 and the children to their fate and that they were utterly destitute. GERENDE was not notified of this charge and on 9 February, after attending a hearing at the Villa Obregon juzgado (see below), once out on the sidewalk, Judicial police agents detained GERENDE, took him to the Procuraduria and from there to Lecumberri. This process involved being finger-printed and mugged. The following day GERENDE was out on a 2,000 pesos bond and three days later, 13 February, the justice of the peace (a woman) formally set GERENDE free for lack of evidence. GERENDE and Magallon went back on 5 March to pick up the bond money and see if Jurado had appealed, but he had not and, apparently, that matter is closed.

6. On 14 November 1969, one day after LIEPTY-19 disappeared from home taking the children with her, GERENDE brought charges against her for minor lesions and showed medical proof thereof. The hearing of 9 February, after which GERENDE was detained, was called by Villa Obregon judge Bonfilio SEGURA. GERENDE reiterated the charge, LIEPTY-19 denied it, the judge ruled against her, ordered her to prison, but since the injuries were minor, it does not require privation of liberty and she must only go and sign in once a week.

7. LIEPTY-19 is at present teaching school at the Edron Academy on Caleri Street in San Angel Inn. The two older children are going to school there. During the latter part of November, all December and half of January, the children did not attend any school. On three occasions GERENDE has been to the school at 13:30 to try to speak to LIEPTY-19 and see the children. LIEPTY-19 has objected to this and the meetings have been short and fruitless except for GERENDE learning that they are still staying at the Dutch Ambassador’s. GERENDE’s last visit there was on 3 March (Tuesday).

8. After the Villa Obregon judge dismissed himself from the divorce proceedings, according to standard procedure, the case went to Coyoacan and Xochimilco respectively, where the judges, in turn, excused themselves from the case, and it has finally come to reside at the 1st Juzgado Civil in the D.F. The judge is Olda CORREA (woman) and has the reputation of being tough and pretty straight. Since LIEPTY-19 has not given an address where divorce suit papers can be served her, the suit has not yet been initiated on GERENDE’s part. LIEPTY-19, on the other hand, has not had
