FITN. 5 Report (Part II) POTEN. L.

Instructions.

For the Administrative Officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the Supervisor: This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor, and to appropriate current management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is not to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision for at least 90 days. If less than 90 days, hold and complete after the 90 days has elapsed. If this is the initial report on the employee, however, it must be completed and forwarded to the OP no later than 30 days after the due date indicated in item B of Section 2 below.

Section E. LASUSTIA General. Section F. Certification.

Name: (Last) (First) (Middle). Date of birth: 20 Jan 1924. Type of report.

Period covered of this report (inclusive dates): 1 October 1957 - 9 April 1958.

Office/Division/Position: RE, Tokyo, Japan. Service designation: DI. Grade: GS-1U. Date report due in OP: 1 October 1957 - 9 April 1958. Official position title: Area Ops Officer.

Type of report. Period covered: 10/1/57 - 9/4/58. Initial. Special: Promotion. Annual. Reassignment/Supervisor: William E. Nelson.

Section G. Estimate of Potential. Section H. Supervisory Potential.

I. Potential to Assume Greater Responsibilities. Directions: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee's potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

II. Supervisory Potential. Directions: Answer this question: Has this person the ability to be a supervisor? Yes. If your answer is yes, indicate below your opinion or guess of the level of supervisory ability this person will reach after suitable training. Indicate your opinion by placing the number of the descriptive rating below which comes closest to expressing your opinion in the appropriate column. If your rating is based on observing him supervise, note your rating in the “actual” column. If based on opinion of his potential, note.
