Even proving his good faith by bringing manuscripts that were originally destined for Revolution. That Verges knew anything about that I seriously doubt. This went on to such an extent that Maspero told Andersson. Andersson said, “Why has he launched a terrible campaign against you as a Trotskyite—” Maspero said he didn’t believe it, so Andersson showed him a letter that was written in which he demanded that he sever all ties with Maspero, and so on.

He is a complex person. He has numerous ties. He printed two articles by the British Communist Party, about Trotskyites and the British Communist Party, printed in Revolution under the pseudonym of Joshua Linton, which turned out to be Thomas Kent, one of the executive members of the British Trotskyist Labor League, which is an incredible thing. Now he is really considered by many of these Chinese people to be a Trotskyist, or a Trotsky sympathizer. I don’t know about it. He does have very curious ties. I don’t know what his present relationship is to the Vietnamese, though he claimed that he had received a letter from Hanoi from a friend who was in a high position there who urged him not to do anything that could be considered anti-Soviet. And they said that really this was some time before—in the spring. He should be returning home. But he has no intention of returning.

(Why)

Quite used to the individual life in the West. He’s one of these fellows who particularly likes running around and having a girl. He says he’s gathering information; one day a girl said, “I’m not an encyclopedia, will you stop asking me all these questions?”

(His relationship with the Chinese)

New China News Agency

He has some contact with the Chinese agency, but it is very slight; one of the contacts.

He was the one who finally, in a state of panic, went to the Chinese news agency correspondents in Paris and told him of the financial methods and the plight of the magazine. And that’s when the mmx told him to prepare a budget. They would see what they could do. He told Castell and Kussel. Castell put his foot down. He said that Verges . . .

(Who did he see)

A Mr. Yan. They were at that time Yan and Yang. Yan, a heavyset man in his forties, with various groups of political people.

The senior of the two had contacts. The Embassy apparently didn’t want any direct contacts because the people in Marseilles and elsewhere used to go to Berne.

They had obviously first made contacts with the Chinese in Berne, and then they continued them in Berne after France established relations with the Chinese, because obviously it wouldn’t look very good to be...
