Full Name; Business or Occupation: Maj. Gen. Wm. J. Donovan (Yaj. Gen. Mm. J. Donovan), 2 Wall Street, New York 5, N.Y., attorney. John C. Farrar, 53 East 34th Street, New York 18, publisher. Raymond Rubioam, 444 Madison Avenue, New York 18, executive.

Invoice No.: Yes/No.

25. Inquiry made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc.: Yes.

26. Are you a citizen of or do you owe allegiance to the United States?: Yes/No.

27. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party, U.S., or any Communist organization?: No.

28. Are you now or have you ever been a member of an organization, association, movement, group, or combination of industrial, cultural, religious, political, or social purpose, or have you or one of your relations had, or may have your relations had, during the past 12 months, conducted activity within any period of time, or committed action or engaged in prohibited or excluding minor violation of any laws, regulations, or ordinances, including minor violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $10 or less was issued by any jurisdiction?: No.

If your answer is “Yes,” list all such cases under Item 3 below. Give in each case (1) the date; (2) the nature of the offense or violation; (3) the name and location of the court; (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If appointed, your fingerprints will be taken: No.

31. Since your 18th birthday, have you ever been arrested, injured, or summoned into court as a defendant in a criminal prosecution? If so, convicted, fined or imprisoned or placed on probation in...: No.

32. Have you been ordered to deport, fined or collateral for the violation of any law, police regulation, or ordinance, excluding minor violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $10 or less was issued by any jurisdiction?: No.

If your answer is “Yes,” list all such cases under Item 3 below. Give in each case (1) the name and address of employer, date, and reason in each case: No.

33. Have you ever been barred by the U.S. Civil Service Commission from enrolling or accepting civil service appointment? If so, give dates of and reasons for such department in Item 3: No.

34. Have you any physical handicap, disease, or other disability which would be considered in assigning you to work?: No.

If your answer is “No,” give complete details in Item 3 so that consideration can be given.
