Non-LIEMPTY-oriented operational activity by GARNET, there are no significant operational changes contemplated. LIEMPTY is a project designed to support the Station's REDTOP program and is useful only as long as it supports that program effectively. The Station believes that the support has been effective, and that the product of the operation is valuable. Occasional minor changes will undoubtedly be made in response to specific requirements and to continual efforts toward improvement, but continuing emphasis on the FJSTEL target for the foreseeable future means, among other things, that the LIEMPTY Project, in essentially its present form, will continue to be a necessary part of the Station's program.

B. No need for expansion, in terms of personnel or facilities, is foreseen, but costs will probably climb slowly but steadily to permit salary increases and to keep up with the rising cost of living as it affects utilities and supplies. Replacement of GARNET's air vehicle, which was not foreseen in the previous Project outline, as this was originally written by the Station to cover the period ending 30 November 1976, became necessary late in FY 1976. The current rejec is being written on the assumption that the vehicle was in fact replaced in FY 1978 and that no further replacement will be necessary in the foreseeable future.

Costs

A. FY 1976 — Project LIEMPTY was approved for FY 1976 in the amount of 45,500 dollars. Station records project spending for FY 1976 at almost exactly that rate. Semi-monthly accounting with pertinent receipts and/or certifications were submitted by Raymond H. GARNET to the station finance officer via the Project case officer for all LIEMPTY Project expenditures made in the field. It is estimated that approximately three hours of case officer and eight hours of analyst time is required each week to fulfill the operational, administrative, and analytical requirements of this project. This figure does not include the 40-hour week put in regularly by Raymond H. GARNET.

B. FY 1970 — It is requested that Project LIEMPTY be approved in the amount of 38,970 dollars for FY 1970. This figure represents roughly a 10 percent decrease from the amount programmed for the previous Project year. While no large expenditures are anticipated for the replacement of photographic equipment during the forthcoming period, inflation may result in rising cost of utilities and supplies, and salary increases may be granted as indicated above. A detailed breakdown of Project expenditures for FY 1970, 1971 and 1972 follows.
