Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in mind comparative relationships to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for continuing. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Monitor performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

This employee combines the relatively rare combination of a senior and broadly experienced intelligence officer under working cover, providing both long-term status in his country of residence (and in Europe in general) and access for a variety of operational functions, including spotting, assessing, contact with Soviet bloc nationals of specific interest, investigative measures, assessment in depth of ostensibly cover-company hired persons, and attendance at a broad range of national and international specialized meetings. Development of the capability operationally to exploit his cover has been the achievement of the employee himself. In so doing he has at the same time achieved genuine acceptance by his cover company associates (most of whom are unwitting) and his colleagues in his cover profession and related professions.

In undertaking operational tasks this employee has consistently shown initiative, imagination, security consciousness, and application of both operational and substantive background to the problem at hand. He has put a conscious effort into improving his already excellent command of the French language, and his grasp of a variety of specialized scientific and technical fields has been achieved basically as a result of his own efforts.

His management of operational reporting, finances, and the administrative problems connected with his cover status has been exemplary.

It should be noted that during the reporting period, this employee has not had the benefit at all times of specific pinpointed operational direction. As of the end of the reporting period, Headquarters assumed control of his activities against specific Soviet targets on a Europe-wide basis.

Section D. Certification and Comments by Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 25 May 1964. Signature of employee: /s/ by supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: Eighteen.

Date: 25 May 1964. Official title of supervisor: Ops. Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ James Flint.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

Date: 25 May 1964. Official title of reviewing official: Cos. Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Robert J. Owen.
