Dispatch. To: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division. Reference: Chief, Europe Division; COS, WH/Miami; COB, FRANTECH. From: Chief of Station, Madrid. Subject: RYBAT TYPIC TECHS/Construction of New PBRUMEN Embassy. Reference: OSMA 24774.

1. The PBRUMEN government has approved the construction in Madrid of a new office building to be used as an Embassy, Commercial office and residence for the PBRUMEN Minister. The site has been identified and work is expected to begin soon, probably after the return of AMAUTO-1 from PBRUMEN, sometime within the next two weeks. The builders expect to complete the building within eight months.

2. QUSEQUIN-37 is far more confident than we are, about the possibility of getting access to the building during the construction phase to possibly install various audio devices. We believe this operation to be a formidable one and we might be challenged by the presence in Madrid of PBRUMEN security forces overseeing the construction, the presence of PBRUMEN electricians and other professions, complicating the access to the building. We believe AMAUTO-1 has the Romanian experience well in mind and most likely will do everything within his power to overcome the possibility of an audio penetration of his building.

3. We would be grateful for any information addressees might have on the general modus operandi of PBRUMEN security forces in areas where PBRUMEN official installations have been constructed. Have they used PBRUMEN technicians, electricians, construction engineers, etc? Also we would like to know whether the PBRUMENS have installed their own telephone system or have they generally relied on the system of the host country. We would appreciate too, any comments Headquarters or other addressees would like to make on the best course of action for the Station to consider. QUSEQUIN-37 believes he can get a copy of the blueprints after the plan.

Distribution: 2 - C/WHD; 2 - C/EUR; 2 - COS, WH/Miami; 2 - COR, FRANTECH.

Gross reference to. Dispatch symbol and number: OSMA 26040. Date: 18 March 1970. Classification. HCG file number.
