Office Memorandum, United States Government

To: Chief, Contact Division  
From: Allister Branch (Upton)  
Subject: Case M-139—Dr. Gurel; Kremml's Detention and Interrogation  
Date: 10-18-64. F-3 5564.

1. Nenziith a summary of this case, as requested in NA-61525.

2. The case was opened to this office by a telephone call from George Medlin in mid-morning on 20 September 1964. The only information available to us at that point was an account in the New York Times of 17 September. Friend of NYIO was instructed to contact Mr. Joe Smetalis, Assistant Special Agent in Charge, New York FBI. The FBI had notified CIA through Washington Liaison that it would be ready to turn over a subject for interrogation sometime on this date, and the details were to be discussed with Smetalis.

3. Seemit passed Eround along to the supervisor and special agent handling the case, as known to us, and so learned that the FBI had not seen the subject as yet because of unexpected delays at Immigration and Naturalization Services. The expected schedule was for subjects to be fingerprinted and released by INS in the early p.m. The FBI estimated that its own interrogation could be accomplished within about 45 minutes. As advised, FBI interrogation would be carried out at International Reserve Committee office, where the subject would be turned over to us at about 3 p.m.

4. Above information was phoned through to Allen Branch, which advised that two OBI representatives, Drs. Hopman and Rubber, were to be dispatched to New York to conduct an interrogation that afternoon. Eround's telephone calls between this office and Allen Branch, the FBI, and IRS continued throughout the afternoon. The FBI very graciously agreed to make a staff translator of Czech descent available for our interrogation. Charles Sternberg of IIS agreed to stay in his office until we could take the subject off his hands when it became clear that the OBI representatives were late in arriving.

5. Dr. Hopman, OBI, and Dr. Rubber, Medical Staff, in fact reached NYFO at 1:50. There was considerable misunderstanding between them and this office concerning the situation. They were unaware that the subject had been interrogated until late the previous day by IRS and was somewhat exhausted by interrogations and procedures on 20 September at IRS and involving the FBI. They expected to operate under cover, to be furnished by FBI or sales office; they expected to be provided with a secure interrogation facility suited for sound; they understood that Cmoschonasok authorities had attempted to reach the subject. In the circumstances, they remained at NYFO in the same state of the Field Office chief, while Eround proceeded to IRC.
