Dispatch. To: Chief, WOTACK. Info: Chief, WII Division. From: Chief of Station, JAWAVE. Subject: CHAPPIE DYVOUR PERS; Irving C. DEVUSO—Promotion Recommendation. No indexing required. Only qualified desk can judge indexing.

Action required references. Reference: UFGS-9396, dated 7 April 1967.

1. The referenced dispatch requested the Station's comments relative to Subject's performance and other qualifications for promotion consideration. The following is a recommendation for promotion for Subject to GS-14.

2. Subject is 43 years of age. He joined WOFACT as a Contract Agent 10 February 1961 after completing 21 years of service with the U. S. Army. His last assignment while in the Army was a two year tour of duty in Laos as a Captain in the Special Forces. After a brief training and administrative processing period in Headquarters, he was assigned PCS to JAWAVE on 27 August 1961 as a GS-13 Career Agent. He has been assigned to JAWAVE as a Paramilitary Special Operations Officer since that date.

3. Subject is a proficient and competent Operations Officer whose performance during his six-year assignment to JAWAVE has continuously shown an outstanding proficiency in the supervision and management of indigenous agents. He has used his knowledge and experience, gathered over a 21 year period with the Army, to an outstanding degree. He has maintained the morale of his 30 agents and kept them at a high level of proficiency by a strong training schedule and by planning and implementing operations in the field of reconnaissance, caching, deception and Special Operations/intelligence collection operations. During the past eight months he has recruited, trained and operationally committed two intelligence collection teams into PERUMEN. Subject is a hard worker, capable administrator and a very able agent handler. He has the ability to gain the respect of his agents by his general knowledge of tradecraft matters and his ability to plan operations. He is a personally rugged individual and has established good rapport with

Distribution: 2 - C/WOTACK; 2 - C/WII Div. Cross reference to: Dispatch symbol and number WFGT_10456, dated Mar 16 1967.
