Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Hicks continues to turn in an excellent all-around performance. He exercises a very high degree of professional judgment in carrying out his duties. He is alert, conscientious, strong-willed, and straightforward, but very pleasant when dealing with people of all levels.

Because of his constant awareness that CS reports may fall into unauthorized hands, Mr. Hicks has been most effective in maintaining security discipline in the review of the intelligence cables, particularly the authentication statements, to insure that any data which may present a security hazard to the source is omitted from the dissemination of the information.

Mr. Hicks has been with the Intelligence Watch since June 1967. His overall performance has been consistently characterized by exceptional proficiency. He has for several years been performing duties commensurate with a grade higher than his present one. A concerted effort should be made to promote him to a GS-14. He has been put in for promotion as an Intelligence Watch Officer since 1968.

With the retirement and reassignment of several IW officers, by next year he will be the IW officer with the most continuity on the job. This will be a great asset to IW, and in particular to the newer officers who will profit from his experience.

Attached to this fitness report is a recently prepared position description of an IW officer which characterizes Mr. Hicks in every respect. This description should help to better appreciate the importance that the DDPS attaches to the function and responsibilities of IW officers, as well as the scope and complexity of the work.

It is not easy to find suitable officers to serve in IW. It calls for individuals who are highly motivated, with maturity of judgment, temperament, manner, and bearing to withstand the rigors of shift work, and above all to maintain cordial relations.

Section D: Certification and Comments. See attached page.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 28 Oct. 1971. Signature of employee: Calvin W. Hicks.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 26. Date: 28 October 1971. Official title of supervisor: C/FI/INT/IW. Typed or printed name and signature: Joseph A. Procaccino.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I fully endorse the ratings and the narrative. We shall continue to try to promote Mr. Hicks in recognition of his ability and of his service.
