Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 034959. Section A: General.

Date of birth: 26 August 1925. Sex: Male. Grade: GS-14. Service designation: D. Official position title: Operations Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/TR, J Wave.

Career staff status: Not eligible X. Type of report: Annual X.

Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1962. Reporting period: From 3 June 1961 to 31 March 1962.

Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1 — Unsatisfactory. 2 — Barely adequate. 3 — Acceptable. 4 — Competent. 5 — Excellent. 6 — Superior. 7 — Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Spotting, developing, recruiting, and handling FI agent assets in the field. Rating: 6.

Specific duty No. 2: Spotting, developing, and recruiting small PM reconnaissance teams.

Specific duty No. 3: Provides background, continuity, and guidance on PB-RUMEN matters to all station officers.

Specific duty No. 3: Spotting and assessing senior political PBRUMENS for headquarters. Rating: 7.

Specific duty No. 4: Maintaining contact with PBRUMEN exile community in WAVE area, and reporting information gleaned. Rating: 6.

Specific duty No. 6. Rating: 7.

Specific duty No. 8. Rating: 8.

Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personnel traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
