Subject: Request for Approval of Project LIPEAT

1. It is requested that the LIPEAT project be renewed for the period 1 July 1961 through 30 June 1962 for a total of $98,974. This project has been programmed for $99,000 and funds are available in WH Division for FY 1962. During the last fiscal year approximately $81,000 was obligated.

2. No training programs for any LIPEAT personnel are anticipated for the renewal period.

3. Any number of emergency conditions could be listed which might affect the smooth running of this operation. Among them would be the break in diplomatic relations or hot war between Mexico and the United States or the discovery of this unilateral asset by the Mexican Government. Emergency recontact instructions have not been established for the agents of this project since it seems likely that the operation would cease in case of such conditions and the agents would be of no further value.

4. This project was the source of 128 intelligence reports during the past year, 85 of which were disseminated. The remainder were used for Headquarters background only since the information was either partially previously reported, overt, or of no interest to customer agencies. The following evaluations were received:

“Mexican Technicians Going to Work in Cuba” — State Department said this report was of moderate importance and that the information was new and useful.

“Nicaraguan Revolutionary Activities in Mexico” — State Department said that this report was of moderate importance and that the information was new and useful.

“Propaganda Activities of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico” — State Department said that this report was of moderate importance and useful as new information. USIA commented that the same report was of major importance.

“Mexican Government Purchase of Soviet Radioisotopes” — OBI reported that this dissemination was of little importance and that the information was already sufficiently known. ORR said that it was of moderate importance and more details were required.
