Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give specific reasons for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain findings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper. Date: May 31, 1967.

During the past year, Mr. Christ has expanded his responsibilities for his Applied Physics Division, which now encompasses effort in positive audiosurveillance, countermeasures, micropower-microtechnology, and emplacement problems. He continues to be conscientious, responsive, and aggressive in the management and development of the technical programs under his direction and supervision.

His managerial talents encompass a wide range of activities, and it must be acknowledged that they are responsible, in large measure, for the forward-looking, highly productive programs under his direction.

His cost consciousness is best exemplified by his detailed planning and charting of cost, time, and technical details in a variety of complex areas. He has taken the lead in solving many involved, detailed and intricate interface and coordination problems with virtually all other technical groups within the Agency.

I expect a high degree of intelligence pay-off as a result of programs under his supervision.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 4/24/67. Signature of employee: David F. Christ.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 42. Official title of supervisor: Director of Research and Development. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert M. Chapman.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: No appropriate Reviewing Official.
