14-00000

(On the motion of Mr. Hays, of Michigan, and seconded by Mr. L. S. Taft, of Ohio), was passed the following resolution:

"WHEREAS, it has come to this knowledge of the Committee on Insular Affairs that, in consequence of the recent fire which destroyed a part of the office of Rev. Dr. James M. Sabin, the president of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii, and several others, who were in the building at the time of the fire, and whose lives were saved by the fire, the president of the United States has issued a commission to the Rev. Dr. Sabin, by whom he is hereby constituted a naturalized citizen of the United States, and has appointed him to the position of president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the order of Friars Minor of St. Peter, of Rome; and WHEREAS, it has also been learned that the Rev. Dr. Sabin, before the fire, was a member of the Committee on Insular Affairs, and has since been, and is now, an active member of the Church of Jesus Christ, of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii; and WHEREAS, it has further been learned that the Rev. Dr. Sabin, before the fire, was a member of the Committee on Insular Affairs, and has since been, and is now, an active member of the Church of Jesus Christ, of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii; and WHEREAS, the committee have examined the records of the church in question, and find them to show that the president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii, at all times had the character of a minister of the gospel, and had not engaged in any disorderly practices, or in anything calculated to harm the interests of the church or its members, but merely acted as their代理in the performance of his duty; therefore, be it enacted by the committee, That the president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii, is hereby made a naturalized citizen of the United States, and appointed president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the order of Friars Minor of St. Peter, of Rome, and of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii; and be it further enacted by the committee, That the president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii, is hereby authorized to use his influence with the president of the government to cause the laws of the United States and of the state of Hawaii to be amended in such manner as to secure to the president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the order of Friars Minor of St. Peter, of Rome, a continuance of his present position, and further that the president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii, be hereby authorized to hold the offices of president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the order of Friars Minor of St. Peter, of Rome, and of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii during his existing term, and for three additional terms of five years each, provided that upon the expiration of the first term the president shall submit to the president of the United States for confirmation of his appointment; and be it further enacted by the committee, That the president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii, is hereby authorized, after the expiration of the term for confirmation of his appointment, to continue in said position until the term for confirmation of his appointment expires, and for two additional terms of ten years each, provided that upon the expiration of the first term the president shall submit to the president of the United States for confirmation of his appointment; and that the president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the order of Friars Minor of St. Peter, of Rome, and of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii, be thereby authorized to hold the offices of president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the order of Friars Minor of St. Peter, of Rome, and of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii during his existing term, and for two additional terms of ten years each, provided that upon the expiration of the first term the president shall submit to the president of the United States for confirmation of his appointment; and that the president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii, is hereby made a naturalized citizen of the United States, and appointed president of the order of brothers of Jesus Christ, of the order of Friars Minor of St. Peter, of Rome, and of the Roman Catholic Church in Hawaii, during his existing term, and for two additional terms of ten years each, provided that upon the expiration of the first term the president shall submit to the president of the United States for confirmation of his appointment
