Report Number: 00-A(S) 322/26419-76. TWX No.: DCD/MIAMI 13513. Country: Venezuela. Subject: Operational Lead – Luis Posada Carriles.

1. On 3 September 1976, U.S. citizen Sergio Dieguez called the Miami Field Office and requested to meet with a Spanish-speaking representative. We met with Dieguez on 9 September 1976. He told us that recently, while in Venezuela (VENENZUELA), he met with Luis Posada Carriles, a Venezuelan citizen of Cuban origin. He told us that Posada, allegedly a former Agency asset, had requested assistance in offering for a price Posada’s services to BKHERALD. Dieguez said that Posada has close contact with high-ranking Venezuelan government officials and could provide BKHERALD with valuable information.

2. Dieguez showed us a copy of a lengthy document given to him by Posada specifically for our perusal as evidence of the type of information to which he has access. This document consisted of a list of Cuban Embassy officials in Caracas, biographical data and addresses for these individuals, and various sundry information on Jamaica, Guyana, Panama, and Angola. We did not accept the document for transmittal to Headquarters because in our judgment, to have done so might have implied an agreement on our part to provide financial remuneration at some future date.

3. Dieguez also said that during the administration of former President Rafael Caldera, Posada was a fairly high-ranking officer in the Directorate of Services of Intelligence and Prevention (DISIP). He was dismissed from this position when Carlos Andres Perez became president. Dieguez said that as a DISIP official Posada was instrumental in the elimination of guerrilla operations and strongholds. At that time, Posada was known as “Comisario Basilio.”

4. Dieguez said that Posada, currently a private investigator in Venezuela, lives at Calle Valencia, Quinta Marianina, Las Palmas, Caracas. His office telephone numbers are 743232 and 742857. Dieguez also said that if BKHERALD is interested in obtaining Posada’s services, contact should be initiated through him (Dieguez) and not directly to Posada for “security reasons.” However, if necessary, Posada can travel to the U.S.

5. Dieguez was told that his request in behalf of Posada would be forwarded (FORWARDER) through the appropriate channels and that we could not promise any positive results. END – E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668.
