Section C, Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, scope, equipment and funds, must be commented on. [REDACTED]

Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject is the FE referent for the Base and, as such, has the responsibility for coordinating all work against the FE targets as well as himself handling the bulk of operational activity in this category. In addition, as is true of all officers at the Base, he is responsible for contacting and developing American and foreign nationals in the Washington area with the capability of producing intelligence and operational information of interest to WOFIRM. His forte continues to be the exploitation of existing assets rather than the recruitment of new agents, particularly among foreign nationals. However, the lack of a good access cover has hampered his recruitment activity against foreign nationals to some extent. He performs his supervisory functions well. He has asked for transfer to WCROMP and the rating officer endorses this request, feeling that Subject's high degree of expertise in the FE area would well qualify him for work of a substantive nature in the WOROMP. Subject is cost conscious and his accounting for official funds is prompt and accurate. No training is contemplated or recommended at this time.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 16 Jan. 1969. Signature of employee: Signed in pseudo on Form 45a.

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Months employee has been under my supervision: 49. Date: 16 Jan. 1969. Official title of supervisor: DCOB, Washington. Signature: Signed in pseudo on Form 45a. Robert E. Boies.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: As Reviewing Official, I am in complete accord with the performance evaluation given this employee as outlined above. Date: 16 January 1969. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Base, Washington. [REDACTED]. Audolph E. Gomez.
