Via Air.

To: Chief of Station, phone number.  
From: Chief of Station, Viot Run.  
General: Operational/PG IIIA.  
Subject: Specific: Information concerning Item A.  
Action required: None.

In answer to request of Gregory O. SAGHEAL, the following is a composite of information from William F. Ellis (TUSTEN), (IDM 1), and Vincent M. Murphy (IDM 2) concerning Item A.

1. Description of subject: between JJ and 40 years old, about 6 feet tall, rather tall, small mustache, very strong and vigorous, fine white teeth, Jewish. Speaks quite good English. Is married and has one? or 10-year-old son? Has a sister in New York who is a naturalized American citizen. WILLIS says subject speaks well, loves fine music, has an impressive library, reads continuously, and paints very well.

2. Early during the war he was transported as a boy to a German concentration camp, with a tattooed prisoner's identification number on his right forefinger, where he spent several horrible years and survived only by luck. Since 1945 he has spent most of his time in Indochina and was apparently in intelligence or related fields most of the time. FORM reports that the first HANOI rep in 1930–31 was cabled in by an offer from subject to meet combined operations and was shortly afterwards declared persona non grata by the French.

3. Subject took part in a civilian operation in the Atlanta Operation and, according to one report, went in with vast sums of money to make propaganda, buy off the opposition, etc. WILDE 1 (Item B) and WILDEE (Item B) considered Item A's accomplishment in Central Viot Run among the few notable achievements in that area, particularly in respect to his contribution to the Vietnamese pacification program, which he coordinated throughout the course of Operation Atlanta.

4. Subject is an old friend of Col. Jamesостановка, former chief of Vilia. He was for a time, June–August 1993, in the National Security Division, during which time he proposed to VILLIERS joint operations—goal resources and experience—similar to the Eman proposal above, but VILLIERS refused and considered the proposal interventionist.

5. In March–April 1994, subject approached Station and UMCID for military support for progress to support sales of a people's militia (people's 民兵) in the Red Zone area. Information and correspondence on this proposal will be sent upon request.

December 18, 1993. Secrets group of rebellious activities still going on for the second time in 1993. Notice to all.

Delivered by hand from the secret office to the rebellious group and to be remembered and forfeited by the defendable persons for the purpose of the disclosure of the events and the consequences of the during actual experience of this proposal for the secret office to be deliberately reformulated for the purpose of being sent into the secret office for the purpose of revealing the secret office, for the purpose of sending into the secret office to be deliberately reformulated for the purpose of being sent into the secret office for the purpose of sending into the secret office to be deliberately reformulated for the purpose of being sent into the secret office for the purpose of sending into the secret office to be deliberately reformulated for the purpose of being sent into the secret office for the purpose of sending into the secret office to be deliberately reformulated for the purpose of being sent into the secret office for the purpose of sending into the secret office to be deliberately reformulated for the purpose of being sent into the secret office.
