Test: Clerical Speed and Accuracy. A test of speed and accuracy of response in a simple perceptual task. Measures ability to perceive, retain momentarily, and correctly respond to simple number and letter combinations. JUN 6 11 01 AM '55.

Spelling: A test of ability to distinguish between correctly and incorrectly spelled words of everyday usage found to be most frequently misspelled.

Sentences: A test of ability to distinguish errors in spelling, punctuation, and grammar in sentences.

Numerical Ability: A test of ability to reason with numbers, to manipulate numerical relationships, and to deal with quantitative materials. No verbal element is present in the format of the problems.

Abstract Reasoning: A non-verbal test of reasoning ability. Measures ability to perceive relationships in changing abstract figure patterns and to generalize changes into operating principles.

Space Relations: A test of ability to visualize and mentally manipulate forms and patterns in three-dimensional space.

Mechanical Reasoning: A test of ability to understand and apply mechanical and physical principles presented pictorially, in familiar settings.

Verbal Reasoning: A verbal test of reasoning ability. Measures ability to abstract, generalize, and think constructively from concepts presented in word analogies.

Learning Ability, Form 5: A test of general mental ability consisting of questions on vocabulary, arithmetical reasoning, and verbal analogies.

Typing: A ten-minute straight copy test of speed and accuracy in typing material of average difficulty. Typing scores are reported as follows: Gross—total words per minute. Net—gross words per minute minus 1 for each error made. Errors—total number.

Shorthand: A test composed of three typical business letters dictated at different speeds as follows: Letter I, 60 words per minute; Letter II, 80 words per minute; Letter III, 100 words per minute. Maximum possible scores are as follows: Form A—Letter I: 49; Letter II: 50; Letter III: 60. Form B—Letter I: 50; Letter II: 51; Letter III: 49. Form C—Letter I: 50; Letter II: 50; Letter III: 50.
