Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

The following is directly keyed to Subject's “Letter of Instructions.”

As ACOS he has demonstrated a thorough understanding of Agency policies and regulations. He works well with those he supervises and has exhibited unusual patience while diligently instructing and correcting employees. During my absences, he has worked well with senior members of the Embassy and has been accepted by Embassy and Station personnel alike as a mature, sensible, and experienced officer.

As Liaison Officer for the Station, he has done an excellent job of improving the effectiveness of the “Special Unit” by offering his expertise, improving their physical working conditions, and convincing them to expand their horizons. The unit appears to be responding well to his leadership and should prove more productive in the future.

His handling of a sensitive unilateral contact in Liaison has resulted in obtaining what information the contact is willing to disclose. Although categorized as a penetration, the operation is more that of a contact who is willing to provide inside information to clarify certain situations and events rather than an aggressive penetration seeking all that lies behind the scenes. This is a principal liaison contact with whom a good working relationship must be maintained, and such a relationship does exist.

He has made very little progress in operations against the narcotics target. Subject inherited very little in sources and has not developed any new prospects. (Continued)

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 4 June 1974. Signature of employee: /s/ Joseph Piccolo.

2. By Supervisor. Monthly employee has been under my supervision: 8. Date: 4 June 1974. Official title of supervisor: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ George Fill.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: This seems to be a fair report which rates Subject about the same way that I would, based on my understanding of his performance. Subject is a mature and competent officer who does a fine job of handling existing operations and administrative tasks but has not been very aggressive in developmental work. The sleepy tropical atmosphere of Managua may not be very inspiring operationally, but new business is needed and Subject is believed to be capable of turning in a stronger performance in that area. He has the potential for further career advancement.

Date: 3 July 1974. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, WII Division. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ John A. Warren.
