May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and reason for employment? No.

1. Dates of employment: From unemployed; to present. Job title and supervisor: number and last name of employer you supervise. Full.

Salary or earnings: starting salary per month; present salary per month. Combination grade or Federal service. Name and address of employer. Place of employment: city and state. Last known position of organization or department. Name, title, and present address of immediate supervisor.

Reason for wanting to leave: Not applicable. Description of work: Not applicable.

2. Date of employment: From 23 Mar. ’53 to 30 Jun. ’53. Sort. 462. Exact title of previous employment: Intelligence CIC (see note). Place of employment: Washington, D.C. Number and last name of employer supervised: U.S.G.S.A.

Salary or earnings: starting $5,060.00 per annum; final $11,415.00 per annum. Combination grade or Federal service: Sort. 462, Step 4. Name and address of employer: Central Intelligence Agency, 2430 E Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. Place of employment: Washington, D.C. Name, title, and present address of immediate supervisor: Chief, Personnel Operations Division. Attention: Frank G. Johnson.

Reason for leaving: Reduction in force. Small section assimilated by 3 larger branches, and my slot and grade eliminated. Description of work: See attached job description as added by OIA. Also attachment.

Date of employment: 30 Nov. ’60. Last title of previous employment: Special Agent CIC. Number and last name of employer supervised: O-5 Sequestration.

Salary or earnings: starting $900.00 per annum; final $300.00 per annum. Combination grade or Federal service: Sort. 302 (B-7). Name and address of employer: Investigative Control Section, AC of S - G-2, Ft. Belahind, Maryland. Place of employment: Ft. Belahind, Md., Sort. A-5, Investigative Control Section. Name, title, and present address of immediate supervisor: William F. Deviney, Maj., 2d., address unknown (last supervisor).

Reason for leaving: Better
