Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain the rating given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This is an end-of-tour report covering the fourteen months in which this officer has been under my supervision. Managua Station has just submitted its first Statement of Accomplishment Goals under the newly established MBO reporting system and schedule. Consequently, this report combines subject's duties as specified in two previous LOI's, which run from 1 June 1974 to 30 May 1975 and from 1 June 1975 through 31 July 1975. The duties listed are therefore broader than those to be reflected in the latest LOI now being formulated as a logical adjunct to the new MBO format and content.

On specific duties No. 5 and 6, there is so little content or substance associated with these duties as to make a letter rating meaningless. The narcotics target in Nicaragua is practically nonexistent, and there is no current need for technical operations to support approved operational activities. The duties are listed only because they were included in the LOI.

Duty No. 1.

Responsible for the operational program against the communist and extremist target, this officer handles three agents and a contract agent in a highly proficient manner. (See attached sheet.)

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date. Signature of employee.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 14.

If this report had not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 7 August 1975. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of Reviewing Official.

The assessment given above of Mr. Piccolo's performance seems to be well-balanced and generally fair. His performance as described fits with my knowledge of it. It should be noted that it is very difficult to establish much of an operational record in Managua because of the lack of intelligence targets and the low level of community interest in developments in Nicaragua. It is to his credit that Mr. Piccolo was able to recruit in the only target available—the terrorist FSLN.

Mr. Piccolo is poised and quiet in demeanor. He is a reliable, dependable officer of good judgment.

I agree with the rating that Mr. Piccolo should be given the opportunity to do something different. A rotational tour to another DMO component would probably be very helpful to his overall development and motivation at this time. I concur in the overall assessment of his performance as “Strong.”

9 December 1975. Dignity Chief, 14 December. Ravdess A. Satchell.
