Report No. OD-A(5)-392/13864-73. Date: 26 May 1973. Country: Cuba/Haiti. Subject: Possible Palau Recruitment Effort. Operational Information Report.

This report has been prepared by the Domestic Contact Service, DDI. The operational information contained herein may not be disclosed to persons outside of the Clandestine Service, CIA, without the prior permission of the Domestic Contact Service.

1. At 17:00 hours on 16 May 1973 the Miami Field Office received a telephone call on the listed line from an individual who ultimately identified himself as Rolando Maferrer (Masferrer). It is believed that Maferrer is identical with former Cuban senator and Democratuses Rolando Maferrer (Masferrer). He was charged with several malicious actions in Haiti, Guatemala and Paraguay elsewhere. Rolando Maferrer (Masferrer) was convicted of conspiracy to invade Haiti in 1967. It is believed that there are extensive Agency files on Rolando Maferrer (Masferrer).

2. Maferrer was very reluctant to provide details, but finally said he could be reached at local telephone 251-3639. A separate check revealed this number to be registered to Daniel Marrudea, 6030 N. Flagler, Apartment 517.

3. In any event the listed line caller indicated that he had been approached by one Guillermo Iglesias and asked to engage in certain activities which he did not further describe. According to Maferrer, Iglesias carried credentials or other identifying material which seemed to link him with the U.S. Coast Guard in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Maferrer said, however, that Iglesias indicated also that he was in some way representing the Central Intelligence Agency. Maferrer then said that the purpose of the telephone call was to check on the bona fides of Guillermo Iglesias.

4. Maferrer was told that one Guillermo Iglesias meant nothing to the Miami Field Office and was otherwise given a rather neutral response.

Certified by: [Signature]. [Signature] (R.J.). Approved by: E. O. Maferrer. A.J. Duvall, Executive Assistant. Dated: 5-25-73.
