Continuation of dispatch. OSHW-11726.

b. Nevertheless, he has received some rather telling criticism of a professional nature, even though it is unknown whether this criticism also touches on his personal life. Perhaps because of this, AMAUTO-1 seems to be very careful in whatever he does, avoiding mistakes that would endanger his position, and avoiding any real or fancied provocation.

c. There seems to be little question that AMAUTO-1 is approachable, although he would probably resist any indirect approach in which “cards are not laid on the table.” It appears very likely that his character is basically incompatible with the system he serves (with profound misgivings as to its efficiency).

d. The very fact that he has made open remarks suggesting his unhappiness with PBRUMEN and his non-Marxist leanings in an office he himself points out is “bugged by the other side” could be interpreted as a signal from him, indicating that he is ready to listen. His remarks on the subject might be those of a man who believes he can “jump off” at any time, if necessary. Note that he tends to live with criticism from his home office rather than try to get out from under — perhaps meaning that he would not accept a PCS assignment home. (The attachment hereto shows him describing a compatriot who wishes to return home as “a fool.”) He has said himself that he believes AMTHUG-1 plans a major purge for mid-1970, and he might consider himself as a victim of that purge.

e. A fact which might affect timing is the arrival of a child in May. If he were to persuade his wife (and his government) to have the child in Spain, rather than return home for it, he would have a good excuse for requesting the presence of his oldest child (the only one who is now at home). If his wife returns home for delivery, he would (for a time at least) have three hostages in PBRUMEN instead of one.

f. UPGA-19006 reported a 1964 attempt to get at AMAUTO-1 through his wife’s relatives. The consensus at the time was that AMAUTO-1 is probably immune to this type of approach. Headquarters, therefore, still opts for a logically developed, “traditional” recruitment build-up.

3. In line with the above, Headquarters suggests to Madrid certain lines of action which might be followed in an attempt to know more about AMAUTO-1. These actions might seem somewhat easier from our perspective than they actually are in the field, but we propose them for your consideration.

a. The man handling the new construction work (paragraph 16 of the attachment) should be checked out.

b. The established pattern of lonely automobile trips outside the capital (see paragraph 22 of the attachment) might be instructive to follow down. At least, the situation might offer a chance for approach or for subsequent handling.

c. AMAUTO-1’s desire to see more people at home, and the indication that he discusses important matters at home becomes doubly interesting with the possibility of a vacant house next door (see paragraph 18 of the attachment). The person who owns the apartment building might offer a fruitful lead.

d. The apparent hostility of the current maid (see paragraphs 24 and 27 of the attachment) might offer further exploitation.
