Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance. Office of Personal Development.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to improve work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is one of the most practical, hard-headed, non-ad-and competent operations and operations staff officers this supervisor has in our organization. He fights tenaciously and resourcefully in support of his staff advice to the time his chief makes a decision; from that TIME ROOMS just as tenaciously and resourcefully to support the decision as he did previously for his position, whether or not the decision follows his advice. He gives 100% loyalty to his country, his organization, and his chief. His approach to plans and ops of the clandestine program has always been practical, and with the long-range requirements solidly in view. He is forceful and firm in dealing with skilled opposite numbers, at the same time earning and retaining their respect. He is skillful and persistent in eliciting intelligence information. His development of contacts in the country assigned has been surprisingly good, even though outside his assigned responsibilities; in other words, he has constantly exercised initiative to place himself in a position to collect intelligence information should the requirement be placed on him. Altogether an outstandingly fine operations and staff officer whom I shall always welcome on my staff. His training, experience, and demonstrated ability in the field all well demonstrate his qualification to fill assignments in the next higher grade.

Section F. Certification and Comments by Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 22 August 1960. Signature of employee: S/Calvin W. Hicks.

2. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days.

Other (Specify):

Date: 20 August 1960. Typed or printed name and signature: S/William T. XX Hornaday.

3. By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. X

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official: It is probably because of the isolated location of the base and the “togetherness” of its personnel but this rating, officer as well as his predecessors have all rated on the high side. While my contacts with subject officer have been infrequent and any evaluation would largely be based on paperwork subject has originated, my assessment is that subject is an average officer for his age, grade, and experience in his rather specialized field. In comparison with other officers I have known in this

(continued
