(Foundations of Nosenko's Claims)

Shown to Premier Khrushchev personally. Although still active, the agent had lost access to classified documents some months earlier, in 1963. Nosenko characterized the lead as the most important single counterintelligence item that he acquired during the year and a half he was a CIA collaborator at KGB Headquarters in Moscow.

Nosenko's Information

Shortly after returning to Moscow from Geneva in 1962, Nosenko first learned of a KGB agent's successful penetration of a classified documents vault at an “important American military installation” in the Paris area. Because the documents included information on strategic targets in France as well as in the Soviet Union, he assumed that it was a “strategic planning installation.” The installation had its own airfield and there were “procedures for bringing Top Secret documents in and for taking them out.”

There had been six successful entries of the vault, four in 1962 and two in 1963. On each occasion, Special Section technicians travelled TDY to Paris under diplomatic courier cover to assist the local KGB case officer in the technical details of the operation. Their function was to advise the case officer concerning the entry to the vault and later surreptitiously to unwrap and re-seal the documents. The case officer, on this basis, would give appropriate instructions to his agent, and the technicians probably never met the American.

Although this was a First Chief Directorate operation, officers of the Special Section of the Second Chief Directorate were used. The Special Section was comprised of technicians transferred from the KGB Operational-Technical Directorate, and usually it handled surreptitious entries to Western embassies in Moscow. Among these officers were S.A. Ionov, L.A. Lebedev, S.D. Ilyin, V.V. Sinitsyn, V.Z. Karetnikov, M.I. Preobrazhenskiy and Fedor Fofanov. Ionov, Lebedev and Ilyin took part in this operation, and Fofanov was later involved.

The specialists were not the ones that carried out the operation. It was carried out by the case officers of the Paris Legal Residency. The specialists just opened and then

GOG1286
