Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. Wigren has excellent substantive background on the Soviet Union and, except for a two year period on a WE operations desk, has devoted his entire 9 years in the Agency to research on Soviet Intelligence in one way or another. His performance for the past year in a job formerly held by GS-14's and 15's can only be described as superior. He has not only assumed responsibilities greater than those of the previous incumbents; he has carried these out with a minimum of support and in a calm, mature manner which has earned respect on all sides. Although his analysts have often been relatively inexperienced, he has geared their assignments to their capabilities and subjects designed to increase their competence. His most important contribution during this period has been in the formation of an organized plan of research in response to Agency and external requirements, and the establishment of improved records and procedures to carry out this program.

Although Mr. Wigren would prefer eventual assignment to the field as an operational officer, it seems to me his greatest potential lies in the kind of research and support of operations he is presently performing. I would therefore recommend that future training be oriented along these lines rather than strictly operational lines, and that planning for his eventual field assignment should emphasize his knowledge of Soviet Intelligence and his ability to deal with other specialists in a "liaison" relation.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 22 March 60. Signature of Employee: Lee H. Wigren.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days.

Other (Specify):

Date: 21 March 1960. Official Title of Supervisor: SR/COP/CE. Typed or Printed Name and Signature: Edward W. Knowles.

By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

Date: 26 March 60. Official Title of Reviewing Official: SR/COP. Typed or Printed Name and Signature: Quentin Johnson.
