21 May 1951

To: Personnel Director, CIA

VI: A.E. and F.D.

From: P.M.

Subject: Ternent E. Bagley

1. It is requested that permissions be procured from the Marine Corps and the Selective Service for subject to leave the country on a two-year assignment with this Agency in Austria.

2. Below is the information on subject and reserve unit:

A) Selective Service:

Board: Locust Bar, 1720 4th Avenue, N.W., Washington 25003 C.

Classification: I-A.

Selective Service Number: 6-19-7508.

Home Address: 27 4th Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C.

B) Marine Reserve:

Rank and Class: First Lieutenant — 217506.

Marine Reserve: 11th Marine Corps Reserve District.

3. Subject has been transferred to this Agency since 21 July 1950 and is unusually well qualified for classified intelligence work in Austria. If the above permissions are granted, subject will be sent immediately to his assignment.

Approved:

For the Assistant Director, Special Operations.

24 September 1951.

H.J.T. Cunningham  
Acting Chief, TRC.

6 June 1951.

Jonathan Marine Reserve Station.

United States Marine Corps Reserves District, 11th Marine Corps Reserve District.

The Marine Corps Reserves District will not process this document for later reference until it is delegated to an office that is capable of doing the work effectively and quickly, and until the relevant information is available and current. The time needed to perform the task may vary greatly from the time needed if this document was delegated at the beginning of the day, because the preparation may be done in advance, but if this is not the case, the time needed will be increased proportionally with the number of those needed to do the work. If it is determined that the work must be completed yesterday, it is necessary that the person who is delegated this duty and the one who does the work must be able to do it quickly and accurately.

This specific example indicates the general point which must be remembered when any specification is made as to the periods of service which may be permitted to any person. The time needed to perform the act may be as little as 30 minutes, depending upon the specific condition of the person as to his health, the efficiency of his heart, and the capacity of the working parts used in the act. The time needed to perform the act may be increased proportionally to the number needed to do the act, so that 10 may be greater than 3, 20 may be greater than 10, etc. The time needed to perform the act may be increased proportionally to the number of persons needed to do the act, so that 10 may be greater than 5, 20 may be greater than 10, etc. In each case, the time needed will be increased proportionally to the number needed to do the act, so that 10 may be greater than 15, 20 may be greater than 20, etc.

For the Assistant Director, Special Operations.

The time needed to perform the act may be increased proportionally to the number of persons needed to do the act, so that 10 may be greater than 5, 20 may be greater than 10, etc. In each case, the time needed will be increased proportionally to the number of persons needed to do the act, so that 10 may be greater than 5, 20 may be greater than 10, etc. In each case, the time needed will be increased proportionally to the number of persons needed to do the act, so that 10.
