Memo for the Record

28 August 1962

CO and Al. Pa. Jeff met with Geo. L. to discuss the Wirogue situation and to inform him what was being done or planned for Wirogue's resettlement.

Al reviewed the situation as it now stood and explained that Edqrris proposed that Subject be issued a backstopped premiumpass, which was completely unsatisfactory since it would not stand up under anything but the best casual investigation. It was explained that Camp King had been informed of only the necessary details of Wirogue's problem and had agreed that the approach should be a cover story making Rogue a recent defector, followed by an interview and political recognition. Geo. L. agreed that this seemed to be the proper step and gave us the go-ahead.

CO suggested that we have AFRF make official inquiries at the various South American embassies and consulates for detailed material giving immigration requirements. This is deemed necessary because the information is not normally given out over the phone and Rogue can be trusted to give CO only that information which will serve his purpose. He is not above telling us that an immigrant must have $5,000.00 to be considered, etc. It is very important that Rogue have the right answers when he applies and is interviewed for immigration. Geo. L. agreed to CO's suggestions and proposed that CO have AFRF get started on this project soonest.

Wirogue was taken to Camp King, where he was briefed on his story and then successfully interviewed. It is possible that Rogue will be completely documented within two or three weeks.

30 August

CO met with Gus E. and Jack R. and told them we were in need of detailed immigration requirements.

They agreed to get out an official inquiry to all the consulates and embassies and attempt to find out the following:

What documents are needed.

What professions are in demand.

How long is required for immigration processing.

Does the immigrant need a certain amount of funds?

Is a sponsor necessary or helpful?

What is the residence requirement for citizenship?

What are the quota restrictions?

Are there South American government agencies or private agencies who will help the immigrant get started, etc.?

Note: Rogue has already told CO that he cannot go to Argentina because he has “friends” there who would kindly turn him in to the authorities or make trouble for him in any way they could. Rogue prefers Venezuela if he has a choice.
