Dispatch. To: Deputy Chief, WH/SA. From: Chief of Station, JMWAVE JKK. Subject: TYPIC/Operational AMSCROLL Progress Report, December 1964. Action required: FYI. Reference: UFGA 19181, dated 21 December 1964.

A. Operational

1. During December there was considerable pressure on AMSCROLL to join political groupings being formed by ex-Presidents Urrutia and Prio. Fortunately, AMSCROLL was able to stay out of both without incurring the wrath of either.

B. Production

2. Although a number of new propaganda ideas were submitted by AMSCROLL for approval, the only new item for Cuban consumption actually printed during the month was the pony bulletin. This and other items already on hand, including 5,000 Christmas cards, totalled 47,000 pieces which were sent in 20,000 covers to Cuba. Another 10,000 items were distributed to Latin America and Spain, and 13,700 to addressees in the U.S. Most of the two latter categories were based on requests from religious, social, and civic organizations. Samples of the items and a breakdown of the actual numbers of each distributed are in the attached AMSCROLL Propaganda Section report.

3. AMSCROLL broadcasts continued as scheduled. Chief among the themes, which also pervaded the two issues of the AMSCROLL house organ published during the month and the above-mentioned pony bulletin for Cuba, were as follows:

a. The Congo in lurid detail with outrage at the Communist hand behind the atrocities, and with scorn for the so-called neutralists for their attitude for the rescue mission. AMSCROLL editorialized that except for the canibalism, Congo tactics including ravage and wanton murder are what brought Stalin, Tito, Mao, and Fidel to power.

Attachment: Report & Propaganda Samples, USC.

Distribution: 3-DC, WH/SA, w/att., USC.

Cross reference to: List of samples for Division B, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z.

Date typed: 20 Jan 65. Date dispatched: Feb 1, 1965. Dispatch symbol and number: UFGA 19537. Headquarters file number: 19-120-26/3.
