UFGW-6351

Presumably, the proceeds of this death benefit payment have been exhausted by the mother's medical expenses. Headquarters does not feel that the death benefit payment should necessarily preclude further financial assistance to dependents of a former valuable agent if it can be proven they will be destitute after the termination of the monthly MRR payments. The investigator should determine the present financial condition of these people, including the income of the father and any cash assets, their present scale of living, the physical condition of both individuals, and the minimum amount required for living expenses and permanent medical care Artime claims the mother requires. This investigation is extremely urgent in order that a recommendation for payment of funds, over and above the death benefit, may be submitted for special approval.

B. Silvia Heredia, widow of Jorge Fundora, who participated in infiltration operations both before and after the Bay (Day) of Pigs and was executed 12 October 1961. Subject is presently receiving $175 per month under the AMBUD program as a heroes/martyrs widow (see case no. 103). According to Artime, subject is under psychiatric treatment, which is also reflected in reference case study, and has been receiving $125 per month from the MRR to help support herself and her two small children. Reassessment of the case is requested to determine the degree of hardship that will be imposed following the termination of the MRR allowance and an estimate made of the monthly allowance necessary to maintain an adequate existence and meet medical costs. Subject's original new questionnaire should be reviewed for any evidence she declared any outside income from the MRR or any other source.

C. Rosa Rabasa, wife of Francisco Echeverria Texier, who according to Artime was engaged in transporting “COMPANIA” arms until his capture and subsequent 6-30 year prison sentence. The widow, who is deaf, has been receiving $75 per month and payment of her medical bills by the MRR to help support herself and her two children. She augments her small income by sewing in her home. Subject's husband is the individual on whom Margany requested telephone traces from Inghurst 16 January.

3. It is suggested that the same investigative facilities employed in the reference AMBUD investigations be utilized in these cases. For plausible cover purposes, the investigator should state that they understand from Dr. Artime that his organization has been giving them monthly financial assistance, that it is now proposed that the firm of McKircher and Avant may be retained to make future payments, and certain information is needed for their records. In addition to obtaining the other information required, the investigator should ask the amount of the present monthly payment in order to be able to verify the veracity of the amounts Artime claims they have been receiving. In the case of Silvia Heredia, who knows she is receiving money from McKircher and Avant, suggest the investigator tell her they have been advised of her additional MRR income and have to bring her prior question.
