Fitness Report.

Section A — General.

2. Date of birth: 08-26-25. 3. Sex: M. 4. Grade: G-15. 5. To: D. Official position title: Paramil. Officer (Ch). Type of appointment: Career. Office/Division of assignment: DRP/G.A.S. Type of report: Initial. Reporting period: 01 April 1963 – 31 March 1964.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1 — Supervises the Paramilitary Branch which employs 35 people and is charged with the responsibility of mounting UDT, commando raider, caching, resistance, and ratline operations at a Station which has 306 employees.

Specific Duty No. 2 — Spots, assesses, and recruits selected PM agents.

Specific Duty No. 3 — Targets resistance and ratline operations against geographic areas which are of priority interest due to their intelligence and resistance potential.

Specific Duty No. 4 — Senior Case Officer for a long-range, sensitive Central American operation which has PM, PW and FI ramifications.
