Section C: Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds, if applicable. If extra staff is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Phillips brings to this assignment, his first as Chief of Station, a wealth of CA experience gained through many years of operating in the Western Hemisphere and other areas. As a propagandist and general CA operator, he must rank high among all Agency personnel. Consequently, it was indeed fortunate that his assignment to the Dominican Republic came at a time when a person of his talent was badly needed. Arriving shortly after the American intervention, he has had the difficult task of ferreting out information in great detail about an entirely new government, diplomatically handling the delicate coordinations with other U.S. Government agencies in a crisis and highly emotional situation, while administering a rapidly expanding station composed in large degree of young men long on initiative and intelligence but somewhat lacking in depth of experience. At present he is engaged in a fairly large and vastly important election operation which is of concern to the highest authorities of our government.

Continued—see attached sheet.

Section D: Certification and Comments. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

By employee. Date. Signature of employee. Months employee has been under my supervision: 9 months. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Employee will see report upon his return to Headquarters. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief, WHD. Typed or printed name and signature: Jacob D. Esterline. 3 May 1966.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I heartily endorse the rater's comments. The Santo Domingo Station, under the excellent leadership of Mr. Phillips, recently completed a most successful and significantly important political action operation. It was a well-done Station operation, but great credit has to go to Mr. Phillips personally. Date: 14 June 1966. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WHD. Typed or printed name and signature: William V. Broe.
