Section Unit: A1; File: ASHT63; VR: ASINT2. Section Unit: P; File: CLOSIC.

T 966228 EIA243

TOR12405342 APR 75

R 2424522 APR 75

From: Director, FBI

To: RUEADWN/White House Situation

Attention: Mr. Jerry D. Jennings

RUEBWJA/Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, Internal Security Section, and General Crimes Section

RUEAIIA/Director, CIA

RUEHSE/U.S. Secret Service (PID)

RUEHOC/Secretary of State

BT

Subject: Threat to assassinate Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and the President of Venezuela.

On April 23, 1975, Frank Anthony Sturgis, soldier of fortune and convicted Watergate defendant, was contacted at the Lilly Furniture Store, 1225 N.W. 119 Street, Miami, Florida. He advised that on April 22, 1975, a source of his, whom he declined to identify but who had formerly worked for the Central Intelligence Agency, had furnished the following information to Sturgis on a confidential basis.

A group calling itself the Latin-American Anti-Communist League, based in Miami, Florida, had been active in recent weeks. The head man of this group was an ex-Cuban lawyer named Dr. De Cardenas. There was a Reverend Espinosa “involved with the group.” He was suspected by the source as being a Castro agent and was supposed to be a former New York policeman who had worked for G-2 in Cuba in former years.

This group had reportedly recruited two native-born Americans from the New York area and sent them from Miami to Cuba several weeks ago in a boat on a clandestine operation. They have since returned to Miami, but the reason for the trip was unknown. It was also reported that Dr. De Cardenas had been attempting to obtain U.S. passports for four naturalized Cuban Americans. Identities unknown. He was also to try to get Venezuelan visas for these individuals.

During evening meetings in recent weeks, the group discussed many things. When it was reported that Henry Kissinger was traveling to Venezuela, the group had discussed various plans for creating some kind of an international incident during

100-4-14
