Continuation Sheet for Standard Form 57, “Application for Federal Employment.”

Instructions: Please fill this form only when necessary for completion of item 16, “Experience,” on Standard Form 57. Enclose with your application. Typesetter: Write clearly in dark ink.

Name: Robert Tyler Shaw. Date of birth: June 18, 1925. Kind of position requested: Foreign Service.

Date of employment: May 1952 to July 1954. Position: Vice Consul. Classification grade: FSS-9. Place of employment: Guayaquil, Ecuador — U.S. Government. Position with Department of Defense. General duties of a Foreign Service Staff Officer in the economic and commercial section of the Consulate General in Guayaquil. Also performed political reporting functions and assisted in visa and citizenship matters.

Place of employment: Washington and Caracas, Venezuela — Government. Employee: Department of State. Immediate supervisors: Ambassadors Donnally, Sparks, Armour. Description of duty: General duties of a Foreign Service Staff officer in the Political Section, Embassy Caracas. Preparation of reports for the Department and memoranda for the Ambassador, consultation with officials of the local government and American companies, especially petroleum-industry companies operating in Venezuela. Assistance in the Consular Section with visa affairs.

Date of employment: November 1947 to October 1949. Position: Editor. Position with: $2400 annual. Employee: Preamerica.

Date of employment: March 1948 to March 1949. Position: Assistant to the Consul. Reason for leaving: Desire for Foreign Service. Position with: $3600. Description of duty: Supervision of preparation, compilation through final printing and finding, of sales manuals for the entire company sales force. Preparation of aptitude tests and general qualifications questionnaires used by the company in recruiting salesmen and administrative employees. Preparation of material for the company house magazine. Maintenance of close liaison with other personnel departments. Work with the company print shop and private printing establishments.
