Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions. For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report. For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to present this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that every employee, at all times, be evaluated on his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in Item 8 of Section 5 below.

Section A. General.

Name: Kimsey (Last), Herman (First), E. (Middle). Date of birth: 11 Dec 1916. See: M. Service designation: DT.

Office division: DDP/TSS/AUTH/Graphic Arts Reproduction. Branch of assignment: IO Tech Aids.

1. Grade: GS-12. 2. Date report out to / or division 1, period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 22 December 1955 to 23 December 1956. 3. See. 10. Type of report (check one). 2. Speci. Check one.

Section B. Certification.

1. For the rater: This report. Notion: Has. A. Check (X) appropriate statements:

This report reflects my own opinions of this individual.

If individual is rated “not in line of chance,” I ask if there is any correlation to this report.

Cannot certify that the rated individuals meet job requirements as specified.

I may discuss with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he understands where he stands.

O. This date: 3-6-57. C. Type or printed name and signature of supervised: Joseph F. Marzen, Chief, TSS/GARD. O. Supervisor’s official title.

2. For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.
