Dispatch. To: Chief of Station, Paris/LCPIFTT. From: Chief, KUBOLF. Subject: Assessment of QREBONY.

Action required—references: See below.

It would prove very useful to us—both as a contribution to the preparation of the Project Outline now in progress and as a backgrounder for possible discussions of QREBONY's operational utilization—if RODIGAST could provide us with an interpretive assessment of him based on the impressions and judgements he has been able to develop over the past months. We have some such initial assessments, of course, and can infer more from current reporting. However, we would like to get the benefit of RODIGAST's unique and direct contact, now that QREBONY has passed through a breaking-in phase and settled down in a regular relationship which, at its inception, is certainly a difficult one for most people to adjust to. We would suggest the following outline of topics for RODIGAST to follow:

A. Estimate of loyalty to ODYOKE and QREBONY's psychological adjustment—his comfortableness—in working for ODYOKE clandestinely: his attitude, as RODIGAST can infer it, toward targets hostile to ODYOKE: in short, his ideological motivation.

B. Estimate of his motivation generally: his personal reasons for association with KUBARK.

C. Psychological suitability and staying power in leading a “double life.” Possible or actual strains on him by virtue of his wife's attitude. Qualms about the “morality” of his position or fears about being found out.

D. His own views of his patriotism or loyalty. His attitude toward RODIGAST, KUBARK, ODYOKE and ODEMY.

E. His susceptibility to approach or control by an opposition service.

F. Methods of control to which he is most, and least, responsive. What represents the effective lever of his control—internal ideological.

Distribution: 2 - COS, Paris/LCPIPT.

Cross reference to: CS 0047. Dispatch symbol and number: OFLW-1494. Date: 17 MAR 1966. HQS file number: 201-306052. Classification on declassification.

Distribution: 1 - RI (201-306052; 2 - CA/CF.

Approved for issuance by the officer: FI. Abstract: X. Originating office: CA/CF. Officer: James M. Murphy. Typist: ajl. Ext.: 7767.
