Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicates significant strengths or weaknesses associated with current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject has continued to demonstrate a very high level of interest and competence in his work. Beyond the relatively technical aspect of producing transcriptions, which he accomplishes with timeliness, accuracy and thoroughness, he strives to provide the Station and Headquarters with an insight in depth on the local Soviet complement. He does this capably, particularly when one understands the limitations of his technical access. His wife, a contract employee, assists him in the preparation of the technical product. However, her overall contribution goes beyond this, since Subject and his wife work together in an effort to distill the meaning of their product in terms of personality assessment. They are uniquely well adjusted to their deep cover circumstances, are of little burden administratively to the Station, and are presently interested in continuing their assignment in Mexico City indefinitely.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 4 February 1966. Signature of Employee: 1st January / 2/.

2. Months employee has been under my supervision: 2-6. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 22 Dec 1965. Official title of supervisor: Operations Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: Herbert Manell /s/.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Chief of Station, Mexico City concurs in this Fitness Report as submitted by his supervisor for the period reported. Date: 12 April 1966. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: Winston M. Scott /s/.
