c. They were both interested in the linguistic abilities of individuals assigned to the American Embassy and stated that the Americans were often sent abroad with virtually no knowledge of the language whereas the Soviets were always well trained. (Subject's wife managed to get this point across in her halting Spanish and with assistance from her husband whom she kept asking for the Spanish equivalent of Russian words.) Subject did state that the Soviet language training system was not the greatest and seemed to give a point to the U.S. system when MARGANDE said that she had learned her Spanish from tapes and instruction.

d. Subject and his wife agreed that Buenos Aires is a large, dirty, indifferent city. They talked with nostalgia about their Moscow apartment which was only a ten-minute drive from lovely forests and streams where “a person could really relax.” They mentioned that they had a quinta to which they retired on weekends but that the quinta was noisy and full of mosquitos. (MARGANDE and Subject's wife agreed that Raid (Haid) and Off were the most important purchases in Buenos Aires in the summertime.)

3. Conversation and listening to music continued until about 0200 hours (with Subject's wife cooing and ahing over American songs and arrangements). The evening was friendly and relaxed and there was no attempt to get into deeper political or ideological discussions since the primary purpose was to establish rapport and pave the way for future meetings.

4. Given below are MARGANDE'S and LEVERONE'S impressions of Subject and wife:

Subject: Although Subject at times gives the impression of being a rather simple fellow, this effect is created more by his apparent non-aggressive attitude than by actual evaluation of his intelligence. He appears to be au courant of the general situation in Argentina and his assessment of world situations and incidents seems to be quite logical and unbiased. It might even be suggested that Subject is not overly influenced by Soviet official stands concerning certain specific topics. Unlike 201-183943, he does not go about spouting a very obvious party line. Subject presents a pleasant appearance, dresses well (he had on a clean shirt!), and is generally an attractive
