SF-68-72

Attention: Director, Domestic Contact Service; International Division (CC/Durbin); Operational Support Staff (Grant); Chief, San Francisco Office.

26 January 1972

Case 57,563 — Robert S. Coe, Report of Initial Contact — Professor Aaron C. Waters, Department of Earth Sciences, University of California at Santa Cruz.

News — Headquarters news on Case 57,563, 20 December 1971.

SP-994-71 (Sensitive), Robert S. Coe, 20 December 1971, on Case 54,406.

1. On 20 January 1972 we met with Professor Aaron C. Waters, Department of Earth Sciences, University of California at Santa Cruz, and a cordial but not very productive discussion ensued concerning the U.S. Government official who showed up on campus during the early part of the summer of 1971. Professor Waters could recount few lucid details of what transpired on that particular day. In general, Waters appeared confused and even slightly perplexed over the whole matter; at one point he remarked that he was very pleasantly surprised to discover that Hudson was not the same individual who badgered him a few months ago. How Waters formed the belief that the same man was going to see him at the time of our appointment is unclear, for we explicitly outlined our reason for seeing him when we scheduled the interview. At any rate, the following information, incomplete as it may be, was provided by Waters.

2. The incident occurred in late June or early July 1971, just prior to Coe's visit to mainland China. A man came to the door of Waters' office and said that he wished to ask some questions about Robert Coe. He was about five feet eight inches in height, weighed about 150 pounds, had dark hair, and used glasses only for writing. He wore a sport coat and a colored shirt. Neither the name of this individual nor his affiliation can be recalled by Waters, for “he rambled a great deal.” Nor can any of the information on the credentials be remembered except that they were similar in design to the ones used by the Agency (we allowed Waters to scrutinize ours) but were not in color. At any rate, the man asked why Coe was going to China, and then began to ask about Coe's parents. He then inquired about Coe's character and whether he belonged to any subversive organizations. This persistent and offensive line of questioning really turned Waters off, and the man was asked to leave. Waters doubts if the individual were any kind of an impersonator because he has had “similar experiences.”
