F. C. Redlich, M.D.

Made arrangements that will assure tickets for all via Mexico, Praga (Prague) or Madrid.

Three of the scientists that have already accepted to come to the Symposium visited the Institute this year. One of them was Dr. Vladimir D. Nebylitsyn, Vice-Director of the Institute of Psychology from Moscow, who stayed two months with us. He helped us to create a typology laboratory in our Psychology Department. At the same time, he offered a course on typology variables according to Teplov and himself.

He works principally studying personality. His conception is primarily based in the human brain properties that were discovered by Pavlov and later on were developed by Teplov and his collaborators.

Dr. Nebylitsyn (De Nebylitsyn), as well as other investigators, have developed some scientific methods on the investigation of such properties of the nervous system and their studies nowadays can very well be correlated with certain personality dimensions. It has been thus proven by some investigators abroad and today, in Cuba, we need to begin developing such scientific methods.

We also had Dr. E. Roy John, from the New York Medical College, who spent a month here. Following is a brief resume of his activities at the Institute.

In the mornings, Dr. John gave a lecture on physiology of learning, having memory as a basic theme, explained every possible way, psychological, physiological, biochemical and anatomically. The lecture was discussed by those attending, and experimental solutions were proposed for various problems not yet resolved. The textbook used in this course was written by Dr. John himself and will be out of print by now.

In the afternoons, four different experiments were carried out. The first one on evoked potentials in humans, correlations of same facing luminous stimulations of different colors. Influence of expectancy situations. The second experiment was on learning, observing cats with alimentary reflex. The third one was in influence of specific and unspecific structures of the Central Nervous System on learning. Stimulations of different specific structures and of reticular watching the importance of the facilitation of this mechanism. The fourth experiment was a study with microelectrodes of neuronal activity changes during the learning stage in chronic animals.

Both Dr. Nebylitsyn and Dr. John dictated very interesting
