(Other aspects of Nosenko's KGB career)

The question of Nosenko's awards, orders and decorations was of some interest to the interrogators since they might reflect the importance the KGB attached to particular operational activities in which Nosenko engaged. However, before the April 1964 interrogations were suspended, Nosenko retracted his claim that he received the Order of Lenin, saying that it was just an idle boast. Gribanov, Nosenko explained, had promised in 1963 that Nosenko, Chelnokov, and Kovalenko would receive the Order of Lenin “for creating the Central Operational Communications System of the Second Chief Directorate” within the Seventh Department, but the award had not materialized before Nosenko left for Geneva in January 1964.

Comment: Earlier Nosenko claimed he received the Order for ideas he developed “to enlarge the experience and improve the quality of Second Chief Directorate personnel.” Questioned, Nosenko reverted to the earlier claim.

In the April 1964 interrogations Nosenko was asked to list the dates, reasons, and types of awards, decorations, and bonuses he had received in his KGB career. He replied that he received nothing from 1953 until 1956, when he received a commendation and one month's pay for the recruitment of BURGI (see p. 115) by order of the KGB Chairman Serov. Gribanov informed him of the commendation, Nosenko said, and Nosenko saw his name on the list of recipients which was circulated. No written certificate accompanied the commendation, according to Nosenko, but personnel recorded the event in each KGB recipient's personnel file. Almost every year after 1956, Nosenko stated, he received something, “perhaps on the KGB anniversary, or May Day, or Army Day.” In 1957 or 1958, Nosenko did not recall exactly, he received “something” from Gribanov, “maybe on the anniversary of the Soviet Army”: Gribanov's deputy, Perfilyev, made the presentation at an assembly of officers in the KGB Headquarters auditorium. Nosenko said he received in 1959 a second commendation and one month's pay from KGB Chairman Shelepin.
