Training Report. Intelligence Techniques Course. Course No. 21. No. Students: 37. Date of course: 13–31 January 1964.

Identifying Information. Name of student: PICCOLO, Joseph S. Year of birth: 1935. EOD date: February 1957. Office: JOTP. CS: 08 SJ.

Key to Ratings:

P – Weak. Ranges from inadequate to less than satisfactory.

A – Adequate. Has achieved the basic level required. Satisfactory, characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P – Proficient. More than satisfactory. Has acquired a solid beginner's proficiency.

B – Strong. Exceptional proficiency. Characterized by thoroughness, initiative, originality, and an exceptional student understanding of the work involved in intelligence production.

O – Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Evaluation of Performance in Skills. Briefing: rating P. Writing: rating A. Analysis: rating P.

Overall Performance Evaluation. The rating letter reflects the overall performance of the student in the course and is thus a measure of the extent to which the student possesses the skills and techniques required in the production of finished intelligence. The rating is not necessarily arrived at by mathematically averaging the skills ratings, but takes into consideration any outstanding strengths or weaknesses that should be reflected in an evaluation of the performance of the student as a whole. The rating letter is a consensus of the view of the faculty.

Report of Observations, Judgments and Impressions. This is a general, unspecific, narrative report of observations, judgments, and impressions. It includes intangible factors such as the student's attitude, cooperativeness, attentiveness, maturity, and judgment. It also includes the general impression the student has made on the faculty. This report will not be included unless the instructors believe that it would add something to the previous evaluation of performance in skills as well as to the evaluation of the overall performance of the student.

For the Director of Training. Chief, Intelligence Production Faculty, Intelligence School. Date: S. Jeffery.
