Office of Personnel.

C. Indicate if the thing that is against strength or weakness outweighs all other considerations. Mental ability, motivation, enthusiasm, excitement, etc., for which he should be considered by his supervisor.

D. Do you see that he requires close supervision? No. Yes. If yes, why? Only use in the sense that an outstanding employee should be exposed to good supervision at all times to see that his career develops as fully as can be expected.

E. What training do you recommend for this individual?

Any advanced operations training which he may not have had.

F. Other comments: Indicate here general traits, specific habits, or characteristics not covered elsewhere in the report but which have a bearing on effective utilization of this person.

Subject is an outstanding young officer.

Section VI.

Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under subsections A, B, C, and D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties adequately; he is incorrectly behaving.

2. Is far from appropriate in performance; although he has been given specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.

3. Performs most of his duties acceptably; occasionally reveals some area of weakness.

4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.

5. A free performance; carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well. X

6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equaled by few other persons rated to the work.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? Yes. X No.

B. Directions: Considering others of this person's grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibility normally indicated by promotion?

1. Has reached the highest grade level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

2. Is making progress, but needs more time in present grade before promotion to a higher grade can be recommended.

3. Is ready to take on responsibilities of the next higher grade, but may need training in some areas.

4. Will probably adjust quickly to the work and responsible duties of the next higher grade.

5. Is already performing at the level of the next higher grade.

6. An exceptional person and is one of the few who should be considered for rapid advancement. X

C. Directions: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and any other indications, give your opinion of this person's attitude toward the organization.

1. Has an antagonistic attitude toward the agency; will definitely leave the organization at the first opportunity.

2. Has strong negative attitude toward organization; irked by restrictions; regards agency as a temporary stop until he can get something better.

3. Tends to have an unfavorable attitude toward the organization; bothered by minor frustrations; will quit if these continue.

4. His attitude toward the organization is indifferent; has a “wait and see” attitude; would leave if someone offered him something better.

5. Tends to have favorable attitude toward organization; makes allowances for restrictions imposed by working for organization; thinks in terms of a career in the organization.

6. Definitely has favorable attitude toward the organization, barring an unexpected outside opportunity. Will probably endeavor to make a career in the organization. X

7. Was an enth
