Mykolas Andrew Mansymiec

April 30, 1917

F.M. 171 – Experience 18-3

Enclosure No. 3, Page 2

I maintained progress charts for all tasks, programs, and missions that indicated the status of installation, filming, and reproduction actions for each task or program.

I directed the reproduction phases of the foregoing filming as indicated in Enclosure No. 2.

Artistic Segments

I exercised artistic and creative ability in using photography as a means of communication of information, historical splendor, etc., to fulfill educational, military, and informational objectives.

I exercised control of the settings and actions of the event to be photographed. I suggested actions and behavior of principals; selected backgrounds; and rehearsed actions prior to photographing events.

Training

I conducted orientation and briefing courses for U.S. personnel in basic and advanced photography and basic and advanced laboratory techniques.

Accomplishments – Acknowledgements

(1) Transmittal of Medallion to Myroslaw A. Malczynski, U.S. Army, G2:

“It is a genuine pleasure to forward herewith a gold medallion which His Imperial Majesty, Haile Selassie I, Emperor of Ethiopia, sent to the American Embassy here with the desire that it be transmitted to you by this office. His Imperial Majesty, upon giving the medallion to the Chargé d’Affaires, said that he wished you to have it as a token of his appreciation of your work.

Since high recognition reflects very honorably on your period of service here in Ethiopia and is a fine recommendation of your professional ability, I add my own congratulations to those of his talents. I thank His Imperial Majesty and everyone who has succeeded me for continued success in your career.”

Genex T. P. Dennis, Lt. CCM, GS  
Administrative Officer  
Office of the Vice-Chief of Staff, Air Force

The Foreign Press

U.S. Army Journalist, American Journalist

Journalist of America, American Journalist, American Journalist: The Foreign Press

American Journalist, American Journalist, American Journalist
