Section 23. General Qualifications. Indicate any special properties of training you have; also, set forth any specifications as a result of training or experience, which might fit you for a particular position.

1. I have received training in the use of ammunition and of equipment and materials and supplies not specifically provided for by the C.I.C. in advance of assignment.

2. In 1978 and 1979, attended the advanced course of instruction at the Command, P.M.S., and was selected for the advancement, and assigned to Company E, 1st Bn., 102nd N.G.F.R., Company G, 102nd N.G.F.R., and assigned to the 6th Special Forces Training Unit, C.I.C. AFSC selected in August, 1978.

3. I've served as an instructor for C.I.C. since 1978 and have been a full-time and full-pay officer and commandant, 1st Bn., 102nd N.G.F.R., and Baltimore and U.S. resident agent in Columbus, Ohio, and Philadelphia, Pa.

4. I am familiar with the operations of the Company's C.O. and I know how to contact them.

Section 24. Sports and Hobbies. C.U.P. & C.P.

Section 25. Emergency Addressee. Name: Farrinson, R.J. Address, street and number: All Fifth Avenue. City: A. Lenoir. State: N.Y. Country: U.S.A. Telephone: No. 1001. Relationship: S. U.S.-

Section 26. Information and Final Comments.

Note: You are informed that correctness of all statements made herein will be investigated, and you are invited to make any changes or additions in your statements that you may think advisable.

Are there any unfavorable incidents in your life not mentioned above which may be discovered in subsequent investigation, whether you were directly involved or not, which might require explanation? If so, describe; if not, answer, “No”.

Section 27. Certification.

I certify that the foregoing statements are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief, and I agree that any intentional misstatement or omission as to a material fact will constitute grounds for my immediate dismissal.

Joe Dixie, NCO. Date: 12/15/87. BASc Cpt, Corps Staff, NGBS. s/govt.
