KAPCK

Air Pouch

TCG-8-1801

Chief, RNE, Acting Chief of Station, Santiago

EXACTUS, Chile.

Pulmonary-1's Pro-Forma Contract

Reference: TCS-7-1668

1. Attached herewith please find a pro forma contract which has been prepared for FULMINATOR-1's (FULMINATER-1's) signature. He has stated that he is in agreement with its provisions. If this contract is satisfactory, please return it for his signature at such time as his clearance is obtained.

2. FULMINATOR-1 has shown himself to be very enthusiastic regarding the proposed employment with this Organisation and is anxious to start the tasks to be assigned to him as soon as his clearance is obtained and the necessary instructions are forwarded to this Station.

3. To carry out the covert propaganda aspect of FULMINATOR-1's duties, he has highly recommended the use of Victor POSLETE, Argentina. The latter is a Chilean, about 58 years of age, who is foreman of FULMINATOR-1's printing shop. He also lives on the premises and would be the only person who would have to know if the presses are used at night. He is not a member of the printers' labor union, and his past actions have indicated to FULMINATOR-1 that he is 100% anti-Communist. He has been employed many years by Mackenzie & Co., a British firm which shares the print shop facilities with FULMINATOR-1's presses. However, FULMINATOR-1's equipment is entirely separate from Mackenzie's, and if the covert work is done at night as is anticipated, it is FULMINATOR-1's opinion that POSLETE could run off the work without any possible interference from other individuals. Another of POSLETE's advantages is the fact that he is able to perform all the printing operations which will be necessary to put out normal propaganda and similar material, and this would eliminate the need to use other persons in the preparation of the propaganda material.

4. POSLETE has been closely connected with English and Anglo-Chilean officials of Mackenzie & Co. for many years, but it is believed logical to presume that if he is paid generously for his work in this connection, with the understanding that the work is of a completely confidential nature and on a long-term basis, he will agree to complete secrecy regarding the work. Amount of payment to POSLETE will have to be determined when there is some indication as to the amount of work to be done. A local investigation of this person has been initiated, and the results will be forwarded as soon as possible. No derogatory information on this person appears in this Station's files.

In line with the authorization received in TCS-8-1465, FULMINATOR-1 will be

KAPCK
