Section D. Classification Narrative Comments.

It is the responsibility of the employee as defined in this document to provide, in a proper perspective, their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence. If required for current position, amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Section E. Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature.

2. By Employee. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance. Date. Signature of employee. Have attached. Have not attached.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

I concur in Mr. Watts' evaluation. Mr. Moore is a very good administrator and his office has performed its collection mission very well and provided excellent operational services and support. They have not been tested in our emigre program because of a lack of potential but I am confident they will do the job well as required. I rate Mr. Moore superior in his ability to represent CIA and the Intelligence Community on the outside and he does a very good job in representing DCD within CIA and the Community. In a pinch I feel that I could depend on Mr. Moore more than almost any other DCD field chief of his grade.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature.

IV April 1977. Chief, DCD. Jackson R. Norton.

4. By Employee.

I certify that I have been the entries in all sections of this report. Date. Signature of employee.

Lana J. Smith 1/3/77
