February 19, 1963

Sergej Czornonoh  
1106–11th Street  
Sacramento, California 95814

To Russian Ambassador  
Embassy of U.S.S.R.  
1125–16th Street  
Washington, D.C.

This is retyped letter from handwritten.

Dear Sir:

Mr. Wasilev, Consul, gave me an order to transmit this information to the U.S. Government on August 9, 1963, in Sofia, Bulgaria. Mr. Wasilev, Consul of the Embassy of U.S.S.R., gave me this information about Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald on August 14, 1963. Mrs. Besera Asenova, girlfriend of the Russian Consul, came to my room and repeated that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald is an assassin. He will kill President Kennedy.

On August 15, 1963, in Sofia, Bulgaria, at the airport in the embassy car, I told Mr. Blackshire, American Vice Consul, that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald is an assassin. He has a weapon or has ordered one. Mr. Blackshire said it seems like he will kill someone. I said that Mr. Lee H. Oswald is preparing to kill the President of the United States, John F. Kennedy. Mr. Blackshire asked where it would happen. I said they, the right wing, will invite the President, criticize him in the newspaper, then kill him. Mr. Blackshire told me he would give the telegram to the Department of State, and he gave me the address where to report.

At 9 a.m. on August 19, 1963, in Washington, D.C., I went to see Mr. Kippingan, Director of Special Counselor Service, Department of State, at 1901 Pennsylvania Avenue, 11th floor. I told the Director that I had information about President Kennedy. The Director said, “Do not mention the name of President Kennedy; only respond to the questions.” The Director said, “Tell us what will happen to Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald then.” I said Mr. Lee H. Oswald will be killed after killing Kennedy. I said I would take the truth drug to tell the truth. The Director told us to tell who else would get killed in this country. I said, as I heard, that Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. will be killed. “Who will kill Dr. King, Jr., Negro leader?” I said a man who is in prison at this time. (Mr. James Earl Ray was in prison at that time.) The Director asked where the assassination would happen. I said in Dallas, Texas. The Director said, “If someone gave this information here, I would expel the man.” The Director did call on FBI agents after the FBI used anesthesia gas to freeze me, to drug me to keep amnesia.

I told the Director, Department of State, that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald has a weapon. “Go see him.” The Director told me, “You too can have a weapon—so what if Oswald has a weapon?”

U.S. House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations told me to write a letter to the Embassy in early 1977.
