31 December 1952

Memorandum for: Deputy Director for Plans

Subject: Background Material for Dr. Tyson's visit on Wednesday, January 7th.

1. I would like the attached papers to call to your attention the very good work that Dr. Tyson has done, which is generally not known here. His successful use of émigrés in making a calm and factual presentation to the American public of conditions behind the Iron Curtain is, in my opinion, the basis on which the Crusade for Freedom can be run by the Heritage Foundation in the future.

2. Dr. Tyson shares our doubts about the Free University in Exile. He agrees that the two principles upon which the University was founded:

A. That there were sufficient qualified Iron Curtain escapees to justify institutionalizing their education; and

B. That by creating such an institution for escapees, an esprit de corps is created, together with a determination on the part of the escapees to serve their homelands at some future date

have not been proved.

3. All of the evidence to prove the validity of these principles is certainly not in. The evidence at hand raises serious doubts, and is as follows:

A. Of the current 208 students of the Free University, 37 are Yugoslavs, and 12 were born in Western European countries. The high total ratio—almost 25% of the student body—of Yugoslav students, which is not a target country, together with the non-satellite-born students, indicates an inability to recruit the kinds of students the University was intended to train. It should also be noted that, from the information available to us, it is not possible to determine what proportion of those listed as born in target countries actually left them before Soviet domination. I have the impression, which is substantiated by the recruiting missions of Mr. Royal Tyler throughout Europe and even Turkey, that suitable candidates are already extremely difficult to find. It should be noted also that of the 64 outside scholarships given to exiles in various European universities, 16 are for Yugoslavs.
