Contact Report No. 56

Operation: AMWORLD  
Contact: AMBIDDY-1, AMJAVA-4, AMYUM-19  
Time and place: 1030–2400 hours, 9 Apr. S/H  
Date typed: 10 Apr. 64

Summary

1. The Case Officer confirmed that A-1 had definitely decided not to attempt Operation Genesis and will mount Operation Zenon instead. The undersigned agreed that this was a wise decision since the latest reports indicated increasing hostile naval activity in the area, making chances for survival extremely slight, and reminded A-1 of his recent speech in which he stated that AMWORLD propaganda was in support of military operations and not the reverse, hinting that AMBANG would sacrifice his men for the sake of publicity for himself. A military operation, even if it failed completely, would not be as harmful as an “obvious” publicity stunt that cost lives and equipment. A-1 appeared to accept the necessity for postponing Genesis but was obviously disappointed at not being able to land his sharpshooter to take a shot at the guest of honor during the military review.

2. A-1 and A-4 were given the sequence of Q signs to be transmitted during the test run of the signal plan to be used during the operation. The Case Officer reminded A-1 to tell his people that the transmissions will come from one of his bases, and to make certain that the captain of the Adelaide has his copy of the key. The writer suggested that A-1 merely inform that ship to monitor the frequency and to report to A-1 what signals were received and what action would have been taken.

3. Guertler asked that the Consejo be informed of the Q signs to be used by the Adelaide, the intermediate craft, and the base. A-4 said that it would be sent up by radio.

4. The writer suggested that the hourly position reports be started right away to be certain that all would function smoothly during the operation. Since around-the-clock monitoring of the ship’s transmissions will interfere with Disneyland communications with other bases, a second radio will be required. One of the agent radios will be taken to the base.

5. A-18 has not located a site for the WAVE transmitter. Alonso has several prospects, and A-18 will inspect them and inform the Case Officer soonest. In the meantime, Guertler suggested using the AMYUM office since amidst all the confusion it would probably not attract attention. A-4 was also reminded to furnish us with the signal plan for the WAVE? Nicaragua link. The plans to communicate with Managua were abandoned. Como will be with Disneyland.

6. The complete operational plan for Zenon was turned over to the Case Officer on 10 Apr. The essentials were cabled to headquarters.
