Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

The relatively limited period of Subject's assignment to the station, coupled with a recent compilation attachment to a staffer's conversion to the DDP can be a deep cover status on a first assignment abroad, compels the supervisor to make a tentative assessment only at this time. However, from all indications to date it would appear that Subject and his family are assimilating themselves very well to the environmental, cover and work situation. Subject is interested in his work, applies himself conscientiously and is prompt in completing his assignments whether the work load for a day is light, or its heavy and requires unpaid overtime concentration. The transmission product is presently exact and conforms to the Station's standards for such work. As Subject becomes more familiar with specific Station requirements, through experience and with closer supervision than afforded to date, he will be able to make a more imaginative contribution to his work, an effort that he has already begun.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 25 October 1963. Signature of employee: /S/. By employee.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 4. By supervisor.

Official title of supervisor: Operations Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /S/ Herbert Manell.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 10/07/63. Official title of reviewing official: C/wl/8. Typed or printed name and signature: J W Leeb.
