Lazaro Ferry Espinosa Donet

Asked how teams were able to build sheds and living quarters in the mangrove swamps inside of Cuba without being noticed by natives in the same area, the source replied that everyone in the vicinity of the infiltration points were sympathetic to the teams. The source explained that one person in charge of an observation post approximately one mile away from one infiltration point cooperated with the teams and was later taken out of Cuba by the source.

Espinosa asked if there are still any collaborators or persons sympathetic to the United States Government on the Cuban coast with whom the infiltrators worked. Source replied that to his knowledge all those who were of assistance have been either jailed or killed.

Espinosa was also concerned about the employment of CIA personnel in the Keys off of Florida and asked the source as to why CIA would maintain personnel in that area. Source stated he did not know unless it was to guard against infiltration by Cuban fishing vessels.

Questioned again about his reasons for cooperating with the CHUN, the source replied that he is an individual completely independent of any political belief. He said that he was initially motivated against the regime of Fidel Castro because he had seen his parents work hard and save for 40 years in order to afford a few luxuries in their later lives, only to see the Cuban Government intervene and claim possession of everything, including their home. He further explained that it appears the United States will never force Castro out of Cuba but that the fact remains he is Cuban and Cuba is his fatherland. He said he is willing to cooperate only to the extent that his parents will receive fair treatment from the Cuban Government.

Espinosa had information that the source was suspected at one time by Cubans in Miami of possibly being connected with the Cuban G-2, which information caused a United States Government investigation. Source replied that this was probably due to his number of successful runs into Cuba without incident which prompted others to suspect he had to have connections with G-2.
