93. Subject is a stubborn fellow who does not like to be defeated, and he strives to conquer.

94. Subject always looks for causes. He is no magical thinker but tends to be rational and realistic despite his strong emotional reactivity, which can be almost explosive at times.

95. Subject particularly strives not to be regarded as bad or evil. In fact, he is not a criminal type but is a neurotic character who has expressed his conflicts and difficulties in nonconforming behavior. At the same time, he is not antisocial. He is a person who has differences of opinion and conflicts with the social order.

96. Subject does not regard himself as an expert or _______. He realizes his shortcomings and he hopes his _______ will be complemented by training.

97. Subject relies quite heavily upon humor for relief of tension and as a defense against the development of anxiety and interpersonal relationships.

98. An important aspect of this man's personality and history would appear to be his so-called accident proneness. He is like the cat in the Disney film who, while chasing the mouse and having his entire attention directed to the catching and incorporation of the mouse, inadvertently gets himself run over by a truck. His first reaction to being splattered by the truck is one of disappointment as regards not arriving at the goal; i.e., catching the mouse. He thereupon acts upon feelings of revenge on the mouse for having caused his unfortunate accident. In addition, this example signifies that Subject is likely to keep his eye too much upon the goal and insufficiently upon the hazards involved in reaching the goal. It may be argued that Subject's philosophy in his past operations are related in some manner to his lack of attention to such details. His history is that of the unlucky cat who manages to get himself run over successfully.

99. This person can be quite discomposed by the surprise of unexpected occurrences.

100. Despite defeat, Subject is able to pick himself up, figure things out, start all over in a more systematic way, and continue in his pursuit of his goal. Consequently, he does learn by experience. His mistakes are
