Or he tells jokes. It is as though he were afraid to show that he takes things seriously, as though he were ashamed or frightened.

During the various opportunities when his wife is screaming all sorts of improprieties at him, he maintains absolute silence, seeming to be concentrating on one fixed idea and letting all that Rosa says just slide off him.

He has been identified and is known to belong to the K.G.B. (Soviet Secret Police). According to a confidential source, he is considered a high official in the embassy and of absolute trustworthiness by Ambassador Iouri Volski (Iouro Volski), being respected and feared by the rest of the embassy staff. He speaks perfect Spanish.

He is present at all receptions with Iouri Volski and Ivan Diakov (ambassador and Chief of the Commercial Representation, respectively), not only in his official position but also in his private life, having a warm friendship among the three which is quite rare in embassy circles. During his stay at the summer home, Alferiev and his wife occupy the quarters reserved for the ambassador.

III. Personality of Rosa Alitrieva (Alferieva)

A certain duality of personality is apparent in her behavior. In her married life she shows herself to be intolerant and impetuous, arriving at an absolute lack of control on various occasions and bringing forth continual marital quarrels.

On the contrary, in her social life, she shows herself as a very docile, cheerful woman, being the center of attraction in almost all the gatherings for her “lovely disposition” and gaiety, not only among the men but also their wives. (See section I.)

Rosa Alekseevna Alferieva is a woman brought up in the typical Soviet atmosphere, subjected since childhood to a rigid political indoctrination in some juvenile organization and in school. She is not sufficiently intelligent to rid herself, even partially, of what she has been taught. She does not separate her affective life from the obligations that she presumes every good Communist citizen should have. It seems that she does not realize the importance of her husband’s mission. She is not a woman who is attuned to her companion. She is not on the same wavelength; she does not understand him. She harbors a concentrated and continuous resentment against him. Maybe this is due to his ironic, keen, and wounding sense of humor.
