Re: W.H. Martin and B.F. Mitchell

Dr. Hans Kunov, professor, University of Toronto, visited Moscow from September 1–14, 1975, to undertake research at the USSR Academy of Sciences under the USSR/Canada General Exchange Agreement. The research was carried out at the Academy of Sciences Computer Centre, 40 Vavcoha Street. Kunov’s host was Yuriy I. Torgov, second in charge of the Computer Centre, and a separate personality sketch of him is attached.

On September 3, while having a coffee break in the Computer Centre, Kunov was approached by a man who identified himself as William Martin, an American who defected to the USSR in 1960. Martin openly spoke about his past and stated that he now lives in Moscow and is a consultant to Torgov’s group at the Computer Centre. He said much of his work is done at home, but he does drop into the Centre weekly.

It was at this time that Martin told Kunov that he would like to get out of the USSR, even if he has to run certain risks. He also said that Bernon (possibly Vernon) Mitchell feels the same and has voiced his desire to the Soviet authorities.

Martin asked Kunov if he might inquire with the Canadian authorities on his behalf to see what his status would be in this country, or if there was any chance of his being allowed in here as a political refugee. Kunov agreed to contact the Canadian Embassy in Moscow to see what the official view would be and notify Martin at a later date. Martin seemed most pleased at this and left Kunov his home telephone number, cautioning him not to say anything over the phone that would tip off the Soviet authorities as to his intentions. This first meeting lasted a little over one-half hour and took place in the coffee lounge area of the Centre. There were other Soviets present in the lounge; however, Torgov was not among them. Kunov does not believe the others were aware of their conversation.

On September 5, 1975, Kunov called at the Canadian Embassy in Moscow and spoke to a doorman, asking him who he might speak to regarding some Americans living in the USSR who would like to immigrate to Canada. The doorman referred Kunov to the office of Mrs. Louise O’Connor. Kunov then spoke to an unidentified male who stated that he was the undersecretary to Mrs. O’Connor. Kunov inquired about the Americans living in the USSR and asked whether they could be allowed to immigrate to Canada. The Embassy official would not commit himself and stated that Kunov should inquire officially with the nearest office of Manpower and Immigration when he returned to Canada. Kunov did not give this official Martin’s or Mitchell’s names. Kunov telephoned Martin after the Embassy visit and stated that the reply from the Embassy was negative. Martin seemed upset that Kunov should phone him, but he later stated that it would probably be all right.

Martin met Kunov on at least two occasions after September 5, all at the Centre, usually in the coffee lounge and in the general presence of others. They spoke English at all times. Martin thanked Kunov for his trouble in inquiring at the Embassy and cautioned Kunov not to get personally involved with him in this venture, as it would be bad news. Kunov promised Martin that he would check with Canadian Manpower and Immigration authorities on the matter when he returned to Canada.
