Office of Personnel.

Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in mind overall performance. Suggest improvements to improve work performance. NY 4-9-51. This is an example of a training comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or expand upon given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manager of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Keenan has been only a month on the job but has pitched in so vigorously that he has made a more definite impression than would ordinarily be given one in a month's time. The work here and the cases he has been dealing with are unfamiliar to him but I have found him very quick to absorb a briefing, able to ask the right and most searching questions, and fast at absorbing the key elements of a case and defining the "problem" from reading of a case file.

He is in the process of learning his present job but he is learning quickly and I have developed a feeling of confidence in passing things to him to "look at" or to do. I have not seen enough of his writing to make a judgment of his analytical ability or of the clarity with which he can put ideas forward.

He has a good manner, is energetic, responsive, and bright, and his attitude is thoughtful and perceptive. I would assume that he would be a year or so in his present position and his assignment after that should be tied to his next overseas post. I feel he shows the qualities and interest (and has the experience from his time in Mexico) to work against our hard and serious targets: the Soviet and their collaborators of the bloc, and I suggest his future be pointed in that direction. He can learn a great deal about work against these targets in his current position.

1. Certification and Comments. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 31 December 1964. Signature of Employee: Thomas J. Keenan.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 1. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 31 December 1964. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/PO/A. Typed or printed name and signature: John Horton.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of Reviewing Official.

Date: 15 January 1965. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, WID.

Type of reviewer's name and signature.
