Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is a strong officer from every important point of view. He is experienced, intelligent, alert, aggressive, extremely hard working and conscientious. He is never satisfied with the status quo but is constantly striving to acquire new operational assets or to improve the functioning or production of old or recent projects. He is tough-minded and abundantly endowed with intellectual as well as physical courage. If he has any one weakness, it is his insatience with subordinate officers and employees who do not tackle their operational duties with the same degree of zeal that he himself applies. His direct and forceful manner in calling such shortcomings to the attention of case officers under his direction has, on infrequent occasions, caused some minor and transitory resentment. In most cases, however, it has also resulted in improvement in the attitude and performance of the officer in question.

He has an outgoing personality; makes friends easily, especially among Latin Americans. He is a mature person who is respected by his Station colleagues and by the senior ODACID and other agency representatives with whom he maintains contact. He has direct supervision over nine officers and clerks. He is a good administrator. He writes effectively. (Continued on attached sheet.)

Section F: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 12 January 1962. Signature of employee: /s/ Earl J. Williamson.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 4 months.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify):

Date: 12 January 1962. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ James Noel.

3. By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official: I fully endorse the evaluation and comments of the supervisor. Subject is noteworthy for his calculated aggressiveness, initiative and determination. His stewardship of the Madrid Station while he was Acting Chief was commendable. He reports well, is reasonable, and in my opinion has fully earned promotion to GS-15.

Date: 31 January 1962. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WE-1. Typed or printed name and signature: [Signature].
