United States Civil Service Commission, Director, Fourth U.S. Civil Service Region, Temporary Building “R,” 3rd & Jefferson Drive, S.W., Washington, D.C.

Office of Personnel. Preappointment Loyalty Check, March 15, 1951. Preliminary Report of Clearance on Initial Checks.

Personnel Officer, Office of the Secretary, Department of the Interior, Mach. 25, D.C.

April. Personal and confidential. Competitive. Excepted, 4/15/51.

Name: ZUCCIING, Charlotte Louise (Hill, Sherry). Date of birth: 1/12/29.

Proposed position, organizational designation, and place of employment: Statistical Draftsmen, Port. of Int’l Aff. of Sec’y, 22.

Preappointment loyalty check has been made on the above applicant for a sensitive position, pursuant to Chapter 12 of the Federal Personnel Manual. This check revealed no derogatory information regarding this person’s loyalty.

No further papers are required if the proposed action is the appointment of a person employed by another agency and you have determined from the losing agency that the appointed or incumbent check has been completed.

For any other type of appointment action, please submit to this office within three working days after the appointee enters on duty: (1) application; (2) file covering any investigation or inquiry conducted by your agency on a preappointment basis; and (3) Standard Form 87 (fingerprint chart), unless fingerprint search has already been made as shown by item 9A below.

OK. CIA. Fingerprint search has been completed as part of the preappointment loyalty check.

P. Fingerprints were not submitted as part of the preappointment loyalty check.

C. Fingerprints were unclassifiable. You may either (1) make the appointment at once and send reprints with the other required papers, or (2) withhold appointments and submit reprints separately for completion of fingerprint search before you decide whether to appoint.

Unclassifiable fingerprints are attached. Will be forwarded on receipt from our central office.

Please use the copy of this notice for your transmittal or reply. Space has been provided on the back for your convenience. A reply is required, even though it may not be necessary.
