Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 025658.

Section A: General.

1. Name: PICCOLO Joseph S.  
2. Date of birth: B Dec. 1935.  
3. Sex: Male.  
4. Grade/S.D.: GS-7 D.  
7. Office/Division/Area of assignment: DDP/TFW/CI.  
8. Current station: Washington, D. C.  
6. Official position title: Intel Assistant.  
10. Type of report: Initial.  
9. Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career-Provisional; Special (specify).  
11. Date report due in O.P.: September 1962–18 January 1963.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific duties: List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Supervises Correspondence Routing-Control Section of Branch. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 2: Develops, implements, and manages Branch systems for mail routing-control, files and a Special Project. Rating letter: S.
