Agent Evaluation

Date: 10 May 1967

1. Name: David M. Wilsted (WILSTED) — career agent OS-13.

2. Project: LIFEPAT.

3. Overt job title: Technical Supervisor.

4. Overt job title: Outgoing Case Officer for the LIFEPAT Project.

5. Job description:

A. Overt:

a) Assure proper maintenance of machinery.

b) Categorize and schedule incoming production orders.

c) Public relations with customer businesses.

B. Overt:

a) Overall supervision of all LIFEPAT technical penetrations or other technical installations involving LIFEPAT personnel.

b) Supervision of technical penetration routing and security.

c) Resolution of the complex technical and maintenance problems inherent in a project such as LIFEPAT.

d) Accounting for expenditures in the neighborhood of $5,000.00 US per month, as well as being responsible for about $25,000.00 US in WOFACT property.

e) Responsible, with the Station Case Officer, for the day-to-day handling of 21 active LIFEPAT agents.

6. Evaluation:

a. Performance of duties set forth in paragraph 5 above without prejudice to either: Wilsted presently devotes about 80 percent of his working time to his LIFEPAT duties. The remainder is devoted to his cover duties. This time allotment has the agreement of the owner/manager of his cover organization. Wilsted’s cover manager, LIFINGER-1, likes and respects Wilsted, and they have a good working arrangement. Wilsted, LIFINGER-1, and the station believe that the present arrangement is satisfactory for all concerned. Wilsted, in conjunction with a production manager whom Wilsted hired, has assisted in converting the cover company from a losing proposition into a profitable enterprise. The owner is grateful to Wilsted for this.

b. Attitude towards WOFACT, cover organization, and present assignment: Wilsted has an excellent attitude toward his employment with WOFACT and has never been heard to be critical of it or its objectives. He is happy with his present assignment since he now considers Mexico City to be his home. Wilsted’s wife, who is a field agent, also has a good attitude toward WOFACT and its objectives. She understands the reasons behind the long and varied hours worked by Wilsted and the need for security. She is a definite asset to Wilsted in supporting his cover in conversations with friends and relatives.

c. Security and discretion: Wilsted is very security conscious and is discreet in his conversations. He is prompt for operational meetings and follows directions to the letter when meeting sites are changed or emergency meetings established. Wilsted has no known problems in living and maintaining his cover. Wilsted’s wife is also very security conscious.
