Memorandum to: Plans

From: WHD

Subject: Project HUMANOID

Project HUMANOID is the most important single project of the San Jose Station, and the basis for all existing and contemplated OSO activities in the area. It is requested that the restrictions imposed upon Project HUMANOID, as contained in TRS-N-635, copy attached, be lifted at this time, and the Chief of Station be authorized to direct the activities of HUMANOID into the following channels.

(a) Direct and close supervision of HUMANOID-3, the Station's penetration of the Vanguardia Popular, Costa Rican Communist Party, in order to utilize fully the agents potentialities. HUMANOID-3 is intelligent, has a wide knowledge of Communist activities, plans and personalities and is desirous of cooperating to the extent on his ability. After a thorough de-briefing of HUMANOID-3 by HUMANOID, in order to acquaint him, HUMANOID-3 with the Station's specific interests and requirements, plus the subsequent close supervision which will be exercised by HUMANOID, and the continuing close supervision of HUMANOID-3 by HUMANOID, it is felt that the station will then be in a position to provide intensive and adequate coverage of the objectives assigned to it in the San Jose SOI.

(b) Direct and close supervision of HUMANOID-4, the Station's penetration of the Women's Fronts affiliated with the Vanguardia Popular. It is felt that the former cut-out HUCKLEBONE, who handled HUMANOID-4 until 1 June 1949, was somewhat inept in his operational dealings, which possibly may account for what seems to be a lack of productivity in the HUMANOID-4 project. HUMANOID-4 has an intimate relationship with active CP members in Costa Rica, both on a low and high level, and possesses a definite potential for both independent reporting, and for spotting a likely individual to be used as a parallel to the HUMANOID-3 project. HUMANOID, who will now handle HUMANOID-4, is capable of directing this agents efforts into the proper channels, and capitalizing fully on the talents possessed by the individual. It is felt that this is another instance whereby HUMANOID, by working closely and directly with the individual can make a substantial contribution to the efforts of the San Jose Station.

(c) Direct and close supervision of HUMANOID-1 and HUMANOID-2, the mail intercept operations presently covering the General Post Office in San Jose. The information that HUMANOID-1 has access to is important and is of documentary reliability. His position is important to the operational structure of the station. HUMANOID-2 is

201-168881
