Dispatch. To: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division. References: Chief, European Division; Chief of Station, JMWAVE. From: Chief of Station, Madrid. Subject: Operational/TYPIC/MHSPAWN/QUIDOZE/QUTIMID plans of new Cuban ambassador in Madrid on propaganda matters. References: A. OSMA-23,413 of 19 January 1968. B. OSMA-23,406 of 12 January 1968.

30 January 1968. 1. When Guillermo RUIZ Perez, the new Cuban Charge met with the Cuban consuls following his arrival in Spain, the result was a long meeting at which primary attention was given to administrative matters, trade and propaganda. The subject of propaganda will be dealt with in this dispatch.

2. The Castro regime has always attached great importance to propaganda activities of all kinds and when the new Cuban Charge d'Affaires began to re-organize the work of his subordinates, propaganda matters were not overlooked. According to the QUDOZE and QUTIMID operations, the provincial consulates have been receiving four types of propaganda for distribution, two of which were identified. One was the propaganda put out by the organizations created by the Castro regime, for example “The Voice of Vietnam”. The other is newspapers. PACHECO, Consul in Sevilla, mentioned Granma, which he claimed many people read, and added that lately he had been receiving Juventude Rebelde.

3. RUIZ's ideas apparently go beyond hand-shaking and the distribution of propaganda. He asked the consuls to make a list of all the institutes and all the scientific centers in their territories including the special positions of these centers and any other relevant information. They are to use these lists to develop a systematic work plan of visiting each one, making friends, trying to obtain scholarships for Cuba, trying to obtain publications and propaganda of every type, free if possible or by subscription.

Distribution: Continued.

Cross reference to: DG5-8-7. Dispatch symbol and number: OSMA-23,415. Date: 19 January 1968. NOS file number: 200-120-58.
