Section C. Narrative Comments. Office of Personnel.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory position must be stated if applicable.

Mail Room.

This officer has continued to perform his duties in a superior manner. The drop in rating from outstanding to strong reflected in this report does not indicate a drop in performance. It is the result of guidance from headquarters and represents an adjustment in order to make the rating officers base of evaluation reflect a more uniform standard of evaluation within the division.

Mr. Moore is an outstanding and well qualified intelligence officer with many years experience in both overt and covert work. As a Resident Agent he not only performs the duties of a Contact Specialist but also manages the affairs of the Dallas Resident Agency. He supervises one clerical employee and is effective in maintaining high morale and high productivity. He manages the affairs of his Resident Agency in an efficient, economical and outstanding manner. As a C/S his production is large and the quality is good.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 21 April 1965. Signature of employee: J. Walton Moore, McAllen.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 14 years. Date: 21 April 1965. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Houston Office. Typed or printed name and signature: Ernest A. Rische.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: Concur. Date: April 1965. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, Contact Division, CO. Typed or printed name and signature: James R. Murphy.
