Section II. Motivation and Control.

1. Estimate subject's motivation. Subject is anti-Communist and pro-U.S. She wants to prove that she is anti-Communist by providing information to CDYOKE regarding activities inside the PRIME M Embassy.

2. Indicate what control, if any, exists over the subject. Station Mexico City has little control over subject except to reveal her activities to PRIME MEN authorities.

Section III. Cover.

1. Cover used by subject and case officer in their meetings. Meetings are held at the home of LITAMIL-7 and, if necessary, the case officer could represent a visiting “friend.”

2. Cover used by subject in obtaining information and in contacting her informants. Subject is employed at the PRIME MEN Embassy and her information is gathered during the course of her working day.

3. Indicate service for which subject thinks she is working. Subject knows she is working for CDYOKE. She does not think in terms of intelligence agencies.

Section IV. Intelligence Connections and Training.

1. Explain subject's known past or present connection with any other intelligence service. Indicate the extent such connection is known openly. Subject has had no connection with any intelligence service in the past.

2. List other individuals—agents, relatives, or friends—who know of subject's present intelligence activities. LITAMIL-3 introduced subject to the case officer and frequently attends meetings with the case officer. LITAMIL-9 suspects that subject is working for CDYOKE. He knows she is in contact with LITAMIL-3, and he knows LITAMIL-3 is in contact with the case officer.

3. Explain any training subject has had in clandestine operations. Subject has had no training in clandestine operations. She is becoming increasingly aware of intelligence techniques, however, and her production has improved for this reason.

Section V. Collaboration Potential.

1. Indicate other foreign power subject would be most likely to collaborate with because of her ideology or past associations. Explain. Subject, being a Mexican, would probably collaborate with the Mexican Government if approached by high authorities.
