Training Evaluation

Course on World Communism No. ____

Date of completion: 1973. Name: Frederick L. Gagnon. Dates of course: September 1985. No. students: 38.

Planned completion date is September 1985.

03-11 1977.

III. Case Officer.

Objectives of the Course

The Course on World Communism is a four-week course designed to provide adequate background and understanding of the World Communist Movement, and to increase the effectiveness of staff personnel in their ability to interpret and analyze Communist Party and Front organizational structures and the strategy and tactics of the World Communist Movement.

Characteristics of the Course

The material in this course is presented by lecture and in seminar discussion. Students are required to prepare written assignments, which are designed to measure the student's ability to apply the knowledge acquired in the course to his special field of activity.

Rating of Student Achievement

Students are rated according to the five-point adjective rating scale (Superior, Excellent, Satisfactory, Fair, Failure) in indicating the degree to which they have achieved the course objectives. The meaning of those adjective ratings are as follows:

Superior: The student demonstrated outstanding ability or proficiency in meeting this course goal or objective; he indicated an unusually thorough knowledge of the material presented; or, if skills are involved, he demonstrated that he is one of the most effective individuals in this area.

Excellent: The student showed unusual competence, skill, or ability in meeting this objective or goal; he demonstrated a thorough grasp of the presented material, or, if skills are involved, he demonstrated that he can perform in an extremely effective manner in this area.

Satisfactory: The student met this objective in a competent and adequate manner; he demonstrated a good understanding and grasp of the information presented, or, if skills are involved, he demonstrated sufficient competence to operate effectively in this area.
