A good strip-tease performance now and then, relating that he had seen a number of them when he was in the States. SARATOV spoke nostalgically of his life in the States, admitting that he missed many aspects of his life there. L/1 remarked that the conversation was largely centered around comments by the BILGORES and L/1 and L/2, inasmuch as the CUDNEYS were very reserved and seldom expressed themselves to any degree. L/1 commented that, to the best of his knowledge, the CUDNEYS and SARATOVS had first met at the dinner party held by the LIROBBINS. L/1 expressed some surprise that the CUDNEYS were invited, as they are rather shy and inexpressive. Toward the end of the evening, L/1 was able to raise the question of the Soviet invasion of the CSSR. SARATOV staunchly defended the Soviet and Warsaw Pact occupation, claiming that it was a necessary move because of the increasing aggressiveness of the West Germans and that the avowed purpose of West German truculence was to put pressure on both the CSSR and East Germany in hopes of reunifying Germany. SARATOV did not become emotional over his defense, but left little doubt that he wholeheartedly approved of the Soviet move into the CSSR. Neither the BILGORES nor the LIROBBINS pursued the issue, although L/1 commented to SARATOV that he was not convinced by SARATOV's defense of Soviet actions.

In short, L/1 felt that the evening went off smoothly, and as the LIROBBINS departed, SARATOV walked them down the steps and solicitously inquired of L/1 as to whether they, the SARATOVS, had entertained properly and if all had been satisfied with the SARATOVS' production. L/1 found this vaguely out of keeping with SARATOV's personality and somewhat gauche. L/1 noted that the SARATOV apartment was modern and well-kept, giving every evidence of having been lived in. The SARATOVS possess a large European-made combination phono-radio set, which was tuned to light FM music for background. SARATOV stated that he had inherited this from his predecessor. SARATOV's one child, age 9, was in bed when the guests arrived. Upon departing, SARATOV inquired of the LIROBBINS if they planned to attend the
