2. Only intelligent revolutionary, referring to “the Tail Party” and at one point calling Montes a “cabrón.” When he asked 1/3 who had given him the information that he was a desertor and 1/3 refused to divulge his source, Crozco, according to 1/3, explained: “It was Roberto, I’m sure.” Crozco then stated that he intended to form his own revolutionary movement, which he named “First of May,” and had approached 1/3 for xxx support since he at the moment had no financial or material means. 1/3 told Rowton that it was then that he realized that Crozco intended to use the supplies listed in paragraph one above for his own use and that once he turned them over to Crozco he would never see them or Crozco again.

5. In reply to 1/3’s query as to how Crozco had gotten to him, Sergio Valdez, who debriefed 1/3 at the end of the session, explained in the presence of Crozco that Alberto Domingo had referred him to him and that he knew nothing of Crozco’s background. At this point Valdez threatened Crozco with physical violence, exclaiming to 1/3 that they must dispose of him at once so that he could not reveal vital secrets of the revolution. 1/3 claimed to Rowton that he managed to calm Valdez down and get him out of the apartment. 1/3 stated that he left both Valdez and Moreno on guard outside the apartment house in the event Crozco tried to escape before he could confer with Rowton.

6. In view of this highly explosive development, Rowton instructed 1/3 to return to the apartment and attempt to persuade Crozco to accompany him to a hotel where Rowton could arrange some sort of protective surveillance until Crozco was thoroughly interrogated. 1/3 insisted that Crozco be kept incommunicado in view of the information he possesses about 1/3, Valdez, and Moreno. Rowton promised to do the best he could but insisted that Crozco be removed from 1/3’s apartment as soon as possible. 1/3 promised to make every effort and asked Rowton to meet with him again at 0300 to discuss the results of his effort.

7. At 0400 Rowton met 1/3 at the safehouse, where AIRING/4 had moved with their child, and 1/3 reported that Crozco could not be persuaded to leave the apartment. Although he feigned calmness, 1/3 realized that he was terrorized by what might await him the moment he stepped out of the apartment house. Crozco promised to talk to 1/3 again at 1000 that same morning when he had more time to think things over. 1/3 stated that he left Valdez and Moreno on guard outside the apartment house, in Moreno’s car, on the possible chance that Crozco would make a run for it. 1/3 stated that “under no circumstances” would Crozco be allowed to escape.
