Section IX. Qualifications for Other Operations.

1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications possessed by subject which could conceivably be of value for other operations. Subject's skill as writer/editor may qualify him for CA work.

Section X. Commitments.

1. If it is proposed to pay subject a regular salary, indicate the weekly amount. If payment to be made in exchange for commodities, subsidy or other method, specify and give details. See Section VIII. In addition it is set forth in the Letter of Agreement with Subject, that KUBARK will compensate Subject for any relocation of his family required by virtue of an approved change in place of employment.

2. Explain any promises, otherwise not covered herein, made to subject. (Example: Commitments regarding separation of subject and family.) See Letter of Agreement. KUBARK recognizes its moral obligation to protect Subject against any adverse action which might result from activities engaged in by Subject at the request of KUBARK during his period of employment.

Section XI. CE and Security.

1. Indicate the field agencies and field files with which subject's name has been checked and the results. London, Algiers, Paris Station files; JAGUAR, ODENVY traces and reports are also included in material available on Subject.

2. Indicate other investigative measures taken to verify biographical information furnished by subject. Reports have been received by various QKOPERA contract agents.

3. Indicate whether or not provisional operational approval or operational approval for subject's use was been previously obtained. No POA required under the terms of CSI 10-5.

4. Date approval obtained.

5. Evaluate subject's character, reliability and security, citing evidence where possible. Subject is a rather cynical intellectual. He has a keen sense of what is in his best interest, however, and there is no reason to believe that he considers a reliable and secure performance for KUBARK to be in his best interest. He showed a good sense of security in communications during his recruitment period. LCPLUTTER examination 13 June 1965 revealed no deception by Subject.

6. Explain any situation or indiscretion in which subject may have been involved which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security viewpoint. While working for AFP in Paris (1958) Subject forged the signature of a personal enemy, Ollie Harrington, to a letter to the editor calculated to get Harrington in trouble with French authorities. Subject absconded of this action.

Section XII. Subject's Personal Habits.

1. Use of liquor, drugs: gambling, paramours. Liquor in moderation, no drugs. He is believed to have engaged in extra-marital sexual affairs, but in a discreet manner.
