UR

Movimiento Unidad Revolucionaria

17th December 7, 1965

F. E. Kleas Fairinokos  
Foreign Minister  
Ministry of Foreign Affairs  
Athens, Greece

Excellencies,

In the past, we have addressed several letters to Greek Government officials concerning the case of José Luis Galbe, the Cuban Chargé d'Affaires in Athens. We have informed the representatives of the Greek people of Galbe's notorious background as a gangster and Communist agitator, a background to which he lived up recently when he shot at a Greek bus driver at Thermopylae over a trivial traffic argument and, instead, shot his wife.

We are, and proudly so, relentless envoys of the regime that Galbe represents in Greece. However, when we regret the indignity wrought over the Greek nation by its Government's failure to expel him, we are not acting out of political passion. Sadly, you will agree that when the head of a diplomatic mission publicly fires his gun on the citizens of the country where he is accredited, he is acting with utmost decorum; for the law of that country and, hence, for the country as a whole. The least he deserves is to be declared “persona non grata” (“paramenta non grata”), and that only if the accredited government is so benevolent as to overlook the fact that the insult is really coming from the regime that subjects the criminally insane as its representatives abroad.

We, as Hellenes of Mediterranean origin, have always felt somewhat akin to the Greek people, when we also regard ourselves as the direct descendants of the ancient fathers of Civilization. Therefore, we were honestly saddened to see that the past government of your country placed the personal friendship of two gangsters—Galbe and Andreas Papandreu—above the age-old dignity of the Hellenic nation. And we are saddened even more when those actions are described in detail in the press.

On the other hand, our insistence on the subject, somewhat unorthodox as it may be from the protocol standpoint, is definitely inspired by the friendliest of sentiments, while Galbe's failure to observe the most elementary diplomatic rules has been evidenced in a most hostile—and dangerous—manner.

Therefore, we are confident that you will excuse us if we provide further evidence of the Castro regime's and Galbe's personal contempt for free nations such as Greece. Immediately following is a summary of the “dossier” that we have compiled on José Luis Galbe:

10 SE 9 ST. MIAMI, FLORIDA

Telefono FR 3-8033
