Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information, affecting the National Interest of the United States while the presence of the Red Chamber Lovers, Title IS U.S.A. law and are subject to the jurisdiction of revenue agents in the States where prohibited by law.

Country: Panama/Cuba/Mexico. Subject: Comments of leaders of the Vanguard of National Action and the Partido del Pueblo on visit of Castro agent to Panama.

Report No.: CS-3/566,571. Date distributed: 5 December 1983. References: RD.

Date of information: 23 October–5 November 1983. Place and date acquired: Panama, Panama City (30 October–7 November 1983).

Field Report No. HZP-6340.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive; appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Paragraph 1: Leader (F) of the Vanguard of National Action who was present when Turner made his remarks. Paragraphs 2 and 3: Leaders (B) of the Partido del Pueblo to whom Souza and Thomas made their remarks. Appraisal of content: 2.

1. On 23 October 1963 David Turner, leader of the Vanguard of National Action (VAN—radical pro-Cuban revolutionary group), informed members of the VAN directorate that he had received a call from Thelma King, pro-Cuban deputy to the National Assembly, a few days earlier. Turner said that the purpose of the call was to arrange for Turner to meet Victor Rico Galan, a Mexican newspaperman who works for Fidel Castro. Turner said that the interview took place in Rico's room at the Hotel International, and was attended by King, Turner, and Hugo Alejandro Victor, president of the Partido del Pueblo (PDP, People's Party-Communist), with which the VAN is disputing leadership of the revolution in Panama. Turner said that Rico questioned his guests about unity among the left-wing groups in Panama, and Victor coddly informed him only that efforts were being made to reach an understanding. Turner refrained from making any comment at that time. Rico invited his visitors to have lunch with him; however, Victor declined, and King went in search of copies of newspapers which had reproduced statements of Panamanian students warning against plans of the National Guard to stage a coup d'etat in Panama. Rico had specifically asked for those publications. This gave Turner an opportunity to talk alone with Rico, and he informed him of VAN activities and of the steps being taken by the VAN to bring about an armed movement in Panama, since conditions were ripe for such action.

2. Around 26 October 1963 Rubén Darío Souza Batista, national secretary-general of the PDP, said that a Cuban agent had recently visited Panama to urge the VAN and the PDP to resolve their differences and unite. The PDP, however, violently rejected the suggestion.

Distribution recipients: State, DIA, Army, Navy, Air, NIA, AID, OCH, FBI, REPCINCLANT, CINCSO, USIA, I&NS, TREAS.

Field report: HZP-6340. HYKJRK-2. HYAB, HYADIZ. Report No.: CS-3/566,571.
