13. It would be useful to ask Nosenko his comments on the information on “Passports and Other Formalities” taken from the book, A Motorist’s Guide to the Soviet Union, by Viktor Louin and his wife Jennifer Louin.

The book was published in Moscow in 1967.

Note: Viktor Louin and his wife are “slightly” known to Nosenko.

Motorist’s Guide

Hand-clothed shirt or sweater (15 roubles upwards); toys; gramophone records (12 in. LP—1 double); books (comparatively inexpensive); traditional silver-gilt-and-enamel ware (e.g., tiny fork for lemon or butterballs—1 double child’s spoon with animal handle—3 roubles); wood, alabaster or pottery ornaments.

If you would like to visit the markets, you should go as early as possible in the day. You will be able to find in the market good quality fresh fruit which is often lacking in the markets. Also on sale there are honey, fresh eggs and dairy products; there may be various items of local handwork as well. The markets close at 5:00 p.m.

Passports and Other Formalities

In order to enter and leave the Soviet Union a foreign tourist must have a valid national passport and a Soviet entry visa. Soviet visas are issued free of charge usually within a seven-day period from the time of application to the Soviet Embassy or Consulate in the tourist’s own country. The border points through which the tourist enters and leaves the Soviet Union must be those indicated in the Soviet visa.

Foreign tourists’ arrivals in the Soviet Union are registered when they first hand over their passports at the First Intourist service point indicated on the visa.

In addition to Soviet visas, it is required that the citizens of most Western European countries obtain visas for the Communist countries through which they will drive on their way to and from the Soviet Union: East Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania or Bulgaria; East German visas are obtainable on entry to that country.

Besides an International Driving Permit, motorists must bring an international automobile registration certificate of the country of departure, stipulated in the 1926 International Automobile Traffic Convention. Tourists’ cars can be brought into the Soviet Union and taken out again without payment of duty on condition that the owner gives a written guarantee to take the car out of the country upon departure. This guarantee is to be handed over to the customs authorities at the Soviet border.

It is forbidden to bring the following into the Soviet Union:

(a) arms and ammunition

(b) printed matter, films, photographs, negatives, drawings, etc. (“which are hostile to the U.S.S.R. in practical or economic respects”).

Printed matter, plants (fruits, seeds, etc.) and animals are liable to inspection by customs authorities.

It is forbidden to take out of the Soviet Union:

(a) arms and ammunition
