Dispatch. Processing: proceed to action; accumulated. To: Chief, Task Force W. From: Chief of Station, JMWAVE GKR. Subject: GYROSE/Operational AMDEN-1 Progress Report—13 August 1962. Reference: UFGA-4425 dated 19 June 1962.

1. Summary: In the period since the referenced progress report, AMDEN-1 (AMDENIN-1) has been primarily engaged in keeping his fences mended with the various exile groups in the area in anticipation of moving into a position in the AMSUD-1 organization in which he will be responsible for coordinating the selection of paramilitary candidates from these groups. In addition to this, he has prepared a number of reports providing background information and information on current activities in the local PBRUMEN community, and on mounting Operation Antonico I, an effort to establish contact with PBRUMEN fishermen through his own fisherman contacts. Details follow.

Operational Developments

2. In response to a Station request, the subject provided an estimate of the current situation in PBRUMEN. This report stressed the points that the farmers and the fishermen in PBRUMEN are the most willing and capable of providing support to resistance activities as a result of their having suffered the most at the hands of the current administration after being largely responsible for its obtaining power. He also provided a general strategic plan of Oriente Province in which he defined the main areas in which guerrilla elements can survive and how they can be reached from coastal resupply points. His ability to do this is based upon his being a native of the area and one who has been primarily interested in its geography due to his former large agricultural holdings there.

3. He has had one meeting with AMBUD-1 for the purpose of maintaining contact. His main question to AMBUD-1 was with regard to the latter's ability to actually control the people on his staff. He was disappointed by the reply, which, though positive, could not be supported with an example of where AMBUD-1 had actually brought.

CS copy. Date typed: 13 Aug. 62. Date dispatched: AUG 8 0 72. Distribution: 3—Addressee. Dispatch symbol and number: UFGA-5212. Headquarters file number: 201-251853.
