Personnel Evaluation Report.

Items 1 through 6 will be completed by Administrative or Personnel Officer.

1. Name: Richardson, Jacques JG.  
2. Grade: GS-13.  
3. Position title: Area Ops, Officer, CD-PI.  
4. Office: DDP. Staff or division: SR. Branch: SR/5. Departmental: Field. If field, specify station.  
5. Period covered by report: From 18 July 1953 to 17 July 1954.  
6. Type of report: Annual.

Items 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

7. List your major duties in approximate order of importance, with a brief description of each. Omit minor duties.

18 July 53–31 Jan 54:

a. Manage and direct the activities of an overseas operating branch.  
b. Assist the division chief of operations in the planning of new and continued op'ns.  
c. Assist the division chief in personnel programming in support of branch and field station activities.

1 Feb 54–17 Jul 54:

a. Establish new domestic activities branch.  
b. Develop and manage operational program of this branch, insuring (1) continuity of treatment by qualified personnel, (2) processing of intelligence requirements, and (3) expeditious movement of finished intelligence.  
c. Multilateral liaison with other elements of CIA, the Government, and foreign IS.

8. List courses of instruction completed during report period.

Name of course: Counterespionage (Counterespionago), OTR. Location: Washington. Length of course: 3 weeks. Date completed: 22 January 1954.

In addition to the duties indicated in §7 above, I also give a 3-hour lecture at the CE course (advanced phase) approximately every six weeks.

9. In what type of work are you primarily interested? I am primarily interested in a foreign assignment where I could apply the various espionage and CE techniques it has been my responsibility to manage and plan for. In recent years, if different from your present job, explain your qualifications (aptitude, knowledge, skills). My work at headquarters has become somewhat narrowing in that I am losing language abilities and opportunity for direct contact with foreigners.

10. 3 July 1954. Date. Signature.

Items 11 through 18 will be completed by Supervisor.

11. Briefly describe this person's performance on the major duties listed under Item 7 above.

Richardson is a superior officer in the performance of his duties. He is efficient, precise, and energetic, and brings considerable imagination and foresight to the operational problems confronting him. His concept of staff organization and responsibility is of a high caliber. In handling personnel, he is perceptive and serious, and his judgment and motivation are of the highest quality.
