Was a young one and on occasion claimed to know more than those who have been purifying Communism for 50 years and more. The undersigned joked about the fact that the Soviet Union would have to give the Cubans petroleum free if the sugar crop this year was as bad as it appeared to be. LOGINOV had a good chuckle over this but did not comment.

3. The undersigned, who has already had the feeling that Jiri SVESTKA apes the Soviets, copies their line, and mimics their comportment, had confirmation of all this during the trip. SVESTKA was one of the first to raise the topic of Vietnam and pour oil over the fire. During dinner in the dining car on the way to Guadalajara, where he sat with the undersigned and the two Soviets, the topic of the Red Army came up. The undersigned, who had previously told the Russians that he served for a brief time with that army, said that he had great admiration for the military feats of the Russians. This led SVESTKA to say that the Red Army was never beaten. The undersigned then gave SVESTKA a short refresher course in what had happened in Warsaw in 1920 or 1921, when a Franco-Prussian army led by Gen. Maxime WEYGAND and Gen. Jozef PILSI'DSKI (PIŁSUDSKI) beat an invading Soviet army, which had, among other things, Joseph STALIN as its commissar. SVESTKA tried to dispute the fact that this took place, whereupon the undersigned offered to buy him a history book. That seemed to prevent SVESTKA from making any other excursions into history during the remainder of the trip. Most of the discussions with the Czech, Soviets, and Cubans were on extremely friendly terms, in spite of their pointedness at times. During the night of 18 May, during the train trip back to Mexico City, a particularly heated discussion took place in a compartment where CHERNYSH, SVESTKA, and CICARD were present. This discussion will be reviewed in the next paragraph. Suffice it to say that at one point SVESTKA intervened in the defense of CHERNYSH to say something about how indebted Czechoslovakia was to the Soviets. The undersigned then told him that if it had not been the decision of President Franklin D. ROOSEVELT, at the urging, apparently, of STALIN, to stop the advance of the United States Army into Czechoslovakia to allow the Russians to liberate Prague, the armistice would not have found Soviet troops occupying Czechoslovakia, and “things might have been completely different for the Czech nation.” When SVESTKA claimed to be bewildered by this statement, the
