Another potential use of FECS might be in conjunction with certain proposals advanced by individual RFE staff members. These call for the use of refugees as funding sources for group reactions to new broadcast themes and as example groups for testing basic satellite country attitudes. Refugees helped by FECS might be more interested in contributing to such projects; conversely, FECS efforts to restore their feeling of belonging to the struggle for liberation of their countries would be immediately assisted by this opportunity for them to come in the shaping of this potent “brother weapon.”

NCFE and RFE exile employees who by and large form a privileged class among the refugees as a result of being relatively well paid should be encouraged to contribute small but regular amounts of their salaries on a voluntary deduction basis to refugee welfare. Some RFE employees have already done this on an informal basis and have expressed a desire to do so on a regular deduction basis but have been discouraged by the information that this would involve a violation of RFE regulations. In view of the success of a similar welfare fund instituted by the Rollcall Labor Service Companies attached to the U.S. Army in Germany, it is recommended that this possibility be investigated. FECS might prove a sure means of channeling such aid to the refugee.

The form for refugees in Turkey established by the Gazi Khan Bessolt Committee, which has an international respect resembling Von Homoyer’s approach, would qualify for inclusion in the FECS program, although no specific proposal can be made until after a detailed field survey.

D. Proposed organization of FECS.

1. FECS will be a service section of NCFE under the directorship of NCFE’s General European Representative. General policy headquarters will therefore be in Paris, as well as the operational subsection responsible for the administration of the FECS branches in England and France. This will have the advantages of removing the general policy headquarters from the immediate tensions and pressures of the frontier countries. The Director will have the task of general policy coordination of FECS with other NCFE divisions and of gaining on a high level the acceptance of and cooperation with FECS by the national and international authorities concerned, perhaps by emphasis on the contribution which FECS could make to their efforts to resolve the refugee problem.

2. Operational headquarters under the direction of a FECS Deputy Director will be in Munich, the point closest to the refugees’ geographical center. From Munich, the German refugee reception center at Volka and the Austrian equivalent at Weis are each within half a day’s drive, or less.
