Classified message.

In 1973, page 2.

Doing so or at the School of Commerce. I will contact Rene through a mobile communication device. Doings says that CAN may recommend for intelligence.

Benes.

71. Continuation. Medardo Silva Marrero, born in Holguin, October 10, 1928. Lives in Los Moscones neighborhood. Son of A. Hola and Alta Gracia. Works in the asphalt plant located in the Holguin militia airport.

72. Received message 35. Will send biographical data on Rene before contact with him. Roberto Zayas will work in the action cell. If the location of the house nearest the point, it is more than three kilometers away. The point can be reached by a secondary route at 10 p.m., 18 kilometers from the nearest one to 10 p.m., 18 kilometers. Tell us when you can have a resupply operation.

November 16, 1935. A new cable objectives, data sent by Matin. On next transmission will be some details of objectives chosen.

73. Biographic data on Rene Cruz Ramon, born in Victoria (Santana) on Tunis on 23 May 1928. Lives in Human Santana 100, where he will be seen by the commando team. Is a papermaker. Son of Roberto and Manuela, married to Anne Cruz Velazquez. Has one daughter named Anauela. PPT Angulo de la Torre Cruz Velazquez has one daughter named Anauela. PPT Angulo de la Torre Cruz Velazquez has one daughter named Anauela. PPT Angulo de la Torre Cruz Velazquez, her deceased March 14, 1953. Doing so tells me that Ruben recommends Roberto Legon Pino Papandrapou. He was born in Holguin. Continuing.

74. Continuation. Born on 22 April 1932. Lives on Freeman Islands. Works in the electric plant of Holguin. Rapid investigation of these people is necessary.

75. Acudar was recommended to me for action agent in Puerto Rico.

Doing so, Medardo Silva Marrero, born in Holguin. Continuation. Continuation.

Doing so, Las Gracias, lives in Los Moscones neighborhood. Son of A. Hola and Alta Gracia. Works in the asphalt plant located in the Holguin militia airport.

Doing so, the location of the house nearest the point, it is more than three kilometers away. The point can be reached by a secondary route at 10 p.m., 18 kilometers from the nearest one to 10 p.m., 18 kilometers. Tell us when you can have a resupply operation.

Doing so, sometimes, data sent by Matin. On next transmission will be some details of objectives chosen.

Doing so, Freeman Islands. Continuation.

Doing so, Musentos, lives in Human Santana 100, where he will be seen by the commando team. Is a papermaker. Son of Roberto and Manuela, married to Anne Cruz Velazquez. Has one daughter named Anauela. PPT Angulo de la Torre Cruz Velazquez has one daughter named Anauela. PPT Angulo de la Torre Cruz Velazquez. Her deceased March 14, 1953. Doing so tells me that Ruben recommends Roberto Legon Pino Papandrapou. He was born in Holguin. Continuing.
