19. LAPOLLA arrived at the office sometime shortly after 0800. He then discussed what our possibilities were, based on the situation as we then saw it. We had no guarantee that the Austrian passports would be finished by AURERT in time to be used by an early afternoon United States flag commercial jet. We discussed again, as we had the previous evening, contacting Mr. William Naylor, the Pan American Senior Officer in Germany and a cleared and witting contact, as to whether or not he could arrange to board passengers without going through German Immigration, i.e., Passport Control. The question of the availability of seats was also involved. LAPOLLA suggested that we phone Naylor in his residence in Bad Nostburg and explain to him we had a matter of serious urgency and ask him to come immediately to the I.G. Farben Building and discuss the matter with us. The phone call was made and Naylor agreed to do this.

LAPOLLA then contacted the MATS Office at Rhein-Main to ascertain if MATS had any commercial jets chartered for departure that day. He discovered that they had no commercial jet chartered flights that day but at midnight on Sunday they were dispatching a C-135 configured to carry 66 passengers. He was further informed that 36 of these seats had been given to the Air Force and 30 to the Army to be used only by single military personnel departing to the States on Christmas leave. No families could be sent on the flight.

Inasmuch as a C-135 is the military cargo version of a Boeing 707, LAPOLLA and myself discussed seriously the advisability of endeavoring to get military authority to fly this family out. We decided against such course of action for several reasons. We anticipated that there would be too much conversation among the single military personnel aboard the flight when they observed five civilians, three of whom were obviously a family, flying on the same plane. The fact that the six-year-old daughter spoke no English also contributed to the adverse situation we anticipated. Secondly, subject and family had already been aboard one cargo type aircraft and were reported to GOODLINE to have made a series of uncomplimentary remarks of the type transportation that they were being afforded.

20. Naylor arrived at the office at about 1000 hours and was made generally aware of our problem. He was informed that the principal traveler involved was a defecting Russian diplomat, plus wife and child, and that we were under obligation to expeditiously and securely return them to the United States by jet aircraft. He was further informed that we lacked the proper documentation to board them on the commercial aircraft through normal clearance procedures and we had no guarantee that we would have the documentation by flight departure time of PAA No. 75 at 1315 hours. We then asked him what he considered to be the possibilities of working out a procedure to board the party “black” and to prevent any divulgence of their existence to the German Immigration Authorities. After considerable discussion it appeared that there

GRANT
