That the CG, so not maintaining a sufficiently independent and political attitude,

12. In discussing relations of the Socialist Party with reform groups, J. Seldani, member of the German parliament of the party for the far left, and one of the leaders in the recent strike against the first-rank trade unions in Berlin, has expressed his deep regret over the fact that the Socialist Party is now so weak, and that the best elements of the Socialist Party would constitute a great force representing the Socialist Party of the future.

During the debate on this subject, the leader of the Socialists, Dr. Emil Völkel, made an explosive statement to an inflationist by stating that the leadership of the V.S.R. must be replaced by a group of active revolutionaries who were trying to take advantage of the situation of the national political power.

13. As for foreign policy, the Congress expressed itself opposed to the hierarchy of any one great power, whether it be Britain, the United States, or Canada, and in favor of a system of collective security, with all the democratic nations of the world equally represented in an international association of nations. This association should have its own army, credit, transport, and state, in order to be able to guarantee the peace. Regarding the treatment of Germany, the Congress voiced its opposition to any disreputable act against the country, but approved a long cessation with severe armed control of all German industry and agriculture and a long, drawn-out program for the reduction of German youth.

14. The Socialist Party, according to Mr. Seldani, secretary of the Senate of the Socialist Party, the Congress claims to have 4,000 registered members in the year. Socialist leaders interviewed declined to quote any figures.

15. Further, President Seldani maintains that the regulations have gained many new followers since the war, at the expense of the Socialists. He claims that this results in a large outflow from the Communist nationalist policy and also into a large, young, vigorous leadership, as well as into the Socialists who will leave the old leadership representing the old regime. He stated that the policy of the Socialist Party would remain nationalist in the future; that it would be difficult to return to a revolutionary program.

16. Furthermore, he asserted that the Communists get along better with the Christian Democrats than with the Socialists, since the latter, as he put it, placed party interests above the national interest.

17. The Communists are opposed to the election next February; their reason, certainly, lies in the fact that the election was scheduled before the recognition of the new state by the Allies as a real power in holding popular resistance until showing the Allies that they could do something else. Now that the Allies have recognized the U.S. Government, the preceding need for the benefit of elections no longer exists. Besides, it would be unfair to ask for the return of those billion votes and departures before proceeding to the polls. Going to a poll in one, two, three, the real reason the Communists are opposed to the election is their fear of loss, and of the strength which now holds on the various departments.
