Continuation of Part II—Language Elements.

Section D. Speaking (43)

1. I speak only my [language] and accurately in all practical and social situations. I converse fairly and idiomatically with anyone I meet, but I am familiar.
2. I speak only my [language] and accurately in nearly all practical and social situations. I can converse in most fields with anyone I meet, but I am familiar and I employ some popular sayings, literary quotations, and common proverbs.
3. I get along well in situations of daily life and travel and can conduct routine business in particular fields.
4. I manage to get along in the most common situations of daily life and travel.
5. I have no ability to use the language in any of the above respects.

Section E. Understanding (44)

1. I understand non-technical conversation on all subjects, both face-to-face and on the telephone. I understand nearly everything I hear on the radio and at the movies, plays, and lectures.
2. I understand non-technical conversation on nearly all subjects, both face-to-face and on the telephone. I understand most of what I hear on the radio and at the movies, plays, and lectures, including most jokes and puns.
3. I understand nearly all conversation on topics of daily life and travel, both face-to-face and on the telephone. I understand much of what I hear on the radio and at the movies, plays, and lectures.
4. I understand the simplest conversation, both face-to-face and on the telephone. I understand some of what I hear on the radio and at the movies, plays, and lectures.
5. I am not able to understand the spoken language.

Before continuing—check Part II to ensure that you have circled one number per section.

Part III—Experience as Translator or Interpreter (45)

1. I have had experience as a translator.
2. I have had experience as an interpreter.
3. Both of the above statements apply.
4. None of the above statements apply.

Part IV—Certification

I certify that the information given above is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief. This certification constitutes an application for a maintenance award provided I am eligible under the terms
