44. Although Subject has seen many things in his life and has had many opportunities to become angry, he feels he has never completely lost self-control. He feels he has always been the master of his actions at all times and that these actions could have been changed by his own volition.

45. If Subject has ever been ashamed of himself, it must have been when his behavior was wrongly interpreted by persons whom he loved or who loved him.

46. Subject tends to become embarrassed and confused when certain persons who ask or accept something from him display too much gratitude. In other words, too large a dose of affection will unseat Subject despite the fact that he continually solicits affection.

47. Subject has continually deceived and disappointed his mother because every time she started him in a new school, she made him promise he would behave nicely, but each time he was thrown out of school. He is convinced she wanted this for his good and not for the satisfaction of having a perfect child. However, it is likely that the mother's over-solicitousness was actually compensatory for her basic rejection of Subject. Therefore, she wanted him to be perfect so that she could love him. Consequently, it is likely that she did things for him, but she did things with him for herself. In other words, she wanted him to be perfect so that he could be worthy of her love. He was not perfect, probably did not obtain her love, and consequently is continually seeking the love of other persons. However, he cannot accept this fact as regards his mother and denies she did not act in his interest. One of his chief defenses is denial, that is, simply assuming the attitude that such and such was not true when he probably believes it was true.

48. Subject's actions are often impulsive and unreasonable. Such irrational behavior usually takes place with another person despite the fact that there may be no particular tie or affection between him and the other person. Subject is unable to explain why this is so and intellectually realizes that any explanations which he might offer are not sufficient to explain such behavior and his emotional state. In other words, this man's impulsiveness and tendency to behave irrationally and to his own disadvantage and in his own disinterest amounts to a compulsion which is sufficient to determine his behavior but which is unconscious and not
