c) Research projects on specific targets for ETE's New York and Munich language desks. Daily monitoring highlights summarize major events in all satellite countries.

d) ETE also makes available its information files to the Divisions of Intellectual Cooperation and International Relations.

e) A “Black Book” prepared every six months, containing communist attacks against the Soviet Union.

f) To the general public—“News from Behind the Iron Curtain,” a monthly magazine of source material about the target area, is issued to a total of 3,000 people in the field of communications. 162 research studies have been distributed outside the Committee to a total of 8,500 people. Foreign-language bulletins in each of the major tongues of the satellite carriers are distributed to some 5,000 exiles in 52 countries outside the Soviet orbit. These bulletins, which average 100 pages each, are the only complete and unaltered source of information about their captive homelands (handlings) available to those who have escaped.

g. Radio Free Europe—budget for fiscal year 1953: 13,334,555 New York, 15,909,971 Germany, 11,201,795 Paris.

Radio Free Europe's main broadcasting studio and equipment is located in Munich, Germany. Broadcasting facilities are maintained also in New York, and there is a relay station in Portugal. ETE broadcasts an average of about 1,000 hours per week. Of this broadcasting time, 187½ hours are original programming, directed mainly to Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland. Broadcasts to Bulgaria, Romania, and Albania are prepared and relayed from New York. New York exercises policy control over ETE broadcasts through daily guidance and a teletype system between Munich and New York.

Radio Free Europe has its own information section to provide its broadcast materials. It has correspondents and offices in London, Paris, Stockholm, Berlin, Hamburg, Frankfurt, Salzburg, Vienna, Linz (Austria), Nuremberg (Austria), Graz (Austria), Rome, Trieste, Athens, and Istanbul. These offices produce an average of over one thousand reports per month. In addition, material for broadcasting comes from: 1) satellite press publications; 2) ETE's monitoring service of satellite and Russian broadcasts; 3) information from the Division of Political Relations, private letters, news service, the BBC, VOA, and others.
