Service Abroad Agreement.

I. General

It is understood that you agree to serve the period of service abroad prescribed in Section II below and that the Government is obligated to return you, your dependents, and your household and personal effects upon the satisfactory completion of this period. Your allowable expenses will be determined in accordance with Agency regulations.

If you terminate your permanent assignment outside the continental United States before you complete 12 months of creditable service following the date of your arrival abroad, you will be required to reimburse the Government for all expenses it incurs in the travel and transportation of you, your dependents, your household, and personal effects to your post. If you fail to complete your prescribed tour of duty abroad, you will not be entitled to the return travel and transportation of yourself, your dependents, and your household and personal effects to the United States. If, however, Agency officials determine that your early departure is necessary for official reasons, or for personal reasons of significant interest to the Government, they may waive the reimbursement of expenses already incurred, or authorize your return travel and transportation, whichever is applicable.

If eligible under the terms of MR 20-30, you will be granted home leave as soon as it can be arranged at Government convenience after completion of your prescribed tour of duty, provided you have served at least 18 months of continuous creditable service outside the United States. Home leave and home leave travel are contingent upon your willingness to return, and the concurrence by Agency officials that you will return to service outside the United States immediately after home leave or upon completion of an assignment in the United States.

You are advised that any monies due you from the Government may be applied in liquidation of any indebtedness arising from violation of this agreement. You will be afforded all normal recourse in appealing decisions made pursuant to this agreement.

Name of employee: Daniel Flores. 50 D.

II. Tour of Duty Abroad

1. Name of post of assignment: Currently Guayaquil (Gunyaquil), Ecuador, and next assignment: Lima, Peru.

2. Period of service abroad as prescribed in A, B, or C below.

A. Standard tour of duty of 24 months. X.

C. Nonstandard tour of duty of ______ months for this tour only for the employee signing this agreement. (See MR 20-19.) Requested (and attached). Operating official.

B. Nonstandard tour of duty of ______ months previously approved per MR 20-18. Operating official. [Signature] No. 1444 Pos.

Concur. Career service. [Signature] Deputy Director. Approved. Director of Personnel.

III. Per
