From: February 1944. Place of employment: Washington, D.C. Employer: OSS-R&A, East Asia Economics Section. Organization: U.S. Government. Employees supervised: 1 clerk typist. Immediate supervisor: G.H. Greene, Jr., section chief. Reason for leaving: Transfer to Far East. Position: Secretary to Section Chief. Duties: Responsible for performance and allocation of all secretarial and clerical duties pertaining to the work of the East Asia Economics Section; responsible for files, correspondence, periodic reports, etc. Salary: starting $1,800 per annum; final $1,800 per annum. Annual leave of 6 months, 30 days, and 90 days.

By: September 1944. Place of employment: Shanghai, China. Employer: War Department, OASW, Eq. SSU/CT. Organization: U.S. Government. Supervisors: Capt. Wayne Richardson, chief; Lt. Col. R.J. Delaney, CO. Reason for leaving: Deactivation of OSS SSU/CT. Position: Secretary and Chief Clerk. Duties: Responsible for secretarial and general administrative duties for R&A Branch after 1 October 1945; IRIS/State Department separate registry and document library; allocation of typing and clerical duties to EM clerks and typists; reproduction of R&A analytical reports and dissemination to the State Department, Washington, and appropriate consulates; prepared periodic reports to State, Washington, Consulate-General, Shanghai, and SSU/CT; requisitioning and accountability for expendable and non-expendable property for IRIS. Salary: starting $2,520 per annum; final $2,320 per annum. Annual leave of 6 months, 30 days, and 90 days.

Position: Secretary. Duties: Responsible for secretarial work and composing classified Order of Battle reports; set up biographical files of military personalities; spotted troop movements on situation maps. Salary: starting $2,320 per annum; final $2,430 per annum.

Position: Secretary. Duties: Responsible for secretarial work and composing classified Order of Battle reports; set up biographical files of military personalities; spotted troop movements on situation maps. Salary: starting $2,320 per annum; final $2,320 per annum.
