JAB-7-403

By this time devoting approximately half his time to our work. Since that time HUANGOID's main duties have been to act as cutout and direct those agents, with the exception of the low level penetration who was dropped in mid-1952. HUANGOID's most important single activity has been in debriefing the high-level penetration agent who he has been able to develop to a point where HUANGOID and this one agent constitute the most important assets of the station.

b. In the course of his operational duties, subject has proved himself to be very security conscious and to possess a degree of initiative which has impressed the station chief on more than one occasion. He has participated in setting up safecrates, was responsible for recruiting the two mail intercept agents, and has provided the facilities for photographing the material these two agents turn over to him for rapid processing and return to normal mail channels. Subject has recruited two additional agents, both of whom are presently being used, and carried out a cold recruitment attempt on a Communist which is still pending. HUANGOID participated in a technical surveillance operation in early 1951 during which he was in charge of the monitoring post together with an indigenous agent under his direction. The operation was blown after a short time due to circumstances beyond his control, which had no relation to the operation itself or the way in which he ran it. Extensive checking subsequently showed that he was not compromised and that his quick action prevented any discovery of the technical surveillance equipment itself. Most recently, HUANGOID surreptitiously entered the Communist Party headquarters in Costa Rica on May Day and carried off over 75% of the official records of the Party.

c. Subject is an expert photographer and at one time operated his own photography shop in San Jose. He is also fairly proficient inansking horse code, is trained in the use of firearms, and has studied and worked with charts and maps. He was trained in jungle warfare during eleven months in the Coli theater during the last war while with the Air Force. He is considered expert in writing reports. Subject has proved himself to be knowledgeable in the usual techniques of covert operations after four years of working in San Jose, and has proved to be invaluable to the station in spotting and/or recruiting additional agents.

d. HUANGOID is married to a Costa Rican woman and has two children. His wife is cognizant of his intelligence activities, and has aided him on several occasions. There are no indications that she has in any way compromised his security.

HAROLD KAPITON
