State telegram requesting priority cooperation of all Consular officers in providing entry permits for delegates, several cables expressing overall interest, and extraordinarily complete arrangements to cover the Congress by VOA. To accomplish this latter mission, VOA's special representative in Berlin made elaborate arrangements for rebroadcasting from New York.

III. The Sessions of the Congress

The Congress convened in Berlin on 26 June 1950 and consisted of more than 100 representatives of 16 nations. It was officially welcomed by the City of Berlin and was greeted with an outpouring of publicity in the European and American press.

The impact of the Congress on the press of Europe cannot be recorded fully at this time. Clippings and a complete operational report have not yet been received from the field. There are many known indications, however, that it was furiously opposed by the communist press. Soviet-sponsored papers and Radio Berlin denounced delegates as the rounds of Wall Street and even accused Congress members of setting fire to the House of Soviet Culture. The Congress was said

(1) Among the leading delegates: Great Britain—R. H. S. Crossman, MP, author, editor of New Statesman and Nation; Arthur Koestler, author; Herbert Read, art critic, poet, novelist. France—Henri Frenay, editor; Suzanne Lébin, author; André Malraux, author; Gabriel Marcel, philosopher; Andre Philip, professor of economics; Jules Romains, novelist. Germany—Franz Borkenau, historian and journalist; Anna Siemsen, educator; Carlo Schenk, political scientist and educator. USA—Sidney Hook, educator and philosopher; Irving Brown, labor leader; George Schuyler (Schmyler), editor; H. J. Mueller, professor of biology, Nobel Prize winner; A. M. Schlesinger, Jr., professor of history. Switzerland—François Bondy, editor; Wilhelm Roepke, sociologist and economist. Norway—Haakon Lie, labor leader. Italy—Ignazio Silone, novelist; Franco Lombardi, philosopher. Russia—Nicolai Andreyev, literary critic and lecturer; Boris Nikolaovsky, historian. Holland—Hendrik Brugmans, professor. Turkey—Alan Pambarac, journalist. Czechoslovakia—Karel Kupka, professor. Sweden—Ure Herman, poet and editor.
