Only when it is convenient for your foreign interests, however, do you find it politic to treat out some of your favorite blasts against the Banking regime, attacks which are almost always Pazilistoly offset by the mousetating callogles and blatant lies that follow.

Considered from your own point of view, Kearsa (Kearse), Editors, the murderer of these fronttown people should be brought to justice and made to pay for their crimes. But similarly from your own point of view, to what bar of justice should Chiang Kai-shek be brought, before what tribunes can we arraign the garrison commanders of Shanghai, Nanking, Hankow, the warlords of Shantung, Szechuen, Kwangtung and Manchuria for the lives they have taken in the perpetual wars they have waged on the people of China? On any principles of abstract justice, is the mass murder of thousands by the machine gun, the bomber, the rifle, the sword, the axe any more just than the furtive strangulation of nine hopeless relatives of a self-branded yellow ear? This perpetual warfare has been waged on the pretext of suppressing “banditry.” If this be so, we are confronted with the startling fact, vouched for and advertised by the government boasting the recognition of all foreign powers, that vast portions of the Chinese population are criminal! On its premises, Chiang Kai-shek & Co., backed by the cohorts of the Soong Monage (Soong Monarchy), swoop down on whole provinces, massacre thousands, take heavy tolls from the meagre life earnings of peasants and workers. And with all their guns and planes and hundreds of thousands of soldiers, they still fail to eradicate the “bandits.”

Who are the bandits, the robbers, the murderers?

Answer this question, Kearsa (Kearse), Editors—and answer it honestly if you dare:

Japan, in violation of so-called principles of justice, but in full accord with the lessons of history, is helping herself to a good slice of Continental Asia, allegedly part of the Nanking Government’s domain. Lacking the courage, the ability, the inclination to turn its guns on the invader, the Kuomintang sits in solemn conclave at Nanking and discusses further measures which, it hopes, will permit the extermination of new portions of China’s vast “criminal” population to progress more effectively.

Let us take some of the facts sporadically reported by your own and the Chinese press during May–December 1930. You reported 4,749 executions. From other, more meticulous sources are derived statistics which show that no less than 96,510 were executed during the last four months of 1930 alone! This figure sounds fabulous, doesn’t it? Yet for every digit there is somewhere in China a rotting corpse.

During the period following the close of the so-called “military” period of the Kuomintang in 1938 to
