Expelled, I'm not certain of the exact dates. She was also known to have slept around with almost every minister of the Tanganyikan government, including Julius Nyerere. This is one of the reasons why there was so much hush-hush about her: she had obviously gotten a lot of information out of these fellows. She was very close to Oscar Tambona and claimed that Oscar Tambona was going to get her back into the Foreign Ministry.

She was just Revolution's correspondent there. She did practically nothing. When she got out, she managed to keep her little office going. They didn't seize anything, and she turned over the mailing list of her Spearhead magazine to Revolution. Verges had paid her £1,000 as a deposit so she could do some work, but she really didn't do anything. Unlike Rosalind Ainslie, she turned over the unspent portion of that to Verges when she came to London. She wasn't interested in continuing her work with Revolution. Being Indian, of course, posed a problem for her with anything to do with the Chinese. She was very close to the Indian community, as anyone who looks through that mailing list will see. We have lots of missionary Indian businesses and so forth in East Africa who were taking subscriptions to the magazine more or less out of friendship and solidarity with another Indian. They didn't care much whether she was a Communist or not.

She was supposed to have been the mistress of Dr. Dadu. At least, they say she slept with Dr. Dadu and they had a very close relationship. Dr. Dadu is the president of the Indian Congress for South Africa and a member of the Communist Party of South Africa, a very important member. Because Indians—the Indian community has holdings up and down East Africa, including Mozambique—their role in the liberation struggle is very equivocal. Obviously, the Africans want to go ahead, while the Leasands Indians are thinking—what? Well, Africanization meant that the English used them as a sort of buffer, preferring to bring an Indian clerk to East Africa rather than to train an African. That was a typical colonial maneuver, but now it has put the Indians in a historically untenable situation for a long period. You know, people talk about multiracial states, but in East Africa it is a joke. It won't hold up. I don't think it will, anyway.
