“MVD Leadership, 1953-54: Asked to name the chiefs of the directorates and separate departments of the MVD under Beriya and Kruglov, Nosenko named nine out of 28. He was unable to name the Chief of the Intelligence Directorate, saying that he remembered only Sakharovskiy (Panyushkin was chief until 1955). Asked to name Kruglov's deputies, Nosenko named only Romashkov and Serov, and was ignorant of such prominent deputies as Lunev and Shatalin. Told that a Secretary of the Central Committee of the CPSU was one of Kruglov's deputies at this time (Shatalin), Nosenko flatly denied that this was possible.

“Organization of KGB: Nosenko did not know when the KGB was organized (March 1954). He said that it was in early 1955 or late 1954. Told that he was a year off and asked to think it over, Nosenko insisted that he was right.

“Processing Procedures for Employment with KGB: Nosenko's story about how he was processed for employment with the KGB in 1953 is inconsistent with the procedures used at that time. He does not know many of the things that he should know about entrance procedures; he is wrong about many of the things that he claims to remember. The disparities are so great that they cannot be explained (as Nosenko attempts to do) by the claim that Kobulov's recommendation resulted in a simplified entrance procedure for Nosenko.

“The most important document filled out by prospective employees of Soviet State Security is a detailed personal history questionnaire, called in Russian Anketa spetsialnogo naznacheniya sotrudnika KGB. This exhaustive questionnaire is 16 pages long, and filling it out is an experience that one is not likely to forget. A background investigation is run on the basis of this questionnaire, which itself becomes a permanent and prominent feature of the employee's personnel file. Nosenko remembers filling out a questionnaire, but does not know its designation. He asserts that it was only 4-6 pages long. He asserts that he filled it out at home, and submitted it in two copies shortly before entering on duty. Actually, this questionnaire was required in one copy only, and was never permitted to be taken home since it was a classified document (even when not filled in).

“Nosenko insists that he did not have to take a medical examination prior to entering the KGB. This is not possible. Such an examination was a routine and mandatory part of the processing. I cannot think of any instance in which it would be waived.”

* Deryabin's views are based on Nosenko's statements in August 1965. In his original biographical statement (1962), Nosenko said that no anketa was required. He implied as much in his most recent statement in April 1966, after being questioned by Deryabin. This statement is given in Part V.B.

**See remarks above concerning Nosenko's alleged treatment for tuberculosis from 1952 to 1958.**
