Conjunction U (CONINJUCTION U). Dispatch. OSMA-2041.

For employment, he learned that it was the National Biscuit Company. He was a master mechanic. He's an ingenious person and has invented several items on which he has patents. Although the years before, during and after the war were difficult, he had the foresight to put his meager savings in real estate. He moved to Florida in the early 50's, reportedly purchased two apartment buildings, but sold them after a year for a $15,000 loss and made some investments in land near the Cape Kennedy area. He was about to begin a multi-million dollar building project on the land, but the NASA complex was moved to Houston and he therefore cancelled his plans and sold the property. While he is not considered wealthy SAMKO lives quite comfortably in retirement. He has a Lincoln Continental in the garage and a home valued at about $50,000. Another of his complaints was the way we controlled his purse strings while in Madrid. We put him in a hotel used by many travel agencies which SACODER thought was comfortable, but SAMKO would have preferred the Hilton. He complained of the fact that he was dipping into his own money and was not happy with the idea of keeping receipts (aside from the hotel bills and the airline ticket, SAMKO probably did not keep any receipts). He was advanced $280 in Madrid which will be T/A'd to Miami. Miami should pick up his full tab and might consider buying him a case of scotch as a token of our appreciation for his accomplishments on the assignment, but PACHANKIS probably has learned that a couple of pats on SAMKO's back is sufficient to reward him.

10. Contact was again made with SAMKO on the eve of his possible luncheon engagement with AMAUTO-1. We again reviewed the objectives and he was given a defensive briefing as suggested by WH/Miami. He was told that PACHANKIS probably would not visit with him for about two weeks after his return and that he should not attempt to get in touch with PACHANKIS. He understood why this was necessary and agreed with the briefing. If a luncheon could be arranged, SAMKO was asked to concentrate on the following: (in addition to the requirements he was given before his first meet with AMAUTO-1)

A. Try to ascertain AMAUTO-1's future, his ambitions, his next possible assignment.

B. If possible engage him in a conversation regarding the United States to get his reaction toward our problems.

C. Build up your successes and reflect on how AMAUTO-1 might have achieved similar goals had he remained in the United States.

D. Be alert for any opening to inject questions relating to the Cuban economy vis-a-vis the failure of the "ten million", but to avoid criticism for this failure, and show sympathy.

11. SAMKO had no difficulty convincing the hotel management that he had to remain in the hotel until Saturday, 6 June. He spoke directly with the manager and told the manager that he was planning to leave on 7 June for Barcelona and would stay at a sister hotel and asked the manager to make reservations for him. The crisis had passed.
