Assisted the Station in its MIRAVEL program. As a part of the Station's effort to broaden GEREÑO'S horizons and to take better advantage of his capabilities, GEREÑO was made the handling officer for CEFAN-3 under close case officer supervision. Similar tasks are envisioned for GEREÑO in the future—agent handling as well as the spotting and assessment of operational leads. These tasks are all assigned with due regard for GERENDE's primary responsibilities, with the aim of getting the optimum use out of a capable and experienced field contract agent.

E. Overall Effectiveness

As outlined above, each individual operational component of the LIEMPTY Project, with the exception of the phased-out LIMITED basehouse, contributed regularly and significantly to the fulfillment of Station Mexico City's operational program. Based on the continued excellent performance of Project personnel and the overall contributions of this Project, the Station strongly recommends that this Project be continued during the forthcoming Project year as an essential element of the Station's operational support apparatus.

4. Problems and Security

During the Project year under review there were no known incidents which adversely affected the security of Project LIEMPTY or the related personnel. The termination of LIEMPTY-9 caused no problems, nor did the construction of a maid's room on the roof of the LICALLA installation, adjacent to LIEMPTY-9's photo point. There is no indication that FJSTEAL personnel had any suspicions about the construction work. The exposure of a LIEVBRACE surveillance vehicle (see MEXICO CITY #283, 28 February 1979) caused momentary concern because the vehicle had been bought from a dealer where LIEMPTY-9 has a part-time job. Along with all other employees of the auto dealer, LIEMPTY-9 was questioned about the purchaser of the car. While LIEMPTY-9 was worried because he knew the purchaser of the car and was able to guess what had happened, the investigation was dropped and the case closed without any adverse effect on LIEMPTY-9 or the LICALLA basehouse.

5. Liaison and Inter-Agency Coordination

Not applicable to Project LIEMPTY.

6. Plans

A. The changes made in the period under review have been largely technical. With the exception of a continued expansion of
