Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II — Operational Information. PRQ AC. Instructions to Case Officer. Dispatch No. FEMA 21557.

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless the requestor furnishes answers to all questions in Parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of PR 10-215, paragraphs 8a, g, 12a and 12b. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in PR 10-215.

3. Three copies of PR Part I, including a copy in the subject's handwriting if possible, and two completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PR format in two copies.

5. Fill in all items of information obtainable. If an item is not applicable, write “NA.” If additional space is required for an item, use the reverse side of the envelope and refer to the appropriate item number.

1. Cryptonym: LITAMIL-9. 2. Pseudonym.

Contact and Development.

Indicate how, when, where, why, and by whom subject was first contacted or developed.

Case Officer Clyde I. SHIRTOCK was introduced to Subject on 18 July 62 by LITAMIL-3, who was recovering from a gallstone operation in the hospital. The CO made contact with the subject, a resumption of which was done at penetration of the FERNHORN Embassy in Mexico. See MEXI 1467 regarding initial meeting.

Indicate whether subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

Subject could be turned over to any responsible Case Officer, particularly one with a speaking knowledge of Spanish. Subject speaks English and French as well as Spanish.

List other case officers who have handled subject or from whom he ranks or has known; give names by which they have been known.

Subject knows Clyde I. SHIRTOCK, his Case Officer, by true name. SHIRTOCK will introduce Laurence F. MARKER to Subject during the week of 16 June 1963.
