2. Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties.

Directions: a. State in the present letter of place and a general specific duties. Perform the same rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties. b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty. c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty. Do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only. d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility. e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

1. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are: oral briefing; has and uses area knowledge; conducts interrogations; giving lectures; develops new programs; prepares summaries; conducting seminars; analyzes industrial reports; translates German; writing technical reports; manages files; offlining sources; conducting external liaison; operates radio; keeps doors; typing; coordinates with other offices; drives truck; taking dictation; writes regulations; maintains air conditioning; supervising; prepares correspondence; evaluates significance of data.

Mail Room.

Specific Duty No. 1: Scans Soviet documents for intelligence material on a wide range of technical fields. Rating number 5.

Specific Duty No. 4: Maintains technical files. Rating number 5.

Rating numbers 4, 5, and 6. Rating numbers 5, 6, and 7.

3. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Directions: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job. Works hard. Reads Russian rapidly and looks out for material of interest to others as he scans. Is adaptable and flexible and handles several different technical fields with equal facility. Can tackle almost any subject without previous experience and turn out a good job. His native knowledge of Russian is of considerable benefit to the whole section. Selects the salient points from masses of useless or repetitive material with intelligent judgment, and compiles reports which are pointed and concise. His only deficiency of any consequence is the slight awkwardness and occasional lack of clarity in his written English style. His English has improved considerably during the past two years, but sometimes the failure to use the most precise term or the right connective complicates for the reader a conception which is perfectly clear to the writer.

Section O.

Suitability for Current Job in Organization.

Directions: Take into account here everything you know about the individual—productivity, conduct in the job, pertinent personal characteristics or habits, special defects or talents—and how he fits in with your team. Compare him with others doing similar work of about the same level.

Rating number 5. 1. Definitely unsuitable—he should be separated. 2. Of doubtful suitability—would not have accepted.
