Received.

2K 18-106. Non-president Louis E. Cullum. Full name and home/business address references. Business or occupation: Banker; Judge; Broker; Not employed.

References: Jones Gilly, Jr., Vice President, Whitney National Bank, New Orleans, Louisiana. Judge H. T. Testorfield, Court of Appeals, New Court House Building, New Orleans, Louisiana. Fred N. Ogden, American Bank Building, New Orleans, Louisiana.

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character and qualities? Yes / No.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by crossing X in the proper column. Yes. No.

Are you a citizen of the United States? X.

Do you advertise or have you ever advertised, or are you now or have you ever been an officer of any corporation that advertises merchandise at the agreement of the United States by force or influence? Yes / No.

Within the past 12 months, have you habitually used intoxicating drugs, tobacco, or alcohol? X.

Since your birth have you ever been convicted of armed robbery, etc.; or, if not convicted, have you ever been charged with such crime for the commission of any law enforcement or ordinance, excluding minor traffic violations for which a fine of $5 or less was imposed? Yes / No.

Have you received any penalty or forfeiture for misconduct or misconduct in service from any position? Yes / No.

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 38 the name and address of employer, and state the reason in each case.

Do you receive any currency from the U.S. or D.C. Government under any government act, or any pension or other compensation for military or civil service? Yes / No.

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Part 38 the reason for retirement, that is, age, disability, or voluntary or involuntary separation or other reason; amount of retirement pay; and time until retirement, act, and rating, if retired from military or civil service.

Are you an official or employee of any state, territory, county, or municipality? Yes / No.

If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 39.

Did the U.S. Government pay in cash or otherwise any relative of yours, by death or marriage, with whom you live or have lived within two years prior to death? Yes / No.

Have you served in the U.S. Army, Navy, or Marine Corps? Yes / No.

Are you a disabled veteran? Yes / No.

Are you the unmarried widow of a veteran? Yes / No.
