3.

On 13 December, Logvinov came unannounced to Subject's office and proposed an immediate talk on Jewish radiochemistry. The Soviet presented Subject with four bottles of radon for Christmas and began asking Subject a series of personal questions: “How had Subject left Poland for Paris after World War I—had his documentation been legal or illegal?” Subject answered that it was illegal. “How was he able to enter Paris—did he have a valid French visa?” Subject said he did. “How long did he stay in Paris?” Subject said a few months. “Was he released from service until the Polish [U.S.]?” Subject said yes. “Were there any conditions to this release?” Subject said no. “Was he supposed to be contacted by the Poles?” Subject said yes, and related the story of how he was contacted in Mexico in March 1954 by a Polish diplomatic courier who brought a letter from Subject's old boss in the U.S., and how Subject answered that letter. Had Subject's response to the Polish [Polans] been positive or negative? Subject said neutral. Asked why, Subject replied that he believed that eighty percent of the Poles were anti-Soviet. Logvinov said, “You are right.”

JOFA

Logvinov asked how Subject was getting along with the American airlines he had left with. Subject said he was fine, and asked why. Logvinov said that maybe, if Subject had the chance, he could learn the name of the director of the airline in Mexico. Subject told Logvinov that he was not really to think that Subject could get that information. When Logvinov persisted in knowing whether Subject would tell the Soviets if he did get that information, Subject dismissed the topic with a soft “maybe.”

Subject promised to show Logvinov the documents that backed up his answers to Logvinov's (Loginov's) questions.

On either 30 or 31 December, Fyodor Yatskov dropped by Subject's office to give him some gifts he had brought back from Moscow. Comment: Subject had done Yatskov a favor during the Soviet's travel to Moscow by arranging for Subject's travel abroad in Paris to assist Yatskov. Yatskov expressed greatfulness (gratefulness) to Subject and presented him with a bottle of cigars, according to some sources, a decorative box, and 250 rans of paper. Yatskov, who no longer held the post of Soviet Consul in Mexico and was a possible candidate for the KGB salary list, told Subject that he was also grateful for what Subject had done for “them,” and to be sure that Subject would not leave “them” alone in the realization of their common ideals. Yatskov further stated that he and Subject had very much in common and that they should meet. It was left that Yatskov would call Subject.

B. Subject, i.e., No City State:

The C/O met Subject at his office on 22 November 1966 to discuss with him the results of his trip to Moscow (see paragraph 3 A. above). In addition to providing information on his contacts with Moskowitz, Subject gave incidental information concerning a female Soviet Jew he met and the anti-American attitude of a travel grant from Chile.

On 8 December, in Subject's office, Subject reported to the C/O about the brief contacts he had had with Frithedoro and Logvinov on 3 and 8 December. The C/O, in response to a Station request, reopened with Subject the topic of Jewish community support that Secretary of Government Scheuermann is alleged to have sought in his candidacy for the next president of Mexico. Subject relayed again the story of how Jacobo Salazar-Ortega had come to visit Subject, including the fact that Subject was being proposed as one of the five influential members of the Jewish community for Scheuermann, plus Secretary Ortega did not function as the others. The C/O requested that Subject check further with Scheuermann when he had the opportunity.
