ARAUJO, León (continued)

He attended the 1st of May Parade in the company of the Socialist Physicians. Reference: Newspaper “Revolución,” 2 May 1963 edition, page 5.

White race. Older than 45 years old. Born in Cuba at No. 1010 Forty First Street, Nuevo Vedado Residential Section. It is understood that at present he is in the United States. He belongs to the medical profession. He belonged to the staff of the “Centro Benéfico Jurídico de Trabajadores de Cuba” (a hospital catering to workers), which belongs to the “Partido Comunista” (Communist Party). He was on record in the “B.R.A.C.” (Bureau for Reprisals Against Communist Activities).

Reference: Report No. 00-124, agent ( ), 7 May 1963.

Travels Havana (Habana)–Mexico on 6/21/63. Passport 62-631. Diplomat. Reference: “Alegre” passenger list.

Doctor. President of the National Medical College and professor of the Medical School of the University of Havana. Reference: Newspaper “HIY,” 20 February 1964, page 5.

President of the National Managing Committee of the National Medical College. Reference: Newspaper “El Mundo,” 3 March 1964, page 8.

Doctor. He was in the presidency of an event held at the “Instituto de Ciencias Básicas y Pre Clínicas ‘Victoria de Ciron’” (“Victoria de Ciron” [Ciron Victory] for Basic and Pre-Medical Sciences), where on 11 March a legacy was offered to Dr. Enrique CABEERA, a Mexican physician who died in Moscow. Reference: Newspaper “El Mundo,” 12 March 1964.

Doctor. President of the National Medical College. The remains of the Cuban physician, Dr. Tomas Ronay, were moved from the Colon Cemetery to a special crypt in the “Museo Histórico de Ciencias Médicas” (Medical Sciences History Museum); he took part in a honor guard beside the remains.

Reference: Newspaper “El Mundo,” 31 March 1964, page 1.

Doctor. President of the National Medical College. Yesterday evening he received a group of visiting Soviet physicians on the premises of the National Medical College. Reference: Newspaper “MIY,” 22 April 1964, page 5.
