FBI Told of Chilean Plot to Use Cubans to Kill Allende

By Joe Crankshaw  
The Miami Herald

Miami—The Chilean secret police last February attempted to recruit two alleged Cuban exile terrorists to assassinate the nephew of Chile's late presumed Marxist President Salvador Allende, a ranking South American intelligence official told U.S. authorities.

The intelligence official, Ricardo Morales of the Venezuelan secret police, told FBI contacts that Chile's secret police (DINA) sought the assassination of both Andres Pascal Allende and his companion, Anne Marie Brussier, according to documents made available to The Miami Herald.

Morales, himself a Cuban exile, said the DINA plot, which was never carried out, was reported to him by Rosario Otero, who currently faces trial in Miami on 30 felony charges related to nine terrorist bombings here.

Suspicions of Chilean secret police involvement in plots against political exiles have been widely expressed in certain circles. This was the first reported instance of an allegation to the FBI by a high-ranking intelligence official suggesting complicity of the Chilean intelligence service in political assassination activities. Morales had himself been associated with the Central Intelligence Agency and FBI as an operative and informant after fleeing Cuba following Castro's acquisition of power.

At the time of Morales' report to the FBI, Otero was a fugitive from a Miami federal grand jury indictment related to the bombings. He was subsequently acquitted of that charge earlier this year at a federal trial in Jacksonville.

Morales quoted Otero as saying DINA had attempted to recruit both Otero and Orlando Bosch for the assassination. Bosch was charged in Venezuela last week with first-degree murder in the sabotage of a Cuban airliner that claimed 73 lives.

Morales quoted Otero as saying DINA offered arms and funds to Cuban exile groups.

Otero refused to do the “favor,” left Chile and told the Latin American intelligence official on February 15, then returned to Santiago. He was arrested two weeks later and held until he was handed over to the United States in May.

Bosch was arrested entering Costa Rica with a false passport on February 19. He was charged with plotting to kill U.S. Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, Andres Pascal Allende and Anne Marie Brussier.

No trial was held and Bosch was later deported. He returned to Santiago and apparently remained there until going to the Caribbean area to organize CORU, a militant anti-Castro group which claimed credit for the Cuban airliner bombing last month.

Morales made the reports to the FBI in an exchange of intelligence with U.S. officials about exiled terrorists' plots.

An FBI spokesman in Washington said Monday the bureau would have no comment on the reported DINA plot. FBI officials in Caracas had no comment on the case in response to independent inquiries by The Washington Post.

Information on alleged DINA Cuban exile conspiracy against the surviving Allende family and government members was suppressed during the federal bombing trial of Otero in Jacksonville in September 1978.

When Otero started to testify about his activities in Chile, government prosecutors objected that the information was immaterial to the bombing charges.

Otero was found innocent of federal charges that he placed bombs at Miami International Airport in October, and at the Miami FBI office, Social Security Office, State Unemployment Office, two post offices, a bank, the Dade State Attorneys Office and the Miami Police Department Headquarters on December 3–4.

His trial on related state charges was to begin here Monday but was ordered postponed until after the beginning of the year and transferred to Pensacola.

Otero remained in Florida until late December 1975, when he was told by an FBI informant that the FBI was preparing to have him indicted on the bombing charges.

Otero then went to the Dominican Republic, where he was arrested, then paroled to the custody of Admiralhtar de Windt, father-in-law of Frank Castro, an Otero friend.

When a Miami federal grand jury returned indictments against Otero in the bombing, Otero fled to Caracas.

Otero had $50 in his pocket when he landed in Venezuela, according to information in FBI reports. He stayed with Morales, a former Cuban political police agent and anti-Castro exile then working with the Venezuelan secret police.

Information contained in the reports alleges that Otero was told that if Venezuelan authorities moved to arrest him, he could receive aerobus with the new Chinese ambassador.

While in Caracas, Otero allegedly told Morales that he had executed the bombers in Miami, except for the Miami police department explosion. He said he knew who placed that bomb. Morales sent the information to the FBI.

In early February, Otero fled to Santiago, according to the intelligence reports in the hands of investigators.

Otero told Morales, whom he believed would help in an exiled plot against Castro later this year, that after arriving in Santiago, he went to DINA (DIXA) headquarters and identified himself.
