Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Employee returned to duty with the Agency in September 1962 after completing a tour of military duty. At that time he was assigned to TFW/CI. Although employee expressed a desire to work in operations at that time, he agreed to perform the duties outlined in Section B. He was called upon to perform these duties because of the dire need within TFW/CI for someone with his talents to establish and manage Branch systems for mail routing-control and files. Employee was promised an operational assignment as soon as the systems were established and functioning in an orderly and efficient manner. Employee has performed his duties exceptionally well and has established systems for mail routing-control and files for the Branch, which are functioning well. It is strongly recommended that this employee be assigned to duties of an operational nature and relieved from his present duties as soon as possible. Employee has the capability of assuming more and greater responsibility.

Certification and Comments. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 2. Signature of employee: Joseph L. Bass.

By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Months employee has been under my supervision: 5 months. Official title of supervisor: C/TFW/CI. Typed or printed name and signature: Victor Wallen.

3. Comments of reviewing official: This employee gives promise of continued professional growth.

Date: 21 February 1963. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, SAS Bruce D. Choever.
