e. Marina Rytova:

Marina Rytova was turned over to Nosenko by I.A. Konstantinov of the Tourist Department in 1956 or 1957. At that time she was working as an interpreter at the Russian Permanent Exhibition in Moscow. In 1960 or 1961 she became an instructor of the Greek language at the Institute of International Relations, and some time in 1962 she got a job at the school of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Thereafter she ceased all agent work. Nosenko was officially registered as her case officer until his defection in 1964. He did not indicate that Rytova took part in any operations from January 1962 until she began work for the Central Committee.

4. Approach to W.E. Johnson

a. Nosenko's Information:

Nosenko first referred to his approach to the American tourist Wallace Everett Johnson on 11 June 1962. He did not name Johnson at this time: “In January of this year I recruited an American. I cannot remember his name. He is from California, a Baptist, a young guy, healthy, somewhat fat, and he turned out to be a homosexual.* He loved men. I have an agent network capable of anything and, in particular, although I head a section there, I have a good agent apparatus, i.e., I have beautiful girls... and I have young pederasts, homosexuals. In particular, I have one special pair /Volkov and Yefremov/—I'm afraid that they are known to you and the English... Here is what happened. He gave me a signature. I told him: ‘Write it yourself.’ So he typed it on a typewriter. I said: ‘No, I don't want it typed. Write it out longhand.’... He had a very reactionary attitude toward the Soviet Union. His attitude was such that he insulted us terribly. He visited Baptist groups, churches and... insulted us, Russia, and the government horribly. He sent letters, and we read them all—awful letters, i.e., the government is lousy and everything here is poor. I said to him: ‘Write, damn it, that the best country in the world is the Soviet Union, that the best government is the Soviet Government. Write, write.’ In general he did everything I asked but then, right away, he ran to the Embassy and told everything. This was in January of this year 1962. He told everything. I know that he told. But he gave me his signature that he would help the Soviet security organs, etc. I know this. I was there. I decided to go to the hotel where he was staying. I sat down and waited. Surveillance was on the job. ‘Tell me when he comes,’ I ordered. I sat down. ‘He has come,’ the surveillance team reported. ‘Where is he?’ I asked. ‘In his room,’ they said. ‘We'll wait,’ I replied. They reported that he had gone to eat in the restaurant and I went there at once. He was sitting alone. I approached him: ‘Hello, how are you?’ I didn't say anything to him. I knew that he had told everything in the Embassy. I said: ‘How are you? How about our connection in the States? And our work in the States? What do you think about it?’ I said to him: ‘Will you work? Can you give us something important or not?’ He answered: ‘I have nothing.’ I said: ‘And if I

* Other sources, personal acquaintances of Johnson, have reported Johnson's having homosexual tendencies.
