(a) If the employee remains in the USA, then according to his or her current contract of employment, he will be entitled to a leave of absence from the country of his or her usual residence. The employee must submit to the appropriate authority in the USA for approval to travel overseas. Any leave of absence will be subject to approval by the relevant American authorities before it can be approved.

(b) If the employee is required to terminate between the eleventh and twenty-fourth month from the date of his arrival at his own request of duty, he shall pay all expenses for the travel and transportation of himself, his immediate family, household goods, and personal effects to the United States.

(c) If deemed necessary by the USA, the employee may be reimbursed or allowed funds for operational expenses. Such reimbursement must be advanced after the expenditure is made in accordance with CIA regulations, which require a full accounting of the amounts extended by the employee. Therefore, the employee will be required to account fully for any such funds advanced in accordance with CIA regulations.

Article III. Overseas Allowance and Transportation Expenses.

When specifically authorized by the ADSO, the expense of travel and transportation of the employee, his immediate family, household goods, and other allowances will be paid by the employee in accordance with the Foreign Service Act of 1948 and regulations issued thereunder by the Department of State. When authorized by the ADSO, the employee shall be paid a courier's allowance, cost-of-living allowance, or special foreign living allowance in accordance with the Foreign Service Act of 1948 and regulations issued thereunder. The amount of the courier's allowance, cost-of-living allowance, and special foreign living allowance is set forth in Budget Circular A-8, as amended periodically to reflect adjustments in living costs. This circular was promulgated to explain and authorize these allowances to all employees.

Article IV. Annual and Sick Leave.

The employee will be entitled to annual leave, sick leave, and leave of absence in accordance with Title II of Part D of the Foreign Service Act of 1948. Under such Act, the employee may be granted not to exceed fifty calendar days of annual leave of absence with pay in each year. Annual leave which the employee does receive and which is not used in any one year shall be accumulated for subsequent years until it totals 780 days. Sick leave with pay may be granted to the employee at the rate of fifteen calendar days each calendar year and may be reaccumulated for successive years until it reaches 1,580 days.

(d) If the employee is transferred from another government agency to this institution, pay as follows: Upon transfer to this station, if the employee is being transferred on assignment, in accordance with B.O. 2693, 27 March 1947, he is to be promoted to Section A-6 of the Foreign Service Act of 1948.

(e) Article 9, Relocation in United States. The employee is entitled to the benefits set forth in Law No. 2 of the Republic of China on transfer upon completion of ten years' continuous service, i.e., no pay for transportation thereafter.
