Garden of Eve!

Eve Arden Offers a Toast—to Life! To Life! at Polynesian Gardens.

You'll like our people, you'll like our thatched huts and waterfall, and you'll love our Million-Dollar Recreation Building.

Lanai Garden Apartments; spa-type health club; Blue Lagoon pool; theatre ballroom; luau and barbecue area; rooftop golf; billiard room; card room; tennis courts; bowling alleys.

Polynesian Gardens, in beautiful suburban Plantation—and Plantation is to Florida what Scarsdale (Searsdale) is to New York, and Lincolnwood is to Chicago. Broward Boulevard to 69th Avenue. Turn north to Model Apartments. Open daily until 6 P.M.

Within minutes of 14 outstanding golf courses and walking distance to the beautiful Plantation Golf Course, close to fishing and boating.

Luxurious one- and two-bedroom apartments priced from $23,900 to $36,900. Terms to suit.

Condominium apartments. Plantation, Florida. Just west of Ft. Lauderdale. Phone: (305) 791-4400. In Miami, call 947-5776.

Tropic. The Miami Herald Sunday Magazine. July 1, 1973. Vol. 7, No. 25.

The cover: Arms dealer Mitchell Livingston WerBell III lies in an odd (OOD) world of guns and intrigues. Among the guns is his briefcase with a built-in machine gun that fires whenever the right button is pushed. Among the intrigues is his present preoccupation with what happens to Abaco when the Bahamas goes independent this month. For the full story (tail store), turn to page 18. Photograph by John Pineda.

Features: 8, When Kids Are Allergic to Their Parents—the treatment they call “parentectomy.” 12, The Real Exorcist—Father Nicola vs. the Devil. 18, Powder Keg at Powder Springs—Mitchell WerBell's call to arms. 26, Meatloaf Man Meets Peking Duck—creating your own Chinatown.

Departments: 4, Humor. 7, People, Etc. 29, Crossword Puzzle.

John Parkyn, Editor. Richard D. Smith, Rotogravure Manager. John Dorschner, Assistant Editor. Allen Pierleoni, Articles Editor. John E. Davidson, Art Director.

Advertising Office telephone: 350-7818.

Represented nationally by Knight Advertising Sales, Inc. and Metropolitan Sunday Newspapers, Inc.

Contents of Tropic copyright 1973 by The Miami Herald Publishing Co., a division of Knight Newspapers, Inc. Tropic is a trademark registered in the U.S. Patent Office by The Miami Herald Publishing Co. Published every Sunday at 1 Herald Plaza, Miami, Fla. 33101. While every care is taken, no responsibility is accepted for the damage or loss of manuscripts or photos submitted.
