Section XXIV: Additional Information.

Do you advocate or make yourself, or anyone else, vulnerable, or become associated with an act of force, violence, or homicide committed against the United States? Yes. No.

If you have answered “yes” to the above question, explain.

Do you use or have you ever used inhalants? Yes. If so, to what extent?

Do you use or have you ever used narcotics? Yes. If so, to what extent?

Have you ever been a member of, or supported or made any connections with, a foreign intelligence organization or its activities? Yes. No. If answer is “yes,” give complete details.

List below the names of government departments, agencies, or offices for which you have applied for employment since 1980. I served 4 years in the United States Marine Corps.

If, to your knowledge, any of the above have conducted an investigation of you, indicate the name of the agency and the approximate date of the investigation. An investigation (I do not know by whom) was conducted prior to my departure for Bolivia, where I was attached to the American Embassy. This investigation took place during August and September of 1958.

Note: Special instructions. If your answer is “yes” to the following Questions 10, 11, or 12, provide the information requested for each question on a separate, signed sheet and attach the sheet to this form in a sealed envelope.

10. Have you, or to your knowledge has your spouse, ever been detained, arrested, indicted, or compromised for any violation of the law other than a minor traffic violation in the United States or abroad? Yes. No.

If so, state name of court, city, state, country, date, nature of offense, and disposition of case in accordance with the special instruction above.

11. Have you ever been arrested, court-martialed, or otherwise punished under military law or criminal law in this state? If so, describe incident and provide date(s) of occurrence on a separate sheet in accordance with special instructions above. Yes. No.

12. Are there any unfavorable incidents in your life, not mentioned above, which may be discovered in subsequent investigations, whether involved directly or not,
