They have some people in Algeria. They may even have persuaded the Algerians to train some people. I don't know, but they were trying.

Actual editorial policy of the magazine—

When I was at the magazine, I selected the articles as I chose. In the English edition, with very few exceptions, almost everything was translated. Then there was a hiatus when there was no French edition. Then I was completely on my own.

While there was a French edition, all I had to do was pick out and translate. Basically, it was a translation.

Vergès strangely has very little concern about what goes into his magazine. He doesn't write, and he doesn't even care terribly much.

Man Lan, former professor of philosophy who taught at the Lycée, has connections with Trotskyist groups. He is now suspected by the Chinese group on the fringe of the Communist Party of being a Trotskyist agent. Certainly, he is a person who has had and maintains extremely close ties with Trotskyist groups, particularly the so-called Lambert group.

He is probably in his thirties. Married to a French woman, from whom he was separated.

His route was from Vietnam to Algeria. He never went to Algeria. He can't leave France because he has no passport. He has been in France for 12–15 years. He came at the end of the forties or early fifties, in the forties, after the war.

He finished lycée in France and went to the Sorbonne, where he received a doctorate in philosophy and sociology. He is quite brilliant. He went into the French Communist Party. I don't think he was in the Communist Party in Vietnam, but he was connected to the Communist Party. In France, they have an organizational structure and also have prominent permanent people. I think he was one of the leaders.

He was at one time to write a book on Vietnam, “Vietnam depuis Dien Bien Phu,” published by Maspero (Haspero). The title is now being translated into English and will be published in the United States within a month or so by Monthly Review Press. This represents the most cogent thought line that one could put up for the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam.

This is the soft position. It is not the Chinese position. It is an equal-coexistence position, where they don't talk about socialist revolution. They didn't even talk about taking power, but about coalition and neutralization.

He wrote it in ’63. It has been updated with a new chapter. He does not still remain within the Communist Party. Neither expelled nor did he leave, but just inactive. He was a member of the economic commission of the party. When he was in the party, he was a member of the colonial examination commission.

He has much less imagination than Vergès, does not have the verve, and certainly has none of the gambling instinct. He is a hack, is very cautious, and wants to protect his situation. For quite some time he has been going to see Maspero (Haspero) after each issue of his magazine comes out to say how good it is, etc.

He thought “Revelation” was a great surprise to us all, and it was a good one. Maspero (Haspero) told Andersson, and Andersson told Maspero (Haspero) that he launched a terrible campaign against him.

Complex person, numerous ties.
