Training Evaluation—Clerical Induction.

Section I: Identifying Information. Name of student: Flores, Daniel. Sex: M. Dates of attendance: 19–23 March 1962. Part: Full. Date of birth: 4 August 1935. TOOD date: 12 March 1962. Title and grade: File Clerk GS-4.

Section II: Characteristics of the Course. Each course subject is taught daily for a 5-day period. Students who do not meet Agency standards in shorthand and/or typewriting within this 5-day period receive further instruction in an attempt to meet the established qualifications. The second week of geography instruction is given to students who have not been assigned to their positions. It is possible that not all students will be assigned to every course subject.

Section III: Objectives. To meet the typing writing criterion based on the scale on the reverse of this page. (For qualification, students must meet this requirement once.)

To take dictation at 80 words a minute for 3 minutes and to transcribe with 5 or fewer errors in not more than 20 minutes. (For qualification, students must meet this requirement once.)

To recognise errors in grammar and in punctuation and capitalization.

To study the politics and the geography of countries of Europe and Asia. (These continents are covered in alternate weeks.)

To receive instruction in typing of reproduction masters, making treasures, caring for the typewriter, and utilizing typing shortcuts.

To become familiar with the system of filing as outlined in the Agency's “Handbook for Subject Filing.”

Section IV: Qualification in Skills. Typewriting: RPM 144; PROGRS 15; RET 29; Not qualified: X. Shorthand: RPM 144; PROGRS 15.

Section V: Ratings. Agency samples of students' ratings indicate the percentage distribution as noted below. This trainee's rating is marked by the asterisk.

Grammar: Poor 4%; Fair 10%; Satisfactory 51%; Excellent 27%.

Punctuation and Capitalization: Poor 26%; Fair 27%; Satisfactory 41%; Excellent 12%.

Excellent—thorough knowledge of material presented and above-average performance in meeting course goals.

Satisfactory—average knowledge of material presented and adequate performance in meeting course goals.

Fair—borderline
