Other Information of Bernardo Nievares, of Havana, known by “Berry,” on Military Intelligence.

Proclaims having knowledge that in the place known as “La Puntilla,” at the mouth of the Almendares River, there exist large quantities of antiaircraft batteries, among them “4 barrels,” and other major types.

They have also observed large quantities of antiaircraft artillery in the “Cubanacan” development, along the coast, in front of Villanueva University. This same type has also been observed along the coast of Baracoa, Barlovento (Barlevento) development, where they have “4 barrels” and other pieces of major size.

At the Hotel National of Havana, they changed the “4-barrel” antiaircraft guns to long-range antiaircraft cannons.

Between the towns of Bahia Honda and Cabañas (Cebanas), there is a tank camp where it is calculated there are about 300 tanks of various sizes.

He professes to have knowledge that on the road which goes from La Rotonda of Guanabo to the road to Guanabacoa, there is a Russian camp where there is a large amount of “rockets.” It is believed they are long-range by their size, since they did not see this size at the last military parade held in Havana.

On 23 January 1964, 28 trailers with this type of cargo were seen on this road; this took place around dawn.

He states: “Below I list the various acts of sabotage committed by ‘MIB’ in Havana Province:

At the “Josefita” central in Nueva Paz, Havana Province, a piece of steel was put into the sugarcane grinder, causing great damage.

In the towns of Nueva Paz (Nueve Paz), Palos, and San Nicolas de Bari, in Havana Province, they caused 10 rows, causing large losses; all this in the month of January. In the month of February they produced 18 fires at the municipal terminal of San Nicolas, Alquízar, Quivicá (Quivica), and Güines (Guineas), also in Havana Province; and lastly, between the 2nd and 3rd of March, the “MIB” carried out 9 fires between San Nicolas de Bari and Nueva Paz, destroying more than 300,000 arrobas of sugar cane according to the proper local authorities.
