Section XXIV — Additional Information.

1. Do you advocate or have you ever advocated, or are you a deemed or have you ever been a member of, or have you ever supported or been associated with any political party, group or organization which advocates or teaches the overhold of the Government of the United States by force of violence or other unconstitutional means or sections by force or violence to deny persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States?

2. If you have answered “yes” to the above question, explain. NA.

3. Do you use or have you ever used inhalants? Yes. No. 4. If so, to what extent? Very moderately.

5. If so, to what extent? NA.

7. Have you ever been a member of, or supported, or had any connections with a foreign intelligence organization or its activities? No. If answer is “yes,” give complete details.

8. List below the names of government departments, agencies or offices to which you have applied for employment since 1940. Asst. Chief Staff Intel. Pentagon, Wash. D.C.

9. If to your knowledge, any of the above have conducted an investigation of you, indicate the name of the agency and the approximate date of the investigation. Asst. Chief of Staff for Intell., date of investigation 1950.

Note special instructions: If your answer is “yes” to the following Questions 10, 11 or 12, provide the information requested for each question on a separate, signed sheet and attach the sheet to this form in a sealed envelope.

10. Have you, or to your knowledge has your spouse, ever been detained, arrested, indicted or convicted for any violation of the law, other than a minor traffic violation in the United States or abroad? Yes. No.

If so, state name of court, city, state, country, date, nature of offense and disposition of case in accordance with the special instruction above.

11. Have you ever been arrested, court-martialed or otherwise punished under military law or regulation? If so, describe incident(s) and provide date(s) of occurrence on separate sheet in accordance with special instructions above. Yes. No.

12. Are there any unfavorable incidents in your life, not mentioned above, which may be discovered in subsequent investigation, whether you were directly involved or not, which might require explanation if so. Describe incident(s) and provide date(s) of occurrence.
