Continuation of Dispatch. Dispatch Symbol and Number: HUUA-36184.

Intensified. They did not hide that their purpose was to broadcast LIRING-3's name and the fact that a Mexican had joined their fight. This was apparently to appeal to the Mexican left and gain their support. While LIRING-3 has declared himself ready to go back to Guatemala (if this was what ROWTON wanted him to do), he did not need ROWTON to decide that broadcasting his name from the jungles of Guatemala was not a thing he wanted anyone to do. At Station directive, LIRING-3 pointed out that after his recent imprisonment he had to take care of his wife before doing any more for the cause. The best way to do this was to take LIRING-4 to PERUMEN and leave her with relatives. This led LIRING-3 to ask what, if anything, he could do for the FAR in Mexico. So far, however, his FAR friends have not risen to the bait.

2. Forwarded under separate cover as attachment #2 are the following documents:

a. A copy of a letter from Oscar Moises BOLDAN Espinoza. (201-5M2 And)

b. A translation and a copy of a letter, dated December 1968, from Marta BARRIOS. Sex: F.

c. Translations and copies of letters from Marta BARRIOS to LIRING-3 and LIRING-4 dated 29 December and from “Violeta” dated 17 November.

d. Copies of two letters and two postcards received by LIRING-3 from Rafael and Rigoberto ARAGENTA Alvarado dated 10 December (see ROWTON'S report of 19 December).

e. A copy of the letter sent by LIRING-3 to Carlos PERZABAL Marcue with copies for the Mexican and Spanish Communist Parties. This letter is dated 25 December.

f. A copy of an article written by LIRING-3 and published in a Mexican magazine. The date, number, and name of the magazine are marked on the copy.

g. A copy of the note written by Jacobo RODRIGUEZ Padilla (a longtime member of the Guatemalan Communist Party living in Mexico) introducing Carlos LOPEZ (who was an important FAR leader in Guatemala until he came to Mexico in late 1968).

h. A copy of an article which appeared in a Chiapas newspaper announcing LIRING-3's release.

For Willard C. CURTIS.
