Dispatch. To: Chief, WH Division. From: Chief of Station, Mexico City.

Subject: LIRAZOR/Progress Report for the Period 1 August–30 September 1969.

Action Required: References. Action Required: For Your Information. Reference: HMMA-37623, 4 August 1969 (Last Progress Report).

1. Although this report might normally be submitted one month from now, the use of Oliver G. SCANTLING has shifted sufficiently to warrant a special report at this time. Our next progress report will be submitted for the period 1 October through 31 December unless exceptional circumstances justify another change.

2. The fundamental change in the use of SCANTLING (who has suffered the past six weeks from paratyphoid) is that he has been divorced from routine cut-out operations and will henceforth be used for priority tasks and targets which will better utilize his proven talents. First, in late September ZARBOCK took over LICASA-1 for direct handling. The LICASA operation offered no particular challenge to SCANTLING and it is doubtful that his intermediary role offered any particular additional security in this case. In fact, if a flap should ever develop in this case SCANTLING would just add one more local who would have to be extricated from the tongs of the GON. Second, it has been decided that SCANTLING will very soon turn LIANVIL-1 over to Raymond GERENDE. The details are presently being worked out.

3. Plans: In line with our decision to use SCANTLING for recruitment efforts principally (and less so for routine agent handling) he is presently preparing for a recruitment attempt against Subject of MEXICO CITY-1502. When that operation is completed he will be targeted against the MELHARSH target both through a commercial outlet of the Bloc and through various clubs and sports centers where he may have access to MELHARSH types. Aside from these responsibilities, he will be used as needed in other recruitment situations especially in support of a new surveillance team.

* Louis Castano Reale  
(Call 8-2625) Special Counsel  
for John A. PROBERT

Distribution: Original and 2 copies to Chief, WHD.

Cross-reference dispatch symbol and number: HMMA-37913. Date: 7 October 1969.
