Stanley Lasse, M.D.

In the afternoons, four different experiments were carried out. The first concerned evoked potentials in humans and correlations of the same facing luminous stimulations of different colors, as well as the influence of expectancy situations. The second experiment concerned learning, observing cats with alimentary reflexes. The third concerned the influence of specific and nonspecific structures of the central nervous system on learning. Stimulations of different specific structures and of the reticular system showed the importance of the facilitation of this mechanism. The fourth experiment was a study with microelectrodes of changes in neuronal activity during the learning stage in chronic animals.

Both Dr. Hebylitsyn and Dr. John dictated very interesting conferences at the Academy of Sciences' Conference Hall and at the Scientific Council of the Ministry of Public Health.

At the moment, we have Dr. E. Grastyán (Graestyan), from the University of Pecs, Hungary, who will leave soon after collaborating with the Department of Psychology for two months. He has been working on motivation and cooperating in a joint work for our coming Symposium.

I told you in my previous letter that I was receiving your Journal because the dues had been paid, but I just found out that because of the dollar situation my subscription was not renewed, something I am unable to help. If at all possible, I would like you to do the following:

We are publishing a Bulletin for the Institute, and as of next July, the first number of a Review called Transcultural Psychiatry, the first of its kind in Spanish, will be out. I beg of you that, apart from sending you news about Cuba from time to time to be published in your Journal, you please accept these two Reviews in exchange for your Journal; otherwise, I could not guarantee receiving it periodically. Thus, I am proposing an official exchange of both Reviews until this abnormal situation can be remedied, because the Journal is very important to me.

Please refer to my letter of March 27 as to the fastest way of communication between us. This will reach you via the same person. However, please address the Journal to the Institute address: Loma y 37, Alturas del Vedado, Havana, Cuba.

I will be waiting for your news. With best wishes, I am,

(JAB/et)
