KARAK

GITA 2553

Needless to say, STEEENY/1 seemed most happy to know that RODCAST was concerned for his welfare.

30. RODCAST feels that he can manage S/1's self-assertion and dynamism, and LCTIPIIT points to RODCAST's record of handling “difficult” agents. RODCAST's experience is reassuring in this connection, and we have no reservations about RODCAST's ability to keep STEEENY/1 motivated in the months ahead.

31. A last word on the matter of handling turnover. So far S/1 has dealt with KATZERBACH, TIFFANY, and RODCAST and has been forthcoming with all. There is no indication at this early stage that he has placed his relationship with KURANK on a person-to-person plane, nor are we sure he should be encouraged to do so. As representatives of OUTLOOK, the three persons mentioned above have apparently earned S/1's trust, and anyone introduced to him by one of them would probably be accepted with the same degree of confidence should the introduction of another case officer become necessary. In effect, then, we foresee no handling problem with S/1 as far as a change in case officers might be concerned. We would point out, though, that S/1 has been handled sympathetically and without hostility to date and that those who have dealt with him would strongly advise intelligent direction and against a provocative or heavy-handed approach to such a complex and self-centered personality.

32. S/1's very background is enough to pose all the security problems one would want to contend with in any operation. At the same time, it is that very background that makes him valuable to KURANK. Therefore, we can discount many logical absurdities about his personal loyalty and motivation, discussed previously, and proceed to questions of operational security.

33. First of all, S/1 has been denominated as a KURANK agent since the mid-1950s when, to the best of our knowledge, he wasn't actively involved in revolutionary activities. He traces this original demobilization to an incident in which he resorted to some rather unscrupulous practices (forgery and false demobilization) to get an erasure while a friend and CFUSA member, with whose wife he had become involved, was discredited in France. (See attachment to OLA 43,272.) The upshot was that S/1 was considered by everyone who knew him in Paris to be a KURANK agent who had informed on his communist “friend” to the French police. From that time to the present, the KURANK tag has stuck in certain circles, though S/1 feels that those who really know him, and those important revolutionaries and communists whom he knows and who are his potential targets as a KURANK agent, have largely discounted the possibility that this could be so. There is no denying the fact, however, that this demobilization is a handicap. It has been used fairly effectively by his last employer, IDEN A, to burn him in a number of places where he was probably previously known. Certainly, the publication of the demobilization in IDEN C did not raise his stature in some quarters. LORD 7620 indicates S/1's enmity has left him with little desire to let sleeping dogs lie.

34. Furthermore, IDEN A seems at this moment to hold as great a grudge against S/1 as S/1 holds against him, and IDEN A may still have better connections in the national liberation movement than S/1. This is especially so in view of the 19-2) June 1955 downfall of the Ben Bela regime in Algeria. IDEN A was not a Ben Bela man, and his fortune declined sharply in inverse proportion to the rise of Ben Bela's. IDEN A's closest link to Algeria's power elite has long been Rabah Hitay, according to S/1. In the papers of 22 June, we read that, in a “startling development,” former Vice-President Mohammed Hitat fled into Algiers from exile in France and said he was ready to “assume his responsibilities.” We presume that IDEN A will seek to move quickly to derive personal advantage from this sudden change in Algeria. As if operating in the Algerian security climate were not hazardous enough, S/1 may well have to contend with a vendetta mounted by IDEN A.
