Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for changing. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain limitations given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Note record of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost effectiveness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds; these must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject has been under my supervision for approximately 6 months. During this period he has shown an outstanding proficiency in the supervision of his Commando Group. He is responsible for the logistical support, maintenance, planning, and operations of the group and must also maintain their motivation and morale. As a result of the stand-down in PM activities at this Station, one of his major duties has been keeping his group motivated and happy. Subject has performed these tasks in a very professional manner; he has shown strong leadership qualities and a definite ability to adapt to difficult and frustrating changes in the operational climate. Subject has had the additional duty of handling an FI Agent for the Station. He has spent long hours on this activity and has shown that he is fully capable of broadening his scope of activities to other fields besides the supervision of a commando group. He is cost- and security-conscious and has shown that he is effective in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and operational funds.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 17 February 1966. Signature of employee: /s/ Irving C. DEWINTO (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal).

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 6 months.

Official title of supervisor: Chief, Special Operations Branch. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Hugh R. DENDY (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.).

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: See Attachment.

Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Frederick J. INGHEAST (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.).
