Jose Antonio Echeverria (Jose antonio echaeveria), Con tus ideas en marcha.

Mexico.—The newspaper “Ataque,” official reporter of the Delegation, is published. Many pamphlets, as the one about the 27th of November, and tons of written propaganda have been edited.

Costa Rica.—Posters and great amounts of written propaganda have been printed, and pamphlets edited by our main office at Miami have been printed again.

Venezuela.—“Trinchera,” official reporter of the DRE Delegation at Maracaibo, is edited in Maracaibo. The Delegation at Caracas has printed the pamphlet “Cuba, Misery and Hunger,” propaganda which had been edited in Miami, as well as the pamphlet “Mire Ud. como nos autodesminamos.” Posters and tons of written propaganda have also been printed.

Peru (Pergu).—The Delegation aids the edition of the magazine “Clamor,” though not in the name of the DRE. The series of pamphlets “Seguiremos Informado” are edited, as are posters and lots of written propaganda.

Uruguay.—The DRE Delegation in Uruguay edited the pamphlet “Cuba Comunista” and has also edited a great amount of written propaganda.

Ecuador.—The Delegation has edited the pamphlet “Fidel Castro tridos a America,” countless posters, and has printed again propaganda received from Miami.

Brazil.—The Delegation at Rio de Janeiro has edited the pamphlets “Bases para revolucion latinoamericana” and “Que es el DRE.” The Delegation at Sao Paolo has also edited countless pamphlets with photographic illustrations.

Santo Domingo.—The Delegation has printed lots of propaganda sent by the main office at Miami.

Bolivia, Colombia, Chile, Argentina, Panama, Honduras.—These Delegations have printed propaganda edited by the main office at Miami, as well as posters and lots of propaganda, and have regularly written articles in the press.

b. Propaganda by radio broadcasts

Honduras.—The Delegation broadcasts daily “Trinchera” by Radio America.

Santo Domingo.—The Delegation broadcasts daily “Trinchera,” which lasts 30 minutes, by Radio Caribe.

Venezuela.—The Delegation broadcasts daily “Trinchera,” which lasts 30 minutes, by Radio Libertad.

Costa Rica.—The Delegation broadcasts “Trinchera Estudiantil Cubana” three times a week by “Voz de la Victor.”

Panama.—The Delegation broadcasts “Trinchera” three times a week by Radio Miramar.

Chile.—The Delegation broadcasts “Trinchera” once a week by Radio Chile.

Bolivia.—The Delegation broadcasts daily “Trinchera” by Radio “Amauca.”

Uruguay.—The Delegation broadcasts “Trinchera” three times a week by Radio “Rural.”

Colombia.—The Delegation broadcasts daily “Trinchera” by Radio “Santa Fe.”

Peru, Ecuador, and Puerto Rico broadcast weekly programs.

c. Photographic propaganda

There can be no doubt that the success attained in this field is of the greatest importance. The main office has been supplying photographic material to the Delegations for several months, so that they could use it for propaganda. A great blow was achieved with the photographs illustrating the events at the Ecuador Embassy in Cuba, when three Cubans, seeking political assisile, tried to enter the Embassy and were shot by the militia being already inside Ecuadorian field. These photographs were distributed.
