Section D. Narrative Description.

Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was act voluntary? Describe why act was outstanding, and if it was more than normally expected. Explain why and how. If an aerial or marine operation, describe type and position of craft, crew position of individual, and all unusual circumstances. Indicate results of the act.

Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance: State character of service during period for which recommended. Give complete description of administrative, technical, or professional duties and responsibilities if not covered in Section C; include dates of assignment and relief. What did the individual do that merits the award? Why was this outstanding when compared to others of like grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances? If appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other persons or units. What obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate results of achievement, service, or performance. Include reference to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which supports this recommendation.

40. From early December 1965 through May 1966, Messrs. James W. McCord, Jr., Alan F. Petit, and William M. Marcy, of the Technical Division, Office of Security, spent many off-duty hours in experimentation with various items of equipment in an effort to improve and strengthen the Agency's Audio-Countermeasures Program. They conceived and developed a unique technique in fluoroscopic scanning which is considered to be a major breakthrough in the detection of clandestine microphones and other devices targeted against the Agency. It gives the Agency for the first time the capability to detect hidden technical listening devices, a capability for which the intelligence community has expended large sums of money to develop in a variety of approaches. This technique will not only benefit the security of all Agency installations at home and abroad, but will be of utmost benefit to other agencies in the community. This technique was met with wide acclaim by the intelligence community and the Technical Security Countermeasures Committee.

In experimenting with the X-ray in combination with a fluoroscopic screen, these men showed this combination had distinct advantages in terms of time and effort over the considerably more expensive X-ray film and processor. In further refinement of this technique, they designed an innovation in the form of a fluoroscopic cloth which has the distinct advantage of flexibility over the fluorescent screens currently available on the commercial market.

Continued on attached sheet.

41. Enclosures (List individually). If originator is not an eyewitness or does not have personal knowledge of the act or performance, attach affidavits of eyewitnesses or individuals having personal knowledge of the facts. 1. Proposed citation.

42. Recommendation initiated by: Ermal P. Geiss.

43. Title and signature of official making recommendation: Deputy Director of Security (PTOS).

44. Date: 7/28/66.

Section E. Recommendation Forwarded Through Officials Concerned For Their Information.

45. Head of SS Career Service (Career service of nominee). Title and signature: Acting Director of Security. Date: 7/27/66.

46. Deputy Director of Operating Component. Title and signature. Date.

47. Deputy Director of Career Service. Title and signature: Deputy Director for Support. Date: 3 AUG 1965.
