Officers have no way of determining whether an escapee is or is not a member of TROPES. However, if CA3 desires to furnish USEP with a list of TROPZ membership, CPC will request the USEP Divisional [sic] office in each country to confer eligibility on the individuals listed and to pay particular attention that such individuals may receive personal attention in the future.

7. Question. Is there any possibility of eliminating Tolstoy and AFMP altogether and doing this job through another agency or agencies?

In consideration of this question, USEP has reluctantly decided that it would not be possible to eliminate Tolstoy Foundation, since Tolstoy is an old, established agency with a name known and respected within certain enigma circles. It may be possible, however, for CAS to undertake the elimination, although CA3 relationships with TP and its Board of Directors are unknown to this office. Since AFMP is a relatively new organization, and the character of its European leadership is much more undesirable than that of Tolstoy, it is conceivable that AFMP could be eliminated from the Russian field considerably easier than Tolstoy. Moreover, as the Chairman of the Board of the AFMP is a retired U.S. Admiral, he would probably be inclined to go along with the wishes of Government officials if it could be shown that the elimination of AFMP was in the best interest of the U.S. Government. However, the elimination of ethnic-type agencies in this respect would, perhaps, compel the Escapee Program to enter into relationships with a religious agency, e.g. the WCC, in their stead, and the success of resolution of the Soviet problem would become automatically much more difficult.

0. Questions. How does an agency qualify for a USEP contract? What are the requirements for qualifications?

USEP currently has contractual arrangements with 22 voluntary bodies representing the major religious bodies, i.e. Catholics, Jews, and Protestants, and the major ethnic groups represented in the population of the United States of America. To qualify for a USEP contract, the agency, if it is wholly American in composition and incorporated under the laws of one of the 48 States or the District of Columbia, must be accredited by what was known as the Department of State's Advisory Committee on Voluntary Foreign Aid, and which is now a part of FCA. The Executive Director of this Committee is Mr. William H. McCahon, who is also a staff member in the Office of the Assistant Director for Refugees and Migration, FCA. In addition to those agencies which have been incorporated in the U.S., USEP also enters into relationships with other organizations which are international in character and composition, such as the World Council of Churches, the World ORT ...
