An underground gasoline tank blew up in the crowded centre of Bristol this week, killing at least seven persons and shattering storefronts in a quarter-mile area. Weekend shoppers were bowled over by the blast, and persons in nearby houses were trapped as ceilings and walls collapsed.

Discovery of extensive manganese deposits in the northwestern areas of British Guiana was reported by the Barima Gold Mining Company (Canada) Ltd. The report said preliminary tests indicated a large tonnage of rather low-grade ore.

Prime Minister Churchill and the three other ministers who are to accompany him to Washington will depart on the Queen Mary on December 29 for discussions with President Truman, expected to begin January 3rd. The other ministers are Anthony Eden, Lord Ismay (Ishmay), and Lord Cherwell. On leaving Washington, Mr. Churchill will visit Canada at the invitation of the Canadian Government and spend two or three days in Ottawa. The two visits will probably take about a fortnight, after which Mr. Churchill will return home by air.

Charles Norris, a 21-year-old American in Paris, was ready for bed when he saw a picture of Princess Margaret in a newspaper. He was so smitten with her beauty he decided to attempt a meeting. The newspaper reported that the Princess was attending a charity ball that night. Norris put on his tuxedo and borrowed 8,000 francs for a ticket to the ball. Making his way through a knot of admirers around Margaret, he offered his hand. He said: “Excuse me, Your Highness, I should like to present myself. I am an American and my name is Chuck Norris.” “I am delighted to meet you,” the Princess replied. When Norris asked for a dance, however, she told him that she was sorry, but was “booked up.”

Protestant and Roman Catholic churches throughout Britain will offer special prayers and thanksgivings on December 6th for the restoration to health of King George VI. The King, recovering from a lung operation, celebrates the fifteenth anniversary of his accession to the throne on December 11th. When American troops in Korea offered to share their Thanksgiving holiday food supplies with other United Nations troops, the offer was politely declined by British units. They explained that they would rather wait for the special rations until a British-type turkey celebration was more in order at Christmas time.

A move to re-create the Home Guard, the voluntary body of part-time soldiers who stood guard over Britain while her army was fighting abroad in World War II, was approved this week by the House of Commons on its second reading. No vote was taken, although Labour party members questioned the necessity for the measure and said that they would offer amendments to it in the committee stage of consideration that will follow the second reading.

Medias Nylon. Laban.

Reinforced, “Tourist” type $98. Fine thread, $138 and $118. Super Fine, “Celofan” type $175. Super Fine, “Supreme” type $195. Super Fine, without seam $145.

There are twenty types more in 51, 54, and 60 gauge.

Fifteen colours by type, including mourning and half mourning. There are also brown heel, shaded heel, black heel, blue heel, and green heel.

White stockings for nurses.

Wholesale and retail sales.

Cash on delivery, same day with purchase of three pairs, often all day on Saturday.

Business Department: Francis J. Whitehair, the Under Secretary of the Navy, conferred with President Truman, who suddenly asked him: “One of your ancestors was the chief of the Osage tribe, wasn't he?” “Yes, Mr. President,” said Mr. Whitehair. “And didn't he trade 5,000 acres of choice Kansas farmland for a carload of whiskey?” said the President. “Yes, sir,” said Mr. Whitehair. The President smiled at the Under Secretary and said: “Don't you go trading any carriers without talking to me.”

School Department: On Thursday afternoon, in New Haven, there was a meeting of university presidents. One of the attendants was Dr. Franklyn Murphy, the new head of the University of Kansas, who is only 35 years old—the young head of a major university. The 35-year-old Murphy said to Whitney Griswold, the president of Yale: “I've become somewhat of a curiosity—being pointed out, the youngest, etc. I think I should have my hair pulled out or else dye it gray.” “Just wait two years,” the 40-year-old Griswold replied. “Two more years at the job—and your hair will fall out.”

Photo Department: Dr. Albert Einstein continues to rank among those whose photo is
