Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 050361.

Section A: General.

Name: Hicks, Calvin W.

Official position title: Watch Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment and current station: FI/INT/IW Headquarters.

Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Initial.

Reporting period: 1 January 1969–12 August 1969.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W. Weak performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Prepares disseminations from cabled field information reports and releases them to the U.S. intelligence community for the clandestine service, expediting their delivery by electrical transmission when appropriate. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Releases hurried cables as disseminations to the intelligence community, interpreting broad instructions from FI/D on various categories of cables disseminated. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 3: Consults with area division officers during off-duty hours, as necessary, to ensure adequate protection of sources and methods with minimum impairment to the value of the information reaching policy levels. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 4: Advises and assists area division officers during off-duty hours in the preparation of disseminations based on information other than that contained in incoming cabled field reports. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No.
