Part A. All who register must fill in this part. Flores, N.

Your mailing address (entered and printed on copy and delivered to your local office).

Are you covered by, or a part of, a group insurance benefit plan currently covered in this part?

If no, please indicate if any other benefit or benefits are covered in this part. Please specify if any other benefit is current, and if yes, what it is currently covered in. Leave blank if none. Indicate by completing this plan under the Federal Employee Health Benefits Act of 1972, including children who are legally adopted and legitimately separated from their parents with no one in a regular parent-child relationship; then your family is not eligible for coverage.

Please indicate if you or any family member is currently under a health benefits plan. Enter the name of the plan. Please specify if any other benefit is currently covered in this part. Leave blank if none. Include all health benefits currently covered by you or any family member. If answer is no, complete questions 1–4 below.

This part must also be filled in if you change your enrollment.

Name of family member: Wife or Husband. [Illegible signature]. [Illegible signature]. [Illegible signature]. [Illegible signature]. [Illegible signature].

Note: In most cases, unless specifically requested, the first name of a male and the last name of a female person should be used as the first and last names on this application.

Part B. Fill in the following information for each family member listed above. Do not use this part if you are a temporary employee, contractor, or student.

Date of birth. Enter age, then add 10 years. Leave blank if none.

Note: For the purposes of this part, if you have more than one family member listed above, you must indicate which one is the “主” and which one(s) are “附.”

Please indicate if you or any family member is currently under a health benefits plan. Enter the name of the plan. Please specify if any other benefit is currently covered in this part. Leave blank if none. Include all health benefits currently covered by you or any family member. If answer is no, complete questions 1–4 below.
