Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws. Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 796, the transmission or revelation of which is in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Mexico. Subject: Mexican Communist Party Views on Recent Arrest of Subversive Group. Date of information: 24 August 1966. Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City, 26 August 1966. Report No. CS-311/12430-66. Date distributed: 13 September 1966. No. of pages: 2. Field report No. JDM-10646.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Mexican security officer with access to information derived from investigative activities. His reporting is believed to be reliable.

1. At a meeting of leaders of the Mexican Communist Party (PCM—Partido Comunista Mexicano), attended by Arnoldo Martinez Verdugo, Fernando Granados Cortes, Manuel Terrazas Guerrero, Gerardo Unzueta Lorenzana, and Marcos Leonel Posadas Segura, there was some discussion of the status of members of the group, headed by Victor Rico Galan and Raul Ugalde Alvarez, which was recently arrested for engaging in subversive activities. It was revealed at this meeting that Ugalde had submitted an application for membership in the PCM but that he had not been accepted. He is not, therefore, considered to be a member of the Party. The same is true of Guillermo Balanv Perreyra. It is true that Venancio (Vensancio) Garay Zuniga and Antonio Garay Zuniga are PCM members, but they aligned themselves with the Rico Galan “guerrilla” group on instructions from the Party to serve as spies in order to keep the Party informed on the group's activities.

2. At a meeting of the Permanent Committee of the National Assembly for the Freedom of Political Prisoners, Filomeno Mata Alatorre stated that he was completely removed from the subversive group and that he had had nothing whatsoever to do with it. Guillermo Calderon Ita raised the question of the most recent group of prisoners (the Rico Galan group), and it was agreed that that group had chosen the easy path—that of taking up arms; that such a movement would come about eventually, but that now is not the time; there is no chance for success of an armed movement. It was agreed that even though the Committee

CI-10546. LITENO (LITENCO-12).
