1. Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties.

Directions: State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of the specific duty. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty; do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only. Compare, in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with other personnel performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, list them as different duties. Be specific.

Examples of duties that might be rated: oral briefing; has and uses area knowledge; giving lectures; develops new programs; conducting seminars; analyses industrial reports; writing technical reports; manages files; conducting external liaison; operates radio; typing; coordinates with other offices; taking dictation; writes regulations; supervising; prepares correspondence; combined key and phone operation; material rating properties; interrogations; prepares summaries; translates German; debriefing sources; keeps ANMKS; drives truck; maintains air conditioning; evaluates significance of data.

Description of specific duty No. 1: Records obligating instruments, supplements and adjustments relating to allotment accounting. Rating number: 4.

Description of specific duty No. 2: Prepares current analysis of allotment ledger accounts of unliquidated obligations. Rating number: 4.

Description of specific duty No. 3: Checks and reconciles IBM records of expenditures with those in the allotment ledger accounting records. Rating number: 4.

Narrative description of manner of job performance: to the various allottees.

Directions: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job.

Mr. Willett is very anxious to prove his capabilities. Accordingly, he frequently assigns additional duties other than those assigned to him. He is very attentive to his work, is diligent in applying himself to the job, he is very quiet by nature and it is only on rare occasions that he indulges in conversation unrelated to his duties. He is attempting to become better acquainted with government accounting, as has been evidenced by his enrollment in an accounting course with the Department of Agriculture School. He has made great progress in his assigned position in the Accounting Branch.

Section O. Suitability for Current Job in Organization.

Directions: Take into account here everything you know about the individual—productivity, conduct in the job, pertinent personal characteristics or habits, special defects or talents—and how he fits in with your team. Compare him with others doing similar work at about the same level.

1. Definitely unsuitable—we should be separated.
2. Of doubtful suitability—would not have accepted him if I would not have accepted him.
3. A barely acceptable employee—below average but with no weaknesses.
