Dispatch. To: Chief, European Division. From: Chief, WOMUSE. Chief of Station, Ottawa. Submit: KEYWAY/SMADOVE, Maurice HALPERIN (201-125561).

Action Required—References. Action: See below. References: A. OTTAWA 5447, 10 June 1968. B. DIRECTOR 09956, 20 June 1968.

The following is a SMABOVE request for approval to disseminate WOFIRM derogatory information concerning Subject. SMABOVE hand-carried the request to us and made the comment that SMABOVE hoped that WOFIRM would refuse the request since the derogatory information could have come only from one or two sources and SMABOVE is generally opposed to making public information that has been acquired by covert means. Although the following does not mention it, a similar request has been sent to LNERGO and SMORANCE:

1. “In order to acquaint you and your Agency with the reason for our request in paragraph G below, we would explain that recent changes in the regulations of the Department of Manpower and Immigration and the provisions of the Immigration Appeal Board Act have created certain problems.”

2. “When a Special Inquiry is held by an Immigration Officer at a Canadian Port of Entry to enquire into a person’s admissibility, if information is available to the SMABOVE prohibiting the immigrant’s entry under the provisions of the Immigration Act, and this information cannot be released for security reasons, SMABOVE is required by Immigration Regulations to issue a ‘Solemn Declaration’ for use at the Inquiry. Should such an Inquiry result unfavorably for the immigrant, he has the right of appeal.

3. “In issuing the first ‘Solemn Declaration’, in order to provide protection for our sources, we only made a declaration that we were in possession of information making the subject ineligible for entry to Canada under Section 5 of the Immigration Act. However, the Immigration Appeal Board has since ruled that a ‘Solemn Declaration’ should contain sufficient information to enable the individual, against whom action is being taken, to have a reasonable opportunity of knowing the nature of the allegations.”

Gross reference to: Dispatch symbol and inventory copy. Date: 15 November 1968. Classification. Now file number: 201-125561.
