Message One.

Dear Friend:

This special chemical ink will allow us to correspond secretly. It will disappear as the paper dries, so let it dry, then write over it with writing ink in order to retain the message.

Your secret and intelligence are needed now to obtain an accurate picture of events in your area. In future letters I will explain what is needed. If you are reading this letter, you can be sure that no one else has read it. All letters to you should be developed as this one has been. The messages will be numbered consecutively. Acknowledge receipt of each letter in your secret messages to me.

Now I will explain how to write to me using a simple set sequence. The envelope of this letter has been impregnated with certain chemicals which make it into a chemical carbon paper. Open the envelope along all its flaps and cut off the glued edges. What remains will be used as a carbon paper and should be kept in a safe place, since it can be used many times over.

Place the carbon address side up on a sheet of bond paper similar to this paper. Place another sheet of paper on top of the carbon. On the top sheet print a message to me using a blunted pencil. Number your first message number one. Use a format similar to this letter. Print on a hard surface such as a glass tabletop to avoid leaving impressions on the bottom sheet.

Destroy the top sheet bearing the visible message. Tear it up and throw it in the toilet. Hide the carbon. The bottom sheet bears the message.

On the back of the sheet with the message, write a normal friendly letter to your assigned crew: William (LILLIAM) Martinez, 4517 Walmsley Street, New Orleans 25, Louisiana. Do not write on the side with the secret message. Send the letter air mail. Use a phony (PHONE) name and real address as a return address on the envelope. William (LILLIAM) will know the letter is for me and will call me when it arrives.

Using this procedure you can write me anything without risk, for the carbon leaves invisible chemical traces which can only be developed in our laboratories.

In the first message to me merely acknowledge receipt and comprehension of these instructions. Ask any questions you may have. In subsequent letters I will ask you to obtain information on particular topics.

Best regards.

End.
