Fitness Report. Employee Identification Form. CS6551.

Section A. General.

Name: Hicks, Calvin W. Date of birth: 8 Nov 24. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13. Official position title: Watch Officer. Current station: DDP/FI/INT/IW HCS. Type of appointment: Career, reserve, temporary. Type of report: Career, initial, annual, special. Date report due in O.P.: 31 October 1972. Reporting period: 1 Nov 71–31 Oct 72.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory. Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The record of the action should range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Desirable action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal. Performance is sufficient in some respects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommendations should be described.

P—Proficient. Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Sufficient. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so excellent that it cannot be rated in relation to requirements of the work and, in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work, is not to warrant a zone of recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of those duties. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1. Note: DMO is the closest qualification code to describe the work of a Watch Officer. Prepares ID dispositions from Intel Cables and releases them to the U.S. Intel Community for the CS executing their delivery by electrical transmission when appropriate. Also dispositions certain FI/D Cables.

Specific Duty No. 2. Consults with area division officers, as necessary in his judgment, regarding dissemination of the info and to ensure adequate protection of sources and methods with minimum impairment to info reaching policy levels.

Specific Duty No. 3. Reviews supdata and authentication statement in intel cables and deletes any sensitive operational data before any distribution is made. Effects distribution of the deleted portion within the DDP on a strict need-to-know basis.

Specific Duty No. 4. Keeps current on the general and special requirements of customer agencies, including the White House, for cabled info, i.e., info on narcotics, hijacking, protection of U.S. and foreign dignitaries, etc.

Specific Duty No. 5. After hours, grants clearances, in consultation with responsible area division, for the use of disseminated CS information in finished intel publications in a manner denied by dissemination controls.

Specific Duty No. 6. Maintains good working relations not only with DDP area divisions and staff, but with Signal Center and Cable Secretariat at all levels to expedite the dissemination of significant reports; works closely with CSDs and SDs to keep one another alert to significant events.
