Basic Information. Social Information.

Full name: Norman Armour (Horman Armour); Edward Sparks; Walter J. Donnelly. Telephone number: s/o Dept. of State. Business or occupation: Former Ambassador; Ambassador to Bolivia; Ambassador to Austria.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing “X” in proper column. Yes. No.

25 May, 1943, was your present employer regarding your character of activities herein? X

26. Are you a citizen of, or do you owe allegiance to, the United States? X

27. Are you, and if so have you ever been, a member of the Communist Party U.S.A., or any Communist organization? X

28. Are you, and if so have you ever been, a member of any organization, association, or group or combination of persons which is related to the United States Government or has a relation with the United States Government, or is a member of or association or group or combination of persons, under the Constitution of the United States of America, or any State, local or collective government, or as a periodic or collateral for the last 12 months of your service within the United States, or has a relation with the Constitution of the United States of America, or any State, local or collective government, or is a member of or association or group or combination of persons, in accordance with the following regulations or ordinances? If your activity is due to these regulations or ordinances, show all the regulations or ordinances that are applicable to you, as well as show all the regulations or ordinances that are not applicable to you, as well as show all the regulations or ordinances that are not applicable to you, except to the extent that they are in conflict with the regulations or ordinances that are applicable to you, except to the extent that they are in conflict with the regulations or ordinances that are not applicable to you, except to the extent that they are not applicable to you, except to the extent that they are not applicable to you, except to the extent that they are due to the Constitution of the United States of America, or any State, local or collective government, or as a periodic.

35. Are you an official or employee of any State, territory, county, or municipality? If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 39.

36. Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blood or marriage with whom you live or have lived within the past 24 months)? If your answer is “Yes,” show in Item 39 for each such relative: (1) full name; (2) present address; (3) relationship; (4) Department or Agency by which employed; and (5) kind of appointment.

Special instructions for claiming veteran preference.
