Cuban Democratic Revolutionary Front

Finance Department

Resume of the Income and Expenses Operations “Paula and Sosa”

October 1 to 31, 1960

In the financial statements and annex, the analysis and sub-analysis of each one of the income and liabilities during the month of October are shown.

Receipts, invoices, deposit slips, and other papers are kept in our files. As shown on Annex “I-D,” a Revolving Fund has been created for the Military Section, amounting to the sum of $10,000.00, divided into two parts of $5,000.00 each. The amount of $3,387.81 was reimbursed to this Revolving Fund, as per Annex “I-D.”

The amount of $50,000.00 which appears as “Transfers” in Annex “I-M” corresponds to the transferred amount from the account of “Paula and Sosa” to the “Rasco and Paula” account.

From this amount, we have paid in advance the November payment of the military dependants.

In relation to “Checks to Justify,” amounting to $69,288.52, as per Annex “I-P,” these could be classified in two groups: one formed by those corresponding to amounts advanced according to budget to the different Committees and Delegations, and the other formed by certain expenses to be made, but specifically determined, with receipts duly signed. The latter could have been distributed to those accounts within the classification, thus eliminating them from the title “to justify,” but have been kept as such, to be sure of the making of this expense for the purpose for which the checks were drawn, or its actual classification if these expenses were made for other purposes than those originally aimed at. This is due to the fact that some checks were drawn for a specific purpose; they could also have been applied to acquire some other asset, thus appearing at the end of the month a false balance, since it would appear as an expense what it actually is—an asset.

The section designated as “Transfers,” $50,000.00, is compensated with an income for the same amount when making a transfer of funds to the “Rasco and Paula” account to pay through it the payroll of the Military Dependants, but through a mistake it was deposited again in the same account.
