510 West 110 Street  
New York 25, New York

March 22, 1951

Dear Bill:

Picture book now in high gear as layout is beginning to take shape. New pictures of both historical and photographic pricelessness still coming in (e.g. a shot showing a wildly cheering crowd of Russian peasants greeting First German troops—before the latter went in for mass murder). This picture never used in this country. Could multiply by many examples but prefer to have you come down and see for yourself. If you could be here about three weeks from now, you could get a fairly good notion of what the finished product will look like (although there will still be a lot of polishing, caution writing, and final checking to do). I am now certain that the book will be a major political event. Nothing even remotely resembling it has ever been done—anywhere in the world.

Need help on two middle sectors promptly:

1. Katyn massacre pictures. Saw lots of them in your neck of the woods. Please send them SOONEST, properly packed in cardboard to prevent folding or cracking. This is a must, since for some odd reason this is missing from the otherwise bottomless archives which we've unearthed.

2. Any decent shots of anti-Communist resistance behind the Iron Curtain. We have a few of the East German things with the “F” painted on walls. But Joe mentioned others. Can't have too much of this, since it constitutes an essential element in the closing part of the story.

Will be difficult to incorporate such stuff unless we get it fast, because it would mean dislocating the layout, which is now designed to flow like a motion picture recording of the whole big story. Hope this presents no obstacles. Joe thought your end could send stuff to me. Next time you could send mail with sufficient precaution, it seems to me.

The Acheson letter in today's NY Times regarding friendship with the Russian people is a step in the right direction, though still a long way even from the speech delivered at Town Hall by McMahon the day before yesterday. But somehow, someone must teach Acheson to cut out this sort of humbugging:

“If the Men of the Kremlin could but conquer their inward fears and resolve their contradictions, if they could but bring themselves to the comity which is the foundation of peace, great burdens would be lifted from the shoulders of people everywhere.”

What is the purpose of this rubbish? I know lots of professional diplomats think this is very “cute” and arch stuff, really meant to “embarrass” people like J. Stalin and G. Malenkov. Actually, the only thing it can arouse, both among the Kremlin war criminals and among their victims, is—utter contempt. If anybody in Moscow takes that drivel at face value, they conclude that the U.S. is still too frightened of the bogeyman in the Kremlin to call a spade a spade. That silly stuff must end! Please end it. The inward fears of Stalin-Malenkov-Beria (Stalin-Hal-enkov-Beria) will only be resolved on the gallows. Best regards.

MARCH 22, 1951

Dous
