Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 035655.

Section A — General.

1. Name: Margy Miec, Myron A. 2. Date of birth: 4/30/77. 3. Sex: F. 4. Grade: GS-09. 5. ID: IP. 8. Official position title: D and E Tech. 7. Officer/branch of assignment: NPIC/TSG/RED. 8. Current station: Washington, D.C.

Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary. Type of report: Initial; Reassignment supervisor. Annual. Reassignment employer. Special (specify).

12. Reporting period (from–to): 30 September 1968–30 September 1969.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Conducts experimental laboratory investigations related to the photographic process. This involves the determination of what approach to take to a given problem; keeping detailed records of various experiments tried; determining results and making recommendations for possible solutions. Rating letter: P.

As Senior Photographic Technician has the responsibility for maintenance of all photographic equipment and aids in the selection of new equipment. Helps in the procurement of photographic supplies. Rating letter: P.

Instructs others in photographic laboratory practice, camera operation and maintenance.

Specific Duty No. 2: Photographs special equipment and experimental laboratory set-ups; prepares prints for display and report
