Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Means of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This officer has continued to perform his assigned tasks in superior fashion. Not only is he a skilled transcriber/translator, he is also able to put his experience and knowledge into words in preparing character analyses which have been of great value to the Station's operational program. Although his workload is often quite heavy, he can always be counted on to complete his assignments promptly and he willingly puts in the extra time frequently needed.

His team spirit and dedication are shown by the fact that on several occasions, in spite of advancing age and recent illness, he spent long hours in base houses on live-monitoring assignments. He will be greatly missed when he retires in the near future.

As previously noted, this officer does not handle operational funds or have supervisory responsibilities. He has had no cover problems, nor has he required any unusual administrative support, other than that which is to be expected in connection with his forthcoming retirement.

Certification and Comments.

I, by employee, certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Signature of employee. Date. /s/

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 19 months. Official title of supervisor: Ops Officer. Date.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Typed or printed name and signature: Donald F. Vogel /s/

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur in the above ratings and comments. I am not able to add any meaningful comments due to the highly specialized nature of Subject's duties.

Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief of Station. Date.

Typed or printed name and signature: Paul V. Harwood /s/
