Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject has shown a decided proficiency in the supervision of the type of unit for which he has responsibility. His men respect him and follow his orders readily. He is resourceful, acts with initiative, and delegates responsibility. In his field he thinks clearly and is decisive and versatile in his actions. He is capable of handling larger units of personnel and assuming greater responsibility in the PM field. If he were required to accept duties of a broader nature in the intelligence field involving less supervision of his own activities, he would need to improve in the areas of written and oral expression and in his understanding of KUBARK requirements and responsibilities. In this regard he would need additional training and exposure to more extensive KUBARK fields, as he has not had the opportunity for participating in such KUBARK activities. Subject does not have the proficiency of the language used.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 26 Nov. 1963. Signature of employee: /s/ Irving O. DEVUOÑO (signed in pseudo on Pfd. Transmittal).

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 26 Nov. 1963. Official title of supervisor: C/PD Br., JHWAVE. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Stanley R. ZAHKA (signed in pseudo on Pfd. Trans.).

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: Bjo Attached Sheet.

Date: 26 Nov. 1963. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Andrew K. REUTBER (signed in pseudo on Pfd. Trans.).
