Country: West Germany. Report No. CS DB-312/00003-67. Subject: BfV Program to Monitor and Counter the Activities of the National Democratic Party. Date distributed: 5 January 1967. No. pages: 3. Date of info: 23 November 1966. Place and date acquired: Germany, Bonn (25 November 1966).

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive; appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: A qualified American official from a senior official of the West German Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV). This official is responsible for monitoring the activities of right radical organizations throughout West Germany. The information is probably true.

1. Summary: The West German Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV) and its regional affiliates (LfV) have undertaken a program to monitor and counter the activities of the National Democratic Party (NPD). Included in this program are efforts to penetrate the NPD at all its levels, to monitor its membership and finances, and to counter its influence.

Report: For a number of years the BfV has been engaged in penetrating and monitoring the activities of right radical organizations. Since the establishment of the NPD in 1964, the BfV has made a concerted effort to penetrate it at both the national and regional levels. This effort has resulted in the recruitment of about 60 sources with access to the NPD organizations at all levels. In several cases the BfV or LfV have been able to recruit local NPD county chairmen and in six Laender have access to the minutes and files of the Land organizations. The BfV has also penetrated the national headquarters of the NPD in Hannover.

Through its penetration of the national organization, the BfV has been able to obtain and photograph the entire membership rolls, which currently contain about 20,000 names. The national list has been augmented by additional membership applications obtained via penetrations of the Land organizations. The BfV is currently in the process of tracing all of these membership applications against the master Nazi Party membership files at the American
