The teacher of the year 1939 is already well known as an experienced businessman, and his relations overseas are such that in 1953, he was appointed as a member of an Economic Mission sent to London by the Government. He did so well that one year later, he was entrusted by the Government with the mission of negotiating a contract with General Electric of Coventry for the improvement and extension of our telecommunication system. In 1957, as a member of another mission, he took part in the International Conference in Brussels.

In the meantime, Clemard Joseph CHARLES devoted himself to various commercial and industrial activities. His life is shared between his office in the Capital City and numerous trips in the country where he kept inquiring into possibilities of investment. Whenever you happen to meet him, he speaks of new projects for the development of the country. His waiting-room is always full of people either awaiting instructions for the countries, or agents, also of other people asking for credit. Among his enterprises we note the Universal Enterprise Co. (USACO), the National Deutsch Associates, the Cotton Industry in the South, and Charles-News & Co., without mentioning the branches of his store. All these activities do not hinder him from representing the General Electric Co., Ltd. of London and the Siemens Schukert Werke Co.

But the masterpiece of his life as a businessman was the creation in 1960 of the Commercial Bank of Haiti, a project he had long been dreaming of. His initiative ranked him as a great pioneer. The Commercial Bank of Haiti is the first private Haitian bank. When one learns that the National Bank was redeemed only in 1949 to become property of the Haitian State, then one will realize the amount of daring, tenacity, and broadness of view it took Clemard Joseph CHARLES in such a place to materialize this creation that will have a part in the economic history of our country.

Clemard Joseph CHARLES is the image of a new type of businessman we did not know before. He broke up with the low customs of tradesmen, these brokers who find themselves selfishly satisfied with profit margins which they accumulate in banks abroad and who begin again the routine each year. The reason for the backwardness of our masses is that they do not have the support of an enterprising bourgeoisie creating welfare opportunities. Charles believes that it should not be left to the State alone the duty of promoting the economic development of the country. He is well aware of his mission and he knows that he must give a hand to the less fortunate to enable them to help their evolution.

Therefore, this Commercial Bank that has met with so much success in so short a time is the center of multiple activities profitable to many people with low pay. If we do not lose faith in this country and if we believe in its potentialities, then we believe that a pioneer as Clemard Joseph CHARLES ought to be better known in order to be better understood and encouraged.
