Money not for itself but for prestige. After all, Verges's father was one of the founders of the Communist Party, Réunion, and a member of the French Assembly.

He is the head of the Communist Party of this little [unclear] right now.

He grew up in this sort of French left-wing upper class, which in France—the hereditary left—goes all the way back to 1848 or before.

Some families were extremely distinguished. They really had it bad. In France it is—and he is—in that sort of thing. The average French person respects him just as you might respect a Flander family. You know that a member of such and such a family obviously must be left because his grandfather and his great-grandfather were.

(Maspero again)

Maspero fits just into that category.

(That same leftist heritage)

That's right.

(Does he run his operation on a self-sustaining commercial basis)

More or less, except that, for instance, he published a book on China recently, which the Chinese subscribed to and subsidized. I suspect that he has received some aid from the Italian Communist Party. The Italians look with great favor on him because of his openness, his critical approach, and his anti-Stalinism. Andersson says he got money from the Chinese for this book on China. As a Trotskyite (Trotterskyite)

Verges has tried desperately to smear him with the Chinese, but apparently the Chinese didn't give a damn.

(You said that the Trotskyists seem to be moving in on Maspero)

Yes.

(Would they be giving him any kind of financial aid)

I really doubt it. The Trotskyists generally are poor. I don't think so. I think that what it is is that he is really short of hands, short of manuscripts, short of people who can think and produce something. And here are these Trotskyist-leaning individuals who don't have any outlet, so naturally. It's just that he doesn't have any sectarian feelings against them, so more and more tend to come in.

(Andre Belge)

Never heard of him.

(Neither have I, but he is Andre Belge in Nigeria.)

Oh, Imokay is a student. He's no bureau man at all. He was a student at the University of Imokay Enusuka. He distributed the magazine.

He never did anything else.
