Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, leaving in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Note: Subject spent full time on Spanish language training from 1 September through 21 December 1965.

Note: The difference in the letter rating between this report and the preceding fitness report does not reflect in any way on Subject's performance but is due rather to a different rating scale used by the originators.

Subject turned in an excellent all-around performance as Chief of the Headquarters Paramilitary Section supporting Miami Station operations. He strives hard to do a good job and is most anxious to please his superiors. He is aggressive and conscientious in carrying out his functions; strong-willed and persistent in seeking to achieve his goals; straightforward but pleasant in dealing with colleagues and other Government officials; determined in resisting encroachments in his area of authority; and finally he is motivated by strong patriotic ideals.

He is well-informed and competent in paramilitary operations with a particular gift for ferreting out technical improvements and innovations, and bringing them to bear on operations. Finally, Subject adapts smoothly and efficiently to operational and policy changes affecting his programs.

Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 28 January 1966. Signature of employee: Cohen M. Sefid.

By Supervisor. Months employed under my supervision: 12. Date: 28 January 1966. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/C/MO. Typed or printed name and signature: Walter T. Candless.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.
