The sub-agent's sister unfortunately died in Paris on 12 March. The sub-agent then left immediately for Paris and has not yet returned. Upon his return to Marseille, this station will send him back to CADI to claim his "carte de séjour" and "carte de travailleur stronger." We will also give him 5,000 francs with which to acquire his naturalization papers and we will direct him to accept the preferred job in Sète.

14. Additional evidence that CADI is engaged in supplying these papers is found in the fact that on the 24, 26, and 3 of January 1949 four foreigners presented themselves at the office of the Confederation Générale des Intérieurs et Deportes Politiques de la Résistance et des Victimes de l'Oppression, Basis et du Hacimea, where, thinking they were at the CADI office, they asked that they be given "cartes de séjour." These men were:

HILLER, Robert — born in Baden, Germany  
JACOBSON, Carl — born in Hamburg, Germany  
CHORES, Horace — born in Bockelynonakely, Hungary  
LASZLO, Alexandre — born in Maravahely, Hungary

These four had entered France clandestinely and each had been told before leaving his own country to apply to CADI for his French papers.

15. The following excerpts from CADI reports indicate CADI's activity in placing immigrants in industries and in agriculture:

a. "The Poles sent by CADI into the iron and coal mines number 60,000. In addition CADI has placed 60,000 Polish agricultural workers in France." (Field comments: From a report by LOUKA, delegate of the Council National Polonais en France.)

b. "In the large chemical and metallurgical factories of Marseille one-third of the employees are immigrants. In the industries du Nord, 340 workers are foreign; the Cotel Plant, 483 workers are immigrants. CADI has placed many of these men and will continue to place as many again." (Field comments: From a report of Guido ZAMIS, CADI secretary in Marseille.)

c. "There are 8,800 foreigners in the coal mines at Carmaux-le-Mines. CADI has placed 80% of those men." (Field comments: From a report of the CADI representative for the TARM department.)
