Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicates significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance; state suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give, if possible, for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds; must be commented on, if applicable. If a spare part is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

JUN 6 39PM'86 bring the continuing period of growth and expansion in the Office of Research and Development, in which he played a major role. During the past year, Mr. Christ has given up his responsibilities in the Radio-Physics area and has devoted himself to expansion and growth problems of the Audio-Physics Division, which encompasses effort in positive audiosurveillance, countermeasures, and emplacement problems.

Mr. Christ continues to be conscientious, responsive, and alert to the needs of the Agency in terms of the substantive content of technical programs under his direction and supervision. He couples this with a vigorous managerial attitude that encompasses the recruiting, programming, coordination, and other factors necessary to implement these programs in an effective manner. His cost-consciousness is a continuing effort throughout the year and is best exemplified by his careful over-all planning and charting of total program efforts in order that projects lead directly to productive intelligence efforts.

Mr. Christ has had an unusually difficult position in one respect, in that his technical surveillance effort was a major interface area with the DD/P in a realm where political and bureaucratic considerations could have deleteriously affected the content of his programs. He handled these problems in a manner that was favorable for the over-all good of the Agency in terms of technical progress in numerous areas and which far exceeded what might be called “par” for the course.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 5/4/86. Signature of Employee: Nard F. Christ.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 30.

Date: 5.3.86. Official title of supervisor: Director of Research and Development. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert M. Chapman.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

Mr. Christ has done an extremely good job in developing a truly exciting program and capable staff focused on advanced audio and counteraudio techniques, in the face of a difficult environment. I would hope that during the coming year he could develop a tighter managerial control over the many small diverse
