6. It looks that our friend who talked to Pico in Medellin and Bogota was disgusted because Pico was satisfied with the results of the meeting. Pico's satisfaction stemmed from the strong anti-Castro (Gastro) stand the Council adopted, and it is obvious that the running problem so important to us could not upset him.

7. Pico reports that there is a good chance that Dagoberto Gonzalez (Secretary General of Trabajadores Copeyanos) will be elected as CLASC president at the next CLASC Congress. According to him, Jose Goldsack will become Treasurer, and present treasurer Alfredo di Pacce will head a new CLASC office dedicated to raising funds from the Latin American affiliates.

Pico considers Gonzalez a staunch anti-communist and better disposed toward Maspere than Raspero. He thinks that, flanked by Gonzalez and Goldsack, Maspere will not have so much to say and his power will be limited. Gonzalez is apparently a much more forceful personality than Goldsack, who does not have enough guts to oppose Maspere.

8. Pico believes that Maspere is less aggressive and anti-US than he used to be. He thinks that the pressure from CISC and ISI, plus a strong anti-communist posture of the affiliates, accounts for this.

In the cables received from our Colombia office there is strong criticism of Pico as a sort of Maspere's stooge. After discussing this topic several times with Pico, I think that his opinion of Maspere is:

Mas pere is a forceful, dynamic, and well-prepared leader. As an Argentine and ex-Peronista, he has more drive and is a better organizer than the others in CLASC. Besides, he offers CLASC a promise of bringing CTG into an alliance with them, a feat which only he can accomplish. For Pico's taste, Maspere is too demagogic, and he does not like his anti-US and sort of commie (connies) attitude. However, Pico claims that Maspere lately is much more aware of the commie danger. As Maspere is without doubt the most powerful single individual in CLASC, and as Pico's position is weak (his Federation is not created yet and he has to be confirmed as Secretary General), he sees no use in bucking Maspere, especially as no organized and strong opposition exists. Pico, however, would view sympathetically the restriction of Maspere's power, or it would not bother him at all to see Maspere removed completely. But as long as he exists, Pico believes that for his personal good and in order to be able to push a strong anti-Castro (Gastro) stand, in which he is mainly interested, he has to work and live with Maspere.

This position impresses me as a sensible one.

III. Miscellaneous Remarks

1. There is some inconsistency in the cables we received. In one of them, Romano Tschumi (Tschumie), CLASC Executive Secretary for the Dutch Antilles and President of CEDEU, is described as “widely considered an insignificant and unimpressive element.” In another cable, this same Tschumi is quoted as a source (direct source, not via Pico, as Pico said that he did not know about campesinos sold out) and as a new CLASC Assistant Secretary General. Pico also claims that he does not know about it, even though he was criticized before for getting his information from such a lousy source as Tschumi.

2. Pico reports that in Caracas he met Carl Norden from the ISI Bonn office in the CLASC office. Carlos Moris (vice-director of Instituto de Estudios Sociales de Caribe), Mariano Benitez (Centro de Documentacion, Caracas), Santiago Tortosa (Secretary General of CODESA), and Esquivel Borges (Esquivei Borges) (CIS) were also present. Norden reported that the
