Continuation of Part II—Language Elements.

Section C. Speaking (43).

1. I speak fluently and accurately in all practical and social situations. I converse freely and directly in all fields with which I am familiar.

2. I speak fluently and accurately in several practical and social situations. I can converse in most fields that are a little hard to use and new for me, as well as use the most popular sayings, literary quotations, and common proverbs.

3. I get along quickly and well in situations of daily life and travel and can conduct routine business in particular fields.

4. I manage to get along in the most common situations of daily life and travel. [Selected]

5. I have no ability to use the language in any of the above respects.

Section E. Understanding (44).

1. I understand non-technical conversation on all subjects. Both face-to-face and on the telephone, I understand nearly everything I hear on the radio and at the movies, plays, and lectures.

2. I understand non-technical conversation on nearly all subjects. Both face-to-face and on the telephone, I understand most of what I hear on the radio and at the movies, plays, and lectures, including most jokes and puns.

3. I understand nearly all conversation on topics of daily life and travel, both face-to-face and on the telephone. I understand much of what I hear on the radio and at the movies, plays, and lectures.

4. I understand the simplest conversation, both face-to-face and on the telephone. I understand some of what I hear on the radio and at the movies, plays, and lectures. [Selected]

5. I am not able to understand the spoken language.

Before continuing—check Part II to ensure that you have circled one number per section.

Part III—Experience as Translator or Interpreter (45).

1. I have had experience as a translator.

2. I have had experience as an interpreter.

3. Both of the above statements apply.

4. None of the above statements apply. [Selected]

Part IV—Certification.

I certify that the information given above is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief. This certification constitutes my application for a maintenance award, provided I am eligible under the terms of Regulation No. 29-115, paragraph 10(4). I understand that I must pass an objective language proficiency test before I become eligible for an award, and that, irrespective of the date of testing, annual maintenance awards will be cumulative as of the anniversary of the date of completing this form.

Check here if you are eligible to receive an annual maintenance award. James W. McGard Jr.

Date.
