Western Germany as exemplified in West Berlin. In connection with this campaign, the illumination of West Berlin shops with display of luxury merchandise, special theatrical and movie attractions, sports events, possibly an automobile show.

d. Neutralization of possible communist propaganda claims of abuse and martyrdom, by discounting claims in advance and ridiculing the purpose.

e. Preparation to support groups of street fighters organized to resist attempts on the part of the FDJ to seize or damage installations in West Berlin and to meet any demonstration of force with greater force—if high policy approves such defense operations.

f. A plan (subject of project PDQUICK) to hold, shortly after the Deutschlandtreffen, an Intellectual and Cultural Peace Congress in Berlin, bringing together a number of leaders of German, American, British, French, Russian, Czech, Italian, and other nationalities, representing high achievement and international reputation in fields of labor, philosophy, politics, literature, art, music, education, and science. The Congress, held on the borderline between free and slave Europe, will concern itself with denouncing and exposing the swindle of communist peace propaganda, will beam its message to the satellite states to the effect that only intellectual and cultural slavery is possible in the Soviet system. Arrangements will be effected for broadcasting and publicizing the meetings of the Congress and a large distribution of its deliberations throughout East Germany and satellite Europe. Arrangements also will be made for worldwide publicity and follow-up. It is expected that the Congress will be self-perpetuating and will hold further meetings.

4. Headquarters action

Following Mr. Lindsay's memorandum of 25 January and the field dispatch of 31 January, headquarters action with reference to the Deutschlandtreffen—and the Cultural Congress, as tied in—has taken the following course:

(a) A conference was held in PE-III on 7 February at which the basic idea of PDQUICK was approved by representatives of Staffs II and III, SADO, and PE-II. Based on this approval a cable of authorization was sent to field the same date.

(b) During February a committee was organized consisting of Messrs. Glaser (Chairman), Chester, Droller, and Denby, to act as an expediting and coordinating group. At this date, the committee has had two formal and a number of informal meetings. Members of the committee have also met twice with Dr. Hilger and four times with Mr. Purnham.

(c) Arrangements

LURET
