Fitness Report.

Section A: General.

Name: Elliott, Rico, R. Jr. Date of birth: 27 September 1931. Sex: M. Grade: S-3. Service designation: SF. Official position title: Special Accountant Clerk. Office/division/branch of assignment: Comp/Finan/-Recrs.

Career Staff Status: Not eligible, pending; member; deferred; declined; denied.

Type of report: Initial; reassignment/supervisor; annual; reassignment/employer.

Date report due in O.P.: 30 April 1950. Reporting period: From 1 1/8 50 to 31 11/8 60. Special: Specify.

Section B: Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Rating scale: 1. Unsatisfactory. 2. Barely adequate. 3. Acceptable. 4. Competent. 5. Excellent. 6. Superior. 7. Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Responsible for number-ins, removing attachments, batching and totaling confidential funds posting vouchers to be processed by Machine Records Division.

Specific duty No. 2: Responsible for verifying the daily expenditure listing totals with the expended general ledger accounts.

Specific duty No. 3: Responsible for matching the attachments to the vouchers and filing when vouchers are returned from Machine Records Division.

Section C: Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
