29 CP 129 12.7

Suzie with Sonya. Suzie and Sonya are going to the theater. They mention Maggie, who told them that they shouldn't go; they won't understand anything.

29 CP 137 18.5

M calls Mlle. CN and asks M to come right away.

29 CP 139 8.7

Pierre LELONG calls Suzie. Suzie has friends with her now. She asks if there is a letter. He said there is an open letter. When Pierre came in, he found all the letters opened on the table. There is a letter from DUVAL. They must be yesterday's letters.

29 CP 140 16.2

Suzie goes with Claudette LELONG. Suzie thanks Claudette for the gift and the translation. There had been a lecture at the University given by someone who spoke only French. The person came Tuesday night and left this morning. How does Suzie feel after all that translating? She is O.K.; it's her field. She is moving today. Claudette tells her Gerard is going to be surprised when he comes back. Suzie tells Claudette that she will tell Pierrot to tell his friend in Miami that her brother is coming up soon.

29 CP 146 7.0

Suzie calls Bernard. They talk about Suzie's new house. She is a big bourgeoise now. She asks for Sonya's address.

22 GP 5 9.5

(Ti Ben is a nickname for Benoit.) Ti Ben with Suzie. B couldn't come because he was busy working, but by Saturday he will try to have everything ready. She will call him and let him know. Suzie asks B if they are already on strike. B says medical school hasn't started yet. B proposed a plan for a strike, but three of them didn't like the idea. They decided to wait and see what happens. Suzie asks B if he has news from Haiti. He heard some troops had landed in Haiti. Suzie asks what kind of rumors he had heard. B: “Duvalier has burned half of Cap Haitien. A Haitian told him that.” Suzie has heard that there was a landing in Haiti and Duvalier killed 15,000 people. On Thursday, a newspaper announced a landing in Haiti. The newspaper Veridices announced that there had been a wave of repression in Haiti. Some American boats and airplanes were surrounding Haiti. The Haitian government protested to the Americans, but the Americans said that it was just a routine check/protection of the islands. Suzie says that Honrod PHILLIPS was shot because of the CINLAS affair. Suzie asks B if he has heard from the Haitian embassy. No. B's philosophy course had been suspended.
