Memorandum for: Chief, FI

Subject: Project LIEPTY Amendment

Headquarters Case Officer:

Name: J. B. Brady  
Room: 2114 Barton Hall  
Extension: 2555  
Date: 23 June 1959

1. It is requested that approval be granted to amend Raymond H. GERENDE's contract to provide him with a termination settlement of one month's salary for each full year that he works for KUBARK (KUEBARK) and to raise his salary effective July 1959 from $4,080 to $4,560.00 per year. His last salary increase was granted on 1 September 1957. The date, 18 March 1955, has been suggested by the Station as the beginning date for the computation of GERENDE's termination benefits. The Station believes that this benefit will provide GERENDE with the necessary incentive to make KUBARK a career and at the same time will give the Station an additional element of control.

2. As pointed out in the LIEMPTY Project Approval, GERENDE, an indigenous agent, is one of the Station's most valuable assets. He has a responsible full-time job as the LIEMPTY Principal Agent who handles the LIMITED, LILLYNIC, and LICALLA base houses, the LIENTRAP operation, the outside photographic processing and translation service, and all the agents participating in these activities. He performs his duties in a conscientious and professional manner, and his already excellent abilities are showing continued improvement.

3. Money was already allocated in the LIEMPTY Project approval for the salary increase. With the effective date of 18 March 1955 for the termination clause, GERENDE will already have accrued $1,520 (his salary is $4,560 per year) if he should resign today. The LIEMPTY Project, as approved, has sufficient funds to cover this cost if it is necessary to obligate this amount during the present project year. Therefore, no additional funds are requested.

Attachments: Folder with past approval; envelope with true name.

Concur: Richard W. Kleve; C. W. Anderson, M/F/L, Chief, FI, ODS.

Approved: John S. Mimmor. Approved for Transmittal: R. G. Lopez, Chief, FI, C/M/D.

Senior Staff Coordination: For C/FI/OPS — s/R. Bryant. Approved: R. G. Lopez. For CI Staff — s/R. Brown for J. C. King, C/WD.

16 July 1959.
