Operational Security Review of Raymond H. Gerende's Operations and Activities

1. Situation

As a result of the June 1958 LIPSTICK flap, it was decided by the Chief of Station on 30 June 1958 that Quinton N. Ousler would assume direct contact with several of Matthew S. Dingley's agents, one of whom was Raymond H. Gerende. After being introduced to Gerende by Dingley on 1 July 1958, Ousler assumed contact responsibilities with Gerende on 2 July 1958. On 18 July 1958, the Chief of Station decided that Ousler should be assigned permanent responsibility for the management and handling of Gerende and Gerende's (Gekende's) operations.

2. Purpose

The purpose of this operational security review is threefold:

a. To identify possible security problems and conditions;

b. To establish a framework for recommendations which will result in the Station's submission of a new support project (LIEMPTY) with Raymond H. Gerende as a principal agent; and

c. To acquaint the new case officer with the operational problems and agent personnel with which he should have a comprehensive knowledge and detailed understanding.

3. Principal Agent—Raymond H. Gerende

a. Background—Gerende has been employed by KUBARK since 18 March 1955, which was just prior to his graduation from the Mexico City College. He is now only 24 years of age, but in the Station's opinion, is a mature, experienced and dedicated KUBARK contract agent. During the three and one-half years that he has been working for the Mexico City Station, Gerende has participated in a varied assortment of support and intelligence operations. Initially, he was trained and used by Matthew S. Dingley as a member of the LIPSTICK surveillance team. In addition to surveillance work, he was used as an investigator to collect operational data on persons and organizations of interest to the Station. He quickly demonstrated a capacity for leadership and at one time was the leader of the LIPSTICK team. He has been used as a LIFEAT Base House operator.
