Myroslaw Andrew Maksymiec

April 30, 1917.

FM. 171 - Experience 18-2

Enclosure No. 2, Page 3

The attached Certificate of Appreciation is but a minor expression of our thanks to you for your efforts. The staff and faculty of the Institute join me in wishing you every success.

Henry C. Newton  
Brigadier General, USA (Ret.)  
Director

(2) Fitness Report

I have known Mr. Myroslaw A. Maksymiec for more than seven years. For approximately two years (1954–1956) during that period he worked under my direct daily supervision in the Office of the Army Attaché, American Embassy, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Since that time I have maintained periodic contact with Mr. (then M/Sgt E-7) Maksymiec.

Although Mr. Maksymiec’s primary job was photographer and chief of the photographic laboratory while working with me in Ethiopia, he was also in charge of supply and transportation for the Office of the Army Attaché.

In the field of photography I consider Mr. Maksymiec to be one of the outstanding photographers in the Armed Services of the United States. His work with me was consistently superior both from a technical viewpoint and from a photographic result viewpoint. None of the assignments that I gave Mr. Maksymiec were routine, nor were they easy. Variously they involved considerable ability, tenacity, diplomacy, and judgment. He always accomplished his mission. His detailed captions were usually accurate and valuable, showing a keen insight into the subject (human or machine) being covered.

His work in photography was so outstanding that at one time at Addis Ababa, at a request from TIME-LIFE Magazines, I consented for Mr. Maksymiec to complete a photographic report commenced by Mr. Alfred Disenstadt, one of the outstanding photographers in the U.S. Several pages of pictures taken by Mr. Maksymiec appeared with the article in LIFE Magazine. His work also was commended personally by the U.S. Ambassador to Ethiopia and by the Emperor Haile Selassie I, who awarded him a gold medal.
