Spacious, carpeted, furnished apartment near the DIZTAG Embassy, which served intermittently as a listening post-basehouse for the agency. At the time, LIEMPTY-19 was working as the manager of the bookstore at the University of the Americas and, at the same time, studying for a B.A. in philosophy. Those were happy times. We received a two-month leave, went to Europe, the Rome Olympics and visited LIEMPTY-19's family in Holland. Back in Mexico, when the base was in operation I stayed home a lot (one of the requirements), minded the dial and tape recorders and the baby—an unfortunate reversal of marital roles. After exactly five years the basehouse was closed down and we lost rent, LIEMPTY-19's salary and my mother's salary which she had been receiving as part-time basehouse keeper. My mother and youngest sister gave considerable help in taking care of the baby while LIEMPTY-19 worked and when we went to Europe and left the baby with them. This was during the first three years at the base until we had our second child, Christopher.

5. We moved to a small apartment in Lomas and, to supplement the loss of salary and rent allowance, the Station began paying 1,000 pesos a month for the use of a dark room I had built on the roof of the building. We had our third child, Madeleine, unplanned, two months after settling in the two-bedroom apartment. The apartment need not have been so small but we had chosen it for its location and style and because it was to be a temporary stop until we could find something better. We missed going to the Olympics in Tokyo which we had planned to do (1964) and instead began negotiating to buy a home building site at Rio Escendido but when the deal fell through, we decided to go on leave to Europe again, this time with the two older children, leaving the baby with my sister. We visited with LIEMPTY-19's parents in Holland (they had moved back to Holland after having lived in Washington, D.C., since 1943) and the two children stayed with them while LIEMPTY-19 and I made side trips. Traveling is LIEMPTY-19's greatest love in life. Upon our return to Mexico (I came back two weeks earlier), LIEMPTY-19 was so depressed at leaving Europe and being back in Mexico she was emotionally and physically inaccessible for about six weeks. She had not fully adjusted to living in Mexico or to settling down and becoming a housewife. Our cramped quarters, way of living, lack of money, my job, my irregular hours and habits, my Friday night poker games, the three children, all these got her down.

6. In the fall of 1965 after our return from Europe I began teaching English to beginners in the adult education program at the American School in the evenings. This started as a two-hour a week moonlighting experiment but by early 1966, through student contacts made at the school, I had branched out to teaching at the offices of Carnation Milk Co., Singer Sewing Machine, and Richardson-Merrell Drug Co. for a total of about twenty hours per week. LIEMPTY-19, meantime, was working part-time at the Hamilton School in Lomas where the two older children were attending. The family finances improved and I was able to convince LIEMPTY-19 that
