Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Wigren has contributed to the provision and training in such an effective way that his overall contribution to SIC activities. For most of his previous experience here he has accrued the responsibility for supervision of the Introduction to Communication, which he has carried out with a high degree of success. In the past, guide, direct, and instruct, as well as evaluate, direct, give feedback, and supervise are well suited.

In addition, his contact in SS division, which he maintains closely, is a valuable asset to SIC.

Mr. Wigren was one of four instructors who were the subjects of a highly comprehensive letter from the Director of the South African service to the DCI resulting from a training IDY in that country.

Subject: In his superintendence capacity as chief instructor of Introduction to Communication, he is efficient and very considerate in the use of personnel and equipment.

I strongly urge that his stated desire to transfer to career status in Training be given favorable consideration.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 15 January 1968. Signature of employee: John H. Morsom.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 12.

Date: 15 January 1968. Official title of supervisor: John H. Morris. Typed or printed name and signature: John H. Morris.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: Wigren has done very well during this reporting period. He makes a fine contribution to SIC. I commend him in this rating.

Date: 22 January 1968. Official title of reviewing official: Department Director of Training. Typed or printed name and signature: ALfon
