1. The following information and/or documents are submitted in compliance with reference display:

a. Original Form 84-69 signed in possession.

b. Signed statement incorporating the bank's transfer instructions for Subject, who requests that all payments be made locally in pesos.

c. Since Subject wants his entire net pay paid locally, it is requested that Headquarters complete his pay and advise Station of the net pay, which will represent his local field allotment.

d. Subject will be reimbursed actual quarters' expenses locally, in accordance with FR 15-1050.

e. IRMAHUM desires the hospitalization contract and hospitalization application (Contract Plan) to be forwarded hereinafter in duplicate.

f. It is requested that Headquarters complete IRMAHUM's pay from 30 October 1960 through the present pay period. Upon advice of the 2% amount due Subject, Station will collect any overpayments or pay underpayments and, if the correct amount has subsequently been paid to Headquarters, his net pay will be considered field allotments and amounts paid will be transferred to Headquarters.

g. Certification of IRMAHUM's sick and annual (occasional) leave, and the amount paid in a lump sum by his former employer for “accrued annual leave,” are being forwarded in a separate document.

h. IRMAHUM has been advised by the COfI to the effect that he must advise KIJARAH before he applies for OOFICI retirement.

i. Original signed contract is returned herewith. Copy of this contract has been returned for Station files.

j. Forwarded herewith is signed certification by IRMAHUM of an operating lease from his cover activity, as required by paragraph 7, “Offset,” of his contract.

k. Attached are Report of Medical History and certification from the examining physician in accordance with paragraph 14(b) of Subject's contract.

l. The Station wishes to make the following additional observations:

a. Earlier contracts' transmittal letter indicated the amount of “Cost of Living” allowance Subject will receive, in accordance with paragraph b.(3) of his contract. It is requested that this amount be remitted with his pay calculation.
