j. Responsibility of Supervising Military Attaché Operations

On 29 January 1965 NOSENKO told his interrogator that for the first five or six months of 1960, immediately after transferring to the U.S. Embassy Section and as part of his responsibilities as its Deputy Chief, he supervised Second Chief Directorate activities against American service attachés in Moscow. By this time he meant, NOSENKO said, that when GAVRILENKO (the case officer for Air Force Attachés), KURILENKO (Army Attachés), or BELOGLAZOV (Naval Attachés and Marines) had any questions or reports to submit, they would come to him rather than to KOVSHUK, the Chief of the section. After about six months he was relieved of this duty because his other duties did not allow sufficient time for this function and because it was considered more suitable that ALESHIN, recently assigned to the American Department as Deputy Chief, be given this responsibility.

NOSENKO had previously been questioned in detail on his responsibilities in the U.S. Embassy Section, and had never before mentioned this one. NOSENKO told C.I.A. in June 1964 that when he reported for duty in the U.S. Embassy Section in January 1960, DRANOV was the responsible case officer for the Naval Attachés and Marines. Soon after his own arrival, NOSENKO said, DRANOV was transferred from the section and his responsibilities were taken over by BELOGLAZOV, who had earlier been assisting DRANOV against these targets.

NOSENKO said on 20 October 1966 that immediately upon, or at the latest a few weeks after, arriving in the U.S. Embassy Section, he went on leave for a month. Either immediately before or right after this leave KOVSHUK told him that he would be responsible for activities against the Naval Attachés. DRANOV was retiring and gave NOSENKO the files on Naval and Marine personnel. This was NOSENKO's first mention either of the leave period in early 1960 or of having had case officer responsibilities for personnel of the Naval Attaché's office in Moscow. (At the same time he said that he had lied about going on leave in November 1960.)

NOSENKO was reminded on 25 October 1966 that he had said in 1965 that in 1960 he was supervisor of operations against all U.S. service attaché personnel. NOSENKO replied: “I took the files only on the Navy, but I was working on [supervising] all of them.”

NOSENKO has never volunteered details of specific operational activity he handled as the case officer for U.S. Naval Attachés or supervisor of operations against all attachés in early 1960. He said that Marine Colonel DULACKI'S contact with (or attempt to recruit) the Indonesian KGB agent which he has described in detail (see Page 488) took place after he was relieved of these functions.
