3.

On 12 December, Logvinov came unannounced to Subject's office and prevailed on him to cooperate with him nearby. The Soviet presented Subject with four bottles of cigars for Christmas and began to ask Subject a series of personal questions: if he had left Inland for Russia (Jussia) after III—had his documentation been altered or III? Subject answered that it was legal.

How was he able to enter Russia—did he have a solid French birth? Subject told the truth. How long did he stay in Russia? Subject said a few months.

Was he to be released from service with the Jollih Ue? Subject said yes. Was there any secretary to this release? Subject said no. But he supported his conclusion by his document. He said that he would get a letter from the President in Jollih Ue to tell what Subject said, and related the story of how he was treated in Jollih Ue (in I. rich Liet.) by a Jewish diplomatic courier who brought a letter from Subject's old neighbor in the UB, and how Subject answered that letter. In Subject's response to the Polish question, was it positive or negative? Subject said neutral. Asked why, Subject replied that he delivered that slight percentage of the Poles who were anti-Soviet. Logvinov said, “No, you’re right.”

Loginov said to Subject, “How are you getting along with the American girls as you dealt with her?” Subject, a fuming, asked why. Loginov said that maybe, if Subject had the case, he could learn the name of “the director of the CI in Moscow.” Subject told him to call and that he did not think Subject could get that information. They lingered together and started to think whether Subject would tell the Soviets if he did not give information. Subject dismissed the topic with a cry of “maybe.”

Subject agreed to show Loginov the documents that backed up his answers to Subject's questions.

On either 20 or 21 December, Nurel Yatskov dropped by Subject's office to get some material (資料) he had brought back from Moscow. Comment: Subject had one Yatskov a few days before the Berlin meeting. The Berliners traveled to Moscow by arranging for Subject's travel in Russia to meet Yatskov. Yatskov, who no longer holds the post of Soviet Consul in L. P. and is a former candidate for KGB resident, told Subject that he is also a friend, asked what Subject thinks about him and “them,” and said he is sure that Subject will not let them know about the realization of their common ideas. Yatskov further stated that he and Subject have very much in common, and that they should meet. It was left to Subject to decide if Subject would go to Moscow.

Subjects/11. Co City Station

The C/O met Subject at his office on 22 November 1966 to debrief him on the results of his trip to Moscow (see paragraph 3 A. above). In addition to providing information on the contacts with Nochlporenko, Subject gave incidental information concerning a female Soviet Jew he met and the anti-American attitude of a source/agent from China.

On 8 December, in Subject's office, Subject reported the Soviet contacts he had with Frakhodino and Loginov on 3 and 5 December. Subject's response to a question reopened with Subject the topic of community support, that Secretary of Government Echerrie is interested in his candidacy for next president of Mexico. Subject related how Jacundo Zabludovsky had come to mention the matter to Subject. On learning that Subject himself was proposed as one of the five influential members of the Mexican community for Scheverlong's approval, Zabludovsky did not want to comment. The C.A. requested that Subject check further with Zabludovsky when he had an opportunity.
