Reference: HCSW 7566, 11 February 1969.

1. With the departure of AEROOR and his wife on home leave, we would like to offer a few comments about him for possible future action by the Station when he returns. The impetus for these thoughts was a recent examination of the files of all those Soviets on the priority target list to determine if, perhaps, one of them offers more of a potential for intensive development than another. The purpose of this review was not to discard the agreed-upon target list, since this list is the rationale behind the entire concept of selective targeting; but rather, to attempt a narrowing of the Station's focus on the one particular Soviet who appears to be the best selection for operational development among the priority group. We have looked at such factors as susceptibilities (known or potential), contacts, accessibility, etc. and, for reasons discussed below, feel that AEROOR may be the best selection for a determined Station effort aimed at his eventual recruitment. Thus, the Station's focus on the other priority Soviets would continue at its present level but at the same time, AEROOR would be placed "under the microscope" as the object of a more intensive Station effort aimed at gaining multiple access to him.

2. With the imminent departure of BIBANDIT/12 from Buenos Aires and the resulting elimination of our one good contact with ALVULTUR, the choice of AEROOR became easier to make. His selection, however, was based on several considerations which, from our vantage point, seem to offer the best potential for Station action when he returns to the country.

3. Accessibility: AEROOR is one of the very few Soviets with whom direct Staffer contact has been made. The social evening spent with him and his wife in January showed excellent promise because it appeared that foundations for rapport and further contact had been laid. We note, however, that there has been no mention of further meetings since the initial one, four and one-half months ago. Due to the elapsed time, we assume that Subject and his wife are not planning to reciprocate the invitation. On the other hand, enough time will have passed since the initial contact for the Station to take the initiative.

Change 1 reference to dispatch symbol and number: MABW 11473. Classification: A-GRANT. Date: 18 June 1969. Resident: KANAGA. Occupation: Office. Sub/X/WI. Coordinating: AC/SC/WI. Date: 10 June. Datum: 6412. Office symbols: AC/SB/X/WH; SH/CI/O; C/WH/4/A. Dates: 6 June 1969; 16 June; 10 June. Officers' names: T. Carnahan; J. Littles. Releasing office symbol: C/WH/4. Date: 10 June 1969. Gifter's signature.
