Office Memorandum, United States Government.

To: Chief, CI/OA  
From: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Support)  
Subject: C-25507  
Date: 3 July 1957

1. Concurrent with this memorandum, a covert security clearance is being issued to enable the Subject's conversion from contract agent to career agent for use as principal agent for Project AMPHitheRARCH in Cuba under non-official cover.

2. This is to advise that information has been received from a confidential source of the Office of Security concerning Argentina CORDERO Calderon and her sister, Consuelo (Counsuelo), who are believed to be the Subject's wife and sister-in-law, respectively. According to a December 1944 report, the above individuals were described as Costa Rican citizens then in Panama under suspicion and members of the Russian Ballet team of Pedro and Lidia CHUPRIYE. Argentina is known to speak and understand German. She was formerly married to Pedro MARZAL, reportedly a German national and formerly on both the British and U.S. Proclaimed Lists. She is reliably reported to have made pro-German remarks and is pro-German in her sympathies. It was further reported that both of the above individuals have at times attempted to secure information from members of the American Armed Forces.

3. In view of the above information, it is requested that current overseas traces and investigation be conducted on the Subject as well as on his wife and sister-in-law, Consuelo (Counsuelo), and other members of his wife's immediate family, and that the results thereof be furnished this office.

4. The covert security clearance being issued in this case is made contingent upon the favorable results of the requested overseas traces and investigation.

For the Director of Security:

This document is the property of the Security Office and should be returned when it has served its purpose. Its contents must not be disclosed except to CIA staff officers directly concerned. This material shall not be distributed in any manner whatever unless the prior approval of the Security Office.
