Section C: Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain limitations given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost effectiveness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject has Washington Base responsibility. Instructions directed against FE Division targets. He continues to do an excellent job of exploiting his foreign and domestic contacts for operational and intelligence purposes. His patience, skill and sophistication in the handling of sensitive oriental agents and agent candidates has meant a continual increase in the calibre of Base operations against these targets. He has developed a Burmese official (WUTHAL) to the point of giving useful information on his Embassy and his Government's intentions at a time when it is difficult to have any contact with Burmese at all. The intelligence reporting from his other agents—particularly WUFLY and WUSHARK—has been impressive and he has talked WUSHARK into attempting to get a posting to Peking.

He has, on his own, developed a solid academic cover and has used it to advantage on occasions when his official cover was not appropriate. He is very cost conscious and his handling of confidential funds is characterized by good judgement and prompt accountings. He has excellent working relations with his colleagues at the Base and in Headquarters.

Certification and Comments. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 13/16/67. Signature of employee: J. Walter D. Doles. By supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation.

Date: 13/16/67. Official title of supervisor: Chief, US/NOG. Typed or printed name and signature: Rudolph E. Gomez.

3. By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: The undersigned is in complete accord with the narrative comments of Subject's immediate supervisor.

Date: 14/3/67. Official title of reviewing official: COB, Washington. Typed or printed name and signature: Rudolph E. Gomez.
