One of the best covered in literature and courses in this source was:

Tropes and tropes; Group Leadership; Principles; Leadership Factors; Global Warfare (Global Warfarine).

From the enemy: Know our allies; know the L.L.M.; targeting targets; levitation and visual illusion (Leviation and Visual Illusion).

Upon completing this course, with a grade of “Excellent,” I received a certificate and a Military Occupational Specialty Classification of LCS 1274 (Information-Education Enlisted Specialist).

I believe my work as a Non-Commissioned Officer (Non-Conferred Officer) in the Post Info & Education Office at Camp Fickett would be valuable to Central Intelligence. The job was given to me as a promotion. I received special training for it at the School for Periscopic Services. While performing the job, I received promotions in P.M. from Private First Class to Staff Sergeant. During the closing months of my service, I was in complete charge of the office in the absence of any full-time Info & Education Officer.

As the result of my work, I was invited to attend a conference of the Info & Education officers and non-commissioned officers of the Third Service Command at Edgewood Arsenal (Edgewood Arsonal), Maryland, and to address that conference on educational and counselling problems. Since my discharge was in process at that time, I was unable to attend. Upon discharge, I received a special commendation from Colonel M.S. Paullin, Commanding Officer of Camp Fickett, and a letter of recommendation from my superior.

Copies of these letters, orders, and recommendations will be submitted if necessary.

Section 22—Clubs, etc. (continued from page 10)

8. New England Methodist Student Movement Council. Office of Chaplain, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts. Dates: 1946–1947.

9. Harvard Wesley Foundation, 1556 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts; 38 Hancock Street (HANCDOM ST.), Cambridge, Massachusetts. Dates: 1947–1950.

10. Graduate History Club, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Dates: 1948–1950 (irregular attendance).

11. Henry Adams Club (for graduate students in American history), Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Dates: 1947–1950.

12. Post #35 American Legion, West Elk Street, Brockton, Massachusetts. Dates: 1946–1948.

The forecasting additional factors to use in the predictive of my enlistment.
