Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or expand upon [information] given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This employee has continued to perform in the last Fitness reports are based on the same rating. His job is to assume an even heavier workload today due to the imminent transfer of his supervisor whose skills are being used without need. This situation has become a necessity. He has not improved as expected, and it is felt that he should be sent to SHOW for a complete medical check-up as soon as he can be spared for the time required.

Once again, it is recommended that this officer be promoted as soon as possible to GS-11.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 9 September 1966. Signature of employee: /s/ Joseph S. Piccolo.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 4 months 'D'Y; 11 months PCS. Official title of supervisor: Ops Officer, KXXXXXBXXXXXXXM. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Robert T. Shaw.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: The Reviewing Officer agrees with the Ratings and the Comments of the Supervisor of this officer which are reflected in this Fitness Report.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Winston Scott.
