Together, and they are not heard to argue. On the other hand, there appear to be very deep inconsistencies in his public and private behavior. Sometimes he speaks like a man at war with himself.

36. A certain degree of racism can be detected in his constant reference to blacks as “niches,” a disrespectful Cuban colloquialism roughly comparable with the pejorative word, “nigger.”

37. RUIZ almost never discusses women with his colleagues, except for one off moment when he mentioned a girl he knew in the United States before the Revolution. Perhaps RUIZ wisely remembers that Nilda also works at the Embassy and refrains from mentioning women on her account. In any case, he is not known to be involved in any extramarital affair. (Still, one wonders about the custom of absenting himself by automobile into the interior of Spain.)

38. His habits seem to be simple: he likes movies; he has read Topaz (but made no comment thereon); and he receives people at his home for cocktails.

Political and Ideological Views

39. Although outwardly a “Revolutionary,” RUIZ gives much more the appearance of a man with moderate political views struggling to justify to himself the actions of his government, especially in view of the political and economic realities of his country. It is possible that his feelings might lie closer to the theory of the “betrayed revolution”—but not for strictly ideological reasons. The incompetence of the Cuban governmental bureaucracy, for example, has sabotaged the revolution.

40. In the first place, RUIZ definitely does not seem to be a Marxist and consequently he cannot accept the role of “robot” (his term) required by Party discipline and vertical structure.

a. On 29 December 1969 he wrote to Telesforo DIAZ Portillo, a MINREX official: “Revolutionaries should not be coerced by forms of political control.”

b. On 11 December 1969 he told a visiting Agropecuario official from Havana that: “... if I disagree with orders, I question them because I am not a robot nor do I have the mentality of one. As a human being I express opinions no matter what the risk that I may have to accept personally.”
