American Embassy Section — January 1960–January 1962.

Except for the American woman with whom ABIDIAN was thought to have been intimate, NOSENKO knew none of ABIDIAN's close American friends in Moscow nor his close friends and professional contacts among foreigners there.

NOSENKO received and read transcripts of all telephone calls that ABIDIAN made or received at his office and apartment via the Moscow city telephone system, but he recalled none of their names nor nationalities, because there was nothing of interest in the conversations.

At the end of the January–February 1965 interrogations concerning ABIDIAN, NOSENKO acknowledged that he knew little about this important KGB target. He was “working badly” as ABIDIAN's case officer, he said, because he had had to concentrate on supervising the work against code clerks.

ABIDIAN's Letter Mailings

During the 1962 meetings with NOSENKO in Geneva, he reported KGB knowledge of ABIDIAN's mailing of at least three clandestine letters, in each case to KGB-controlled agents. According to NOSENKO, the KGB detected all the letters mailed by ABIDIAN through the use of metka. He cautioned the CIA representatives against further use of Embassy employees for mailing letters to agents in the Soviet Union. He noted that after LANGELLE, no such letters were mailed for a year and a half, until ABIDIAN mailed several. He explained that Embassy employees' servants applied an odorless substance (metka) to clothing pockets, and traces of the substance rubbed off on anything it contacted, such as a letter. All the letters mailed in Moscow were passed through a machine which identified letters bearing traces of metka, he said, and this was how letters ABIDIAN mailed were intercepted. NOSENKO recalled that ABIDIAN had mailed a letter to someone in Odessa, and two to the Baltic area, probably to Riga, and all were detected by metka, not by ABIDIAN's surveillants. According to NOSENKO, no new agents were discovered, however, since all of the agents to whom ABIDIAN mailed letters were already controlled by the KGB.

C001485
