Civil Officer Appointment Affidavits.

(As defined in 5 USC 21a and 21b)

I, Robert Tyler Shaw (Name in full), do solemnly swear (or affirm) that:

A. Oath of Office

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter, SO HELP ME GOD.

B. Affidavit as to Subversive Activity and Affiliation

I am not a Communist or Fascist. I do not advocate nor am I knowingly a member of any organization that advocates the overthrow of the constitutional form of the Government of the United States, or which seeks by force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States. I do further swear (or affirm) that I will not so advocate, nor will I knowingly become a member of such organization during the period that I am an employee of the Federal Government or any agency thereof.

C. Affidavit as to Striking Against the Federal Government

I am not participating in any strike against the Government of the United States or any agency thereof, and I will not so participate while an employee of the Government of the United States or any agency thereof. I do not and will not assert the right to strike against the Government of the United States or any agency thereof while an employee of the Government of the United States or any agency thereof. I do further swear (or affirm) that I am not knowingly a member of an organization of Government employees that asserts the right to strike against the Government of the United States or any agency thereof and I will not, while an employee of the Government of the United States or any agency thereof, knowingly become a member of such an organization.

D. Affidavit as to Purchase and Sale of Office

I have not, nor has anyone acting in my behalf, given, transferred, promised or paid any consideration for or in expectation or hope of receiving assistance in securing such appointment.

Robert Tyler Shaw

(Tyler is last name)

Subscribed and sworn before me this 27th day of March A. D. 1963, at Washington D. C. (City) (State).

Sec. 208. Act of June 28, 1948. (The)

Department of State (Department or agency)

Foreign Service (Department or agency)

Mexico City (Place of employment)

Consular Officer — PBR-4 (Position to which approved)

Note.—The oath of office must be administered by a person specified in 5 U. S. C. 18, or by a person designated to administer oaths under Section 206, Act of June 28, 1943, 5 U. S. C. 168. If by a Notary Public, the date of expiration of his commission should be shown.
