Continuation of dispatch. UFGA-4211.

220 NE 26th Terrace, Miami. Subject was employed as receptionist in the office of her brother Carlos Baro, a dentist in the L & 23rd Bldg, Vedado. Subject arrived in Miami on PAA Flight 422 on 5 May 1962.

2. Subjects a and b are sisters and were questioned together. On the topic of reception of radio programs in Cuba, both agreed that the best reception was the “Voz de las Americas,” which came in strong and clear with rarely any interference or jamming. Program content was described as generally good, gave a morale boost to the audience, and was becoming popular.

3. In commenting on Radio Las Americas, they pointed out that they had not heard it or attempted to tune in because they felt the quality was much the same as its predecessor, “Radio Swan,” which lost its prestige prior to and during the April 1961 invasion attempt. Both declared this was a general opinion among their acquaintances.

4. Subjects commented very favorably on programs heard over station XEW, Mexico, and WRUL, New York, describing reception and content as good and with large audiences in Cuba.

5. In referring to other programs, subjects reported that on 1 May, relatives in the Matanzas area telephoned them in Havana to tell them that the “students” (DRE) were on again (TV intrusion). Also, later in the day, friends in the Vedado area called to tell them to tune into Channel 2, that there was a program there (about 2115 hours local). Unfortunately, they had already sold their TV set since they were leaving soon. Both agreed that the system of announcing the TV intrusion broadcasts over CONTE Aguero’s program on WRUL a few minutes prior to the intrusion was the key to large audiences. Almost all GOC oppositionists, upon hearing this announcement, start telephoning their friends to tune into the TV channel announced.

6. Concerning the DRE internal organization, subjects reported that they had not been active recently and not witting to clandestine operations. They were aware, however, that the DRE internal net was waiting for the infiltration of AMHINT-53 or AMHINT-2 to brief them on the situation in exile and what support would be forthcoming. They reiterated the reports on two bombs set off in the university area by the DRE and burning of cane and henequen fields in Matanzas and Las Villas.

7. When queried on disturbances in Las Villas and/or Matanzas on or about 3 May, they replied that they heard the persistent rumor that a unit (company or regiment unknown) of militia had bolted and gone up into the Escambray Mountains. No further details were known.

8. When questioned on written propaganda such as flysheets or clandestine newsheets, both declared that the last propaganda seen was the clandestine issue of “Trinchera” (DRE organ), and that no other propaganda sheets had been seen since before the April invasion.

9. When asked their impression of anti-CASTRO propaganda in general, they felt that it was too negative: while the exiles and opposition groups were busy tearing down the image of CASTRO, he was before the people with some proposal that was based either on truth, had a ring of truth in it, or at least appealed to the masses. Some of their contacts with young girls who served as “brigadistas” (rural tutors in the campaign for literacy) turned up interesting remarks. These girls claimed that many of the country folk would throw ... their hands in dismay when Communism was mentioned to them, and
