Appeared not to be aware of any major purge and not to be concerned about it. However, if this is true, the chances for AMCLOCK/1 to be reassigned abroad in the near future appear doubtful at this time.

4. When DI GERVENO asked AMCLOCK/1 about his work and how the recent changes may affect him, the agent then reported the following information about his position in the Foreign Ministry. After his return in late December 1966, he was given four months' vacation, during which time he went by the ministry from time to time but had no job assigned to him. He used most of this time for a honeymoon and to relocate in his new home furnished by the PBRUMEN government. In the spring of 1967, (Iden C) considered him actively as a substitute for (Iden D), whom (Iden C) does not like. However, the job did not materialize because (Iden C)'s plans to send (Iden D) as Ambassador to Canada were not accepted by (Iden E), whom (Iden C) was going to send as Ambassador to Switzerland. At that time AMCLOCK/1 was also considered for a position in (Iden F), which was the position the PBRUMEN President wanted him to take, but AMCLOCK/1 avoided the position although it implied frequent travels abroad. The reason AMCLOCK/1 gave for not taking the position at (Iden F) was that he did not want to break away from his diplomatic career and felt he would be better protected among his friends in the Foreign Ministry. Consequently, after his vacation AMCLOCK/1 went back to work in the Foreign Ministry but without any specific duties. He is actually doing odd jobs for (Iden C), like economic studies. In mid-1967 AMCLOCK/1 and (Iden G) were proposed by (Iden C) and accepted by (Iden H) as members of a four-man committee (the other two members have not been selected yet) which is to be created in the Foreign Ministry to make specific area studies and recommendations to (Iden I). Since both AMCLOCK/1 and (Iden G) have been assigned to the HTBASTE mission, it is concluded that the creation of said “Advisory Committee” is not contemplated until early 1968. According to AMCLOCK/1, the creation of this “Advisory Committee” has been discussed at the highest levels only and it may have some influence in the policy-making decisions of (Iden H), which is the main body that dictates present PBRUMEN foreign policy.

5. It may be well to record here that we should take with a grain of salt the selection of AMCLOCK/1 to such a sensitive source of information as an “Advisory Committee” to (Iden H) would be. The agent may be trying to build up his importance to us. It is of interest to note that in the past year that AMCLOCK/1 has been residing inside of PBRUMEN, he has made no clear effort to obtain and develop new sources of information and to bring out with him intelligence of particular interest to us. For example, he has no information on the specific requirements we gave him in 1966 prior to his return to PBRUMEN, and when asked to identify his main sources of information he said they were his contacts in the Foreign Ministry and Idens I, J, and K, who.
