Mr. Jeremy K. Benadum

Dear Mr. Benadum:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you for your services as a Career Agent under the following terms and conditions:

1. Status. Your status is that of a Government employee under contract and, as such, your rights and benefits are governed by the provisions of this agreement. It is specifically understood that you are not entitled to rights and benefits pertaining to appointed staff status, except as provided herein.

2. Cover. In the performance of your services hereunder, you will act under cover suitable to conceal your relationship with the Government. It is expressly understood and agreed that any and all documents which you may execute in the course of such cover employment are subordinate to this agreement and any contradiction in terms which may in any way amplify, extend or restrict your rights and/or obligations hereunder shall be resolved by this agreement which shall always be dominant.

3. Compensation and Taxes. For your services as a Career Agent, you will be compensated at a basic salary of $13,730 per annum, the equivalent of a G5-15. You will be entitled to within grade promotions and legislative pay adjustments in substantial conformance with rules and regulations applicable to Government appointed personnel. Payments will be made as requested by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government. Monies paid you directly or guaranteed by the Government under this paragraph constitute income for Federal tax purposes. You will be advised as to the method to be followed in reporting and paying such taxes. The method as well as the procedures used by this organization to implement its tax reporting responsibilities will be based primarily upon cover and security requirements. Unless precluded by such requirements, taxes will be withheld therefrom and submitted by this organization.

4. Allowances. You will be entitled to: (a) living quarters allowances in conformance with applicable Government regulations. You may be provided quarters by your cover facility or the Government and, in such event, you will not be entitled to the living quarters allowances herein indicated.

(b) Cost of living allowances in conformance with applicable Government regulations including, but not limited to, an education allowance.

5. Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for authorized operational travel. In addition, upon the completion of each two (2) years of successful overseas service under this contract, you may be authorized home leave travel expense for you and your dependents from your permanent post of duty overseas to your place of recorded residence in the United States and return travel expense to your permanent post on arrival and so forth; however, that you have fulfilled any other requirements relating to home leave which are applicable to Government appointed employees. You may be entitled to per-
