Fitness Report. Section A: General Information.

Employee number: 006198. Name: WIGREN, Lee H. Date of birth: 12/01/23. Sex: M. Grade: 13. CD: DAA. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DC current station. Code: X HOB. DF. Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Contract; Other (specified); Temporary; Annual reassignment special. Type of report. Reporting period: 29 Sept 1973–30 Sept 1974. Date report due in Q.P.: 30 October 1974.

Section B: Qualifications Update.

If qualifications update form is being submitted with changes, and is attached to this report, place the word “Yes” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “No” in the box at right.

Section C: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: The conduct of research into sensitive counterintelligence cases, primarily cases involving Soviet intelligence and security and Bloc operations. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Assembles, collates, and analyzes selected counterintelligence materials reflecting data on Soviet intelligence organization and activity; maintains files of such materials. Uses these materials in memorandums, reports, and commentaries utilized in sensitive DDO liaison with designated counterintelligence and security services. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Collects, organizes and maintains other basic data on
