(d) This Agreement, to the extent it contravenes any national or local government laws, ordinances, or regulations of Switzerland or the United States of America, shall be deemed null and void.

(e) Performance under this Agreement shall be excused for and so long as force majeure, acts of God, strikes, war in which either country is involved, or any similar force majeure cause may interfere with performance beyond the control of the parties hereto.

(f) Seller's Agent shall provide Buyer's Agent a warehouse receipt, an in-transit permit, and an assay report with each shipment.

(g) All notices which may be given under this Agreement shall be given in writing by prepaid cable, airmail, or personal service to Buyer's Agent or Seller's Agent at the address listed below.

(h) The price of said platinum shall be ninety-five ($95.00) U.S. dollars per troy ounce per 1000/fine.

(i) Seller's Agent expressly agrees that if Buyer's Agent shall have furnished a letter of credit as specified in sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) of Section b above, and Seller's Agent shall fail to deliver all of said platinum as provided in sub-paragraph (3) of Section b above, and the documentation referred to in paragraph (4) of Section b above, then Buyer's Agent, at his option, shall be entitled to cancel this contract, and neither party shall have any further obligation hereunder.

Seller's Agent

Buyer's Agent

Lancy J. Kroch of the United States of America, duly commissioned and qualified, do hereby certify that on this day of September 17, 1968, reference is made to me personally and as agent for Chucoce Lester Lic Griee, to me personally known, and who is to receive this instrument, and being subscribed to, and who executes the services required to be performed by me under the terms, informed by me of the conditions of said employment.

This instrument is executed for the same treaty and convention, for the use and purpose that I execute the same freely and voluntarily for the benefit and advantage of the addressee(s) therein mentioned.

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and official seal the day and year last above written.

Bangs Koch  
American Consul
