20 October 1961

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Meeting with Dr. Miro in New York City on October 16, 1961

The meeting with Dr. Miro on October 16 was postponed from 10:00 until such time as his audience terminated with Cardinal Spellman. He arrived at my room at about 10:50. He declared that the Cardinal had gone when he learned the details of the suffering of the Cubans at the hands of Castro; declared that the Archbishop of Miami was not doing enough for the Cuban refugees; that the U.S. was not doing enough for them; and that Castro must be overthrown. Miro (Piro) told the Cardinal that in all Latin America there were going to be organized acts of sympathy for the Cuban sufferers. The Cardinal said he would say a mass for them on October 17. He invited Miro to see him at any time.

Miro answered my query as to the Laceria affairs by stating that it was very successful; 2,800 people were inside the auditorium and another 1,000 people outside; and that Laceria (Laceraa) had received such applause.

The Inter-American Press Association affairs also had given an opportunity to present the Cuban tragedy. He said that he (Miro) had told how Fidel had shot 31 people in September alone, and other details; had described how Communism was gaining ground day by day; that in Cuba they had installed a powerful radio station broadcasting to Latin America; that ten countries had broken with Cuba, but Argentina had not; and that everybody was confused.

He informed me that as for the documents relating to the Cuban plots in Argentina, the Argentine military man could talk to Varona, and he gave them some documents that had no importance. The officers told Varona textually, “We have no confidence in the Argentine Foreign Office”; nevertheless, when they arrived there, they turned over the documents to the Foreign Office. But these documents had no importance; they were merely to demonstrate that there had been an extradition of documents, and that they were originals. The important documents are held by Varona in Miami.

Miro said they also visualized another act involving Laceria (Laceraa) in Miami, but that his “administrative” budget really did not provide for propaganda activities, such as the Current SF and Laceria affairs. I countered that it was considered that his budget was sufficient for him to conduct some propaganda activities; obviously nothing on a major scale—but some things.
