Fitness Report.

Section A: General Information. ID: 025058. Name (last, first, middle): PICCOLO, Joseph S. Department: Operations Officer. Date of Birth: 8 Dec. 35 M G52J5 DAG.

Type of appointment: Y; CAPT; R; S; STUDYING; FINAL; F; CONTRACT; SPECIAL; OTHER.

Type of report: A; INITIAL; X; N; ANNUAL; REASSIGNMENT.

1st reporting period (if not yet complete): 1 Oct. 77 - 30 Sept. 78. Date report due in O.P.: October 78.

Section B: Qualifications Update.

If Qualifications Update Form is being submitted with changes, and is attached to this report, place the box in the row that indicates if no changes are required, place the word “NO” in the box at right.

Section C: Performance Evaluation.

(a) Desirable: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

(b) Required: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P-Excellent: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

Luxury: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O-Commanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider ONLY effort shown in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their study to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Maintain close working relationships with IA Division personnel in support of DIO counterintelligence operations and activities; and provide guidance and support in the furtherance of those activities. Rating letter: S.

Assist in the review and coordination of assigned double agent cases in your geographic area which are sponsored by the U.S. military and other U.S. agencies; and help manage certain select foreign CI cases. Rating letter.
