1 February 1960

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Meeting with Henry P. Lopez at the Statler-Hilton Hotel on 1 February 1960 from 1000 hours to 1530 hours.

1. Those present were: Mrs. Vidal (rs. Vidal), FP/PA; Alexander Hunter (Williams), PP/EAD; Charles Penney (Twiss), SH/PN; and Philip Toomey (Thompson), CH/L/PP.

2. Mr. Lopez gave a report of his contacts in Cuba after receiving his notes, which were brought up by Mr. Noel and given to Mr. Lopez by Mr. Toomey. Mr. Lopez said that he had given biographical sketches of Echevarria, Rasco, Laureano Batista, Martinez Fraga, Rubén de Leon, and Sanchez Arango to the Station representative. He had also turned over a report of Martínez Fraga on the aims of the Recuperación de la Revolución.

3. Mr. Lopez’s report was taped, and a transcript will be forwarded to SH by PP/PA.

4. Specific recommendations made by Mr. Lopez included having Herbert Matthews go to Havana and try to influence Castro. Matthews has a good reputation throughout the 26th of July Movement and could help in an approach to Castro. A visit by El Burro to do a broadcast on Cuba was also recommended. Mr. Lopez feels that Castro will be in power for a long time to come and that we should try to influence him. He is seriously affected by any defections, and these might be encouraged. Castro can be hit by defections of overworked and countermanded officials. Two men who were mentioned as ripe for defection are Raúl in Hacienda and Cepero in Comercio. Mr. Lopez also recommended contact with Padre Alberto de Castro in Caracas. This padre was formerly Fidel’s instructor. When Fidel was in Caracas, he was scolded by Padre Castro, whom Fidel treated with great respect according to Rasco. The Padre and Fidel spent about one and one half hours alone together at this time. This priest should be checked as a possible influence on Fidel. The possibility of a split between Fidel and Raúl should be exploited. Raúl is cold and mean, and the fact that he is Fidel’s brother does not carry too much weight.
