Fitness Report.

Section A: General. Name: Devuono (P) Irving C. Date of birth. Sex: M. Service designation. Official position. Office/Division/Area of assignment: JMWAVE. Career Staff Status. Type of report: Initial; Annual. Date report due in O.P. Reporting period: From Aug 61 – April 62; to C/C&PM per UFGW-783.

Section B: Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specified duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their duty to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Rating scale: 1. Unsatisfactory. 2. Barely adequate. 3. Acceptable. 4. Competent. 5. Excellent. 6. Superior. 7. Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Develop and control a 22-man commando team.

Specific duty No. 2: Plan and mount commando operations.

Specific duty No. 3: Administer and provide records for the support of a 22-man commando team.

Specific duty No. 4: Rating 4. Specific duty No. 5: Rating 4. Specific duty No. 6: Rating 3. Specific duty No. 7: Rating 4. Specific duty No. 8: Rating 3.

Section C: Evaluation of Total Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position. Performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperative efforts, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects falls well short of requirements. 2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects. 3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements. 4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements. 5. Performance in every important respect is superior. 6. Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Rating No. 3-4.
