Continuation of Dispatch.

A fairly obvious maneuver, not so if you consider the exit but at a very slow pace. It's this interest in the show windows. A few minutes later as he was nearly walking towards Reform and La Fruge, which latter "get" across eventually turning left and crossing the Reform itself: All a little further-surveillance myself but soon lost the subject who disappeared somewhere down Avenue M Morelos. My "surveillant" was about to be 5 or 6 years old, dark tan skin, youthfully looking, well-dressed in a dark suit and slightly nervous in his actions. While the whole matter could be quite serious, his action in sharing into the store, not just turning in as if Corner had legitimate business, made me suspect him all the more. If he were really a surveillance, he must have been on LITAU-I rather than myself, since the Station had been alerted as to possible surveillance and I was checking myself.

D. Jeremy L. Niarcoss (NIARCOOS). Jeremy L. Niarkoos reported sometime in May, 1962 that he had spotted what definitely seemed like a one-man surveillance on his. Since he is presently on home leave the submission of a detailed report on the incident will be deferred until his return to duty.

E. Arnold P. Aremart/LIENVOY. “On Friday 15 June 1963, at approximately 0930, the observer noticed two men standing on the corner of Tenaya and Chihuahua, who seemed to have an unusual interest in the activity of the L.P. They were standing directly across the street from the L.P. One of the men was tall and thin with a mustache, well dressed and appeared to be about 30 or 35 years of age. The other was a short fat man and wore a white shirt, coat of the Veracruz type and appeared to be around 50 years of age. They stood on the corner of Tenaya and Chihuahua for about an hour and showed a great deal of interest in the activity of our building. Around 1050 hours the tall man left and later returned in a 1955 Flat model 1860, with a brown body and a blue top with District Plates number 21-73-26. Both of these men then approached to observe our installation from the car, and from time to time appeared to be making notes on the evidence and goings of the installation, as well as making notes on the cars used by the personnel of the L.P. At almost 1200 hours Aremart left the L.P., to make a phone call and to see if anyone would be made to follow any cars leaving the building. No attempt was made to follow Aremart, however, his actions were observed from the car through the rear view mirror. Upon Aremart's return to the building it was noticed that the man appeared to be making notes in a small note book. Usually, around 1300 the tall man drove off in the car and the fat one took up a new position, about 50 to 100 feet down the block on Chihuahua where he could observe the front door of the L.P. Around 1500 when the first shift was leaving, LIENVOY left to go to lunch and was followed down Chihuahua. On spotting the surveillance he returned to the office. Just as he returned to the office LIENVOY 2 returned to the office and was told of the incident. LIENVOY 2 and LIENVOY 3 immediately approached the fat man (who had also returned to his former position), and asked him to explain his action of the day. They also asked him to identify himself. He admitted them a driver's license with the name Mariano Vera Gonzalez. This information was checked at the Department of Traffic and found to be the license of another person. At this time it was decided to establish a fake out at the Traffic Department in order to discover and identify any one who might show an interest in the names and addresses of the cars used by our installation. On the 16th of June, Unit ‘C’ (Victor) informed LIENVOY 2 that around 1300 hours an old friend of his, Outlawno Murr Samson, who was an agent of the Secret Service of the Police Headquarters, heard up and said that he was looking for a
