2.

b) Contact with “Rómulo”: LIRING/3 told Rowton that he again saw Rómulo, the FAR liaison, outside his apartment house at about 1610 on 24 December, as arranged. In view of what had transpired a few short time earlier that afternoon, he told Rómulo about the comments made by Carlos López. Rómulo, according to L/3, did not indicate that he knew López at all, but agreed with L/3 that the accusations of Perzabal must be met head-on. He suggested the following course of action: L/3 should wait for the reply from Marta, mother of the León Barrios brothers, as to the exact charges made by Perzabal before taking up the matter with the Chief LIRING. He tended to agree with L/3 that the LIRING establishment might have inspired Perzabal’s letter, but felt it would be better if L/3 had a statement from Marta before accusing the PBRCMEKERS of having faith in her. Rómulo added that in the meantime he would try to arrange a confrontation with Perzabal in the presence of three “important FAR officials in Mexico,” including a certain “Julio,” also known as “Buda.” Rómulo felt that Buda could lure Perzabal to a private meeting since the latter had already interviewed him some time ago and would be anxious to see him again. This would provide a good pretext for a confrontation between Perzabal and LIRING/3 to clear up the whole matter.

c) Proposed Meeting with LIRING Chief: LIRING/3 told Rowton that he felt it essential to see the LIRING Chief on the morning of 27 Dec, even if he did not receive a reply from Marta by that time. He explained that he felt he could get some sort of statement from the LIRING Chief, either affirming or denying his knowledge of the Perzabal letter, so that he could use this in a possible meeting with the latter in the presence of Rómulo and his colleagues. He said that he felt this important in view of a possible invitation to PBRUMEN that he might receive momentarily.

5. Information/Guidance Given to Agent: Rowton cautioned L/3 against jumping the gun in accusing the LIRINGS of inspiring the Perzabal letter, pointing out that it could just as easily and logically have come from such Guatemalan exiles as Navarette, Capuano, or even persons of the César Montes group, who are expected to be close to the LIRINGS and the CPM as well as possibly the PTG.

WB Rowton
