Appeared during this past quarter included: a story on Negro athletes in the U.S. refuting a Cuban claim that there was discrimination in the selection of the U.S. Olympic team; an article on the disqualification of a Cuban woman athlete because “she did not conform to the revolutionary principles of the sports movement in Communist Cuba”; and an article which refutes the Cuban claim that Cuba won the Tenth Central American and Caribbean Games.

4. During the quarter the AMLIRA group issued several press releases concerning sports-newsworthy events involving Cuba and continued the regular five-minute radio programs, which are heard thirty times each week on Radio Americas, beamed to Cuba, and on WHIZ in Miami. In addition, the AMLIRA organization provided recorded tapes of sports interviews and commentary to 58 independent radio stations in Puerto Rico and 14 countries in Central and South America.

B. Administrative

5. During the second quarter of FY 67 the AMLIRA organization expended $17,300 and had income of some $600 from newsstand sales and advertising. Both these figures are approximate projections because the final December figures are not recorded at this writing. The net figure for expenditures during the quarter, some $16,700, exceeds the budgeted amount by approximately $400. However, this average will be absorbed in further budgetary cutbacks during the next reporting period.

6. The AMLIRA activity expenditures also exceeded the budget allowance during the last quarter. To remedy this situation, the following specific economy measures will go into effect beginning 1 January 1967:

a. One salaried employee will be dropped. Monthly saving: $250.

b. Publication of monthly pamphlets with selected offprints from the AMLIRA magazine will be discontinued. Approximate monthly saving: $400.

Total monthly saving: $650.

It is expected that there will be other savings which will bring the total quarterly reduction in spending to about $2,500.

C. Problems

7. There are no major unresolved problems involving the AMLIRA activity.
