6. WH had also told us that they might have to inform the Department of Tichborn's (P) trip to El Salvador and then decided that this would not be necessary. However, on 23 February, a final decision was made that this would have to be done, and since C/WH works so closely with State, PAC did agree to this but requested that this information be in general terms only and that Tichborn's (P) name not be given. WH agreed that it could be done in this way. WH also stated that this information would be passed to Mr. Devine and would be limited to him and Mr. Mann.

7. Tichborn's (P) instructions were that he would be met at the airport, if possible, by JUEGGPIANT (whose true name and description were provided); if he did not appear, Tichborn (P) was to go to the Intercontinental Hotel and wait there to be contacted by either JUEGGPIANT (Jerry Caughlin) or the COS, Ben Stotts. Upon meeting Tichborn (P), JUEGGPIANT, as a recognition signal, would say, “I am a friend of Horace.”

8. Tichborn (P) asked if some expense money could be provided him in El Salvador, and he was assured that this would be arranged. Since time, and the airlines strike, did not permit his coming to Washington for a detailed briefing on the political situation in Salvador and on his specific mission, these matters, plus the funds for expenses, would be handled by the Station.

9. Two cables were sent to the field concerning the subject of Tichborn's (P) arrival in El Salvador (DIR 26346, OUT 76088 and DIR 26522, OUT 76527). These cables spelled out Tichborn's (P) cover, the need for special discretion on the part of those individuals who are witting of his relationship with KUBARK, the meeting or contact arrangements, the fact that detailed briefings by the Station would be necessary since it had not been possible to undertake this at Headquarters, his pseudonym, and approval for the Station's providing him with certain funds.

10. In summary, PAC's interest was to arrange for Tichborn's (P) arrival in Salvador as soon as possible and at the same time to
