Country: Cuba. Subject: Attitude of Segundo Cevallos, Key Official of National Bank. Date of information: September 1960 and earlier. Place and date acquired: Havana, September 1960. Report No. 00-B-3,168,138. Date distributed: 6 October 1960. No. pages: One.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: U.S. national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company. Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the U.S. and has been located in Cuba for many years. Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.

1. In September 1960 I talked to an old friend who was president of one of the U.S.-owned tire companies recently intervened by the Castro regime. My friend stated that he had recently contacted Segundo Cevallos, one of the top officials of the National Bank, in connection with obtaining approval for some of the company's U.S. technicians to take their furniture and appliances out of Cuba. Cevallos said, “I don't want those technicians to leave. We need them.” At this, the rubber company official stated that it was too late and that the technicians had already gone.

2. Cevallos then made the statement that he was very much concerned about the flight of technicians of all kinds from Cuba. He said that the revolution had been fought to give Cuba a more highly developed industry, but that the technicians were leaving and industry was being seriously affected.

3. Cevallos then said, “Something is wrong. The revolution has gotten off the track somewhere.” He then added, “I have got to talk to ‘Che’ about this.”

4. Cevallos is a man of about 60–63 years, and has a very important position, in that he is in charge of granting foreign exchange. My friend said that Cevallos is a very pleasant individual but seems to be a theorist, a professorial type who obviously has had little or no business experience. He has a background as a writer and philosopher, and apparently is extremely naive as evidenced by his comment that he would talk to “Che” Guevara about how the revolution had gotten off the track.

Information Report.
