(Foundations of Nosenko's Claims)

Mrs. Johnson, and James Allen Mintkenbaugh. Twenty-five of this number acknowledged KGB recruitment before or after Nosenko's information was received. In fifteen other instances Nosenko's information has been corroborated in part by the individuals' admissions of contact with (if not recruitment by) the KGB, or by other sources' reports of their recruitment. Besides these 51, Nosenko provided leads to four other American KGB agents, including an officer in an American military intelligence organization, none of whom has yet been identified. Lastly, Nosenko identified 22 Americans whom the KGB knew or suspected to be American intelligence agents.

From Nosenko's information 68 non-American KGB agents have been identified. Although investigations are still incomplete, in 39 of these cases the individual's KGB recruitment has been reported by other sources, or the individuals were suspect for other reasons. Among these 68 individuals were a French and a Canadian Ambassador to Moscow, an Austrian and an Indonesian Army Attaché, a Director and a Deputy Secretary of the Indian Foreign Ministry, and a British Admiralty employee (William Vassall, see below). In addition, Nosenko provided leads on 22 other KGB foreign agents, yet to be identified. Nosenko's information about the KGB electronic attack on the German Embassy in Moscow was confirmed by subsequent technical and physical search.

With respect to the KGB itself, Nosenko named (if not completely identified) approximately 1,000 Soviet citizens who are or have been affiliated with Soviet intelligence and security organizations. These included over seven hundred active KGB staff officers, of whom 435 were serving in the Second Chief Directorate. Of the 165 KGB officers he named as belonging to the First Chief (Foreign Intelligence) Directorate, over one hundred had been previously reported to be KGB personnel, as reflected in CIA files. Nosenko's information permitted updating CIA holdings on previously received reports of the 1959 KGB reorganization, particularly as it affected the Second Chief Directorate. He described further refinement of responsibilities, the Second Chief Directorate's absorption of previously independent directorates, the creation of new units from elements.
