Subject: LINDG-J (IDEN A)

F.D. #6719

Subject was interviewed and tested with SC SWAP on 29 September 1967 in a Mexico City safe site. The interview was conducted by A. FRAEDLER.

The interview was conducted in Spanish by the examiner. Walless A. ROWTON (Wallace A. ROWTON), subject's principal agent, was appointed director of all of the interview except for the testing period.

Subject has not previously been tested, and has had no contact with any WOFIRM representatives other than ROWTON.

Subject is a married male Mexican citizen, an IDEN B by permission. Prior to recruitment his apparent political activities were observed in the far left, but he was not believed to be significantly involved in intelligence activities or organized criminal activities. He was recruited by ROWTON under the cover of an IDEN C. Subject has since his recruitment had contact with IDEN D elements and with IDEN E elements in his efforts to insert himself and ROWTON into the desired position. The initial goal of this operation was to infiltrate [corrupted text] national intelligence information might be indirectly conveyed. As Subject was and is, in his own [corrupted text] way, a communist sympathizer, ROWTON has not indicated any anti-communist, anti-IDEN E, or anti-revolutionary aims.

Subject was known to have had and controlled intelligence on several occasions, and it was presumed that considerably more facts were not yet known to WOFIRM. On this basis, SCSWAP coverage was to have covered numerous issues, centered on other intelligence involvement, fabrication of contacts with significant IDEN D and IDEN E figures, and revelations of his association with ROWTON. The issue of revelation of association with ROWTON was rather complex in that ROWTON never revealed his true name, nationality, or interests to Subject, and also he instructed Subject to reveal certain obtainable facts to various specific individuals.

The examiner was presented to Subject as an associate of ROWTON of Italian extraction.

ATTN TO AMMW 15466

501-788301
