21 August 1963

CONTRIBUT

Subject: H. B. OCHT

Place, date, time: Florence (FIRENCE) Restaurant, 20 August, 1955–1980

1. Subject was fifteen minutes late for the meeting scheduled for 1600 hours, claiming a terrific hangover and continuation, having spent most of the previous night with REI, driving (“suppose his eyes were very clear, but then he is quite young”). I am quite sure that immediately upon his arrival and after making his explanation for being late he added that his car had been in the shop for repairs, but at the end of the unproductive meeting he walked to his car parked only half a block away from the cafe. I walked with him and commented on his earlier remark regarding repairs, but he denied saying anything about it.

2. Subject had not yet seen LUBAN but said that he planned to attend a party allegedly to be given by Ignatilla (not Sergio’s wife), at which time he would attempt to obtain information regarding LUBAN’s recent trip. Incidentally, Subject stated that Sergio OLVIDO had returned to Mexico three or four months ago. It had been my understanding that Sergio was still in Moscow. Subject had not seen either of the OLVIDOs for several months.

3. We chatted at great length about many innocuous topics, Russian literature, Mexican food, etc. At one point I attempted to have him work on LOYD’S book, but he backed off, referring again to his excommunication, etc. However, we scheduled a 1000-hour meeting at the JEF cafe for November, 5 August, Subject wishing to be in good condition to enable him to tackle the part at this time. Personally, I am not in favor of doing this sort of work in a festooned man.

4. During our discussion of his own literature, Subject asked me if I could get him a copy of SOLZHENITSYN’S (SOLZHENIST’S) “EXPLORATIONS,” which in Russian I said I would try.

5. Subject is going to try to get away for a short vacation in Acapulco sometime in September, and he hopes that I can join him. I made no commitments.

6. While waiting for Subject, I was reading “Sports Field,” which I threw on a chair when Subject arrived. About halfway through the meeting he asked if I were interested in hunting and fishing, and when I replied in the affirmative he quickly came up with a “brilliant” idea. He said he has an American friend who is studying Russian, as Fisherman did. He thought it would be a terrific idea for him to introduce this man, John Smith, to me so we could hunt and/or fish together. I told him I was not really for this sort of thing yet, perhaps later.

7. Subject has now left for New York but has a date with him at the MOVEMENT IS . . ., Fall Riverpool (Fall River pool), circa the 20th of August, approximately. It is arranged so that he is able to go with us. Subject’s first call is very interesting in this sense of it, as we are asking him to do, but hope he can bring some more action in this matter. He said: “If we’re going to go to Mexico, or any other place, we must have some business there.” I told him he was able to come with us, and that there would be considerable risk involved. I told him also that he would require much and varied training. No language or culture is too far to be understood perfectly.

8. UNEQUIS. Somehow it is a strange coinage, vague, with a tendency to wander off into innocuous topics. It is all about a cancer operation. He asks to love everyone and he is certainly . . . I think, yes, especially, eat, say, do, and usually quite agreeable. He must be away out of the cafe while he goes into another serious detail surrounding and given a serious briefing as to what this is about. It is too early for me to tell whether he can be brought.
