24. If you are a veteran, have you been arrested indicated? If yes, show all charges in full orderly manner. Norman Armour — address: c/o Department of State, Washington — Yes — birthdate: 29-05-63. Edward Sparks — address: c/o Department of State, Washington — Yes — birthdate: 28-05-62. William J. Rico — address: 130 E. 56th St., New York, N.Y. — Yes — birthdate: 27-05-62.

25. May I be of service with your present employer regarding your character qualifications? Yes. Are you an official or employee of any state, territory, county, or municipality? Yes. If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 20.

26. Are you a citizen of the United States? Yes. If so, did you observe or approach the United States Government in a civilian capacity any relative of yours, by blood or marriage, with whom you lived or had lived within the past 24 months? Yes.

27. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party U.S.A. or a communist organization? No. If your answer is “Yes,” show in Item 20 for each such relative: full name, present address, relationship, department or agency by which employed, and kind of appointment.

Special instructions for claiming veteran preference. If you are claiming preference as a peacetime veteran who has been awarded a campaign badge or service ribbon, or as a disabled veteran, or as the wife of a disabled veteran, or as the widow of a war or campaign veteran, attach Veteran Preference Claim, CSC Form 14, together with proof specified therein. If you are a wartime veteran not obtaining disability preference yet, do not submit your claim with this application. Preference will be tentatively credited to you and, if appointed, you will be required to submit to the appointing officer, prior to entry on duty, official evidence of separation from active service in the armed forces of the United States in time of war.

28. Are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which advocates the outrage of their constitutional form of government, or of an organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which has accepted a policy of advocating or approving the change of government to alter the current government of the United States by unconstitutional means? Yes.

29. Are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization, association, movement, group, or com
