Attempted to arrange for such a meeting through Andre Amalrik. After calling from the Embassy to arrange the appointment, Luers and Korengold went to Amalrik's apartment. The painter was not there, and shortly after their arrival two militia men and KGB officers came to Amalrik's apartment. Amalrik was arrested, tried, and sentenced for being a “parasite.” Luers said that his superior at the Embassy, Malcolm Toon, was unhappy about this activity and was critical of Luers in his efficiency rating because of it. Luers said he did not previously mention it to the interviewing agent because he did not wish to further complicate matters. Luers was security approved as a GS-7 JOT in June 1957, subject to technical interview, but his case was cancelled when he accepted another position. He was subsequently granted liaison clearances in February and March 1962.

6. A New York Times article for 11 January 1970 reported that Karel Van Het Reve had given an exclusive interview to Newsweek's Robert J. Korengold concerning the trial of four Russian dissidents. Karel Van Het Reve was granted a POA in June 1969 for use as an informant by SB/PO/M, West Europe, under Project AEEGGHEAD.

7. Subject's file contains a copy of his business card identifying him as UPI correspondent in Moscow. A notation by E. Mendoza/SRS dated August 1960 states, “Korengold's card was picked up by Barbara Powers in Moscow during trial of Francis Powers.”

8. CIA Cable 389853 dated 29 July 1971 from London advised that Mr. Robert James “Bud” Korengold, London correspondent, Newsweek, had told Mr. Eugene Rosenfeld, Press Attaché, American Embassy, London, that Newsweek was planning to do a cover story on the Agency and Korengold was looking for anecdotes favorable to the Agency. Headquarters guidance was requested in cable. A CIA Book Message dated 30 July 1971 was sent priority advising that Newsweek magazine was in process of doing a major story on U.S. intelligence community, including CIA, and while cable recipients were not to seek out Newsweek correspondents, they were to be responsive under certain limitations which were specified in detail in the book message.

Sarah K. Hall  
SRS/OS

SKH:jmn
