8. Serge Tsouadze (TSOULADZE)

Born in Georgia. Approximately 41 years old. Educated in France. Picture included in AEPADDLE's movies. Graduate of Paris Medical School. French Army, 1939–1940; worked for the French underground in World War II in the Communist section. Was an eager Communist at the end of the war; member of the Party. Asked for permission to return to Georgia after the war, but did not actually go until March 1958. Married to a French girl, Madeleine, also a Communist. Wife attended the Moscow Youth Festival in 1957. They have a son and daughter. Tsouadze is 5'10", 185 pounds, with a reddish moustache, heavy face, and gray curly hair. Illegally practiced medicine in France.

Subject's oldest sister, Tamara Taly (Talashashvili), told AEPADDLE's wife that only two days before receiving a Soviet visa, Subject had stated his intention to remain in France, take French citizenship, and become a legal doctor. Subject has another sister, Ninouka, who is married to Shota Kalaiozi. She and her husband are considering repatriating, but since Shota was in the SS, he is afraid of the consequences. Shota and Serge Tsouadze devised a code to advise Shota whether he should repatriate or not. Shota is to inform AEPADDLE of any such message. Shota was formerly an engineer and is now a taxi driver. AEPADDLE feels that Serge Tsouadze is no longer a firmly convinced Communist. Serge stated that he plans to do research at the University of Tiflis and to keep out of politics. He plans to see Helene Tsitsichvili in Tiflis.

9. Gouram Tsouadze

Is a cousin of Sergo. He is 5'11", 190 pounds, with a round face, light hair, and heavy moustache. He is an office worker for Air France. He is 22 or 23 years old. He went to the Moscow Youth Festival in 1957 with a French football team. He stayed in Moscow about two months, using money he made selling watches and pullovers. He plans to go back to the USSR this summer and is looking for funds to finance his trip and black-market activities. Gouram told AEPADDLE that if this does not materialize, he will try to go to the United States instead. AEPADDLE overheard Gouram (COURAM) tell Sergo he would see him in September. PADDLE considers Gouram to be not too secure or substantial. He is not well educated. He says little. Sergo has been a strong influence in
