13. Intelligence Activity (positions, functions, agents, contacts, other details, including how we learned about each item, all in chronological order, including narrative summary where necessary, such as D/A cases, incidents, etc.):

About March 1963, Subject and CARMASHEV (see Soviet Contacts) flew from Mexico City to Tijuana, Baja California, where they rented a Hertz car allegedly for a recreational visit. The men travelled to Mexicali and Ensenada and departed for Mexico City on 13 March 1963.

On 1 September 1963, Subject and ALFERYEV (see Soviet Contacts) flew from Mexico City to Tijuana, where they rented a Hertz auto. While renting the auto, Subject was asked for identification. Subject stated he was an employee of the Mexican Department of Exterior Relations. Later, when pressed for identification, Subject stated he was an employee of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City. Subject and ALFERYEV spent most of their time in the company of Isaak Carlos Chapluk (see Western Contacts). The Soviets visited Estero Beach, Punta Banda, and Nuna SIMANOVICH's curio shop (see Western Contacts). On 7 September 1964, they visited the Bahia Hotel for dinner and a floor show in the company of Miguel POPOFF (see Western Contacts). On 10 September 1963, the Soviets purchased 20,000 bales of cotton to be shipped to Ensenada, final destination unknown. Subject and ALFERYEV were also in contact with Denetrio ALNAGUER (see Western Contacts). ALNAGUER was allegedly authorized by the Soviets to find three Mexican youths to travel and study in the USSR. The two Soviets departed Tijuana on 13 September 1963.

On 19 January 1964, when LICOZY/S (a Station double agent) returned to his apartment building, SHUBIN (see Soviet Contacts) and Subject were seated in a car outside, and NECHIPORENKO (LICOZY/S's case officer) was about to ring the doorbell. NECHIPORENKO told LICOZY/S that PRIKHOUKO (the former KGB case officer) was in town and wanted to see LICOZY/S. NECHIPORENKO also gave LICOZY/S tickets for the Soviet soccer game on 19 January 1964.

Comment: LICOZY/S is being handled by NECHIPORENKO and is a KGB agent. This is the only known occasion of Subject being involved with LICOZY/S in anything but an overt business contact.

Subject met with AESURBLE in Mexico City on 9, 11, and 12 February 1963 and received information from AESURBLE on industrial and missile sites in PRIME. Subject also gave AESURBLE requirements of the same nature to be carried out in the future. Subject made arrangements with AESURBLE for his next meeting, to be held in New York City, with a different, unidentified Soviet. On 6 May 1963, AESURBLE was met in accordance with the above arrangements by Oleg Danilovich BRYKIN (201-292588), a translator assigned to the U.N. Secretariat in New York City. BRYKIN has been identified by a sensitive reliable source as a member of the KGB's 13th Department.

Substantiating information that Subject is a member of the KGB is derived from his connections with Margarito LNU (see Western Contacts), undoubtedly an agent (unidentified) formerly in contact with the former First Secretary and KGB Resident Viktor Nikolayevich GLOTOV.

Subject attempted to cultivate David T. PATON (see American Contacts), an American Embassy officer formerly assigned to the Visa Section and who now has protocol functions (1965). This cultivation ceased, as far as is known to the Station, immediately after the Station, with Embassy approval, advised PATON to indicate to Subject his disinterest in socializing with him.
