(3) Members of the faculty of the three Cuban medical schools (referred to as schools of medical sciences) located in Havana City, Santa Clara, and Santiago de Cuba, and (4) biochemists and microbiologists in industries related to the medical sciences, such as the pharmaceutical industry.

c. The preparation of personnel for work in the pure sciences; this third objective constitutes a more ambitious but long-range goal that was still in the organizational and planning stage in January 1968. Part of the personnel so trained would remain at the Center as CNIC researchers; part would join the faculties of the university schools of pure sciences, and part would enter Cuban industry to work on the applications of technology to production.

Scientific Research

6. Scientific research related to the medical sciences is done at both the CNIC and at the National Research Institutes. The general directives for such research are oriented towards:

a. The experimental verification of conclusions arrived at, or discoveries made, by foreign scientists. This work of verification is effected (1) principally in order to train Cuban personnel in the methods of higher research, but also (2) as an attempt to contribute information complementary to the discovery.

b. Original research work done by Cuban personnel advised by foreign scientists. This work is directed towards (1) the attainment of results of international importance to be used in propaganda praising Castro's education system, and (2) the achievement of discoveries in applied science that would serve either as an economic saving or to earn foreign exchange. As of mid-January 1968, CNIC research projects had produced nothing of scientific importance. During the first half of 1967, Fidel Castro ordered the CNIC to orient all its research projects towards production technology so that the foreign exchange invested in the projects could be partially recovered through improved production.

7. Department of Biochemistry. The most important of the CNIC departments is the Department of Biochemistry; it occupies several new buildings and former private homes. It is headed by Dr. Mora (fnu), a Chilean microbiologist. This department was conducting research on polarimetry, enzymology, spectrography, and the synthesis of a steroid hormone from stigmasterol, a sugar-cane by-product.

8. As of mid-January 1968, all attempts to synthesize a steroid hormone from stigmasterol had failed and will almost surely continue to fail because stigmasterol is an inert steroid lacking in biological activity.

9. Dr. Carlos J. Finlay, M.D., was preparing a research thesis for the degree of Doctor of Basic Sciences; his research project, the biochemistry of lipides in cardiovascular diseases, is of scientific interest although not of international importance.

10. Department of Ultracentrifugation. Although nominally a separate department, the Department of Ultracentrifugation in fact functions as a subdivision of the Department of Biochemistry. As of mid-November 1967 it contained the most modern
