Acel 72-x100-27

2 May 1965

8.7 continued.

VAG asks if there has been a declaration of the Mexican government today. Viric does not know, but will check. VAG has to go out right now and will check on this too late.

Marcio gave VAG some news, but VAG can't check it. The news is that the people of the O.B.A. (Commission) were surrounded by 250,000 people hollering for rights. Yes, that came over the radio. This took place at the building where the Commission met with the Papal Nuncio (Huncio). Fine.

11.0 Out to 28-06-65. III with WO, who answers, for Sitio...for cab.

11.5 In. Emilio (Eamilio) Cordero with VAG, who answers. What is new? No. Did VAG call “our friends of last night”? No, VAG did not call them. Which friends? The ones who went there last night. The correspondents? Yes. Marcio said he was going to take them that (unique). VAG called Viric, but had already given him the information and also gave him the Cell (for help). Viric said he would transmit this. He heard Radio Habana and they transmitted the “other” correctly. They did not deny the other.

EC talked to Armedo. Said a friend of his called from Santo Domingo. They are looking for a provisional president. The Voice of U.S. stated this. They want a provisional president to have someone with whom to talk. They talked to the Constitutionalist Directors and will talk to Washington, proposing the Constitutionalist conditions. Viric says that the Voice of U.S. is trying to calm the opinion of Latin America and Viric is a good observer. VAG thinks they (U.S.) will continue with occupation, but they are trying to smooth things over. There should be no great change. Viric thinks there may be a big change, but VAG says that WO knows how Yugoslavs think—they think that the words come out true. VAG thinks it may be possible for them to take (in) Beach, but with occupation—to leave him tied up by troops.

VAG says they (here) don't have information on the world reaction to the Dominican Republic, but it must be very hard against the U.S.

VAG is going to call Jardon to find out what there is. Asks VAG to let him know. When he knows anything, will let him know.

12.7 Out to 25-06-65. VAG with Yolanda, who answers “Prensa Latina.” Asks what the world reaction is to the Dominican Republic, especially in Latin America. Tell VAG the most important.

Not much today, but there is quite a lot from yesterday. Did VAG get the bulletin? No. They did not distribute it, she then says. Protests from Cuba, Juventud de Cuba, Argentina... No manifestations or popular reactions? Moment.

Have not heard about bombs. Manifestations in Guatemalotica, Chile, Buenos Aires (Buena Aires). Call back later and she will send you more information. VAG is going to try to sleep a little and will see the bulletin tomorrow.

14.2 Out to 31-06-65. VAG with Viric, who answers. VAG has nothing. Probably have called from there (Dominican Republic) tomorrow. Viric says there is nothing on official declaration of Mexico. Still thinks the U.S. is trying to pacify the world. There is a mission of certain special delegates from Washington in the south. Yes, VAG was told that Harlean went to Colombia. There are others out too. And apparently none came out of 72-100-27.

Acel 72-x100-27
