The Tories ran in several constituencies Pakistani independent candidates in the hope of breaking the Labor vote, hoping that the Pakistanis would vote for these Pakistani independents. Hamsa worked with the Labor Party in those constituencies to counter this, and apparently they were quite successful. He has very good connections inside the Labor Party. And he does not have very good ties at all with the Communist Party, though he is not by any means anti-Communist. He's a skeptic.

(How about Bashani?)

He has never done anything. Never heard from him except once, when it was said we could put his name on the board. As far as I know, there has never been any contact.

(Do they get paid for this?)

No.

Next is Hassan Riad. He is R. Amir. He is an official of the UN, with headquarters in Dakar, Economic Commission for Africa, UN economic adviser in Dakar. He has a very high position in that. He is Egyptian, a full member of the Egyptian Communist Party with very pronounced Trotskyist views. That is, he feels he has a theory about the role of bureaucracy in underdeveloped countries—the progressive and reactionary bureaucracy. It fits into general Trotskyist theories but applied there. He has done work on Egypt, state capitalism in Egypt. A book of his was published recently by Éditions de Minuit in Paris, part of which appeared in Revolution. Some of it was so obviously Trotskyist that Chea, despite his somewhat partial agreement with parts of it, felt that it was too obvious even to print in Revolution. He only comes through Paris occasionally. His main interest in Revolution is getting his things printed. He is very interested in having his things published. He is very cynical about many of the African states. His article on Senegal appeared recently in Revolution, in French, I think in No. 12. It was written under a pseudonym by him and based on the UN Economic Commission for Africa research material that he couldn't cite in his official publication capacity. (Rasheednia Lajalle, yes.)

He is not overly pro-Chinese. He feels that the Chinese philosophical position isn't quite adequate, the ideological model isn't adequate for underdeveloped countries, certainly for Africa.

(Do you know him—how old is he?)

Yes, I know him. He is in his thirties, about 35. Married. He is Egyptian. He is anti-Nasser, really. He feels that the Egyptian Communist Party, because he really abdicated any constructive role inside Egypt, even from the
