Section C. Narrative (Markative) Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Submitter: JAN 18 853 AM '68. Office. Mail delivered on.

Check it out: The Rating Officer's last fitness report on Mr. Phillips dealt with his terminating an outstandingly successful and very complicated assignment as Chief of Station, Dominican Republic. This report deals with a completely different situation, i.e. coming into Headquarters as Chief, Cuban Operations Group at the time that drastic reduction had just become the order of the day. The same energy, imagination and zeal which has characterized Mr. Phillips over the years has characterized his performance in this difficult task since his assumption of the new responsibility. He has been a prime mover in reducing the Headquarters WH/COG component to realistic and managable proportions. By the same token he has been a prime mover, guider, cajoler and sometimes “patron saint” to JMWAVE management in its massive job of bringing JMWAVE down from its ponderous proportions to a viable Clandestine Services “instrument” compatible and consistent with the present day needs of Cuban operations. In this endeavor Mr. Phillips' accomplishments have been of the first order. (See attached sheet)

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 13-MAY-1968. Signature of employee: Dana L. Stellerman.

By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 32. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 10 May 1968. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief, WHD. Typed or printed name and signature: Jacob D. Esterline.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official: This is a very fine officer with one of the best potentials in WH Division. I believe the rater is somewhat carried away in his views. Mr. Phillips' career advancement has been closely observed in this Division and I do not believe he is falling behind in the promotion timetable. It is definitely expected he will be recommended next year (which is within the proper time frame,) if his current excellent performance continues.

Date: 20 May 1968. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WH Division. Typed or printed name and signature: William V. Broe.
