Field Information Report.

Grading of source: A: Completely reliable. B: Usually reliable. C: Fairly reliable. D: Not usually reliable. E: Not reliable (applied to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence). F: Reliability cannot be judged (applied to untested or insufficiently tested sources).

Appraisal of content: 1: Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. 2: Probably true. 3: Possibly true. 4: Doubtful. 5: Probably false. 6: Cannot be judged.

Country: Haiti/Cuba/Dominican Republic.

Subject: Plans to Overthrow Government of Haiti by Leon Cantave and Rolando Masferrer Rojas.

Date of report: 24 August 1965. No. pages: 2. Date of information: August 1965. Place and date acquired: United States, Miami (11 and 23 August 1965). Report No. UFG-7482.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Approval of content is tentative.

Source: See below.

Source for paragraphs 1 to 3: Former Latin American diplomat who maintains relationships with officials of Latin American countries. Source is a trained reporter and his information has been reliable in the past. He received the information in this report from an associate of Rolando Masferrer Rojas.

1. On 20 August 1965, an associate of Rolando Arrendio Masferrer Rojas, former Cuban senator, said that Masferrer is in touch with General Leon Cantave regarding a plot to invade Haiti from the Dominican Republic. Masferrer is trying to recruit unmarried Cubans in New York who are willing to go to the Dominican Republic and eventually to live in Haiti. He does not want Cubans who would want to return to the United States because of family or for any other reason.

2. Masferrer asked Antonio Rojas Masferrer, his cousin, to manage a farm in the Dominican Republic which will be used as a training and staging area for about 100 men which Masferrer will recruit. This group will be enlarged by men which Cantave has in the Dominican Republic.

3. Cantave is negotiating with Dominicans to determine whether the recruits from New York will travel to the Dominican Republic with visas (vices) or whether they will enter the country illegally.
