7 October 1966

Subject: Contact report/LICOZY-5 - P-2712  
7 October, 1145–1230, subject's office

1. Subject had been to Los Angeles, California, for a few days and had returned to Mexico on 5 October. Evidently he had accompanied a Riebs delegation that visited Douglas and Lockheed aircraft factories in California. He mentioned that Aeronaves had purchased two DC-8s from Douglas and ordered some DC-9s. At the Lockheed plant they saw the new supersonic airplane.

2. Subject had received on 6 October a confirmatory telegram from INTURIST, for subject and his son (copy attached), regarding attendance at the INTURIST conference in Moscow. Also, in the mail of 7 October subject had received INTURIST releases on travel regulations for tourists to the Soviet Union, promotional plans, tours, etc. Subject will make copies of these for turnover to the C/O.

Subject reported that Valentin Lominov came by the office on 29 September. Subject was with a friend, Peter Parr, of New York, so he went to have coffee with Lominov, taking along his friend. The discussion was innocuous, but Lominov asked subject if he would be going to see his friends, which subject took to mean that all was O.K. as far as subject's attendance in Moscow for the INTURIST conference. Subject answered “yes.” Lominov jokingly asked subject why Musk had come to Mexico. Subject hesitated, replying that the Mexican Ministry of Foreign Affairs was going to serve some rare Champagne that Musk liked. Lominov pressed subject for the real reason. Subject said easily that he knew, but he wasn't going to tell Lominov. Comment: This hanger (hangar) is included to demonstrate the type of relationship that exists between subject and Lominov. Any link from Lominov that borders on suspicion (猜疑) for information or involving subject, the latter turns away with a joking answer. Lominov accepts this quite good-naturedly, jokingly calling subject “a son of a bitch” or worse.

3. Subject discussed with the C/O the prospect of his going to the Soviet Union. He was debating in his own mind the advisability of it. The C/O perceived that subject regarded it from a business standpoint, putting the question, “If you didn't go, do you think it would hurt you from the standpoint of business?” Subject said he just didn't know. The C/O asked if others went—subject had just said that possibly Garza, Thine, and Alroy (Chenet) would go, although they were not certain—did subject think the Soviets might throw the bulk of the business their way? Again subject said he didn't know. The C/O then said that unless there were some overriding business reason, subject should take into account our view that there was a margin of hazard.

Files C/O 11710.  
Katz (Darryl), P-581
