Report on Contact with Agent or Defector

Subject: WIROGUE  
Date: 21 January 1964  
Time: 1200 hours  
Place: 51 Kuhwaldstr.  

ORNE K. DARONNAT, Case Officer

Comments:

C. O. met Subject and paid him subsistence for the week ending 31 January 1964. He was told that we have received permission to increase his subsistence from DM 600 to DM 800 per month until his final resettlement. The extra DM 200 is to be applied to his rent. C. O. said that Subject would be paid DM 1000 on 31 January—DM 200 to be applied to one month's rent in advance, and the DM 800 to be rent (DM 200) and subsistence (DM 600) for February.

C. O. said we were disappointed that he had decided to stay in his present apartment and take over the DM 300 rent. We had hoped he would be sensible enough to use this opportunity to save a little money. Subject's answer was that he feels that he should be able to afford the rent when he is turned loose and that if he can't afford that much rent he might as well be dead. Subject said he could not understand why C. O. was harping on the subject, that all he was asking for was one month's advance notice prior to being turned loose on his own. C. O. said he was willing to drop the matter as long as Subject did not come crying the blues to us later about needing money. Subject said that if things got really bad he would get a job. C. O. applauded and offered his congratulations but said he assumed this would only be a desperation measure. Subject did not like the joke.

WIROGUE proudly announced that he has made intensive efforts the last few weeks to sell 4 of his inventions. C. O., somewhat exasperated, told him he would never understand how such an obviously clever man could, for so many years, refuse to face up to his responsibilities to himself and society and live in a dream world of getting rich quick schemes. Subject put on what is now a familiar act in which he acts terribly hurt because C. O. (his one true friend) does not have faith in him. C. O. told Subject that he is a great actor and added that he (C. O.) would think much more highly of him if he would think
