All these movements diminishing in size and importance.

He may be going to Brussels. He is in contact with Grippa. I don't know about it. He is unhappy with the political line of Maspero's publication, and they had given a guillotine.

Apparently that was ironed out. His wife does many things that he can't do because he is a foreigner. She acts as his agent.

But he doesn't have much to do with Albanians, although her visit has somewhat raised the prestige of Albania in their eyes.

I think he would much rather deal with the Chinese.

He may have come in contact with the Spaniards through the Algerians.

He is known as a man in Switzerland to go to if you want to set up a base for any kind of revolution. Can give you advice, put you in touch with the right bunch of people to sell you arms, if that's what you want.

There was a group called Curier, extremely active in all the Daney-Curial group. He had contacts with them, with the Reverend Father Donde, who is a former Catholic priest from Lyons, one of the worker priests, involved with the FLM, very much on the left, now involved in various things, rebels, Congolese, with a missal in one hand and a machine gun in the other.

Always gun-running, but had very high protection in the church. His ties were with Cardinal Gasier (Gerlier) of Lyons, who just died. Had ties with the Algerians. The King said that the Cardinal would be informed and money would be made available to take care of him.

Many of the people were Catholic, just Catholic; some left the church. The Party didn't want anything to do with the Algerians.

Some are now in Algeria. The Algerians gave a basis for Chinese elements in the left-wing youth of France, the generation of pro-Chinese youth who saw the total ineffectiveness of the Communist Party in France, were disgusted with it, and sought to make up for this failure of the Communist Party.

I understand now that there is great conflict between the new generation in the youth movement in France. As far as the Spaniards are concerned, I suspect it came about that way.

A's contacts with the Spaniards were extremely broad, many not even Marxists, Spanish Social Democrats, some of them. Broad left spectrum. He published a book about Spanish workers. Bitterly attacked by Ken and Valdes. It wasn't Marxist at all.

A fairly easy access to China's Embassy. With the Ambassador? No, with a man named Chu, I think First Secretary. He apparently is delegated to deal with Europeans, Communists, and so on.

Don't know whether A has contact with other Chinese. Some Chinese came to him. Normally a question of publishing books, and a very modest type of thing.
