Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations and suggestions for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B. If appropriate, base determination of future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and supplies; this must be commented on, if applicable.

15 February 1967.

This officer's duties remained the same as during the rating period and he has continued to discharge them with the same high degree of effectiveness, industriousness and cheerfulness. Now that he has been under my supervision for 16 months, I find my first impressions—reflected in last year's fitness report—confirmed to the effect that subject is a strong officer possessing all the necessary qualifications for exceptional growth potential.

In dealing with Branch personnel, who often are senior to him in grade, age and experience, subject conducted himself with great tact and discretion, yet with sufficient firmness to achieve the desired results. In reviewing the FI projects of the Division he has demonstrated that he has a good sense for values, an appreciation of counterintelligence and security factors and a proper degree of cost consciousness.

Subject did an excellent job at the staff level and has kept well on top of a very heavy paper flow. He is well-disciplined in his personal and working habits without losing his sense of humor, inquisitiveness and enthusiasm. All in all, a very fine fellow to have next to you.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

By Employer. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 31 January 1967. Signature of employer: Thomas J. Connors.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 16. Date: 31 January 1967. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/PI. Typed or printed name and signature: Thomas Polgar.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: This has my full concurrence. This officer has considerable potential. Date: 3 February 1967. Official title of reviewing official: WH/EXO. Typed or printed name and signature: D. C. Marelius.
