Trotskyite Book Mourns Over Chinese Revolution

The Tragedy of the Chinese Revolution.

By Harold D. Isaacs, Stanford University Press. 352 pp. $5.

By Robert Friedman

The presses are spewing forth anti-Chinese books these days at a pace which bids to match the anti-Soviet tumor. All the “old China hands” who served Western imperialism as banker, soldier, spy, or whatever in the Orient are now busy at the typewriter, engaged in profitable vilification of 450,000,000 people because they decided to take their fate in their own hands and build for themselves.

One book which deserves, even under the cynical and opportunist reign of capitalism, some special prize for adaptability is Harold D. Isaacs’ “Tragedy of the Chinese Revolution.”

Published first in 1938 as an avowedly Trotskyite tract (complete with introduction by Trotsky) calling the defeat of the Chinese workers in 1927 a “betrayal” by Stalin and the Chinese Communists, the same book emerges now, refurbished, to mourn the victory of the very same Chinese workers a generation later.

Filled with the murky intricacies of devious Trotskyite polemics, Isaacs’ book has been reissued, partly to cash in on the hate-China racket, and partly because any stick is useful to Big Business against the liberation-bound masses.

Isaacs now says he no longer loves Trotsky, whose introduction has been dropped as a liability. Instead, he is an open defender of imperialist intervention against the people of the Far East.

But typical of his Trotskyite weaseling is Isaacs’ attack on the Chinese Communists of the 1920s, first because they supported Chiang Kai-shek despite the fact that he was to become the butcher of the Chinese revolution, and second because they allegedly cringed before Chiang when he turned on the workers in 1927...

This nonsense, which would rule out every political alliance in history, on the chance that today’s ally might be tomorrow’s enemy, is ironic in view of the fact that Chiang sits today on Taiwan, a discredited gangster save only in the eyes of Isaacs’ political mentors.

Meanwhile, the Chinese people will go about their business building socialism, unconcerned by Isaacs’ tears for the tragedy of 1927 or 1951.
