Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Phillips is nearing completion of his tour of duty as Chief of Station, Santo Domingo. During the past several months he has had the difficult task of reorganizing his Station and redirecting its manpower following a major election operation. His task has been made more difficult by a series of almost weekly political or security crises which not only required intensive intelligence coverage but also frequently involved Station assets.

Mr. Phillips has done remarkably well in this difficult regearing process. It has in no way affected the volume or quality of Station reporting, which remains very high. His critical analysis and in-depth interpretation of the rapidly changing political scene have been timely and useful.

The Station under his direction has aggressively undertaken the development of new FI and CI assets without losing momentum in existing operations. Also, in a relatively short period of time, effective security and countersubversion units within the host government internal security apparatus have been established. (Cont'd)

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

2. Signature of employee. By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Months employee has been under my supervision: Subject in the field.

Date: 5 April 1967. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief, WHD. Typed or printed name and signature: Jacob D. Esterline.

3. By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the rating and statements made concerning Mr. Phillips. He is one of the best. He will take over as Chief, Cuban Operations Group this summer and we can expect new impetus in this difficult denied area program. We are carefully observing his promotional progress and are making every effort that he advances in accordance with his excellent capabilities and potential.

Date: 28 April 1967. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WHD. Typed or printed name and signature: William V. Broe.
