Personnel Evaluation Report.

Items 1 through 6 will be completed by Administrative or Personnel Officer.

1. Name: Richardson, Jacques D.G. Grade: GS-13. Position title: Beg. Intell. Off. (Chief) CD F1.

4. Office: DDP. Staff or Division: SR. Branch: SR 5 FE Br. Departmental; not field.

5. Period covered by report: From 2-18-53 to 7-18-53.

6. Type of report: Annual Reassignment.

Items 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

7. List your major duties in approximate order of importance, with a brief description of each. Choose minor duties.

a. Supervise and manage a foreign geographic branch; this includes a total of 51 authorized personnel at HQ and in the field stations. b. Direct and coordinate all project development. c. Detect and explore potential operational leads. d. Coordinate intra-division activities with appropriate branches, inter-division activities with appropriate divisions, senior staffs, and elements outside DD/P and CIA. e. Determine the suitability of new personnel, continued employment and rotation of incumbent personnel, and make available incumbent personnel on loan basis to other divisions, etc. f. Apportion the operational and administrative workloads within the branch sections and desks, and their personnel. g. Adapt changing field situations and problems to the organization and operation of the branch, making the branch best serve the needs of the field stations. h. Review continuously all requirements imposed on the branch, and transmit them clearly to the field.

8. List courses of instruction completed during report period. None (I was overseas part of the time covered by this report).

9. In what type of work are you primarily interested? I am principally interested in the building and successful operation of American intelligence abroad, both in theory and in practice.

If different from your present job, explain your qualifications (aptitude, knowledge, skills). The only remark I can make here is the one I stated in the previous report: the administrative responsibilities of a branch chief do not enable him to be a purely operational individual. If it were possible to carry less of an administrative load, I would enjoy devoting all of my time to the refinement of the intelligence process and its techniques in my area of concern.

10. Date.
