To Chief, AP. Copies to CCS, Brussels and CCS, Munich. From Chief of Station, Leopoldville. Subject: Major Peter De Groeve. Action required.

Attachment. Date: 2 April 1962. Received: April 27, 1962, 11:00.

1. The recent purchase of three DC-3s and a DC-4 by the Congolese government is having continuing repercussions. This deal has been reported in detail through both TELINE and OUNIT channels, including the acquisitions of substantial graft which accompanied it. The most recent developments, however, have not yet, to the Station's knowledge, been reported by either of the above channels.

2. Stahl (STAHl) reported to HESTON in a meeting 28 February that WIRGUE is back with the Congolese Air Force. Stahl described him as an Austrian with a Belgian passport, formerly with the German commandos, who knows nothing about aviation. Stahl continued to say Major Peter De Groeve (DE GROEVE), advisor to the Congolese Air Force circa February 1961–March 1962, Belgian, involved in the purchase of three DC-3 planes from Iran Airways at a price of $125,000 per aircraft. Competent authorities stated comparable aircraft could be purchased for $50,000 to $60,000 and predicted trouble from the purchases.

De Groeve left the Congo with 14,000 pounds which, supposedly, was his share of some 814,000 reputedly made on the above airplane purchases. According to Stahl, De Groeve bled someone at the Suruf who then let him cross safely to Brazzaville (Brasssville).

3. On 30 March WIRGUE informed SALVACK that the CCS had put him in charge of investigating the above airplane purchases. His first real task is to arrest De Groeve and bring him back to the Congo. Congo (Brazzaville) (Brassa), however, refuses to cooperate and told WIRGUE when he arrested them that De Groeve had requested political refuge. Besides, WIRGUE felt, the Brazzaville side of the river would be very hostile to return a white man to the tender mercies of the Congolese in Leopoldville. De Groeve (DEROEVE) is supposedly in Pointe Noire waiting for a French ship to take him to Marseille, a voyage of some 20 days. WIRGUE is currently toying with various ideas for possibly kidnapping De Groeve in Pointe Noire.

4. Both WIRGUE and Stahl said De Groeve is wanted for rape in Belgium. WIRGUE said he had also stolen some money there, though Stahl's version was that De Groeve had debts amounting to 400,000 Belgian francs. In either case, it is doubtful if De Groeve will return to Belgium.

Lester H. SALVACK

2 April 1962

Distribution: Original and 1 to Chief, AP; 1 to COS, Brussels; 1 to COS, Munich.
