Section C. Narrative Comments: Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section D to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

As explained in the previous fitness report, Subject was assigned to the Station for the purpose of taking charge of the Station's joint telephone tap center, a position for which he was and is eminently qualified by reason of extensive experience and outstanding language qualifications. However, this position did not materialize because of circumstances beyond the control of Subject and the Station.

It was therefore subsequently decided to train Subject locally, and have him gradually assume case officer and analyst responsibilities in certain simpler aspects of the Station's Soviet program.

Given the circumstances that Subject had not had prior case officer or analytical experience (or even any substantial past exposure to operations to give him vicarious experience), he progressed more than adequately in absorbing the training offered, in assuming responsibility for two Soviet operations, and in the preparation of analytical studies on the Soviet complement. Given the further circumstances that the Station did not have the time to train him more than superficially, and that the operations he handled were basically uncomplicated, it must be stated that Subject cannot now be considered to be a case officer.

This conscientious and intelligent officer has high interest and enthusiasm for operations, but it is believed that his forte and future lie in the management of technical operations. This has been recognized also by Headquarters in the assignment presently planned for him.

As a staff agent under tourist cover, he and his family adapted themselves remarkably well to the deep cover situation and to all other environmental factors.

Certification and Comments: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 23 November 1964. Signature: [Illegible Signature]. By employee.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 23 November 1964. Official title of supervisor: Ops Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: a/ Herbert Manell.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 23 November 1964. Official title of reviewing official: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: a/ Winston K. Scott.

Date: 23 November 1964. Official title of reviewing official: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: a/ Winston K. Scott.
