3. Indicate the approximate number of months the rated employee has been under supervision. Office of Personnel.

4. Comments concerning potential: Mr. O'Connell's potential is excellent. He is intelligently and analytically oriented, and in his work and is a career-minded employee.

Mail Room.

Section M. Future Plans.

1. Training or other developmental experience planned for the individual: Mr. O'Connell has already capably handled several different positions in the Security Office, both at Headquarters and in the domestic field office organisation, and has completed several training courses. No specific training is planned at this time.

2. Note other factors, including personal circumstances, to be taken into account in individual's future assignments: As a matter of personal choice, Mr. O'Connell would prefer to remain in a domestic assignment at this time. However, as a career employee, he recognizes and accepts his responsibility to serve wherever his services are required.

Description of Individual.

Directions: This section is provided as an aid to describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret the words literally. On the page below are a series of statements that apply in some degree to most people. To the left of each statement is a box under the heading “category.” Read each statement and insert in the box the category number which best tells how much the statement applies to the person covered by this report.

Category number: X — Have not observed this; hence can give no opinion as to how the description applies to the individual. 1. Applies to the individual to the least possible degree. 2. Applies to individual to a limited degree. 3. Applies to individual to an average degree. 4. Applies to individual to an above average degree. 5. Applies to individual to an outstanding degree.

Category 4: 1. Able to see another's point of view. Category 4: 11. Has high standards of accomplishment. Category 4: 21. Is effective in discussions with associates.

Category 4: 2. Can make decisions on his own when need arises. Category 4: 12. Shows originality. Category 5: 22. Implements decisions regardless of our feelings.

Category 5: 3. Has initiative. Category 5: 13. Accepts responsibilities. Category 5: 23. Is thoughtful of others.

Category 4: 4. Is analytic in his thinking.
