Full Name: Mr. Edward Saunders. Business or home address: 2430 E St., N.W., Washington, D.C.; telephone EX 6115, ext. 445. Business or occupation: Government.

Full Name: Miss Olive Reddick. Business or home address: Hood College, Frederick, Md. Business or occupation: Professor.

Full Name: Miss Ahee Blue. Business or home address: 23rd and E Sts., N.W., Washington, D.C.; State Department/CRI. Business or occupation: Government.

28. Are you a citizen of the United States? X.

29. Do you advocate or have you ever advocated, or are you now or have you ever been a member of any organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence? If your answer is “Yes,” give complete details in Item 29. X.

30. Within the past 12 months, have you habitually used, making leverages to enslave others, such as slaves, indentured labor, women, children, or Indians? Give a description of the use made of them, and the time during which it was made. If your answer is “Yes,” list all such uses under “Slavery,” and state how many slaves were used. X.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing X in proper column. Yes.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing X in proper column. No.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing X in proper column. Yes.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing X in proper column. No.

38. Have you ever been discharged or forced to leave the military or naval service for any reason? X. If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 38 the name and address of an employer, date, and reason in each case.

39. Do you receive an annuity from the U.S. or D.C. Government under any retirement act or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service? X. If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 39 reason for receiving that age, optional disability, or lay reason of voluntary or involuntary separation after 5 years service, amount of reduction pay, and under what retirement act and rating it received from military or naval service.

40. Are you an official or employee of any State, Territory, county, or municipality? X. If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 40.

41. Does the U.S. Government employ in a civil or permanent capacity any relative or friend (by blood or marriage) with whose you are or have lived within the past 6 months? X. If your answer is “Yes,” show in Item 41 for each relative: (1) full name, (2) present address, (3) relationship, (4) position in agency by whom employed, and (5) and when employed.

42. Have you ever had a nervous breakdown? X.
