Belgian girl just at the platform gate. He approached her. She told David that he would be arrested immediately, and indeed, all around there came men with machine pistols ready. All but the Belgian girl were arrested and held separately.

85. David was held for a few days in a room, chained by his right hand (the undamaged hand) to a heater. Nobody spoke a single word with him. He was brought some food as if it were being made for a dog.

86. His injured hand was not cared for at all and started to fester. When he lamented about this, he was transferred to a hospital where he was put into a large ward together with many more people.

87. He noticed a telephone in the corridor of the hospital. He asked a Dutch patient for a coin and phoned the Belgian girl, asking her to bring him some civilian clothes. He still did not believe that this girl had betrayed him.

88. The girl promised to come to see him the next day at 1000H. He surely got a visit the next day at 10, but by guards who took him to the hospital in Tegel jail. Now it was clear to David that the Belgian girl was in contact with the German police.

89. From the Tegel jail he was daily taken for questioning to the police headquarters.

90. A few months later, when his fingers had nearly healed, he was transferred into a cellar of the police headquarters.

91. His questioning continued for nine months, with the sessions at first daily, then two to three times a week, later once a week or biweekly. The charges were heavy: grave forgery, damaging the security of the state, demoralization of the foreign laborers, helping the POW to flee, and espionage (some photos of bomb-damaged Berlin were found in his living place).

92. Some time before his arrest, David had organized the move of his parents and sister from Berlin to Vienna, of course with forged travel documents, the family being unaware of the falsifications.

93. After his arrest, the parents came from Vienna to see him. He does not know whether they were brought by the authorities or came on their own initiative. The evidence of his crimes was displayed in the same room where he met his father. It was then that the father learned that he, David, had forged the travel documents for the move of the family, that there was no Police President Rademann whose name the documents showed, and that David had invented this name.
