Section II: Motivation and Control.

1. Estimate subject's motivation. (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence. Do not use stock comment such as “anti-communist.”) See previous PRQ Part II.

This image of EXTRUST as a powerful, professional organization has been enhanced in QPHONE/1's case by the circumstances of his agent relationship, which require very professional handling. Indeed Q/1 has probably come to hold a rather glamorous “storybook” image of EXTRUST and of the importance of his contribution to the XXXXX EXTRUST EFFORT. This is a very human trait and should not be exaggerated in his case.

2. Indicate what control, if any, exists over the subject. (If no control, or if there is a lack of reasonable explanation.)

QPHONE/1 is dependent upon an EXTRUST salary and has signed recruitment documents and a security pledge. QPHONE/1 is not a handling problem and there has never been any instance in which either he or his handler has had occasion to allude to these control factors.

Section III: Cover.

1. Cover used by subject and case officer in their meetings.

Subject and RODIGAST use a journalist/literary agent cover in the unlikely event their clandestine meetings are compromised. Other officers will use cover of both being Americans in a foreign country.

2. Cover used by subject in obtaining his information and in contacting his informants.

Freelance ex-journalist, author, and a sympathetic leftist.

3. Indicate service for which subject thinks he will work or is working.

EXTRUST.

Section IV: Intelligence Connections and Training.

1. Explain subject's known past or present connection with any other intelligence service. Indicate the extent such connection is known overtly.

No change from previous PRQ Part II.

2. List other individuals (agents, relatives, friends) who know of subject's present intelligence activities.

None.

3. Explain any training subject was had in clandestine operations.

See previous PRQ Part II. Reporting instruction with emphasis on spotting and assessment reports, 14–16 October 1970.

Section V: Collaboration Potential.

1. Indicate other foreign power subject would be most likely to collaborate with because of his ideology or past associations. Explain.

No change.
