Vouchered.

U.S. Civil Service Commission. Report of Efficiency Rating.

Aprimarte-unofficial. Official. Regular. Probational.

As of 31 March 1950, based on performance during the period from 21 September 1949 to 31 March 1950.

Name of employee: Goodpasture, Ann I.

Title of position, service, and grade: Intelligence Officer, GS-7.

Organization: OSO., FDZ., Div. I.

On lines below mark employee: V if adequate; − if weak; + if outstanding.

Instructions: Study the instructions in the Rating Official's Guide. Underline the elements which are especially important in the position. Rate only on elements pertinent to the position. Do not rate on elements in italics except for employees in administrative, supervisory, or planning positions. Rate administrative, supervisory, and planning functions on elements in italics.

Check one: Administrative, supervisory, or planning.

(1) Maintenance of equipment, tools, instruments.

(2) Mechanical skill.

(3) Skill in the application of techniques and procedures.

(4) Presentability of work (appropriateness of arrangement and appearance of work).

(5) Attention to broad phases of assignments.

(6) Attention to pertinent detail.

(7) Accuracy of operations.

(8) Accuracy of final results.

(9) Accuracy of judgments or decisions.

(10) Effectiveness in presenting ideas or facts.

(11) Industry.

(12) Rate of progress on or completion of assignments.

(13) Amount of acceptable work produced. Is mark based on production records? Yes or no.

(14) Ability to organize his work.

(15) Effectiveness in meeting and dealing with others.

(16) Cooperativeness.

(A) Security.

(17) Initiative.

(B)

(18) Resourcefulness.

(C)

(19) Dependability.

(20) Physical fitness for the work.

State any other elements considered.

Standard: Deviations must be explained on reverse side of this form.

Plus marks on all underlined elements, and check marks or better on all other elements rated.

Check marks or better on all elements rated, and plus marks on at least half of the underlined elements.

Check marks or better on a majority of underlined elements, and all weak performance overcompensated by outstanding performance.

Check marks or better on a majority of underlined elements, and all weak performance not overcompensated by outstanding performance.

Minus marks on at least half of the underlined elements.

Adjective rating: Excellent; Very Good; Good; Fair; Unsatisfactory.

Official rating: Excellent.

Reviewing official rating: Excellent.

Rated by G. W. Aircraft Chief, Bt. 1, FLZ/SEA, 4 April 1950.

Reviewed by Kary W. Loucks, Deputy Chief, FD7, 12-4-50.

Rating approved by efficiency rating committee, 8 June 1950. Report to employee: E (adjective rating).
