3 March 1966

Contact Report: L-852-5  
3 March, 1700, subject’s office

1. Subject reported that on Monday, 22 February, he was visited by Valentin Lominov, his new case officer, who dropped in without prior notification to arrange accommodations for Nikolai Kulebnikov and for Irigova and daughter for the week. Lominov wanted to talk, but subject said he had no time to make an appointment and immediately arranged a luncheon meeting for 25 February at 1400 at the La Corda Restaurant on Molfver Street. Comments: Subject stated that he called in to the Station on 23 February after the luncheon. Had the C.O. been apprised of this call, the Station probably would have received advance notice of Kulebnikov and his Soviet flight companions.

2. Lominov came to subject’s office on 23 February, and together they went to the La Corda Restaurant.

Lominov repeated Alexander Prishodko’s interest in subject’s health and offered to send the report on subject’s condition from the Temple Clinic to Moscow. Subject asked Lominov why he wanted the report, and Lominov answered, “We want to take care of your health.” Comments: Subject will not comply.

Lominov startled subject by asking what he knew about the super-secret Jewish organization “Pluga.” Comment: Subject explained to the C.O. that “Pluga” was formed all over Latin America after the arrest of Richter had caused Nazi-like anti-Semitic organizations to spring into being in the Latin countries. Jews formed “Pluga,” which is a Hebrew word meaning some kind of military unit, in order to receive military training. Subject knows about the organization through his contacts in the Israeli Embassy in Mexico, although he is not a member. No cause the Mexican contingent at about 25 to 30. The Israeli Government sent an organizer and instructor to Mexico. Members have gone from Mexico to Israel for training; subject knows because he handled their travel arrangements.

Lominov stated that he would like to know about the members of “Pluga,” because “it would be interesting if this organization could work for them, the Soviets.”

Lominov was pleased with subject’s remark that the organization was militantly anti-Nazi. Subject indicated without too much enthusiasm that he would do what he could.

Lominov put another request to subject in a rather desultory manner, asking subject’s cooperation if subject “wants to, can or will” comply. Lominov remarked:
