Nosenko's exact statements and meaning on various specific subjects. The protocols were in no way presented to Nosenko as documentary portions of a “confession,” but rather as distilled and final statements of what he did and did not know concerning particular topics. Nosenko was asked to read each page of each protocol carefully and to sign his name at the bottom to indicate that he understood and agreed with its contents; he was allowed the use of a dictionary and was permitted to ask any questions and make any changes that he wished. Amendments were entered by the interrogators and were initialed by Nosenko. Nosenko was asked, after reading each page and after completing the entire protocol, whether he understood what was written there and whether there were any more changes he wished to make. He was then asked to sign and date the statement, “I have read and understood this report and certify it as correct,” at the end of the final page. With one exception, which will be noted later, he did so calmly and without objections, although on one or two of them he remarked that his statements were presented in such a manner as to make them look foolish; although invited to do so, he was not able to suggest any changes of fact or presentation which would make them more accurate. Commenting on the use of interrogation reports, Nosenko said on 4 March 1965: “My life story is absolutely correct. Anything I have signed is absolutely correct. I absolutely understand what I am doing when I am signing any paper. This is an official document, and I fully understand what I'm doing when I sign it as being absolutely correct.”

In May 1965 a CIA psychologist questioned Nosenko in detail on his life from birth until 1953, when he said he entered the KGB, in an attempt to gain additional insights into his character and personality.

Further questioning was conducted from 26 July until 18 August 1965 with the participation of Peter Deryabin, a former KGB officer. These interrogations, the first to be held in Russian, were for the purpose of using Deryabin's first-hand experience in the KGB to obtain a clearer understanding of Nosenko's personal and professional background.

There were no further debriefings or interrogations until 18 October 1966. On this date Nosenko was polygraphed on the case of Lee Harvey Oswald.

During the period 19–25 October 1966, Nosenko was questioned for seven days on specific aspects of selected topics ranging from his identity to his involvement in and knowledge of specific KGB operations. Questioning was in both Russian and English.
