CS-311/06825-66

Preoccupation with problems in Vietnam, the Dominican Republic and elsewhere proved that Johnson had come to deal with matters of great importance to him and to Mexican President Gustavo Díaz Ordaz. Or, he added, was it that Johnson had come to give instructions, or orders, to continue his policy of oppression of the people, in this instance Mexico.

4. Calderon criticized sharply the Mexican Government for its methods in organizing the elaborate reception for President Johnson. The system of herding together the populace is accomplished, among other means, through threats made by union leaders to workers that they will lose a day's pay or suffer other losses if they do not participate in welcoming ceremonies. Calderon denounced officials of the Ministry of Foreign Relations for having remained silent in the face of a proposal by Secretary of State Dean Rusk for the creation of an international police force—“the type of security force that has in the past protected countries from North American aggression.”

5. Again on 28 April the MLN held a meeting in observance of Dominican Week, this one attended by approximately twenty-five persons. It was announced at the last moment that the journalist Alberto Domingo, who was to have attended the meeting, would not be present because of a more pressing engagement. In his absence Armando Castillejos Ortiz and the poetess Norma Carrasco improvised a program. Castillejos expressed regret that the MLN does not possess adequate publishing facilities to keep the Mexican public informed of the existing situation in the Dominican Republic. He recommended that those present take advantage of every opportunity, in their places of work and at gatherings elsewhere, to disseminate by word of mouth the facts of North American domination over the weaker nations of the world. He noted that ninety percent of the citizens of the United States are not in accord with U.S. foreign policy.

6. Norma Carrasco's contribution to the meeting consisted of the reading of poetry which she had composed depicting the United States' invasion of the Dominican Republic.
