Dispatch.

To: Chief, WOLIME. Info: Chief of Station, London; Chief, WOMUSE; Chief, EUR Division. From: Chief, LCPIPIT/London. Subject: KHALPHA/MHPROBE/RODIGAST.

Action Required—References.

Reference: OEPA-984, dated 18 March 1968.

1. The purpose of this dispatch is to raise what we believe to be an operational prospect worth careful study. The proposal is necessarily somewhat tentative at this point, but we believe it is desirable to share it with Headquarters now in order that its early consideration may be facilitated.

2. As you are aware, RODIGAST has developed excellent contacts with individuals active in the Paris SNCC group. Identity A, who is one of these, has recently become increasingly active in the affairs of the SNCC group (which largely centers around several young girls recently arrived from the US) and has come to play a rather important role since she brings to it a sophistication and articulateness which the “moral” louse of the group lacks. Identity A would not normally have become active in the SNCC group. She is older and holds “moderate” views of the sort held by the late Dr. Martin Luther King. However, she recently took a rather militant position at a public discussion of civil rights (primarily to avoid confrontation with and criticism by the SNCC girls) after which she was admiringly besieged by the girls who were anxious to have her assistance in preparation of speeches, etc. In this regard please see Reference. Partly because she has the time and partly because she was flattered, Identity A accepted and has grown daily more involved in SNCC matters. At the moment she is devoting virtually full time to this.

Attachment: u/s/c (2).

1—Identity Sheet. Continued. 2—Biographical data.

Distribution: 1—C/WOLIME with attachments sent to Paris unsest No. 07PW 42736, 18 September 1968; 1—C/EUR with attachments, 1533; 1—C/WOMUSE with attachments, OEA-1967, 29 September 1968; 1—COS/London with attachments, cc CB/Logpest T.

Gross reference to: OEPA-1058. Date: 17 April 1968.
