Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory position may be described, if applicable.

Mr. Harvey's management of the Agency's program in Italy has to date been characterized by the forcefulness and drive which have gained for him in previous assignments a reputation for dynamism. He has undertaken to reorient the Rome Station's FI program toward Soviet-satellite targets, and any delay in this reorientation has been due fully to our inability for administrative reasons to supply the personnel he desires on the time schedule which he would prefer. Dates: August 11, 1964; June 27, 1964.

Although not by inclination oriented toward the objectives of CA, he has preserved and guided the most complex CA program in Western Europe with understanding and skill. To accomplish this it has been necessary for Mr. Harvey to learn the intricacies of an extremely complex local political situation. This he has set about to do with confidence. His accumulated experience in earlier assignments has equipped Mr. Harvey with a self-assurance and confidence which I have rarely seen equalled in any other officer. The continuance of ideal relationships with the key Embassy officials in Rome has been somewhat handicapped by the sudden death of the principal officer in the Embassy who was knowledgeable of our program and the impossibility of bringing into knowledge of our activity the next lower level echelon of Embassy officials for reasons beyond Mr. Harvey's control. This handicap has been overcome over the past year and Mr. Harvey is currently supervising extremely sensitive political operations and contacts to the satisfaction of the Ambassador and his headquarters.

He delegates responsibilities skillfully to those officers under his command who are best qualified and by his own outstanding performance, which is always at its best under heavy stress, he earns an intense loyalty from these personnel. He demonstrates cost-consciousness and outstanding supervisory ability.

Section D. Certification and Comments. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Section A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 27/2/65. Signature of employee: L. L. Killeen.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 12.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Report will be shown to employee upon return from overseas.

Date: 28 July 1964. Official title of supervisor: C/WE. Typed or printed name and signature: William D. O'Ryan.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of Reviewing Official.

Date: 7 August 1964. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Director for Plans. Typed or printed name and signature: Richard Helms.
