25 April 1968

Subject: LIMING/4 Report of Visit to LIKING offices.

1. LIKING/4 reported to London at 1000 on 25/4/68 at the hotel safe room that she had visited the LIKING establishment that morning to inform everyone of the news concerning LIKING/3. She stated that on entering, her friend, LIKING/9's secretary, informed her that her re-entry permit had come through the preceding evening. L/4 explained at once that unfortunately she could not leave on the next flight because of LIKING/3's arrest. He then (than), despite the fact that his secretary told her that LIKING/9 was in a nasty mood, sent her into the latter's office and told him what had happened. LIKING/9 was very sympathetic, telling her that he also read the article in the paper, which contained the sentence “Persadal tiene la culpa,” when L/4 should have said so earlier. LIKING/9 became very agitated and exclaimed that he would immediately make out a card (ficha) recording this treachery of Persantal. L/4 agreed that L/4 could not possibly leave for FAR as planned and felt it would not be difficult to get an extension over the usual twenty-day limit of the re-entry permit.

2. LIKING/4 continued that she then went to see LIKING/2 and recounted the whole story to him, including L/3's involvement with FAR and the 13th of November movement. She noted that when she casually commented thatodelo Sandoval had told her that You Tosa had returned from EUMEX via Mexico City about a month previously, LIKING/2 pretended not to be aware of this, exclaiming, “Imagine, they don't tell us those things!” LIKING/2 then said that he was leaving for a week IDY in FAR the next day and would be happy to take along any letters L/4 might wish to send to their mutual friends explaining why she could not leave for FAR at that time.

3. LIKING/4 also reported that while she was in the office of LIKING/9 she met Leo Deven, who runs a hotel in Calulco and whom she remembered from occasional visits he made to the LIKING offices while she was working there. She described Deven as an obvious homosexual, well dressed and patronizing in his manners. He told her that he planned to travel to PARTENON “on Friday” (whether 26 April or 3 May was not specified) to see his son who was studying there. L/4 commented that everyone at the LIKING office appeared to treat Deven with respect and confidence.

4. Regarding the layout of the office of LIKING/9 (backroom), LIKING/4 said she noted the addition of the typewriter table, formerly in the middle room, against the left wall, with a portable Olympia typewriter on it. The German typewriter was still on the bir desk. Also behind the small coffee table in the corner she noted that the rolled-up posters were gone and in their place were two or three packages of books.
