Dispatch. To: Chief, Task Force W. From: Chief of Station, JEWAVE. Subject: Operational/GYROSE Agreed Activities. Action required: References. Reference: DIR-14742.

1. Introduction. As a follow up to reference, Maj. Watlington arrived in Miami on 6 June 1962. After Maj. Watlington had an opportunity to discuss the local situation with Lt. Col. Carlos Causes, the local ACSI representative, arrangements were made for a lengthy session on the subject of Agreed Activities. It was agreed that this discussion would take place at 1000 hours on 7 June 1962 at a JEWAVE safehouse facility. This meeting subsequently took place as scheduled and was participated in by Lt. Col. Causes, Maj. Watlington, Dudley R. JENTONS, Charles B. WIESINGER and Andrew K. REUTEMAN. The specific points which were outlined in this discussion are covered in the following paragraph.

2. Discussions. In the course of the 7 June 1962 conversations with ACSI representatives the following topics worthy of recording were discussed.

a. Opa Locka Refugee Referral Procedures. Maj. Watlington made the point that in accordance with the agreements which had been reached between ACSI and KUBARK (KURARK), local procedures were to be agreed upon in order that ACSI might obtain refugee referrals from Opa Locka which could be used as a basis upon which to mount OB collection operations. Maj. Watlington underscored the point that ACSI had no interest or charter to run other than OB collection operations. At the same time if any of their operations produced intelligence on subject matter other than OB, this intelligence would be reported via existing ACSI reports channels. REUTEMAN indicated that JEWAVE acknowledged the validity of ACSI's mission in the OB field, and we were therefore willing to cooperate fully in this regard. On the other hand, we believed that it was essential that certain

Fold: 1. Distribution: 3 – Chief, TFW. Cross reference to: P 19-2-4. Date typed: 3 July 1962. Operation name and number: UFGA-4322. Headquarters phone no.: 4.
