2nd Phase: Chinese and others have shown interest. We will exploit this interest. After he has completed first phase, we will begin to make structured contacts with the Chinese. In these contacts, he will show that he has a grasp of the ideology, is interested in learning more, and desires to study more intensively. Will use as negative examples: his book, Panthers, some aspects of Bergman's behavior, the unstructured and undisciplined nature of most revolutionary activists in the U.S., particularly among the blacks, or whatever may seem appropriate at the time contact is made. However, will seek their help to further his study and will indicate recognition of the need to return to the U.S. in order to undertake the correct role in the revolutionary struggle. At this stage, we will have an idea of the interest of the Chinese. We will be able to determine whether we can expect progress or not. If they prove willing to help, they will then be asked to guide his further study, to help him. Through this help, they will be able to see the development which has taken place. We should get a good feeling of their willingness to guide him after a couple of meetings. If we are shut out, then we must make an ops judgment from that point on—we can always target against Soviets and use Chinese as a negative example. If they are interested, we will then lose some aspects of our initiative, but in essence, the more initiative we lose to them, the more they try to direct him, the deeper he becomes involved with them, which is our objective—one of them. He must continue his study.

3rd Phase: Continue his study; continue his contacts all around, but by now should have significant contacts and can dispense with the more general “sparrow” approach. Once certain of their willingness to help, we ask about a trip to Peking to study, after which he wants to return to the U.S. and take an active role.

Recognize that this may be a sticking point. We don't want him here. However, this idea has to always be in the forefront as far as the Chinese are concerned; otherwise, they have little reason to be interested in him. This MUST appear to be his goal. We may be able to circumvent it later for one reason or another, or it might be useful to bring him back temporarily. This decision must be reserved for that time.

These stages and sub-stages must be further divided if we are to understand the operation correctly and are to carry it out correctly. Each action he is asked to undertake must be seen leading to something concrete in the next or another step. The whole op goes STEP BY STEP. We do not insert unrealistic objectives, or those which would be desirable but may be difficult. This is a waste of time. We only seek to do what is possible—possible is what can be turned into reality.

Emphasis must be made on the “step by step” approach and must be maintained. Otherwise, we can trip ourselves up by trying to accomplish something which is out of sequence FOR THEM. For
