departure. He further stated he would not agree to further travel to the United States except by commercial jet. He then entered the Operations Office of the 7405th Flight Squadron, where I was introduced to ROODINE, who recited basically the same story as told by TOCHENBAY. We also ascertained that the Flight Surgeon had looked at the daughter and had found nothing organically wrong. We then asked ROODINE to bring PAGELLUND into the room where subject's family was staying and introduce him as an “American Intelligence Service Medical Officer” and have PAGELLUND examine the child. PAGELLUND'S results were the same as the Flight Surgeon, and no medication was given the child. A discussion of some fifteen minutes then took place as to how best to proceed with onward transportation arrangements. ROODINE took me aside and strenuously impressed me with the fact that subject was of the opinion that certain of his information on the matter of Soviet/Finnish relations was of great perishability and that subject deeply felt his necessity to arrive in Washington and state this information within the next 48 hours. ROODINE also stated he concurred in subject's feelings. All KUBARK representatives then on the scene again got together, and the undersigned made the decision to abort the mission, arrange immediate safe-housing overnight for subject and his family, and attempt commercial transportation on Sunday.

13. Earlier in the day LYACK informed me that he had cleared out their Eschborn safe-house in case we should need it. I immediately tried to contact LYACK by phone, but there was no answer. I then phoned Henry R. GARLINGAY (Deputy for Administration Staff) and asked him to do for me the following things:

a. Contact Stephen R. LACKEIN (CABEZONE) and tell him we had an immediate need to house a family of three, plus two KUBARK officers at Eschborn. To further tell LACKEIN to be standing by at Opel Circle opposite the Minneapolis Honeywell Building at 0100 hours and be prepared to escort another vehicle to Eschborn.

b. Phone HENTHAM and tell him we would drop by his house later that evening to brief him on any developments.

c. Phone LYACK and tell him we were using Eschborn.

14. All concerned departed Wiesbaden Air Base at approximately 0020 hours on 17 December and arrived at the meeting point at Opel Circle at exactly 0100 hours. Subject's family plus MULFALL, who had also gone immediately to Wiesbaden, followed LACKEIN's car to Eschborn. PAGELLUND, LAPOLLA, ROODINE, and myself went immediately to HENTHAM's house.
