Continuation of dispatch. Dispatch symbol and number: HARW 11473.

Again and instigate a second meeting soon after Subject returns from home leave. Since there are no other access agents now in touch with Subject, the potential for assessment of our target personality by direct Staffer contact becomes crucial in the selective targeting procedure. Through the advantages of direct assessment, we should be able to make a good judgment concerning the susceptibilities (or lack thereof) of ALBOOR and accordingly determine the value in pursuing him as a priority target.

b. The impressions of ALBOOR and his wife from the one meeting thus far seem to offer some possible avenues of approach which the Station may wish to consider in their planning. The wife, in particular, was described as being more relaxed than ALBOOR and through her professed interest in theatre, music, and ballet, it might be possible for Nina T. MARGANDE to exploit this interest and invite her to selected cultural events. If ALBOOR does not share his wife's proclivities for the “arts,” then she might appreciate the presence of a female companion who shares her interests. ALBOOR's wife also claimed to like both American songs and dancing. This too might open the door to some form of imaginative approach built around a future invitation whereby the incipient social relationship of 9 January would be further developed in the depth needed for a thorough assessment of the target. Cultivation of the wife appears to be particularly appropriate because of the apparent conflicts and tensions between her and her husband. The accounts of this relationship from their previous tour in Mexico and also the current transcripts from ARLANYARD paint a picture of an irascible and foul-mouthed husband constantly doing battle with a domineering wife. It seems likely that the impression of “sweetness and light” which they generated during their evening with the Station case officers was atypical and manufactured for the benefit of their hosts. This, of course, is natural with most couples who choose not to air their personal differences in public, but from our point of view, this lack of harmony between ALBOOR and his wife offers distinct possibilities for the Station to contact the wife independently and offer her welcome diversions from the regimented and turbulent life with her husband. We call your attention to the reference since it may provide some useful points in devising an approach to ALBOOR's wife. Their present home leave in the USSR would seem to offer a ready-made situation for renewed contact when they return since natural curiosity about their activities and time spent at home could be sufficient grounds for an invitation either to both or singly to spend an evening together. We offer those thoughts only because they appear to us as good opportunities not only to maintain Staffer contact with a target of priority interest, but to also develop this contact further to the degree of intimacy needed for a recognition and ultimate exploitation of his susceptibilities.

c. Since there are no access agents now in touch with ALBOOR, we suggest, as a supplement to the direct Staffer contact and in order to obtain additional assessments of Subject from other angles, the Station consider “running” a controlled asset into ALBOOR under suitably contrived circumstances. In other words, we would create a relationship where none previously existed. By this device, we are not suggesting a double agent operation in which our agent offers himself for recruitment; on the contrary, the rationale is simply to move a controlled asset into the path of the target and attempt to establish a contact through a common bond of social or business interests. If we agree that ALBOOR can be brought under a more intensive scrutiny than the other Soviets, then this ploy would be a logical step in his development as a recruitment target if additional access to him is nonexistent.
