Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Honduras. Report No. 00-K 323/01763-68. Subject: Opinions of Moises Lopez Maldonado on Possible Presidential Candidates. Date distributed: 1 February 1958. No. pages: 1. References: CIRL C-DC7-53900 (2356). Date of information: January 1968. Place and date acquired: Tegucigalpa, January 1968 and earlier.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: Cuban national, an engineer who has worked and lived in Honduras for several years. During this time he has developed social and business contacts with officials of the government, the Armed Forces and the business community.

This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. During the middle of January 1968 I had a lengthy conversation with Moises Lopez Maldonado, Honduran Consul in Costa Rica and a leading personality in the Partido Nacional (PN). He is a very close friend of Martin Aruero, leader of the PN. Lopez spends about half of his time in Honduras. He is an intelligent and cunning politician with a lot of common sense. He is critical of the soft lines used by the US in internal and foreign affairs.

2. During our conversation he stated that the next President of the country would be a civilian. He doubted very much if the Armed Forces could come up with a suitable candidate. He gave his opinions about several individuals with presidential aspirations.

“Armando Velazquez Cerrato has completely disregarded the Party machinery. He is ambitious, but too individualistic. He has no political future in the country.”

“Manuel Acosta Bonilla, present Minister of Economy, is capable, a hard worker and a good man. His Presidential ambitions at the present time are very subtle.”

“Ricardo Zamiga is well qualified and would have support from most of the influential people in the government who would like to see him as a Presidential candidate. A hard working individual, he is the right hand of President Lopez Arellano. I consider him the best qualified to run for the Presidential office.”
