(Seventh Department — June 1955–January 1960)

Nosenko's Information

Nosenko stated that at the time of Burgi's arrival in the USSR, his file contained a copy of his visa application (anketa), “maybe” an excerpt from a cable sent by the Soviet Embassy in the United States saying that a visa had been granted, a routine note from Inturist giving Burgi's anticipated date of arrival and his itinerary inside the Soviet Union, and the results of file checks of the KGB Main Archives and of the First Chief Directorate Archives. Nosenko himself ran the file checks, which proved to be negative; there was no information on record concerning Burgi, and since no other names were mentioned in the material available on Burgi, no other checks were made. The KGB interest in Burgi derived exclusively from the fact that he was a professor of Slavic studies and therefore had contact with students who might eventually work for the U.S. State Department, American intelligence, and other target organizations. Nosenko did not recall who first suggested an attempt to recruit him.

When Burgi arrived in the Soviet Union, he came in contact with a number of KGB agents, and their reports were placed in an informal file maintained by Nosenko. Nosenko could not recall how many such agents there may have been, their names, or what they might have reported concerning Burgi. Burgi had an Inturist interpreter, but Nosenko did not know whether he was a KGB agent. From some source, name forgotten by Nosenko, the KGB obtained indications that Burgi was a homosexual, and it was decided to try to obtain grounds for recruitment by homosexual compromise. Nosenko therefore approached Yu. A. Lopukhov, an officer of the British Department who handled the homosexual agent Viktor Belanovskiy, and asked permission to use Belanovskiy in setting up the compromise. After permission had been received to mount an operation on this basis, Lopukhov and Nosenko met with Belanovskiy and instructed him to make Burgi's acquaintance in a hotel dining room. The compromise proceeded according to plan: Belanovskiy met Burgi, the fact of common homosexuality was recognized, and Burgi was invited to Belanovskiy's hotel room where homosexual acts took place and photographs were made. Nosenko was in the adjoining room and directed the compromise, although he did not meet Burgi at this time.
