12. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U.S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.

13. Secrecy. (a) You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all classified information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the espionage laws of the United States and other applicable laws and regulations.

(b) In the event you marry or remarry during the term of this contract, you agree to advise this organization at least one hundred twenty (120) days in advance of such contemplated marriage, or otherwise as soon as known, and to furnish such personal history data on your prospective spouse as may be required by this organization. You understand and agree that should this organization determine that your marriage would limit or otherwise impair your usefulness to the Government, this contract may be terminated.

14. Instructions. Instructions received by you from the Government in briefing, training or otherwise are a part of this contract and are incorporated herein, provided that such instructions are not inconsistent with the terms hereof.

15. Reassignments. During your period of service under this agreement, it may be necessary for this organization to terminate an assignment for reasons beyond your control. In such event, you will be given every consideration for other assignments appropriate to Career Agents.

16. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitments pertaining to rights, privileges or benefits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the Government. Specifically, you herein acknowledge that this organization makes no commitment, either express or implied, that appointed employment status will be offered you at the conclusion of or during your period of contractual service.

17. Term. This contract is effective as of [signature] and shall continue thereafter for an indefinite period unless sooner terminated:

(a) Upon ninety (90) days' actual notice by either party hereto,

(b) Upon actual notice to you in the event the results of an initially required medical examination are determined by this organization to be unsatisfactory, or

[Signature]
