Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 012170.

Section A: General. Name: Randall, Frederick. Date of birth: 10/28/26. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. SD: D. Official position title: DDP/DOD, Washington Base. Type of appointment: Career. Reassignment supervisor. Reporting period: 1 April 1968–17 January 1969.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W. Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise.

Specific duty No. 1: Contact and development of US nationals for purposes of operational and/or intelligence exploitation. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Contact and development of foreign nationals for operational and/or intelligence exploitation. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 3: Recruitment of foreign nationals. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 4: Exploitation of recruited foreign and US nationals. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 5: Preparation of operational and intelligence reports. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 6: Supervision of one secretary. Rating letter: S.

Overall performance in current position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position, such as personal qualities of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or disabilities. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
