Travel Order. 00/C H-3-55XG. Allocation Account Symbol: 5-4739.40.

Name: James W. Noble. Office phone: 2272. Date and amount: GS 13 — $8,560. Title: Administrative Officer. Official station: Dallas, Texas.

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with Agency Regulations.

Itinerary: Dallas, Texas to Washington, D. C. and return. To attend the 00/C Refresher Course, 2-55, commencing 6 June 1955 through 17 June 1955.

Special provisions (include appropriate specifications).

Coordination, as required (to be effected by originating office): DU/P; other operational areas; theater clearance if obtainable.

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized. Estimated cost of travel: $300.00.

Travel to begin on or about: 5 June 1955. Terminating approximately: 16 June 1955.

Certification (by processing branch): Certified a True Copy. Signed copy on file in Central Processing Branch. Reviewed. No change necessary. Amended as indicated.

Mode of travel (specify): Plena.

Allowance for privately owned automobile as follows if applicable: (A) Seven cents per mile not to exceed cost by common carrier. (B) Seven cents per mile as during more advantageous to the Government.

The charge of officers assisting is stated as effective in the interest of the Government and not for your impairing convenience in connection with changes of station. Unless authorized to transport your immediate family, your household goods, personal estate effects, subject to weight limits, must be arranged at least as set forth in Agency regulations.

Travel to first class of duty address, including expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal effects and automobiles, is authorized.

Return from first class of duty around, including expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal effects and automobiles, is authorized.

Defences to travel with employee.

Defences to travel within one year of employee temporary cutoff.

Name and title of authorizing official: J. Larocque, Jr., Deputy Assistant Director, CO.

31 May 1955. Date. Signature of authorizing official.
