American Embassy Section — January 1960–January 1962.

In the two years of Nosenko (Hosenko)’s service in the section there were a total of over three months when he said Kovshuk was ill or on leave. Nosenko (Hosenko) recalled that he was Acting Chief during Kovshuk’s two 30-day leave periods in 1960 and 1961, although he did not remember precisely in which months. He also served as Acting Chief for about a month in the summer of 1960 when Kovshuk was in the KGB hospital with heart trouble and for a week or two some time in 1961, again when Kovshuk was ill. He recalled that Kovshuk was also absent for several days in connection with preparations for President Eisenhower’s planned visit to the Soviet Union in 1960.

As Acting Chief in Kovshuk’s absence, Nosenko (Hosenko) stated that he was responsible for supervising the administrative work and operational activity of the entire section and, in particular, for assuming Kovshuk’s work in directing operations against diplomatic personnel assigned to the American Embassy.

Nosenko (Hosenko) could recall no operational decisions that he made as acting chief, nor any specific or unusual occurrences during these times. Nosenko (Hosenko) said that the only specific responsibility of Kovshuk’s which he handled in the Chief’s absence was reporting to the Chief of the First Department about all correspondence going out of the Embassy Section. Nosenko (Hosenko) stated he met none of Kovshuk’s agents during his absences, nor could he remember any of them except Glazunov, whom Nosenko (Hosenko) said in April 1964 was his own agent and later said was “Kovshuk’s and Fedyanin’s,” and the American correspondent, Stevens, about whom Nosenko (Hosenko) had reported in connection with his activities in 1953–55.

According to Nosenko (Hosenko), Kovshuk had personal contact, under Ministry of Foreign Affairs cover, with “some” American Embassy officers, but the only such Embassy officer he could identify was Winters, and he knew of no details about Kovshuk’s relations with him.
