Country: Haiti (Faïti). Report No. 00-B-321/10754-69. Subject: Reported netels (rental) terms for award of gambling concession; Clemard Joseph-Charles' involvement. Date distributed: 21 April 1969. No. pages: 2. Reference: Supplement to 00B-321/07210-69. Date of info: Aug 69 (Age 69). Place and date acquired: 1/2/69. This is unevaluated information.

Source: Metropolitan US citizen of Haitian birth, who makes frequent trips to Haiti. Source maintains close contact with Haitians in the US and with prominent business and political figures in Haiti.

1. As part of his effort to obtain foreign exchange, Haiti's President Dvalier (Duvalier) has decided to start a gambling concession. A US syndicate, consisting of a New York City firm, Keynote Associates, and Count Michel Levitch, Bishop of the American Orthodox Church, has been trying to obtain the concession. Collector's note: see reference for additional details.

2. The Bishop has severed his connections with Keynote, which bombarded President Dvalier with telegrams and made an unannounced trip to Haiti to obtain the concession.

3. However, Keynote received a telegram from Antonic Andre' (Antoine André), Director of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti. This message informed them that they would not receive the concession. President Dvalier relies very heavily upon Andre' for advice and guidance in economic matters.

4. Almost at the same time that Keynote received Andre''s telegram, Clemard Joseph-Charles notified the Bishop that he would receive the concession on the following terms:

a. A new group of associates of the Bishop will receive 80 percent of the gross receipts from the concession.

b. The Government of Haiti will receive 10 percent of the gross receipts.

c. The Bishop and his chief partner will receive five percent of the gross receipts.

The dissemination of this document is limited to official employees and active military personnel within the intelligence community of the US government agencies, and to those outer offices of the same agencies who must also have the information. However, when specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCI 197, it may be released to these components of the Department and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. It
