Personnel Evaluation Report. Items 1 through 6 will be completed by Administrative or Personnel Officer.

Name: Linda Richardson. First initial: R.L. Grade: D-3. Position title: Branch C. Office charge: 09-13. Phone number: Illegible signature. Signature: Specify station.

Period covered by report: From — To —. Type of report: Illegible signature. Reason for non-loyalty: Illegible signature. Initial RE assignment: Illegible signature. Special RE assignment: Illegible signature.

Items 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

d. Supervise and manage a foreign branch; this includes a total of 51 authorized personnel at HQ and in the field stations. e. Direct and coordinate all project development. f. Detect and explore potential operational leads. g. Coordinate intra-divisional activities with appropriate branches, inter-divisional activities with appropriate divisions, senior staffs, and elements outside DVP and CIA. h. Determine the suitability of new personnel, continued employment and rotation of incumbent personnel, and make available incumbent personnel on loan basis to other divisions etc. i. Appoint the operational and administrative workloads within the branch sections and desks, and their personnel. j. Adapt changing field situations and problems to the organization and operation of the branch, making the branch best serve the needs of the field stations. k. Review continuously all requirements imposed on the branch, and transmit them clearly to the field.

g. List courses of instruction completed during report period. Name of course, location, length of course, date completed: None (I was overseas part of the time covered by this report).

h. In what type of business are you primarily interested in? I am principally interested in the building and successful operation of American intelligence abroad, both in theory and in practice.

I refer to my "base" here is the end and I stated in the previous report that the administrative responsibilities of a branch chief do not enable him to be a purely operational individual. If it were possible to carry out an administrative load, I would enjoy devoting all of my time to the refinement of the intelligence process and its techniques in my area of concern.

10. 22 October 1953. Date. Signature.

Items 11 through 16 will be completed by Supervisor.

11. Briefly describe this person's performance on the major duties listed under item 7 above.

During this period Mr. Richardson was promoted from Deputy Branch Chief to Branch Chief, in recognition of his extremely good performance. Not enough time has elapsed to be able to evaluate him fully on all aspects of his new position. However, his handling of the branch has been unusually good from a management point of view and there is every reason to believe that in the planning and direction of operational activities the same high standard will prevail.
