buted to different places in Berlin. He came to a unit stationed close to the Brandenburger Tor (BRAUNEN BURGER TOR), vis-à-vis the French Embassy building, where he had to wait and drive a cab for eight hours a day. He lived in the same house in front of which their cars were stationed. He does not remember any names from the time of this training period. One of his co-drivers in this small unit was KOVIKOF.

40. David remained in this drivers' unit in Berlin until, some three to four months later, volunteers were called to go to France as lorry drivers to the west coast, where the Atlantic Wall was being constructed. He volunteered, and 15 days later, together with other volunteers, he was sent to Paris.

41. In Paris they were given French-made Fords of five-ton loading capacity (C.U. — charge utile). The convoy of some 50 cars, each with two drivers, started in the direction of SAINT-NAZAIRE. At the departure, still in Paris, close to Porte d'Orléans (Porte d'Orieans), one driver had an accident: he could not take the curb, drove on the sidewalk, killed and damaged a few people, without damaging the car. David, who interpreted at the spot when the case was cleared, was ordered to take this car over because the driver who had just had the accident was not allowed to continue to drive immediately.

42. The convoy was divided into three parts, with David going to the detachment which was detailed to the Navy. This was approximately at the time when the British made a mock landing or a demonstration of a landing.

43. In 1943, still on the French West coast, the British men were ordered to take an oath. David refused, and as a consequence was sent back to Berlin, guarded by two men, into a British penal or refractory camp.

44. David asked the leader of this camp, an “Obersherführer” (equivalent to an N.C.O.), later changed by David to “Hauptsturmführer” — equivalent to a captain — for permission to contact the Police headquarters, for volunteering into the police service. The camp leader granted him six-hour leave to settle his employment with the police, or to face a tough deal because of his refusal to take the oath.

45. David went to the Police HQ (Police N.Q.) at Alexanderplatz (ALEXANDER LATZ) in Berlin, was accepted and given a note that he had registered for service in the Police. He returned with this note to the British camp, and on the next morning he was released on grounds of this note.

46. In the Police David had to undergo physical examination in a hospital. He was found fit physically and was sent into barracks, of which he does not remember the address. His grade in the police was “Rott-Machtmeister — Dolmetscher” — something like the second-lowest grade in the ordinary police.
