Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Modify or replace ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance, if numbered, is as follows: 1 = very good, 2 = good, 3 = satisfactory, 4 = needs improvement.

Mr. McCord supervises his Division in a vigorous manner. He is capable of instilling enthusiasm and esprit de corps within his organization—a difficult task because of the extensive amount of worldwide travel demanded from his subordinates. This travel is so extensive as to result in personal hardships.

During the rating period, Mr. McCord and two of his employees received the Certificate of Merit. These awards resulted from the vigorous and successful pursuit of a technique having great promise in the audio-countermeasures field.

Mr. McCord's performance of his liaison and coordination with other components of the intelligence community, which received special mention in his last Fitness Report, is now at a status that warrants a designation of “Strong.” He is conscientiously working at the liaison problem in a difficult interdepartmental atmosphere.

Mr. McCord has an excellent grasp of the technical requirements of his position even though he is not an engineer. He has an exceptional environmental knowledge and appreciation. He sets his goals high. He is cost-conscious in the field involving expensive equipment, which normally is costly to develop.

Continued.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 17 Apr '67. Signature of employee: Ermal P.CGS.

By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 14. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 19 Apr '67. Official title of supervisor: Dep. Dir. of Sec. (PTOS). Typed or printed name and signature: Ermal P. CGS.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Type or printed name and signature.
