5 June 1953

Memo to James K. Rasso re Departure Schedule for HUNARDID

Certain circumstances surrounding my application for residence in Argentina through their Embassy here in San José have given rise to a suggestion in reference to my timetable for departure. Originally it was agreed by all concerned that a departure shortly after the local elections (say 1 August 1953) would be most convenient for the station. There was some question as to acceptance at the University of Buenos Aires, but it was later decided that a more direct assurance of entry could be arranged by actual application for resident status right here at San José. This process was begun immediately. Subsequent conversations with Rasso, however, have given me the impression that headquarters will await the approval of the resident permit before arranging my departure for the U.S.

Actually there have been no unusual obstacles encountered in the routine preparation of documentation, but nevertheless, the Argentine Consul assures me that “results will not be forthcoming in less than three months.” Accordingly, this would place the most optimistic results some time in late September.

Meanwhile, for rather urgent personal reasons, I am anxious that my departure for the U.S. be realized as per the original understanding, that is, shortly after the local elections. By this plan, correspondence can be maintained with the Argentine Embassy here at San José as concerns the arrival of the documentation, and my proposed training period can conceivably be accomplished within this interval of time. If the resident permit is denied, or the delay unusually great, an alternate area might then be considered.

I fully comprehend the uncertainties involved in making such a departure without the residence at the future station positively established and am prepared to enter and work in any area selected at the discretion of the organization. What I am trying to avoid most of all is a possible interim waiting period of several months in a more or less casual status. If such is inevitable, then let it take place stateside!

HUMANOID.
