Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 056043.

Section A. General.

Name: Bagley, Tennent. Date of birth: 11-11-25. Sex: M. Grade: GS-15. SO: D. Office/Division/Branch of Assignment: DDP/SR/CI. Current Station: Hqs.

Type of appointment: Initial—reassignment supervisor; annual—reassignment employee. Date report due in G.P.: 30 April 1964. Reporting period: 1 April 1963–31 March 1964.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

W—Work: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Advise the Chief, SR Division on all matters pertaining to the Soviet intelligence services and their activities. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 2: Direct the operational program of the SR Division against the Soviet intelligence services to include the development of operational policy, goals and targets. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 3: Establish procedures within the SR Division Counter-intelligence Group, the division as a whole and with regard to other area divisions for carrying out the operational program against the Soviet-intelligence-services. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 4: Supervise the personnel and activities of the Counter-intelligence Group, SR Division.
