Training Evaluation—Clerical Induction.

Section I: Identifying Information. Name of staff: PICCOLO, Joseph S. SIG: M. Dates of attendance: FULL. Grade: GS-l. Date of birth: 8 December 1935. KOD date: 14 February 1957. Title and grade: File Clerk.

Section II: Characteristics of the Course. Each course subject is taught daily in 45-minute sessions for a 5-day period. Students who do not meet Agency standards in shorthand and/or typewriting within this 5-day period receive further instruction in an attempt to meet the established qualifications. The second week of geography instruction is given to students who have not been assigned to their positions.

Section III: Objectives. To develop speed and accuracy in shorthand, to take dictation at a minimum of 40 words per minute for 3 minutes, and to transcribe with 5 or less errors in not more than 15 minutes. (For qualification, students must meet this requirement at least once.)

To develop speed and accuracy in typewriting and to type a net score of 40 words per minute on a 10-minute writing (score attained after deduction of errors). (For qualification, students must meet this requirement at least once.)

To review the fundamentals of grammar, punctuation and capitalization, and word usage, and to aid the students in applying these principles of correct English usage.

To familiarize students with countries, capitals, products, political situations, and communist attitudes of Europe and Asia. (These contents are covered in alternate weeks.)

To introduce students to the system of filing as outlined in the Agency's “Handbook for Subject Filing.”

Section IV: Ratings. Each student is not assigned to all course subjects. The subjects this student has completed are those for which ratings are recorded below.

Shorthand: rro. Forums: qualified, vrs, no.

Typewriting: rro. Jackets: net. Qualified: vrs, no.

Note: Student met Agency standards in the following subjects before entrance to course: Shorthand; Typewriting.

Subject: Grammar. Rating in: Fair; Satisfactory; Excellent.
