Town, claimed, had lost their way. They said, “No, you’re a member of the Klan in this town.” They wanted to kill him or hold him as hostage.

Williams said, “Bring these people into my house, and you know I won’t let them go.” He called the sheriff and said, “Look, I have these people here, and my people are very upset. I want you to know that I don’t want anything to happen to our people that you have in the jail.” The sheriff immediately called the National Guard, state troopers, and whatnot. They couldn’t hold out very long. Williams escaped.

Julian Mayfield, well known, was there, a Negro writer who now lives in Ghana as a result of this. Minnie was a Negro woman from New York who was there—Minnie Mallory, who was later arrested and convicted and sentenced to 16 years in prison for kidnapping. She’s been in prison before, and the case is on appeal now.

Williams was spirited across the United States—I knew vaguely where he was—but he was kept very carefully by Cubans and by Negro groups in contact with the Cubans. From Canada he was flown by private plane, and by Castro himself, to Havana, where he is now.

On two occasions the FBI came to me asking for information about Williams, and I damn sure wasn’t going to give any of what I knew. We had tried to get in touch with Bobby Kennedy himself. I had sent telegrams. I even tried to get a telephone call in, because I knew what was going to happen on this thing: to get some kind of federal intervention. It was one of the most sickening things that I ever saw.

They wanted him out of the way. Even then they came to me later—two of the agents came to the FPCC office in New York. They said, “We have 500 agents. We’ll get him. He’ll never get away.” Well, he was away at that point. His aunt died, and they were in New York around that time. They went to the funeral parlor where the body was and put a wanted poster for Williams on the coffin to see if he would come. Really, they should have been thrown out on their heads, frankly. If it hadn’t been Negroes, I’m certain they would never have done that sort of thing. The trouble was—the whole attitude.

Anyhow, as it is, Williams is not a Communist, he’s not a Trotskyite. He’s a former Marine who’s just had enough. Really, you know. And he’s turned into a worldwide figure because people like Bobby Kennedy and others could not just try to see what could be done about it. It was no use, though. I mean, it’s no use now. Just as much as I’m certainly not for anybody. Not for anybody.

Well, that’s too bad. Just like the case of these boys, Walter Bow, and so on. And they’re not the only ones. For every Walter Bow, there must be at least a hundred. I must say, I would no more want to live in the States now—you’re going to really see something. I don’t really.
