There are about six million ethnics of Polish descent in the United States. They constitute approximately one half of the estimated total of the Central and Eastern European group. Slovaks and Ukrainians compete for second place, having about one million each. In the United States and Canada, Lithuanians and Poles seem to be next in line. It may be taken for granted that all of our national groups have at least a hundred thousand American brothers in this country. It is, and it should be, a tremendous asset in our struggle for liberation.

To take my own Polish group, for example, it is encouraging to know that there are already ten congressmen of Polish descent (seven attorneys, three publicists, two candidates). In addition to the above, we declared a few weeks ago that “all congressmen of Polish descent, regardless of party affiliations, are united insofar as the cause of free Poland is concerned.” According to him, as reported by the Polish American Journal No. 47–701, XI of October 26th, 1931: “The Polish American solons are working together to invalidate the Tcheran (Tscheran) and Yalta agreements and to persuade the United States government to go on record favoring the present western boundaries of Poland.”

Of other groups, Slovaks have one Congressman of their descent—young and prominent Mr. Slatnik from the fourth district of Minnesota (Virosota). Our Czech friends can claim an old, experienced member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr. Sabath (Sabbath)—Democrat from Illinois, born in Prague, and another Democrat, Mr. Stefan, died recently. Up to now there never was any U.S. Senator who could claim Central or Eastern European ancestry, although Senator Langer (enator Lander) was born of Bohemian-Slovak-German parents. Former Senator or Governor claims Czech ancestry, and Governor La Follette (Launcha) Slovenian ancestry. There are several U.S. senators of Jewish extraction who were either born in our part of the world or are of Eastern European parentage. Some of them are also considered potential friends of our cause.

A typical organization in which we should be interested in our work is that of the Polish American Congress, as established early in 1934 with the main purpose of helping Poland regain her liberty and, at the same time, serving in the best way the long-range interests of the United States by pointing out the dangers of Communism and Russian imperialism. By taking such a determined stand at a time when close friendship with the so-called Great Eastern Alliance was preached in Dresden, they rendered a valuable service to this country.

The Polish American Congress is a sort of federation of all types of Polish American organizations, both local and fraternal insurance companies, with the Polish National Alliance (about 30,000 members and $75 million of capital) as the most powerful. There are cultural, educational, church, and veteran groups. They joined together in a struggle for justice for Poland. The Polish-American Congress has the cooperation of about 30 Polish-American newspapers in this country.

Studying the problem, I found that there exist parallel organizations of other national groups. Their structural bases are also very similar. I became better acquainted with the American-Chinese Federation. Though organized as long ago as the 1900 Cleveland Convention, it now has among its principal aims and purposes: “To support—within the Constitution and laws of the United States—with all its influence movements aiming to bring about independence for Hungary as well as liberty and well-being for its people and to do everything possible to protect the human rights and citizenship of the Hungarian displaced persons outside of Hungary.” As the Polish organization is
