Help given by the Francoist regime and the Falangist Hitler (Titler).—Now and then they send reinforcements to the División Azul, in groups of a thousand or one thousand five hundred. They say that in order to replace the casualties and those who return crippled. Even the Falangists themselves say, “The Russian front is a very serious matter.” Those who are recruited to replace losses in Russia are recruited by force, by the process already mentioned. All airmen have to serve some months on the Eastern Front as “training.” They say that lately they were training about 130 pilots to send them to Russia. The war factories are working at high pressure. The Germans are directing the erection of an aerodrome in the province of Lugo. In Galicia very few Germans are to be seen. Military instruction is obligatory for boys and youths in the Frente de la Juventud (Adventud). They also train youths from 15 onwards to serve in aviation. A friend of the informants told them that there passed daily through a city in the North fifty cars loaded with war material in the direction of the French frontier. German submarines refuel at Redondela (Redendola) and Vigo. It is said that English aeroplanes often make reconnaissance flights over the harbours of Galicia. They describe Serrano Suñer (Suner) as the most subservient to the Nazis and, in general, to the Falangists who have crimes behind them or who have become rich through robbing the people.

Those who go to work in Germany are those workers who have no work, or even if they have any, live in the greatest poverty. They believe that by going to Germany they will be able to solve their economic situation and that of their families. The groups are not very large, according to our informants, at least in Galicia. This is understandable because the Germans prefer specialists. According to our informants, three workmen came back from Germany who say that in Germany the situation is terrible. They hardly eat; there is great poverty. They have the impression that Germany will not resist long in consequence of the situation there in the country. They also say that a group of Spanish workers were thrown out of the country because “they caused trouble.”

Friction between the ruling classes.—He does not know of any dissension in the army except the case of Yagüe and Cuadipo, and gives data which is already known. The soldiers in general are against the entry of Spain into the war. They live in very bad conditions, badly fed, badly clothed and ill-treated by the officers, especially by the recently recruited Falangists. They all wish to be demobilised as soon as possible. They have demobilised the ’39 draft. By their conversation we observe that the soldiers from the “national” and the “Red” zones receive different treatment. In Galicia there are many soldiers from Catalunya who have already spent several years in the army. They do not make it difficult for youths of military age to leave Spain; they cited their own cases. One of them is 18, the other 24 years old.

The people’s resistance to the war and the Francoist regime.—They say that there is no resistance there at all, because no one can act, and passivity is the opinion and state of mind of the people. When we insist, they say there have been various train smashes and some derailments which they think were due to sabotage as well as to the defective material. Everybody knows the British and Soviet war communiqués and they are discussed in private conversation. Some people take them down in shorthand and later circulate them. He says that in Vigo there is a secret transmitting station, but it was discovered by the police and all those connected with it were shot. They were said to belong to the republican Left (“Isagüera Republicans”), and among those shot there was one doctor and other intellectuals. He does not know any more details. Women complain loudly in queues of the shortage of foodstuffs. He knows because the rumour went round there that Prieto made a speech in the White House before Roosevelt, and that Roosevelt embraced him, saying that the Americas were behind the Spaniards. This speech too is circulating in clandestine copies, but he never could see one. He says that there is no organised political activity because this is impossible. He tells several jokes which are going the rounds, and quotes this one: “Recently they made a film called ‘We Thieves Are Honest Men.’” Beneath the announcement of this film in Vigo, someone wrote, “The Caudillo’s Own Hands.” He says the press give most space to the English war communiqués and the U.S. war news bulletins.

What is the attitude of the people towards national union?—Talking of unity, they say textually, “There, there are two parties, there are only anti-Francoists, and all the differences between sections.
