Prior to entry into military service, worked for Bordenis Studios, Manchester, N.J., from 1935 to 1941 as a laboratory technician. In 1946, resumed photographic career in the U.S. Army and continued in this field up to the present time. Skills were developed in the photographer and photographic laboratory fields, and rose to my present rank of Master Sergeant. My skills as a photographer include an operating knowledge of all characteristics of cameras and equipment used in Army photography and the theory and practices of still and motion-picture photography. For example, some of my duties include:

1. Taking still photographs for news releases, publicity, medical, and historical value.

2. Taking still and aerial photographs and motion pictures.

3. Taking motion pictures for use in preparing training, information, and historical films.

4. Supervising the taking of still and motion pictures.

5. Assisting superiors to establish priorities, scope of missions, and work schedules.

6. Assigning photographers to missions on the basis of qualifications; criticizing completed work in discussion with photographers; pointing out technical and artistic deficiencies and methods by which such defects can be avoided.

My qualities as a senior NCO in this field include knowing the capabilities and limitations of subordinate personnel, being very able to instruct and demonstrate proper camera techniques, and being able to constructively criticize and evaluate the composition of photographs and motion pictures.

My skills in the photographic laboratory field include a knowledge of all the operating characteristics of Army photographic laboratory equipment; the techniques of both conventional and semiautomatic photographic processing of still and motion-picture black-and-white and color films; the ability to demonstrate and instruct the appropriate photographic laboratory techniques and processes; the ability to organize and supervise operation of a large Army photographic laboratory; knowledge of operating procedures and installation and organizational maintenance techniques pertaining to Army photographic laboratories; and the ability to supervise, plan, and conduct training in all phases of photographic processing. I am exceptionally skilled in making copy negatives of all types, performing line task work, making line negatives and half-tone negatives, view graphs, 35 mm slides, and 2 1/4 x 3 1/4 slides.

With regard to my physical qualifications, I have very good near and far vision, good eye-hand coordination, good manual dexterity, and very good color vision. My hearing is above normal and my speech clear and well enunciated.
