Student Evaluation.

1. Security consciousness: Above average.
2. Ability to work with and get along with others: Above average.
3. Ability to follow instructions: Average.
4. Maturity of judgment and common sense: Above average.
5. Initiative: Above average.
6. Resourcefulness and independence of judgment: Above average.
7. Tactfulness and sense of discretion: Average.
8. Cooperativeness: Above average.
9. Sense of discipline: Average.
10. Imagination and creativeness: Above average.
11. Amenability to constructive criticism: Above average.
12. Attention to necessary details: Above average.
13. Observant and careful in the collection of facts: Above average.
14. Political sophistication and awareness: Above average.
15. Interest and enthusiasm for proposed assignment: Above average.
16. Motivation for clandestine activities: Above average.
17. Ability to relate theory to practice: Above average.

Student's comparative evaluation to others trained for identical or similar assignment: Above average.

Instructor's comments.

VAIVADA is a reliable, stable individual possessing a quick, alert mind. He was mature, serious and purposeful in his approach to training. His interest and attention remained at a high level throughout the instruction. In general, VAIVADA has the background and the desire to perform in a professional manner. The trainee possesses the ability to apply himself completely. He recognizes his shortcomings and was completely amenable to constructive criticism. VAIVADA zealously tries to find solutions to pertinent questions and problems. He analyzes facts and details thoroughly. He wants to know his job and, in any given situation, tries to learn as much as possible.

During the training, VAIVADA showed no signs of restlessness with the more routine aspects of clandestine activity. He is practical minded, adept, serious, willing to “dig in and do the grubbing.” The trainee learns quickly and shows excellent promise for progressive improvement within the field of covert work. He carries out instructions and assignments in an efficient manner. VAIVADA possesses a calm, tenacious attitude. It is felt that he will develop steadily as a skilled and competent operator. He should become an increasingly valuable asset to this organization. His overall performance was
