(CRC). I have seven, to work with you, with me, with the people who are going to carry out the activities, with the people that I designate. Nothing of that is being done. Then what they want is to work alone.

I will not continue. I will not continue from the time I return to Miami. I have gone on for five months, struggling. I cannot accept this situation. I have tried to pull together those groups as asked in the White House. I haven't succeeded in grouping any more, because—I want to speak clearly in order to remain good friends always—because you have prevented it. The students haven't joined, not because of no political reason, but merely because you support them directly. Presumably the idea is that in this way the security of this nation is better safeguarded. A Consejo was desired to serve as the coordinating group and to provide a means by which the United States would not appear to be intervening in Cuba. If there is to be a Consejo, it must have all the dignity of a Council.

When I try to form a Council, grouping all elements together, they don't join because they are talking directly with your people—and there is an office for that purpose in Miami—which deals with all the men who want to work, who want to do things. This is all independent of the Council. And some work for a destruction of the Council. I cannot tolerate this. I have a son who is a prisoner; either I know the plans, and I knew the maneuver and the problems that they are going to carry out, or I, when I arrive in Miami, will say, “No,” and send word to Washington. Let them do without me. There will be someone who will submit to these things, but not I.

And of the four items that Mr. Kennedy promised me to resolve, there have not been resolved any, and I find myself in the dark. And I am very sorry. I am not going to compromise the security of this Nation, but neither am I going to compromise the situation of those boys. When they disappeared, lost their lives, etc., I was confronted with “And you are the president of the Council.” I cannot remain in this way.

I haven't been able to group together anything. I was promised that the magistrates would all incorporate together (into the Council), but that rascal ALAELAU is working against the Council and I have reason to believe that he is doing it with Agency support, otherwise how would he pay for his political denunciations. I responded that I believed this could not be true. He shouted, “I have expressed my position to you, and I want you to get an answer when you can. If these problems that I have set forth do not have an immediate solution, I am not to know and to dispose of relative actions to be taken, then how, in view of my situation, must I do.”

He asked about the plan for clandestine sabotage action by commando raid, that he had given us, and what had become of it. I replied that he must realize that the study of such a plan necessarily was slow and must be considered by many. He said he was convinced that there was no intention of accepting such plans, and that while now we discuss such plans, we lose out. “I cannot accept this situation, nor would you.”
