75/San/61  
28 August 1962

In New Moscow, ID, calling from Moscow introduces himself to Samokhin as Kalugin. Kal says that he is in the office that prepares material for Sam to turn over to the press. Kal wants to have better contact with Sam. Kal says that Sam has to give his preferences to Kal on the ideas of articles that he wants for the press. Kal will be calling Sam by telephone about two times a month. Then Sam can tell Kal what his preferences are in the way of articles.

Secondly, Kal wants Sam to help write an article for the paper in Mexico, and that these articles be sent to Kal. Kal says “no,” so that there is considerable material being printed in Mexico. But whatever Sam sends to Kal is sent very irregularly. Sam says that he always gave quarterly reports. Now Sam is being asked for monthly reports.

Soon there is part of the conversation including: Kal says for Sam to send him a two-word cable saying when Sam wants Kal to call. Then Kal will call Sam. For instance, if Sam has anything to request, then he could send the cable. Kal asks if, for instance, Sam has any questions right now. Sam says yes, he would like Kal to send him material on the subjects. Sam wants general material by specialists. Kal says that much has been sent to Sam. Sam says unfortunately, no—not enough.

Sam says it would be well if Kal could get together articles by Nikolayev and Fyodorovich themselves, with their signatures on the articles. For instance, a greeting to the Russian reader. Kal asks if Sam wants this addressed to the reader “of our periodical?” Sam says no, simply to the Russian reader. This can be published in any periodical. Kal will do this.

Sam says he wants articles on the situation of education—the middle education, the special education, and higher education. These articles are to be based on specialists writing them, not popular articles. Sam wants information on middle, higher, and technical schools. “No one is being asked for such material.” Sam would also like articles on culture and art. Articles not about some specific art or cultural matter, but the problems in culture and art. Sam wants more specialized articles to be sent to him, articles for the specialized reader. Kal understands.

Sam then asks when his replacement will be coming. Kal can’t answer that. Kal says that he will call Sam on the 10th. Kal will try to give Sam an answer. Sam says he would like very much articles by Nikolayev and Fyodorovich. Sam wants photos of them also. Kal repeats that he wants very much commentary articles. Sam says this is very difficult to do for the month, “because not so much is published.” Kal asks that nevertheless everything published during the month be sent. Kal asks Sam to send these articles by air mail. Very well. Kal says that there are articles that have to be answered. Sam asks Kal to give his regards to the comrades.

Sokolovskaya asks Samokhin if she can come over. Yes.

Samokhin asks Yegatyev if there will be any mail today. Yegatyev says no.
