Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II — Operational Information.

Instructions to Case Officer:

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless the requestor furnishes answers to all questions in PRQ Parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of PR 10-215, paragraphs 64g, 12b, and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in PR 10-215.

3. Three completed copies of PRQ Part I, including a copy in the subject's handwriting if possible, and two completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRQ format in two copies.

5. Fill in all items if information is obtainable. If an item is not applicable, write “NA.” If additional space is required for an item, use the reverse side of the page keyed to the appropriate item number.

Cryptonym: CREBONY/1. Pseudonym: Frederick T. Dominic.

Contact and Development:

1. Indicate how, when, where, why, and by whom the subject was first contacted or developed.

In response to Headquarters requests, London Station officer George H. Katzenbach contacted Subject in London in mid-January 1965 for the purpose of debriefing him on his experiences in the pro-ChiCom milieu in Africa and western Europe up to the time of his departure from the staff of Revolution in spring 1964. This was followed up by in-depth debriefing sessions carried out by Katzenbach in a PBSJING conference room on 17, 18, 19, and 23 February. On the basis of those talks it was decided to recruit Subject for a test assignment in Algiers during the summer of 1965, during which time he would attempt to build long-term access and cover for reporting on activities and personalities in the Afro-Asian community. KUDESK/IOC staffer Joseph S. Tiffany was dispatched to London TDY 1–7 June for this purpose. After recruitment and agreement to LCPUTTER examination, Subject was introduced to his Paris-based case officer, Rufus F. RODIGAST, on 3 June.

2. Indicate whether Subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

Yes. To any case officer introduced to him by RODIGAST, TIFFANY, or KATZENBACH.

3. List other case officers who have handled Subject or whom he knows or has known, giving names by which they have been asked.

KATZENBACH — known to Subject as “Earl Wilson.”

TIFFANY — known to Subject as “Robert ‘Bob’ Gustke.”

RODIGAST — known to Subject as “Paul Weller.”
