Continuation of Dispatch. Dispatch No. UFGA-4703.

Children, all still in Cuba (as of March 1961). However, it is noted that the two children have different matronymics, that neither of them is his wife's last name, and that all three dependents have different addresses. It is assumed that this is his third wife. Since AMFAUNA-1 has never mentioned her in any of his S/W correspondence, it is also assumed that she has gone the way of her two predecessors.

18. AMCUTLER-1, who was questioned on this point, said that his brother is living in Guanabacoa with his present wife, that he has been married only once before, and has only one child from the first marriage. This information is not considered definitive, because the last point to directly contradicted by AMFAUNA-1's PRQ Part I which he wrote himself, but it is included here for what it may be worth. AMCUTLER-1 added that his brother has no sexual relations with his sub-agents except what is considered normal and acceptable by Cuban standards.

19. The elements of AMFAUNA-1's motivation, then, include an adventurous spirit and a taste for clandestine work. Although “anti-Communism” may be an overworked expression, it would seem to apply in the case of AMFAUNA-1, if his former membership in the Falange and the German Intelligence Service can be taken as indicators. Also included should be the loss of a freight forwarding business which started out promisingly in 1959 but folded up after a year of CASTRO's revolutionary government. Finally, although these factors did not yet exist in January 1961 when he was recruited, AMFAUNA-1 is certainly affected now by the death of AMCUSP-1 and the imprisonment of his father.

Control

20. It is evident from his S/W messages that AMFAUNA-1 derives great personal satisfaction from his work against the CASTRO regime. His connection with KUBARK provides him with the means to do this work. This is believed to be a strong element of control. There have been many opportunities to test this control, by ordering AMFAUNA-1 to do something or to desist from doing something else, and the control is believed to be effective.

Previous History of the Operation—January to May 1961:

21. AMFAUNA-1 was engaged in some form of clandestine work against the CASTRO regime as early as December 1960. As with so much else in this operation, details are lacking, but it is known that he already had an understanding with Identity-29 whom he had known for twenty years. In December 1960, Identity-29 introduced AMFAUNA-1 to Identity-27, an MAR coordinator from Matanzas, who had been introduced to Identity-29 by one of the members of her group, Identity-28. Identity-27 in turn brought in Identity-26, a fellow MAR coordinator.

22. In January, AMFAUNA-1 came legally to the United States together with AMCUSP-1 and AMCUTLER-1 and looked up their old friend AMJAG-4, who at that time was heavily engaged in work with the resistance groups. AMJAG-4 introduced them to a JMWAVE case officer who instructed them to return to Cuba, to form contacts with as many resistance groups as possible, and to report their progress through AMRUNG-1, who was JMWAVE's principal agent in the paramilitary field. Also in the JMWAVE area at this time were Identity-19 and Identity-23, whom they met and with whom they were later to work.

23. AMFAUNA-1, AMCUTLER-1, and AMCUSP-1
