The FBI was in no mood—we could probably have arranged something, weren't that—he was a fugitive. If the Federal thing went on against him, Rockefeller most likely wouldn't extradite him to New York. There were talks on this. A lawyer by the name of Conrad Lynn had discussed this with a Negro lawyer who was a party, called, connected with the Freedom Now Party, another Black Nationalist group, but basically a Trotskyite front. It was put up 99% by the FWP, which was one of the reasons for its failure. This lawyer was well aware of Williams's desire to come back to the United States if he could stay out of the hands of a North Carolina lynch mob. The one talk I had with the FBI people convinced me that they were in no mood whatsoever, even though they realized what the situation was.

Pan-African Press—P.O. Box 8364, Pinto, Private Box 8159, Washington.

Pinto is a very curious fellow. Pinto is a man who is close to Kenyatta in Kenya, who has or is involved with Pan-African Press, who is not hooked up with Odinga, not openly in any case, but who is sort of playing all sides, looking for handouts. I understand that he received substantial help from Russia, so that he has shown more Muscovite color than any other.

J. William Pomeroy is the American who was captured with the Huks in the Philippines, you remember? He lives here in London, more or less retired from politics except that he writes. That's how he earns his living. But he depends more or less on the good graces of the British Labour Party, the Left of that party, and the British Communist Party to stay here. What he has to say about the failure of the guerrilla campaign in the Philippines and the present leftward turn in the Philippines appears to be progressive. There is an outfit called the Philippine Review, which I think we—Revolution—gave publicity to. Here it is—the Progressive Review. It is connected with Pomeroy. They are about as Communist as they can get under the present and any law of the Philippines. They have hopes of what they call the anti-imperialist groundswell, in other words, an anti-American trend in the present government. They felt that the anti-Malaysia campaign might help, and the editor has been very much in contact with the Indonesians. He has been to Djakarta on several occasions recently. He is in contact with Pomeroy. Pomeroy's, from what he says, position is one in which he has to be very careful because the British Communists will dump him. His wife is Philippine. She can't get an American visa, so they have to live here. This makes him the captive of a certain part of the British Labour Left and the British CP. His book, The Forest, was published here and in the States by Communist publishing houses. It is an account of the guerrilla campaign in the Philippines, at least his personal account, but he pointed out to me that it is also an account of its failures. He has tried to keep out of the Sino-Soviet thing, but I have
