Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 07563.

Section A. General. Name: Dave J. S. Dana Mary Ann. Date of birth: 8 Dec, 1935. Sex: Female. Grade: J-7. Service designation: D. C.: O.P. Off./Div./Br. of assignment: Off./S., Fr., V., D.C.; Judy J. Asst. Career staff status: Mot eligible: X. Type of report: Initial; reassignment/supervisor; annual; reassignment/employer; special: promotion recommendation.

Section B. Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Rating scale: 1—Unsatisfactory; 2—Barely adequate; 3—Acceptable; 4—Competent; 5—Excellent; 6—Superior; 7—Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Supervises Operations Support Section (6 to 8 employees). Rating No. 6.
Specific duty No. 2: Processes security clearances. Rating No. 6.
Specific duty No. 3: Performs name traces and summarizes information. Rating No. 6.
Specific duty No. 4: Conducts liaison in support of operations. Rating No. 5.
Specific duty No. 5.
Specific duty No. 6.

Section C. Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
