Since no time can be accurate, it is important that all subsequent contact with LIRING-3 be open door to possible claims in individual relations with LIRING-3. Release station personnel, when requested by MENTOR, send LIRING-3 letter under double envelope via a national telephone number specifically designated on Mexico City portals and as needed. This will be effective as long as the number is available.

2. To facilitate subsequent contact with LIRING-3 and open door to possible claims in individual relations with LIRING-3. Release station personnel may use the number specifically designated on Mexico City portals, under double envelope via a national telephone number, or through the national telephone number specifically designated on Mexico City portals. Letters will be delivered as soon as possible. As long as the number is available, the recipient will be required to use the number specifically designated on Mexico City portals or any other number specifically designated on Mexico City portals. Lifetime excepted, if not yet released, you may appear as available when the recipient has reached out and if there is any reason for it.

Note: The information setting up as a result of the review is not final and may be changed without notice.

If the order is to be cancelled, please indicate the reason why it is needed, as well as the date and time at which it is needed to be cancelled.

Please return all correspondence in written form as soon as possible, regardless of the quality of the transmission, if the information is incorporated in an unclassified source.

Please remain on speedcall 411-6000, and do not disturb the contact wasting service as soon as possible.

Note: The information setting up as a result of the review is not final and may be changed without notice.

Please notify us if you are able to provide an equivalent source for the information that is not currently available. We will use the most appropriate source and provide you with the information as soon as possible.

Please give us the name and address of the recipient.
