To the COS with special responsibility for ensuring that the paper flow of the Station remained under effective control during the period of transition resulting from the assignment here of several senior officers. This transition period necessitated or gave rise to a number of changes in the management and administrative areas of the Station. Subject's performance in this assignment under these circumstances was clearly outstanding. Her sound judgement, imagination and responsiveness to guidance not only contributed to maintaining the stability and momentum of the Station but also made possible an early effort to come to grips with many of the problems which an inflated Registry and a highly distinctive records system created for the new Station management team.

During the ensuing six month period, Subject has recommended and implemented a number of changes which have produced a more effective and less costly records system. Paper holdings have been reduced substantially, input has been reduced and now conforms to basic CS procedures and requirements. Personnel savings have been effected and supervisory responsibilities more clearly delineated.

To sum up, Subject has made and continues to make a major contribution in a singularly unsensational area of Station activity. Her advice is sought and appreciated not only by the COS and myself, but by other.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have been Sections A, B and C of this report. Date: 15 January 1970. Signature of employee: Charlotte Bustos-Videla.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 6 months. Date: 15 January 1970. Official title of supervisor: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: Paul V. Harwood.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: It would be difficult to overstate the contribution made by Subject to this Station during the past six month period, and I concur fully in the ratings and comments of the Rating Officer. I might add that Subject is one of the more versatile, conscientious and productive employees with whom I have worked in this organization, and that in addition to the administrative/management role outlined above, continued to provide valuable operational/analytical assistance to the Cuban and other operational sections of the Station. The initiative and imagination shown by Subject in the very complicated administrative management assignment have been particularly commendable and her complete familiarity with the country, the language, and the background of the Station has been invaluable during this period of change.

Date: 15 January 1970. Reviewing official: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: James B. Noland.
