Memo for the Records

Subject: First Sistone and Fernam Cover Job Outing with Consular Corps; Brief Initial Exposure to Soviets Loginov (Leginov) and G. Lou Rev.

1. Terence D. Sistone and Fernam, both under consular cover, accompanied, with wives, Frälyer on an outing of the “Cuerpo Consular en Mexico,” a social club open to all consular officers regardless of nationality, to the new Ford factory in Cuautitlan, lunch, and an excursion of a Spanish colonial convent at Tepotzotlan from 1100 to 1000 hours on 17 July 1969. The Consular Corps is the creature of an American citizen and ex-Consul General of Greece, Leander F. Vourvoulins, who led the excursion. In addition to helping the two new Station officers work into consular cover and make contacts, the purpose of the outing in part was to see at first hand the Soviet Bloc and Cubans who belong to the CC. Three Soviets showed, no identifiable Bloc representatives, and no Cubans. No other particularly interesting consular types, but the door was opened to meet people at future CC meetings.

2. The three Soviets who showed were Valentin Loginov (Leginov), well known to the Station as KGB under consular cover, and two men of the Commercial Section of the Soviet Embassy. Both Sistone and Fernam independently identified Lev Mihayevich Golozov as one of the two commercial types from the mug book, but were unable to identify the other, who was quiet and hardly talked as he tagged along. Golozov was also quiet but was engaged twice by Sistone in conversation. On one occasion, he said he had been in Mexico a short time, was there as a result of the recent Soviet-Mexican trade agreement, just happened to be around, and had been invited with his colleague to the Ford outing. On the other occasion, he said Tepotzotlan’s gold leaf and general art were more ornate and impressive than Byzantine church monuments he was familiar with in Moscow. He spoke Spanish with a heavy accent and did not talk much, but was quite fluent nevertheless. Sistone also talked briefly to Loginov and was introduced by Frälyer as Frälyer’s replacement. However, the conversation was mundane and uninteresting compared to the constant verbal sparring between Frälyer and Loginov, which Sistone will defer to Frälyer to report if he sees fit.
