Project Viceroy

Attachment to H-14-A-10198

KAPOK-1401

d. Soviet Military Activities:

Monthly reports on the activities of Soviet military personnel, knowledge of which was obtained from LIFEAT (LIPEAT), and their contacts in military circles in Mexico have proved to be of special interest to SDIOKE service attaches in Mexico.

e. Movements of Soviet Officials:

Through LIFEAT (LIPEAT) coverage, a roster of Soviet personnel presently in Mexico has been maintained by Station Mexico. This has been the primary source of such information. LIFEAT (LIPEAT) has enabled the Station to determine in advance when departures can be expected for the Soviets, prior to their permanent departure, normally stock up on clothing and occasionally other items through to be in short supply in the U.S.A.

f. Soviet Embassy Contacts:

Contact reports of the Soviets are compiled and provided to headquarters as necessary. These reports are of considerable operational value in identifying local and foreign Communists with whom the Soviets are in regular contact. Following are examples of this type of coverage:

1944-2641 - MONTRES y ERDLEY (fm).

1944-3199 - Barciso BASSOLES, contacts with the Soviet Embassy.

g. Personality Reports on Soviet Officials:

LIFEAT (LIPEAT) has provided the Station with the most productive source of information concerning the private and official lives of the Soviets assigned here. These reports have been submitted on individuals, e.g. M-14-A-9504, Alaksey N. CHERNOBYUH, and also under one cover, H-14-A-9856, January 1958 Report of Personnel Activities.

h. Goods and Services:

Periodic reports of the persons and institutions known to be providing goods and services to the Soviet Embassy have been of considerable value in developing and mounting a LAURICLE operation. Information of this type has also been of considerable value to the Station in the LIMEA operation.

1. Miscellaneous Activities of the Soviet Embassy:

LIFEAT material which does not fall into any one category but which deals with the Soviets and their associates and related activities has been reported as necessary.

The Czech Legation

The information obtained on the Czech Legation during the period under review is essentially the same as that from the Soviet Embassy. To avoid repetition, only a brief summary of the information submitted will be given here.
