26 September 1969

Contact Report

Subject: LIBACON 1

Date, time & place: 25 Sept. 69, 2030–2200 hrs., Firenze Rest.

1. Subject arrived eight minutes late and, realizing this, apologized. He appeared to be in a good mood and, when asked, told me that he and his wife were now getting along very well. He claims that he called LOGINOV at the Embassy on the morning of the 15th and asked that their dinner engagement for that evening be postponed. According to Subject, LOG told him that their dinner had been scheduled for the 18th, not the 15th, so Subject manually assumed LOG was correct. I reminded Subject that, to the best of my recollection, it had been for the 15th. In any event, Subject said LOG took the postponement very well, especially when Subject confirmed with LOG again that the latter was not leaving in October, perhaps not even in November. Subject apologized to LOG, explaining that his wife had just taken on a new job, was nervous about it, and, in addition, was taking care of her parents’ dog and birds, and was simply not in condition to have a party. (I am not sure Subject went through with this explanation to LOG or to me only.) Subject plans to visit LOG at the Embassy on the 29th, 30th, or the first of October, at which time he will set a date for the dinner, hopefully, he said, for the same week. If the dinner is to be held prior to LOG’s evening of the first of October, Subject will call the office, as in the past, and so inform the party on the other end. Our next meeting is scheduled for 1600 hours, 1 Oct., at the “El Mortiro” (?) Rest. somewhere in the Suites Emperor.

2. Subject’s wife, described as a “bilingual” secretary-typist, is now employed by “Orbita Suplementa” (Sulementa) and is paid $3,500 monthly. Subject claims that she will be earning $4,000 by next month, if everything goes off well. One of the partners after tax (?) of this supplement is Andrea Catano Michelena.

3. Subject then asked me if I could check a street map of Moscow and see if I could find U. NEZHDANOVA on it. I told him I could but would not give him an answer one way or the other unless he would provide me with a satisfactory reason. After extracting a promise from me that I would not laugh at him, he proceeded to tell me about a recent experience he had with a medium at Andrea’s home. He prefaced his story with an assurance that he is an atheist and does not believe in the hereafter nor in spiritualism in particular; nevertheless, he was shaken by the experience. He claimed that the medium (name unknown to Subject) did not go into a trance (tranon), nor turn off any of the lights, but simply asked Subject if he had ever known a girl by the name of “Tanya” while Subject lived in some small town near Ivanovo (Ivanova), also not far from Moscow. Subject claimed that he recalled a girl by that name, that he and she were only about 10 years of age at the time, and that they used to gather mushrooms together. He said he broke out in a cold sweat when the medium asked this question because he was absolutely positive that no one in Mexico would remember the girl’s name nor the episode. The medium then said, speaking for Tanya, “Did you know Tanya?” (hello,uel). Subject claims that the medium has no knowledge of the Russian language and that he had not been called “Tanya” since early childhood. The medium explained that Tanya had died six months ago and was now deceased in the USA. Through the medium, Tanya explained, in Spanish, that she had been buried to a Valentine II as 7, now living at 411 Ul. Bechmans.
