Dispatch. To: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division. Info: C/EUR Div., C/WOACRE; COB/Frankfurt MKNOVA. From: Chief of Station, Madrid. Subject: TYPIC/TECHS/AMA AUTO-1.

1. On 16 January 1969 QUTIMID reported a discussion between Subject and the Chief of the Rumanian Trade delegation in Spain, during which the Rumanian asked when they could meet. Subject invited the Rumanian to his home where, he said, he has set up a small office and was beginning to work more at home than in the office, because of the added comfort. (We wouldn't be surprised if this was suggested by his wife, who is very jealous of her husband.) The meeting was arranged for 1130 hours on 17 January. AMAUTO-1 commented that he is up quite early in the morning, presumably to begin work in his office.

2. The above report is the first we have received on Subject's use of his home as an office. The invitation to the Rumanian, of course, casts suspicion on the nature of the conversation.

3. Since his move to new quarters, AMAUTO-1's home is about 50 yards from two WOFIRM staffers—Martin B. CRYMM and Conrad B. FALAGIARO. (See attached sketch.) Edwin B. RATTEREE lives approximately 200 yards from the AMAUTO home. This proximity to AMAUTO-1's home by three staffers brings up the question of the use of an RF device to monitor conversations in AMAUTO's office at home, assuming at this time, that he has a phone in the office, most likely an extension of the home phone. For planning purposes, we would appreciate from MKNOVA a list of requirements for a target study in the use of an RF device. If other means are available for external penetration of his home we would welcome your suggestions and comments. Please advise us also if the RF device is still a controlled item, which cannot be discussed with or released to liaison. Your earliest reply would be appreciated.

Attachment: Sketch of Area—AMA AUTO-1's home: Iden sheet use.

Distribution: 2-C/WU with attachment; 2-C/EUR without attachment; C/WOACRE with attachment; 2-COB.

Cross reference to: 24 Jan. Dispatch symbol and number: OSMA-24776. Date: Frankfurt/MKNOVA with attachment. PACS file number: 201-735296.
