C.

B. of the U.S.

1. General Directorate of Intelligence

On 14 June 1962, after CIA's initial meetings with Nosenko (Kosenko) and securing the large overlap of Nosenko's (Kosenko's) information and contacts with Golitsyn's, one of the CIA case officers who had met Nosenko (Kosenko) in Geneva met with Golitsyn, not Nosenko (Kosenko), to obtain his comments on some of Nosenko's (Kosenko's) material. Golitsyn was told that CIA had received intelligence: an anonymous letter which reported certain information from all the KGB (FGB). The CIA officer stated to Golitsyn that he needed to know about the KGB. He asked if CIA had received any other information from him, including a list of other agencies. Golitsyn's first KGB (GJB) report was distributed, perhaps in order to assist CIA's own investigation. In 1963, two assets from Nosenko's (Kosenko's) network were eliminated. The first asset, a second chief, was shown to him, who fed as targets Security Chief Directorate personnel whom the latter ordered to be eliminated. Assets of the second chief and Nosenko (Kosenko) were also used by the second asset, the second second chief. In 1964, the first asset was identified as KGB and later that organization in 1964 for the first time. Golitsyn said to his general, asking for the full details necessary for an assessment, that he could say what their elements of disinformation were in what he had seen; he wanted to see the disinformation on the case. It was not given to him.

On 10 February 1964, Nosenko's (Kosenko's) delegation to the Soviet Disarmament delegation in Geneva, Switzerland, was publicized, including his KGB affiliation. Since Golitsyn heard this news, he immediately recalled the June 1962 “letter” from Switzerland and linked Nosenko (Kosenko) to it; he thereupon stated that he recalled Nosenko (Kosenko) as a member of the Second Chief Directorate working against American citizens.

On 31 February 1964, Golitsyn raised the possibility of his participation in interviews of Nosenko (Kosenko), and at this time he was given some background on the man and an indication of CIA's reservations about Nosenko's (Kosenko's) long ties. Over the next several months, Golitsyn was provided with material from the 1962 and 1964 meetings with Nosenko (Kosenko) in Switzerland, and at his request was supplied with all the available biographic data of Nosenko (Kosenko) to assist him in analyzing the operation. On 29 June 1964, Golitsyn was interviewed in detail on the subject of Nosenko (Kosenko). He confirmed Nosenko's (Kosenko's) identity as the son of the former Minister of Shipbuilding and said that he was a KGB officer who had worked in the American Department and the Tourist Department at the KGB's Second Chief Directorate. He was shown a photograph of Nosenko (Kosenko), and he identified it as a photograph of the man he knew. At this time he gave the information about Nosenko (Kosenko) which is summarized below.
