SECTION C

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Christ has been under my direct supervision for about eighteen months, during a continuing period of growth and expansion in the Office of Research and Development. During most of the past year Mr. Christ has doubled as group leader of the Radio-Physics area and has had responsibility for the tremendous growth of a separate Audio-Physics group, both of which continue to comprise about 40% of the effort of the Physical Sciences portion of the Office. Mr. Christ has performed these duties in a managerial capacity in an extremely effective manner, so that both groups are well developed and capable of continuing growth on a self-sustaining basis.

Mr. Christ is extremely conscientious, receptive, and alert to the needs of the Agency in terms of the substantive content of technical programs under his direction and supervision. His cost consciousness is a continuing effort throughout the year, and is best demonstrated by the manner in which he has reprogrammed funds internally and reduced the costs of a number of contracts. Also, he is not one to “rubber-stamp” approval of contractor efforts, and has called several of them to task this year for what he considered efforts below what he felt their capabilities should be.

SECTION D

Certification and Comments.

By employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 27 Apr 1965. Signature of employer: David J. Christ.

2. By supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 18. Official title of supervisor: Assistant Director, ORD/DD/S&T. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert M. Chapman.

Date: 27 Apr 1965. By reviewing official: DD/S&T.

3. Comments of reviewing official: From my own knowledge of Mr. Christ’s work, I endorse the favorable comments of his supervisor. He has performed beyond call and stimulated important new areas of research and development for ORD.

Date: 5 May 1965. Official title of reviewing official: DD/S&T. Typed or printed name and signature: A Bar L. Wood.
