Allende in Retrospect

government control of the economy and of the excess profits that the private sector had used for luxury consumption or had sent out of the country as profit remittances to foreign companies. At the same time, the fact that the policy remained within the letter, if not the spirit, of the law meant that intervention by the military was unlikely.

Allende's constitutionalist and legalist strategy was not universally accepted within his coalition. Most of his own Socialist Party—beginning with its newly elected General Secretary, Senator Carlos Altamirano—and several other groups further to the left, such as the MIR (Movimiento de la Izquierda Revolucionaria—Movement of the Revolutionary Left) and the VOP (Vanguardia Organizada del Pueblo—Organized Vanguard of the People), were openly doubtful about the wisdom of relying on elections and "bourgeois legality" to achieve power and advised preparation for an armed confrontation with the forces of reaction, which they foresaw as inevitable. Allende's effort to portray the transition to socialism as peaceful in character was not assisted by the publication of his conversations with French revolutionary theorist Régis Debray in early 1971.

In these, Debray declared that "in the last analysis and until further notice, political power comes out of the end of a gun," and Allende repeatedly stated that his differences with apostles of violence like Che Guevara were only "tactical," because the Chilean situation required that he observe legality "for the time being." Allende himself organized an armed personal bodyguard, the so-called GAP (Grupo de Amigos Personales), and—we now know—as early as December 1971 received reports on the illegal importation and distribution of arms to the MIR and to his bodyguards.

While there were thus intermittent hints of revolutionary alternatives, Allende's basic economic strategy was "socialist consumerism," combined with a rapid expansion of state control in industry, trade and agriculture, and his basic political strategy

A. See Régis Debray, The Chilean Revolution: Conversations with Allende, New York, Random, 1971, pp. 52, 77, 91; and 97. El Mercurio (Preliminary Edition), Feb. 18–24, 1974, p. 3, reproduces the report, found in the presidential palace.

Cf. also "Consumerism"; see Paul E. Sigmund, "Two Years of Socialist Union," Problems of Communism (Washington, DC), January–December 1972, pp. 38–51.

A Santiago rally in November 1970 celebrates the first anniversary of the Allende presidency—in the foreground, a picture of Latin revolutionary Che Guevara.

Photo by Claus Meyer for Black Press.
