Cuban Trading

Economic Research Bureau, United States, 10 S.E. 9th Street, Miami, Fla., USA.

We wrote you a few days ago about the illegal Cuban trading, and we now enclose herewith a cutting from today's, 5th November 1966, Piraeus newspaper, “KATILIA EXPRESS,” from which you will observe that action is now being taken (three years too late and after millions of tons of cargo has been carried to and from Cuba) against owners, captains, etc., of Greek ships. The Greek Ministry of Mercantile Marine is also instructing port authorities to enquire and investigate which ships traded with Cuba since 1963. You see, until now, or even now, the Ministry did not know—and now they will try to find out. No doubt owing to some half-hearted pressure by the USA authorities, the Greek authorities are at last compelled to at least show that they are trying to find out which ships traded. Also, no doubt, they will find some ships which traded and will prosecute the captains and the owners, and perhaps carry out some sort of punishment, and naturally it will be the small and unimportant owners they will trace. The big and influential will not even be traced. If one has to be traced, like Frangistas, they will find all necessary excuses and reasons for not prosecuting. The job for enquiring, prosecuting, and punishing the offenders is left with those with whose connivance and knowledge trading continued since 1963, and still continues, so anyone can imagine what kind of a job they will do. We wonder why no enquiries were made during 1963, 1964, 1965. Simply because enquiries were not necessary. You do not enquire about something you already know.

The latest excuse of Frangistas, as we think you already know, comes through his brother, who is a professor in Salonica University: that the law prohibiting Cuban trading was unconstitutional. This joke was as good as any, even better than the one about his false or fake contracts and charter parties. His other brother, who is the real influence with the Russians and is a timber merchant having the monopoly of small Russian timber imports into Greece and some fruits from Crete (Creede) to Russia, is the one who helped to secure the building in Russia of some 35 large liners and bulk carriers, plus a huge fish-trawling fleet, in exchange for Greek products and part payment in cash from the vast profits they made out of their 35 second-hand liberty vessels in Cuban trading.

Even in this respect, do not forget that this privilege of building these fleets (and we understand further building contracts are cooking) was only given to the Frangistas clique by the Greek and Russian authorities, and not to any other Greek owner. Do the USA authorities really think that the Greek authorities (and in a smaller degree, the Lebanon authorities) will prosecute Frangistas, and even if they do, for eyewash, will they find him guilty? You will see that nothing will happen.

What we now have to say, as the only solution, may seem unpatriotic, but it is the only way to stop this rot. This is that the USA should discontinue immediately, and without any notice, all military and financial aid to Greece and Lebanon, with intimation to them that they will consider renewing the same as soon as, firstly, all trading with Cuba is stopped immediately, disregarding any so-called old contracts, and secondly, after they have prosecuted and punished properly all lawbreakers, small and big alike, and after all flags have been cancelled.

This second action is a big debt the USA authorities owe to all the Greek and Lebanon owners who complied with the laws of their countries and executed the wishes of the USA. It is a moral debt. These people will gain nothing because they do not ask for any money for all the fortunes they lost in not trading with Cuba, but the USA, as a country known as just and democratic, will have failed in their duty if they are content to just see discontinuation of further trading with Cuba, and no punishment for the past sinners. And talking of sins, we think that the Greek and Lebanon authorities committed and still commit a bigger sin than the owners, since the owners are simply out for high profits, but it is the authorities who broke their word and…
