6 May 1965

10.7 contd.

The duty of alluding to these. The Mexican Graft is united in the conviction that the Dominicans and only the Dominicans are the ones to decide on their form of government and in general on their future—without any interference. (With these words there was tremendous applause.) Direct or indirect, open or hidden interference from outside.

VKG says it is good. But why have Carrillo Flores and de la Colina been acting like S.O.B.’s? Viric says Carrillo Flores arrived quite some time before the new ceremony began and someone asked what was going to be done. CP said that the position of Mexico is well-known and fine, and if necessary, there will be an explanation, in the sense of a declaration. Viric expects something tonight. VKG thinks the only thing to do is to break with the O.E.A. Yes, but the President says in his speech—expresses the confidence of Mexico that the present situation can be overcome and right satisfied. But where? He expressed the most fervent desire that the KAI return to the Dominican Republic. Viric says, further, that the colleagues who cover this source, the Presidency, expect that something will come out today. VKG is expecting a declaration. Pages asked VKG for his article, but VKG is expecting something. There should be something before 2100.

Viric asks about Pages—about Victor Alba referred to in the issue. VKG has not seen it. Did VKG see an article in “Excelsior” a few days ago against Yugoslavia? Yes. This is the same thing. Viric does not understand why Pages did the same thing, except this. Of Pedro Pages, the Spaniard. The article was probably already in when the other article was published in “Excelsior,” because that man writes 20,000 articles. Don’t say anything to Pages, but Viric does not understand for what reason this is.

Perhaps they can get together tomorrow.

Viric got an official declaration of his country, but it was very utilimated by radio from Tanyuc to Informes. Could it be used? However, they express their moral support for the Dominican Republic. VKG says this should be expressed in the United Nations. Asked if VKG gave this information to the boys, the Dominican exiles. Yes.

Viric will leave very early tomorrow and will be busy with CEPAL for the next few days. VKG will write his article in the morning and turn it in. M. will phone VKG at “six o’clock,” around eight-time.

13.0. Out to 248-03-71, five times. Busy, complete. VKG with M.O., who answers, for Rodrigo Asturias.

K.A. takes the phone. K.A. is sorry he did not see VKG yesterday morning. VKG asks for the phone number of Tresjo, 28-33-47.

13.7. Out to 28-53-47. VKG asks M.O., who answers, for Luis Tronjo. LT takes the phone. Greetings. LT said he had “it” ready for tomorrow. Does he know who is calling? Of course. Can VKG come by here tomorrow today? Yes, M.O. had planned to see VKG tomorrow. M.O. was with Rodrigo yesterday. VKG expects Luis as soon as possible. It is very urgent. Will try to get there as soon as possible—get there in 45 minutes. VKG hopes it will be even sooner.

14.2. In. M.O. asks—said, who answers, for VKG.

VKG takes the phone. Asks where M.O. is. At Marcue’s house.

VKG needs to see M.O. with one-a urgency. Anselmo will have to go tomorrow? Yes. Anselmo lives a fish “that.” Can M.O. advise him tomorrow?
