Election, Declination, or Waiver of Life Insurance Coverage. Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program. Important agency instructions on back of original.

To complete this form: Follow these general instructions. Read the back of the “Duplicate” carefully before you fill in the form. Fill in both copies of the form. Type or use ink. Do not detach any part.

Name: Phillips, David Atlee. Date of birth: 31 October 1922. Social Security number: 460-28-3930.

Employing department or agency. Location: City, State, ZIP Code.

Mark an “X” in one of the boxes below; do not mark more than one.

Mark here if you want both optional and regular insurance. Declaration of optional but not regular insurance: I elect the $10,000 additional optional insurance and authorize the required deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to pay the full cost of the optional insurance. This optional insurance is in addition to my regular insurance.

Mark here if you do not want optional but do want regular insurance. Waiver of life insurance coverage: I desire not to be insured and I waive coverage under the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program. I understand that I cannot cancel this waiver and obtain regular insurance until at least one year after the effective date of this waiver and unless at the time I apply for insurance I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of insurability. I understand also that my regular insurance is not affected by this declaration of additional optional insurance.

Mark here if you want neither regular nor optional insurance. Waiver of life insurance coverage: I desire not to be insured and I waive coverage under the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program. I understand that I cannot cancel this waiver and obtain regular insurance until at least one year after the effective date of this waiver and unless at the time I apply for insurance I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of insurability. I understand also that I cannot now or later have the $10,000 additional optional insurance unless I have the regular insurance.

Sign and date. If you marked box “A” or “C,” complete the “Statistical Stub.” Then return the entire form to your employing office.

For employing office use only. Official receiving date stamp. See Table of Effective Dates on back of Original.

Signature: Dana Lafferty. Date: 13 February 1968. Office of record: 19 February 1968, 89.HD&E 2 PH.

Original copy—retain in official personnel folder. For use only until 14 April 1968.
