Internal Intelligence Division

Specializes in exposing and controlling inside thefts that may range from employee pilferage, through embezzlement of thousands of dollars, to highly valuable industrial secrets.

Central Clearing Division

Assists personnel and security directors to screen quickly the backgrounds of present and potential employees through the massive files of The Wackenhut Corporation.

Retail Store Protection Division

Increases net profits by reducing inventory shortages through the control of internal and external losses with security programs designed to meet the client's specific needs.

Training Services Division

Provides specialized training programs for security, fire fighting, investigative and other personnel of business organizations and professional groups.

Industrial Security Division

Provides the essential security services that are required by all companies seeking or handling government classified contracts; assists management in disaster and emergency planning.

Fire and Safety Division

Supplies ambulance services, first aid crews, Wackenhut firemen fully trained in the technical field of industrial and municipal fire fighting and equipment, and safety surveys, systems, and educational programs.

Guard Forces Division

Selects, investigates, trains and supervises the uniformed and plain-clothes guards who protect your operations; also provides uniformed receptionists and guardettes; makes physical property surveys to determine security requirements and establishes security systems and controls.

4. Mr. Wackenhut wants to expand abroad, in view of his successful venture into Puerto Rico. However, he has no definite plans as of the present and seemed to be seeking from CIA covert sponsorship for entry into areas of interest to us. He is prepared to furnish personnel himself or to permit integration of Agency nominees.

5. It is not apparent to me that there is any significant market for Wackenhut's services in foreign countries, except possibly among American businesses with physical plants overseas. The nature of these services, I would presume, would make rather difficult acquisition of the necessary occupational permits in many countries. The potential for clandestine intelligence activities would be too obvious to host governments, and the emphasis-
