NO-22-66  
20 January 1966

Case 46,632 — Additional Information on Dr. Jose Angel Bustamante O'Leary

1. Dr. Augusto Fernandez-Conde promised to furnish additional details in an effort to complete the information which he had already supplied on Dr. Bustamante and which was presented for your consideration in NO-16-66 of 17 January 1966. He has now reported to us the following results of his efforts thus far.

2. In paragraph #15 of NO-16-66, Dr. Fernandez-Conde mentioned that in 1960 Dr. Bustamante had deposited money and some of his wife's jewels in a repository in Mexico City for safekeeping. He further recalls that on another occasion Bustamante arranged for a friend to take another sum of money and more jewelry to Mexico City and to deposit them there. Eliseo Perez-Stable, M.D., Veterans Administration Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15240, is reported to know the identity of Bustamante's friend who transported the money and jewelry to Mexico City for safekeeping and possibly might know more about the size of Bustamante's deposits abroad.

3. In paragraphs #9, 13, and 18 f of NO-16-66, our informant touched on the brainwashing techniques which Dr. Bustamante employed on certain individuals detained at the G-2 prison in Havana. He suggests that Oscar Sagredo, M.D., whose current address is Rodriguez Sampedro 10, Madrid 15, Spain, was well acquainted with Dr. Bustamante's professional methods and particularly with his brainwashing techniques. Dr. Sagredo was formerly one of Cuba's outstanding psychiatrists. After leaving Havana, he was employed as Professor of Psychology at Temple University in Philadelphia and later moved to Madrid to reside.

4. In paragraph #18 c of NO-16-66, Dr. Fernandez-Conde named Dr. Scarizza as the individual who psychoanalyzed Dr. Bustamante. His full name is Spartaco Scarizza, M.D., and his current address is Via Ammannati 61, Rome, Italy.

5. Dr. Fernandez-Conde recently received a letter dated 13 January 1966 from his good friend, Dr. Gunnar Gundersen, Gundersen Clinic, La Crosse, Wisconsin, in which the latter asked him the following:

“Sometime I wish you would write me in regard to our mutual adversary, Jose Angel Bustamante-O'Leary. I presume he might be one of Castro's henchmen if someone hasn't taken a pot shot at him which might have resulted in his liquidation. Even that would have been too good for him in my judgment.”

6. According to Dr. Fernandez-Conde, Dr. Gundersen was formerly President of the American Medical Association as well as President of the Council of the World Medical Association. Bustamante was a member of the Council during Dr. Gundersen's administration. Our source suggests that Dr. Gundersen should have accurate information about Bustamante's reactions and attitudes.

7. We shall pass on the remaining information promised in paragraph #19 of NO-16-66 as soon as it is received from Dr. Fernandez-Conde.
