Herman Edward Kimsey  
7110 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.  
Washington 16, D.C. 20016  
Telephone: Federal 8-6400

Resume

I. Personal

Age 76. Married. No children.

II. Education

a. Grammar school: Oregon and California.  
b. Junior high school: Oregon and California.  
c. High school: Oregon and California.  
d. College-level GED (USAFI), 1943.

III. Special School and Training Courses

a. U.S. Forest Service School for Fire Control and Prevention, Shasta National Forest, California, 1939 and again in 1940.  
b. U.S. Army Chemical Warfare School for Instructors, Camp Claiborne, Louisiana, 1942.  
c. U.S. Forest Service School for Fire Control and Prevention, Shasta National Forest, California, 1946.  
d. U.S. Forest School for Timber Disease Control (Blister Rust), Klamath National Forest, California, 1946.  
e. U.S. Army Counterintelligence Corps School for Special Agents, Fort Holabird, Maryland, 1946 and 1947.  
f. Instructor Guidance Course, U.S. CIC School, Fort Holabird, Maryland, 1947 and again in 1952.

IV. Empirical Background

1962 to present: Associated as a technical consultant with Security Associates, Inc., Washington, D.C., specializing in commercial and industrial security.

1953 to 1962: Intelligence with the U.S. Government, Central Intelligence Agency, GS-13, $11,415. As chief of a small branch of highly specialized analysts, I exercised a wide variety of talents and was responsible for the following: the direction and administration of branch operations; determining the course of action for further research within the branch; monitoring and supervising a program of special personnel assessment; evaluating technical analyses and their relationship to specific cases; advising and consulting with members of senior staff components of CIA; delivering numerous technical briefings to both U.S. and foreign police and intelligence services; and initiating and maintaining projects carried out by private organizations such as universities, private consultants, and private research corporations. During the above period, I trained and briefed numerous others engaged in police and intelligence work. I also initiated and developed four technical systems currently in operation on a worldwide basis within CIA and wrote numerous articles for an intelligence periodical. In January 1962, CIA presented me with one of the largest individual Monetary Suggestion Awards ever given by that Agency.
