Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in agency personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The agency selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career service; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report.

To the Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor also assigns direct and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate with his previous supervisor (if any) to ensure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

This Feedback Form due 22 Dec '55.

If it is optional, whether or not this Fitness Report is shown to the person being dated: DECE 5 1955.

Section I. To be filled in by Administrative Officer.

Name: KIMSEY, HERMAN. Date of birth: E., 11 Dec 1916. Sex: M. Career designation: DT. Speaker assessed to. Division: Graphic Arts Repro Div. Branch. Grade: GS-12. Nature of assignment: XXX Departmental; Field. Date that this report is due: 22 Dec 1955. Period covered by this report: inclusive dates.

Section II. To be filled in by Supervisor.

Current position: Chief, Analysis and Research Branch/GARD. Date assumed responsibility for positions: 1 February 1954.

Specific assignments or tasks typical of those given to him during the past three to six months: Responsible for technical analysis of documents to be reproduced to determine special materials, techniques involved, existence of check points; analysis and comparison of reproductions and originals and preparation of critique on each reproduction. Determination of authenticity of alleged original documents; determination of source of origin of analysis, including graphology. Evaluation and research into new techniques in graphic arts and authentication areas and development of field expedients for this activity. Maintenance of world wide files of stationery, watermarks, handwriting and typewriting samples; maintains library of information relative to questioned document work, police science, forgery and counterfeiting.

Read the entire form before attempting to complete all item.

Section III.

I certify that, during the latter half of the period covered by this report, I have discussed with the related individual the manner in which he has performed his job and provided suggestions and criticisms wherever needed. I believe that his understanding of my evaluation of his performance is consistent with my evaluation of him as evidenced by this fitness report and I have informed him of his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effects. If performance during the report
