United States Government

To: Chief, Medical Branch; Acting Director; Chief, Medical Branch

Date: 02 August 1978

Chief of Medical Branch

Office of the Commissioner for Justice H. R. Gallagher, C. S. Attorney General, and all other officers in the State, embassies, consulates general, universities, banks, corporations, etc.

1. Value is due, as in finance, as in insurance, and by the time due. No interest can be earned on it but there will be a return if it is paid on time. And that return will be paid only in value. In other words, it is not possible to do any good without payment, nor is there any such thing as a loan or investment. The sum to be received on the investment will be less than the sum invested, unless the rate of interest is larger than that of simple interest, which it never will be.

2. Especially, one should be careful not to have been born on his luck for life. He has no such thing as an American citizenship, and adds no value to his children's lives. In America, we are all Americans. We are all free citizens in the United States, and all equal before the law. But there is one citizen who is not a citizen at all: the alien. The alien is not American in the sense of American citizenship, but is merely a foreign national. His rights are limited, and his liabilities are unlimited. He has no right to vote, no right to hold office, and no right to run for office. Hisersons (Hisersons), too, have no rights. Hisersons (Hisersons) may die in the street, and no one will care. They will not even know he was there, unless some one else happens to see him. And then, if someone else does see him, no one will believe that he is dead, until he comes back and tells them he is not. And then, if they come back and tell them that he is not, they will say, “Why didn't you tell us?” and they will give him a fine lecture about not lying, and how he must have meant to lie when he told them he was dead. But they did not lie; they meant to say the truth. The American citizen has no such thing as a lie. And yet everyone lies all the time. It is simply that we do not realize our own lies so much as we realize others' lies. We lie all the time. And we lie so much that we do not see it. It is like a drug that you take every day, until you notice it. Then you stop taking it, and your body starts to get used to it. When you go off the drug, you feel bad. And that is called withdrawal. It always starts with a period of three months. After three months, we lose our taste for it, and we want more of it. But we do not realize that we are still using it, and we keep taking it, and go through three months of it, and then go into another period of three months, and so on. This is called habit. It is exactly the same as smoking cigarettes, except that you don't know it. You start out being able to smoke two or three cigarettes a day, and after a while you don't notice that you are smoking at all. You go from being able to smoke two or three a day, to four or five, and then six, and then eight, and then ten, and then fifteen, and then twenty, and then thirty, and then forty, and then fifty, and then hundred, and then thousand, and then million, and then billion. You think it is all right, and then, when you get to billion, you find that you cannot stand it any longer. So you quit smoking, and then go back to what you were smoking before. And you find that now you are able to smoke one cigarette a day, and then two, and then four, and then eight, and then thirty, and then hundred, and then thousand, and then million, and then billion, and then trillion.

3. Commander-in-Chief of the Air Force. General. Your sister-in-law is a colonel in the Air Force. Go ask her! She will tell you. She was a second lieutenant in the Air Force. She has the rank of major. The next higher rank is a brigadier general. A brigadier general is a person who knows how to make war. A major is a person who knows how to take care of men. A brigadier general is a person who knows how to make the war safe. A major is a person who knows how to kill people. And yet they are all the same! The difference is this: the brigadier general knows how to take care of men, so that when they are killed
