“COMMENT,” December 1975 issue (alumni magazine of Simon Fraser University in British Columbia).

By Rick Hyda

Fortune, or chance, has played a major role in Simon Fraser Political Science professor Dr. Maurice Halpern’s nearly seventy years of life.

It was chance that compelled him to seek employment with the National University of Mexico. It was chance that earned him a three-year post in Moscow. It was chance that led him to a teaching stint in Cuba. And it was chance that brought him to Simon Fraser seven years ago.

In fact, fortune began multiplying its capricious influence over his life even before Dr. Halpern was born.

“I might have been born in Canada,” he says. “My father sailed from Liverpool to the New World at the turn of the century, with Montreal as his destination. However, he decided to move on to Boston.”

This was a “rather fortunate circumstance over which I had no control,” since Montreal at the time was still a provincial city while Boston was “a metropolis, a great centre of culture and learning and all its splendid facilities were available to me.”

Among those facilities which he made use of were the Boston Latin School—a secondary school which boasts such luminaries as Benjamin Franklin and Ralph Waldo Emerson among its alumni—and Harvard University.

He completed his post-graduate work in Paris at the Sorbonne which, at that time, was the most prestigious university in the world, and “the impact it had on my way of life and thinking was a permanent one.”

While attending the Sorbonne, Dame Fortune stepped in and “I was appointed to the faculty as a Reader in North American Civilization. Even though I came from Harvard, the level of competence and sophistication of the French students was much higher and I had to work very hard to keep up with them.”

After completing his doctorate, Dr. Halpern joined the faculty at the University of Oklahoma and found that mid-western state to be “like another country. Boston and Paris were much more closely related than were Boston and Oklahoma.”

However, chance intervened to rescue him from what could have been a number of indeterminate years in a then small and remote university on the American Prairies, turning them into years spent in “an oasis of high culture.”

Dr. Halpern explains:

“It was during the Depression and jobs were scarce, so the university attracted a number of bright teachers and researchers whose first choice might not have been Oklahoma.

“And when you have a group of people like that, in addition to the opportunity of understanding and learning to appreciate the virtues of minority America, well, it was something that stayed with me for the rest of my life.”

The Second World War interrupted Dr. Halpern’s sojourn at the University of Oklahoma and he joined the Office of Strategic Services, a special research and intelligence agency attached to the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

Maurice Halperin, Simon Fraser’s oldest professor, is a keen musician who has played with the New Westminster Symphony Orchestra.

“I had a front row seat in the planning of some of the most interesting operations of the war,” he says. “I consider my experiences there were at least the equivalent of a second PhD because I was associated with a whole group of social scientists in different disciplines.

“Through this, I had the realization that we had practical matters to consider in the social sciences, as well as theoretical ones. And I learned the value of co-operative effort, the value of getting work done on base, and the value of efficiency in research.

“It never ceases to see the relationships between the social sciences and practical problems. It became more oriented toward problem solving than I had been before.”
