Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Flores did a fine job while he was assigned to the Chile desk. He had responsibility for a variety of FI projects, including several complex and sensitive ones, which he ably handled. He had a full workload and, in addition to his assigned responsibilities, he was given FI assignments of every type as they arose. On one occasion he was sent on an operational trip to New York City where he was to contact, assess, and support a target personality. Owing to circumstances beyond his control, nothing went as expected, but Mr. Flores, acting alone, improvised and adapted to the situation. This is indicative of the initiative and eagerness he displayed in his desk work. He was willing to learn, and he accepted guidance and instruction to the letter. In addition, Mr. Flores writes well, and this is always an asset.

Mr. Flores is fluent in Spanish. It is my impression that if there is one thing Mr. Flores wants to be, that is a field case officer. He is now getting that chance. He will soon leave on an assignment to Ecuador. I have no doubt that he will do very well.

Mr. Flores did not have any managerial duties.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: April 28, 1969. Signature of employee: J.anel Doros.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 5 months. Date: 28 April 69. Official title of supervisor: C/WH/4/Chile. Typed or printed name and signature: Rureche; Robert Wiccha.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur in the above assessment. Date: 29 April 1969. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WH/4. Typed or printed name and signature: Raymond A. Warren.
