Foreign Service Despatch.

From AnConсал. у Strasbourg, November 15, 1951.

To the Department of State, Washington.

Air pouch.

Ref: Home. 692312.

Subject: Founding of “Le College de l'Europe Libre” at Strasbourg by the National Committee for a Free Europe.

As the Department is aware, the National Committee for a Free Europe has founded at the Château de Pourtales, Strasbourg Robertseau (Robertsau), “Le Collège de l'Europe Libre” (College of Free Europe) in which students of nine different nationalities, all of them from the Satellite countries, are lodged and fed. All of the students are taking courses in the University of Strasbourg and in future there will be additional courses at the “Collège de l'Europe Libre” conducted by professors-in-exile in the languages of the various countries represented. The purpose of the College is to train political leaders, doctors, lawyers, engineers, etc., for service in the Satellite countries when and if those countries are ever liberated from Soviet Russian domination. So far there are no students from Russia or East Germany in the College.

On November 12 Mr. Roudybush and I attended the opening ceremony of the College, which was informal but impressive; other persons attending included Mr. C. D. Jackson, President of the National Committee for a Free Europe, three officials of the Council of Europe, Professor Robert Redalob, Dean of the Faculty of Law at the University of Strasbourg (representing the Sector of the University, who was ill), personnel from Radio Free Europe at Munich, and the student body. Speeches were made by Mr. Malcolm Davis, Dean of the College, Monseur (Monsieur) Redalob, and Mr. C. D. Jackson.

There follow tables showing the distribution of the students by nations and by ages, as of October 20, 1951. Eight men and one woman student have been enrolled since then, but their nationalities and ages are not known.

Nationality: Czechoslovak — Men: 20; Women: 2; Total: 22.  
Nationality: Polish — Men: 14; Women: 5; Total: 19.  
Nationality: Romanian — Men: 13; Women: 1; Total: 14.  
Nationality: Yugoslav — Men: 11; Women: 2; Total: 13.  
Nationality: Hungarian — Men: 7; Women: 0; Total: 7.  
Nationality: Lithuanian — Men: 3; Women: 1; Total: 4.  
Nationality: Bulgarian — Men: 4; Women: 0; Total: 4.  
Nationality: Albanian — Men: 2; Women: 0; Total: 2.  
Nationality: Latvian — Men: 2; Women: 0; Total: 2.  
Totals — Men: 76; Women: 11; Total: 87.

Preparation Test.

Information Copy.
