Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

In the period of this report, Subject established himself and his family at this post and undertook the direction of the Station's operations against the subversive left, which had formerly been handled by an officer two grades senior to Subject. He has proved equal to the task. He learned his new assignment rapidly and adapted well to the handling of his cases through outside principal agents, a security requirement of the local scene which can be frustrating for an aggressive officer with fluent Spanish such as Subject. However, he has shown maturity and superior handling ability in directing his assets against the subversive left and particularly the Communist labor union. His intimate knowledge of the extreme left enabled him to plan secure contact with a “walk-in” to the Embassy who at first appeared genuine. After thoroughly debriefing this individual, drawing upon his knowledge of the extreme left, Subject was able to recommend no continuing contact with him due to specific fabrications on the part of the walk-in.

He is careful in management of funds entrusted to him for his operations and provides required administrative and operational reports in a timely manner. There have been past comments on Subject's weakness in writing. He has worked hard on this, and the rating officer feels that he is now competently producing the reports required. Subject understands that this is an area that requires continuing attention for a growing professional.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 15 August 1972. Signature of Employee: /s/ Daniel Flores.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 10.

Date: 15 August 1972. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief of Station.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

Subject has come up the hard way, both in pushing on to finish his education and in DKTRUST. As a result he is way under-graded for his maturity and for his operational contributions. That we have given Subject a major responsibility here (STPAGODA) attests to how much confidence we have in him and his ability. He is, of course, bi-lingual and mixes well with Latinos, an advantage he uses well. A good “street” operator, he still has a way to go in organizing his paper work and in relating to his needs.

Date: 15 August 1972. Official title of reviewing officer: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Richard S. Belch.
