Stemmer was so.

Stemmer, who was a professor at the University of St. Petersburg, Russia, became very interested in the war in Czechoslovakia and its effect on his country's interests. In September, however, Stemmer was asked to leave the country because of his anti-communist views. As a result, he went to the United States, where he received some training before being assigned to the Czechoslovak intelligence service.

10. Our news as we arrived care when we called Sternberg during the early afternoon of October 1st. It was about 4 o'clock in the morning. We were in receipt of a radio message which supposed us to ask him some questions. He said he learned from Sternberg that she had just left the country and that she would come back as soon as possible. Since then, her information has been preliminary indications of one possibility for a solution, which we mentioned this afternoon and found him cooperative. Later that afternoon, Sternberg phoned her again, indicating that she was not coming up as long as I did and asked if she could go to subject's hotel near IFR headquarters.

11. The following morning, Sternberg phoned and repeatedly indicated that something was wrong. He said not from his room in his hotel Le Marquis, 12 East 58th Street, near 112th, on Monday afternoon. An IFC employee who had visited the hotel room on the morning of Tuesday, October, established that subject had not been near his room at least since the day before. She got a telephone call from him. Sternberg concluded that subject had left his hotel room Monday morning and had not returned since then. Sternberg invited us to inform the FBI. He had no, suggested his specifications to anybody but ourselves. We notified Sivous, who suggested Sternberg ask the FBI himself. He called Sternberg back and so advised him. Somewhat later, the FBI supervisor called us to pass the news to us. Around noon, Sternberg had a call from subject, who said he had chosen to return to Czechoslovakia. Subject answered this affirmatively when Sternberg inquired whether subject phoned from the Czechoslovak Mission to the U.H. The conversation was very short. Sternberg knew enough to inform FBIs and the F.I. He expressed the hope that the U.S. government would take steps to make sure that subject was exercising free choice. A number of telephone calls from I.F.B. came to the FBI, in which the latest developments were played back to us. This office notified Deputy Chief, Contact Division, by phone.

12. During the afternoon, FIS advised that it had received an inquiry from the Hotel Le Marquis. Two Czechoslovak diplomats from the U.S. Mission were at the hotel and trying to claim a subject's absences. The hotel management wondered whether it should call the FBI, which had expressed no interest. They thought it might be wise to get through his briefcase, but told the caller at times we had to check with equivalents before giving him a reply. Our call reached Rosenbrock, but the reply, negative, came from Meconnell. After some 30 minutes, we therefore advised FIS that CIA had no special wishes with regard to subject's absences. Our advice was that the hotel management treat him kindly as usual, still John Doe.
