11. Preference for Next Assignment.

11A. Describe briefly the type of work you would prefer for next assignment if different from that indicated in Item No. 9 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choice.

Deputy Chief of Station of a small station or Senior FI Officer position with supervisory responsibilities at a large station. These choices for next assignment are made on the basis of the increasing responsibility of positions I have held as my career has developed. This career has included experience in most types of FI and CI operations as well as some CA activities. It has also provided me with supervisory experience, including Acting Chief of Station for a two-month period. Assignment to a position of greater responsibility is desirable for the continued development of my career.

11B. Indicate if you desire to extend your current tour by checking the appropriate box. Also indicate preference for next regular assignment by inserting 1, 2, and 3 (for first, second, and third choice) in remaining boxes. Complete all alternate choices and options in all cases even though you are requesting an extension of your tour.

1. Extend tour 12 months at current station to 30 June 1973.

2. Be assigned to headquarters for a tour of duty. Indicate your choice of division, state, or office. First choice: WII; second choice: OTR; third choice: EUR.

3. Be assigned to another field station. Indicate choice of geographic area or specialization. First choice: WII/Central; second choice: Mexico; third choice: Spain.

4. Return to my current station.

To be completed by field station.

In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee and his preference for next assignment, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training.

COB Comment: I recommend that Subject's desire for a 12-month extension be honored. His other choices also appear sound as alternatives.

COS Comment: COS strongly recommends that Subject extend for one year. He is handling an extremely important agent, and we would hate to change this relationship now. After one year, however, Subject's career would best be served by a new assignment.

To be completed by appropriate headquarters office.

12. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee, his preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of your component, indicate your component's recommendation for his next assignment and training.

Per HBR's 4729, Subject's request for a one-year extension of tour is approved.

For use by Career Service.

13. Approved assignment.

14. Employee notified by dispatch No. dated.

Table No. dated.

Table No.'s and date of departure dated.
