Swiss, Soviets See Defector

Reported yesterday, a Soviet Embassy messenger brought a message to the State Department asking for information “as to the manner in which Mr. Nosenko presented himself to the U.S. authorities and requested an opportunity to interview him.” The Department agreed to the interview with American officials present, and said Nosenko also was “agreeable.” A reply about the defection also was given to the Soviet Embassy.

Also on Wednesday, in Geneva, Soviet disarmament delegate Semyon K. Tsarapkin gave newsmen an angry statement aimed at the Swiss and charging “provocative activities” by unspecified Western agents. Up to then Tsarapkin had been saying both privately and publicly that the Nosenko defection would not affect the disarmament talks.

Yesterday the Soviets stepped up their protest in two places, Moscow and Geneva.

In Moscow, Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko called in American Ambassador Foy D. Kohler (Ammi-dad Fay. Kohler) and charged the United States with impermissible acts in the case. He stopped short of a kidnapping charge, however. Kohler replied that, on behalf of the United States, he rejected any implication of American wrongdoing.

Serious Effects Hinted

In Geneva, Soviet officials, including Tsarapkin himself, privately spread to the press hints of serious consequences. Soon there were rumors that Moscow would pull out its delegation, but up to last night no such threat had actually been made, according to word reaching Washington.

In public Tsarapkin said only, “I have nothing to say, I am not in the position to tell you anything.”

At some unspecified date, Nosenko, who had apparently crossed from Switzerland to France, was flown to the United States. It is assumed he is in the hands of the Central Intelligence Agency, the normal course for defectors.

Officials here yesterday were knocking down the idea that he was a particularly big fish, that he knew any atomic secrets, or that he knew anything about Soviet disarmament strategy. Rather, they said, he was a KGB staff officer, a security man operating, as is the Soviet practice, in a tight compartment. That would mean he would have useful and perhaps important knowledge of part of the KGB but probably not much more.

Believed Genuine

It is assumed here that the 36-year-old Nosenko is a genuine defector, though the possibility of his being a double agent has not been overlooked. It also is felt here that the Soviet protest was stronger than could be expected. The request for an interview, rare but not unprecedented, was granted. In hopes of reciprocal treatment, should the occasion arise...

Moscow dispatches said there had been no word up to last night of the defection on the Soviet radio or in the press, though word-of-mouth reports had spread through the capital.

It was felt here that Moscow might have stepped up its protest after Tsarapkin had publicly downgraded the case in Geneva. At any rate, U.S. disarmament negotiator William C. Foster and Tsarapkin held another business session in Geneva yesterday at which they said the case was not discussed...

It also was noted here that the Soviet Communist Party Central Committee has been meeting in Moscow all this week. But whether the Nosenko case was discussed was not known.
