8. Rowton, not excluding the possibility of Crozco’s committing suicide in 1/3’s apartment or attracting the attention of the neighbors, recommended that L/3, Moreno, and Valdez enter the apartment as soon as possible and remain inside with Crozco until Rowton could work out some plan to remove him from the apartment early that same morning. L/3 promised to try but was not at all sure that he could convince Crozco to open the door, which he had bolted from the inside. In any case, he assured Rowton that he and his two friends would remain on guard outside so that they could surveil or seize Crozco the moment he left the premises. L/3 stated that he was quite certain that Crozco was unarmed and without funds and could easily be controlled by Karmathrazakfa Moreno and Valdez, thus permitting him, L/3, to communicate with Rowton.

9. Alternatives in this sensitive situation appear to be as follows:

(a) Rowton instruct L/3 to deliver Crozco to a specified place where he can be turned over to “pistoleros” hired by Rowton for the purpose of getting Crozco off the hands of L/3 and his friends and detaining him long enough for interrogation. L/3 assured Rowton that he was able to make the delivery and agreed on the desirability of thorough interrogation by Rowton or a person designated by him. Delivery could possibly be arranged without the presence of Valdez and Moreno.

(b) LIRING/3 reveal the entire affair to LIRING and/or XX FAR, probably via Ernesto Capoano de Vecchio, and let the decision rest with them, interrogating Crozco as best he could in the meantime in his apartment.

(c) Let Crozco escape, after giving him enough money to make his way out of town or to another hideout.

10. Alternative (a) would permit lengthy interrogation but would involve eventual disposal of Crozco that would be acceptable to Moreno and Valdez. L/3 would accept Rowton’s final decision. L/3 could allege subsequently that Crozco was disposed of by Rowton’s pistoleros and report this to LIRING and FAR. Alternative (b) would mean loss to ACFACT of valuable debriefing if this were deemed desirable. Alternative (c), according to LIRING/3, probably was not feasible since Valdez and Moreno were fanatical enough to kill Crozco themselves rather than see him escape.

11. L/3 insists that he has not revealed Rowton’s coaching in this affair to either Valdez or Moreno.
