Section D. Narrative Description.

Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was act voluntary? Describe why act was outstanding, and if it was more than normally expected. Explain why and how. If an aerial or marine operation, describe type and position of craft, crew position of individual, and all unusual circumstances. Indicate results of the act. Enclose unclassified citation.

Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance: State character of service during period for which recommended. Give complete description of administrative, technical, or professional duties and responsibilities if not covered in Section C; include dates of assignment and relief. What did the individual do that merits the award? Why was this outstanding when compared to others of like grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances? If appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other persons or units. What obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate result of achievement, service, or performance. Include reference to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which supports this recommendation. Enclose unclassified citation.

Miss Goodpasture has been on sick leave since July 1972 awaiting medical retirement in October 1973. She is a charter member of the Agency, having entered on duty from OSS and its successor organizations. Her career is highly distinguished by virtue of consistently strong to outstanding performance, all of which is fully documented.

In addition to several staff and desk assignments, Miss Goodpasture served in support of the successful coup against the communist government in Guatemala in 1954 and completed tours of duty in Bombay, Monterrey and Mexico City. Undoubtedly, the high point of her career occurred during her service in Mexico City from 1957 through 1970, where she served as a “trouble-shooting” case officer for the incomparable Winfield Scott (deceased), who was then the Chief of Station. Mr. Scott, a stern taskmaster, described Miss Goodpasture over these years as “intelligent, hard-working, conscientious, versatile, valuable and unquestionably one of the most competent CI/CE officers he ever had the privilege of working with.” Miss Goodpasture’s fitness reports were totally consistent with this appraisal, and were characterized by outstanding ratings. In her final assignment prior to acute medical problems, she worked for the CI Staff (October 1970–October 1971), earning the following remarks from her supervisor: “…I venture to rate her overall performance, thirty years of it, as Outstanding. Ann is one of the tough warp-threads on which this organization is woven, and when she retires the fabric of this organization will be weakened.” The reviewing official agreed with the above and recorded his hope that Miss Goodpasture get the official Agency recognition she so richly deserves for the many years she has made substantive. Continued on attached sheet.

48. Enclosures (List individually). If originator is not an eyewitness or does not have personal knowledge of the act or performance, attach affidavits of eyewitness or individuals having personal knowledge of the facts. Enclosure: 1. Proposed citation.

47. Recommendation initiated by: David A. Phillips. 48. Title and signature of employee making recommendation: Chief, WH Division. 49. Date: 21 JUN 1973.

Section E. Recommendation forwarded through officials concerned for their information.

50. Head of Career Service (career service of nominee). Title and signature: See Item #52. Date.

51. Deputy Director of Care
