s in defining issues and refining strategy; and a last short visit, about two weeks before the election, to assist in planning last minute tactics for the final week of the campaign. To provide cover for such a service, TICHBORN proposed that he establish a commercial office of some sort in New York. Through this office he would establish relations with commercial clients whom he would propose to represent on business (cover) travels throughout the DYVOUR area. Failing the actual establishment of these ties, he proposes to construct a fictional commercial relationship with various national companies which would ostensibly offer goods or services of interest to residents of the DYVOUR areas. While expressing interest in both the service and the cover concept, we asked that TICHBORN prepare a paper on his specific proposal and forward it to Headquarters for more detailed study. No commitment was made by Headquarters and none was implied. In fact, a number of the problems and weaknesses of the proposal were pointed out and a specific KUBARK disinterest in underwriting the establishment or maintenance of the commercial cover required for such a venture on a continuing basis was noted.

d. Termination of LIREAM

The problems which might arise from the termination of LIREAM were investigated rather perfunctorily since TICHBORN, needless to say, was more interested in discussing the results of the Dominican Republic election and his own future with KUBARK. However, TICHBORN does not foresee any major problem arising in the termination. According to him, there is no real contractual relationship with his co-editor (Identity) which would require reimbursement; there is no office equipment or other major physical or overhead investment which would require sale or other disposition; in accordance with Mexican law he will be required to pay a termination bonus to his secretary but this should not be very large; and, to his knowledge, there are no outstanding bills or commitments of which we are not presently aware. TICHBORN was told of the deposit of $1,500, requested in Ref. B, which should be in his account now, and he promised to forward drafts of two letters to be mailed from New York and Denver to cover the deposit of these funds. Headquarters would appreciate early receipt of the draft letters as well as some sort of schedule for a logical and phased termination of the LIREAM subsidy.

3. Headquarters will be interested in seeing the promised outline and any refinement of the commercial cover and election seminar concept which TICHBORN might develop and requests that the Station follow up on his agreement to prepare such a paper for transmittal to Headquarters. We are still investigating the requirements in other Divisions for the type expertise offered by TICHBORN and, following receipt of his written proposal, we will be better able to come up with a definite decision concerning what form the TICHBORN/KUBARK relationship might take in the future. In the meantime, be assured that no specific commitment for continued employment or subsidy of relocation or resettlement costs were made during TICHBORN'S TDY.

17 JUN 1987

Distribution: Orig & 1 - COS/Mexico. Attachment: IDENTITY u.s.c.
