Military-7 Education: In order to make the most of this evaluation, tell us in detail what training you received during the past 7 years. Please include the name and location of any military school attended, as well as the dates and nature of your participation. If you have received any additional military training since leaving the military service, such as advanced basic training or boot camp, be sure to list it here.

Military-6 Education: Do not complete this portion of the application unless you have received at least one hour of military training during the past 7 years. If you have received less than one hour of training, explain why not. If you have received more than one hour of training, choose the total amount and indicate how much time was spent in each type of training.

Military-5 Education: Include all training received after age 18 which you believe should be included in your military training record. This includes, but is not limited to, ROTC, military school, and other types of military training not specifically listed below.

Military-4 Education: Specify the type of military training received and its length.

Location. Date attended (months, days, years). From. To. Rating received at end of this training.

(e) Duty assignment or rating after this training (Give all pertinent changes in duty assignment whether or not you attended a Military School). What was your duty during this duty assignment? Dates of duty assignment (months, years). From. To.

List on a separate sheet of paper any additional experience, training, service, or special duty assignments during military service or hospitalization.

Military-3 Education — Circle highest grade completed. Mark (x) the appropriate box to indicate satisfactory completion of: Wiley High School, Terre Haute, Indiana. Elementary School. Junior High School. Senior High School.

(a) Name and Location of College or University. Motor. Duty Attended. Years Completed. Degrees Conferred. Semester Hours Credit. IH.

(b) List Your Chief Undergraduate College Subjects. List Your Chief Undergraduate College Subjects. Semester Hours Credit. Journalism. Phil & Paych. Law. Semester Hours Credit: 95.

(c) Other training, such as volunteer, ROTC, Army ROTC, Navy ROTC, Air Corps Reserve, National Guard, or in-service training in a federal agency: Subject Studied. Date Attended. Years Completed.
