Civil Officer Appointment Affidavits.

As defined in 8 U.S.C. 21a and 21b.

Robert Tyler Shaw. Washington, D.C.

A. Oath of Office

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter, so help me God.

B. Affidavit as to Subversive Activity and Affiliation

I am not a Communist or a Fascist. I do not advocate nor am I a member of any organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States by force or violence or other unconstitutional means, or seeking by force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States. I do further swear or affirm I will not so advocate, nor will I become a member of such organization during the period that I am an employee of the Federal Government.

C. Affidavit as to Striking Against the Federal Government

I am not engaged in any strike against the Government of the United States and I will not so engage while an employee of the Government of the United States; that I am not a member of an organization of Government employees that asserts the right to strike against the Government of the United States, and that I will not, while a Government employee, become a member of such an organization.

D. Affidavit as to Purchase and Sale of Office

I have not, nor has anyone acting in my behalf, given, transferred, promised, or paid any consideration for or in expectation or hope of receiving assistance in securing such appointment.

Subscribed and sworn before me this 14th day of August, A.D. 1950, at Nogales, Sonora, Mexico.

Chester N. Klineley, Consul of the United States of America.

Department of State Foreign Service, Nogales, Sonora, Mexico. Previous position: Vice Consul. July 21, 1950.

Notes: If the oath is taken before a Secretary Public, the date of expiration of his commission should be shown.
