29 April 1965

17.0 correct.

Will Jardon have Fidel's speech on Sunday? He is sure he will, but thinks the complete text will be sent on Sunday. Should have it complete around 1800.

18.5 In. Sra. Kicq with VKG, who answers. Greetings. VACG has been very busy with the Dominican affair. Some Dominican friends were at his house this morning and phoned a lot. Sra. K. says Beach won't get in. She read it. The U.S. latest news is that they (insurgents) have taken the whole capital, Santo Domingo, and the Americans were disembarked. Beach won't go. That is the agreement made, but people did not accept this agreement and fighting has continued.

18.0 In. Edmundo (Jardon) with VG, who answers. There is some news. The Peruvian Chancellor criticized the disembarkation of U.S. marines, stating that this was a grave blow to inter-American relations. Washington states that Mexico criticized the disembarkation of U.S. troops in the secret session held today in the O.E.A. Colombia, Chile, Venezuela, and Costa Rica protested this unilateral action and requested legal measures so this action would be a combined action. VRC asks for the form in which Mexico criticized this action. Nothing specific in this message. Should have it later. The bombarding of San Isidro started an hour ago. Informex should have the text from Mexico by now. It would be good to ask for it. Call him if there is anything new. VRC is writing this up for “Siempre.”

19.0 In. Miric with VAG, who answers. The marines have entered action. Yes, two civilians have been killed. Miric says there is a new element: approximately 60 marines around the Embassy. They have opened fire against the U.S. Embassy. They tried to enter four or five embassies. VAG thinks that these are pretexts for U.S. action. Miric thinks so, but thinks matters are more grave. Miric says that there are at least two Communist groups and one pro-Castro group, called the 14 de Junio. They don't know whether they are the ones directing the rebellion or whether they just joined it, but there is great insistence that these are Communists, trained in Cuba and Czechoslovakia. On the other hand, the 6th fleet of the Caribbean is lined along the Dominican coast, along with a carrier. The Dominican Ambassador in Washington continues to insist that this is a Communist attempt to take over Santo Domingo. Does Miric know that this Ambassador is not a Dominican? Bogota Atiles is a U.S. citizen—legally.

Embassy (Ambassy) representatives of Mexico, Venezuela, Argentina, Costa Rica, and Colombia spoke in the O.E.A. meeting, all protesting the intervention and stating that this is a violation of inter-American rights. Radio Habana only said that Mexico had censured this, VG says, but says the O.E.A. is trying to cover the intervention. Yes, there is a petition to this effect by Venezuela, that the O.E.A. should intervene. It does not say to legalize, but means this. The Voice of America says that it is not true that insurgents are not in control of the city, that the troops are trying to encircle some points which they hold in Santo Domingo, and does not mention the attack on San Isidro. VG says that UP says—in cables from San Juan—that insurgents hold the city, attacked San Isidro, destroyed two tanks, and took four tanks. There are marines and police who are selling locally defending the Embassy and American property. U.S. citizens. There is a protest of the Red Cross. Marines must do at
