If your answer to question 17, 18, or 29 above is “Yes,” state in Item 39 the name of all such organizations, associations, movements, groups, or combinations of persons and dates of membership. Give complete details of your activities therein and make any explanation you desire regarding your membership or activities therein.

Item No. 29: May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character or qualifications, etc.

Item No. 28: Are you a citizen of or do you owe allegiance to the United States?

Item No. 27: Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of the Communist Party U.S.A., or any Communist organization?

Item No. 28: Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of any organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government, or any organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which has adopted a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to deprive any other persons of their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or of seeking to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means?

Item No. 29: If your answer is “No,” list all such cases under Item 39 below. Give in each case (1) the date, (2) the nature of the offense or violation, (3) the name and location of the court, (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If appointed, your fingerprint will be taken.

Item No. 30: Since your 16th birthday have you ever been arrested, indicted, or summoned into court as a defendant in a criminal proceeding, or convicted, fined, or imprisoned or placed on probation, or have you ever been ordered to deposit bail or collateral for the violation of any law, police regulation, or ordinance, excluding minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $20 or less was imposed?

Item No. 31: Have you ever been discharged or forced to resign, for misconduct or unsatisfactory service, from any position?

Item No. 32: Have you ever been barred by the U.S. Civil Service Commission from taking examinations or accepting civil service appointments?

Item No. 33: Have you any physical handicap, disease, or other disability which should be considered in assigning you to work?

Item No. 34: If you received an annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act, or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service?

This space for use of appoint
