To some of the criticisms that have been leveled at his production, the fact remains that I have not seen any marked improvement during the past two years in the quality of the material he provides us. As time goes on and the realistic criteria of what is disseminable and what is not are applied more and more to his production, and this production in turn remains at its present level of superficiality, we will see less and less of it qualify for dissemination. Since he is an FI agent, this has considerable significance, although it of course does not present the full picture of his capabilities. His operational intelligence has been received with mixed evaluations; usually his initial coverage of a subject is very well received and often whets the appetite of the recipient for more; somehow, however, that “more” never seems to materialize—they get more of exactly the same caliber, but little more in terms of depth of reporting. Perhaps the fault lies in ORPHONE/I, in which case we should realize early that what we have here is not a true FI agent, but a sort of “operational intelligence butterfly.” Perhaps, on the other hand, the fault lies in RODIGAST’s handling of the man, not in terms of the personal relationship which RODIGAST has been able to build up with him, but maybe even because of that relationship. I remember when I first talked with RODIGAST I quickly realized that he felt he knew more than Headquarters as to what was important for O/I to cover and what was not; I am sorry I missed RODIGAST on his TDY here and when I was in London, and that his home leave has been postponed, for I had hoped to determine for myself whether RODIGAST still felt that way. Whatever the reason, I am by no means giving up on O/I, but will continue to try to narrow down his targets so that he will have a fair shake at showing what he can do when he is not allowed to cover the waterfront.

4. What the above paragraph is leading up to, is that I do not in all honesty feel that he has done anything to really deserve a promotion, except build longevity since the last one, and perhaps not follow up actively on that newspaper job offered to him (his preference, in any event). However, I do realize that a man must have an incentive, and would like to propose that we suggest to LCPI/IT that a more realistic increase might be in the neighborhood of $100 a month, and that the severance bonus mentioned in paragraph 2 above might now be surfaced both to RODIGAST and to O/I as a new benefit.

5. Attached for your ready reference is a copy of the ORPHONE quarterly report for 1 April to 30 June 1969; this is the last one we have received.

Diane L. Chatelan  
Chief, CA/CF

Attachment: as stated
