Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective. [Marked as “A” under Section B, and described in Section D.]

Assess overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Angel, or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Monitor performance of managerial or supervisory duty. [Marked as “B” under Section B, and described in Section D.]

Subject has been at his present post for about eighteen months. He has been working against most difficult targets involving a government and a society enormously frustrating to deal with. In the light of this situation, it can only be said that the results of his efforts have been gratifying. Subject’s performance, in any case, has been highly professional. He has succeeded in effecting a great amount of clarity regarding some fairly long-standing and complicated operational activities. He is particularly strong in the CA field. This is Subject’s first assignment as a Chief of Station and it is interesting to observe that he possesses a great deal of natural managerial skill. In supervising subordinate personnel he has also considerable competence. Although he has experienced difficulty in the handling of one officer, there is no evidence that Subject has fallen short of doing his duty. Morale at his Station is high. Reference should be made to Subject’s highly-developed sense of integrity and intellectual honesty. Another strong and useful attribute is his innate sense for anticipating possible Agency-Embassy problems and to act upon them before they evolve. If there is any weakness in Subject’s performance as Chief of Station, it is probably the occasional belated communication to Headquarters. This Branch considers itself fortunate to have Subject in his present position and supports his desire to extend for one year beyond the expiration of his present tour. Subject’s promotion during 1962 is further evidence of Headquarters’ confidence in him.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee (certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report). 5 April 1963. [Signature]

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Nine Months. Official title of supervisor: C/AF/2. Type and sign name and signature: Earl H. Look.

By Reviewing Official. Concur with the above. 6 April 1963. [Signature]

Date of receiving official.

Chief, Africa Division: Bronson Tweedy.
