He is "mouthy" and he will eat you up if you are not careful or if you get too close. Incorporation is the epitome of control. Consequently, if you allow him to incorporate you, he's got control, not you. Be wary and detached in this regard. He has already eaten up the case officer.

The Subject is currently involved in his avocation of inventions and is the owner and exploiter of several patents. He has engaged the financial and technical interests of several others in his inventions. He currently presents the problem of being divided between the invention business and continuing in the preliminary phases with us. He claims that if he were to join us he would have to relinquish everything to his business partners. This is probably true, and it is also probably true that he would relinquish his invention interest but at the same time, he presents this item in the fashion of a con man. It would be wise to ignore this gambit.

Additional description of the personality includes the fact that he reflects a superior intelligence, is capable of abstract conceptualizations and is easily able to deal in symbols. He would have no difficulty as regards the intellectual aspects of training. However, in his training, other things will have to be kept in mind. He is a narcissistic character who feels that because he lacks the love of others he needs to love himself. In other words, he is quite in love with himself and thereby acts accordingly. He also tends to rationalize and to offer socially acceptable reasons for his individualistic behavior and for his past failures. He acts because he thinks he is right and because he will succeed. He is quite egotistical in this regard. He strives chiefly for emotional satisfaction. It would be wise to remember also that he appears to be altruistic—but at the same time he is selfish. He will do things for others and for the community but will hope to get something out of it for himself. The altruistic and selfish drives merge and he is motivated by both at the same time. He needs to prove to others that he is capable of success and he is self-confident in his power but is insecure that others may not regard him as adequate. Basically he is an exhibitionist, but is too sophisticated to brag or to display himself in a transparent manner. However, he needs attention and is likely to do things in order to get attention. This is what he has done in the past. He particularly strives not to be regarded as bad or evil. He wants to be regarded as a person who has differences of
