Dr. F. C. Redlich

With reference to this last work, I wish to state that I have finished its first stage.

The Institute has organised and convened an International Neurophysiology Symposium which took place in February 1965 in Havana, which was attended by many neurophysiologists of international fame, such as Aeratyán, Purpura, Rey John, Gchaftyán, Bures, Kegan, Lifschits, Liesak, Mancia, etc. The Institute is organising an International Psychology Symposium for February 1968 with the following theme: “Motivation: its neurophysiological, psychological and social aspects. Perspective of its integraties.”

We have inaugurated a new section called Transcultural Studies, which works in connection with the Transcultural Psychiatric Commission of the Cuban Society of Psychiatry.

At the beginning of next year I will begin to publish a review called Transcultural Psychiatry, which will be the official organ of the Transcultural Psychiatry Commission of the Cuban Society of Psychiatry and the Transcultural Studies Section of the Institute. It will contain a résumé and comments in Spanish of all the papers published on this subject in the world, and later on we will include our own works.

Enclosed please find my paper on “Learning and Drugs,” which I read at the XVIII International Congress of Psychology in Moscow, and the one you heard at the IV World Congress of Psychiatry in Madrid, “Cultural Factors in Hysterias with Schizophrenic Clinical Picture,” as well as one of our bulletins. I will send you the next number, now in press.

In relation to the Department of Medical Psychology of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Havana, we started to work in 1961 after making some changes at the University which, among other things, created this Department.

We began with a theoretical-practical course in the 3rd year of medicine, but we undertook all the appropriate negotiations with the academic authorities to carry out such a transformation.

Our opinion is that Medical Psychology must be taught in parallel manner to the disciplines all along the career until the absurd dualism that today offers adequate somatic preparation but very weak psychological preparation is overcome.

Last year, in agreement with the Faculty and after constant efforts, we obtained and put into practice the following activity:

In the last year, our Department carries out a study of the personality and inclinations of all the students who are registered, making interviews and tests which are repeated later in the 5th year.

The date of the Symposium has been moved to 24–30 November 1968.
