Growing Popularity of Rugby League Football

Walter Pilkington

Sports Editor of the “Lancashire Evening Post” and contributor to leading sports publications in Britain

Twelve months ago a French Rugby League team visited Britain and lost by nine points to 14 at Leeds. North of England centre of an area more attached to this offshoot of the rugby game than to Association football. Since then the French converts to the Rugby League code have become international champions. Thus the return visit to Yorkshire by France for a match at Hull against Other Nationalities (comprising ten Australians, two Scots and one New Zealander, all of them players with English Rugby League Clubs) was a recent attractive feature of a crowded programme spiced this winter by the tour of New Zealand Kiwis.

These visits and the French tour of Australasia this year, when they broke crowd records nearly everywhere they went, have proved the ever-growing popularity of the Rugby League professional game.

Enthusiasts for the code are not without hope of inspiring a liking for the game in the United States American National Football League. Sunderland’s idea is to encourage the formation of a pioneering team to visit the English centres in the same way that Jean Gallia’s Frenchmen first came 17 years ago, learn the game and return to encourage others to take it up. The French learned so well that an international championship which included France was formed in 1935.

Australian Tour

Although travel tired after playing 22 games with only two defeats in the recent Australian tour, the Frenchmen went to New Zealand and lost only one of seven matches. To show how the game is developing in Australia, the Sydney cricket ground was packed, when the third and deciding Test Match was played, by 67,000 spectators. Winning by 35 points to 14, the Frenchmen inflicted a more overwhelming defeat than any suffered by an Australian test team in the long history of Rugby League in that country. The speedy, clever Frenchmen taught lessons which will be taken to heart by the selectors in choosing a young team for a return tour of England and France next year.

This girdling of the globe by a comparatively new game is amazing when one reflects that it was enduring a struggling infancy at:

Make soup the easy way and see your guests enjoy it.

Productos del petróleo: Gasolinas, Kerosene, Aguarras, Petróleos Diesel, Combustibles, Aceites y Grasas lubricantes, Solventes, Parafina, Astalios, Productos químicos.

Productos del hogar: Insecticidas, Cera para pisos, Lústra muebles, Limpia vidrios, Desmanchadores.

STORANDT PUBLICADÁR.

Neumáticos, cámaras, baterías Jusa. Neumáticos agujeras e industrial Gudhang. Productos de gasillo Cuedo, etc. Accesorios para automóviles.

Tractores, útiles y ruedas Oliver. Maquinaría e implementos Electricos. Camiones Volvo. Maquinaria para construcción de aeropuertos. Máquinas a gasolina. Ingenierías.

GALDOX

Productos del cuerocho.

Productos del saco.
