The LIRING office, but she fended off his questions by alleging that she had little or no contact with it. I/4 also commented (consented) that Sergio Valdez, who was being particularly helpful to her at this time, warned her sternly against accepting any money from Marcué in light of his reputation as an unscrupulous Lothario. I/4 added that Marcué promised to see her again the following evening to keep her informed.

5. When Rowton again suggested that LIRING/4 move from the Atoyac apartment back to the Tacubaya place despite its dreariness and lack of telephone, she presented no objection, commenting that with all the traffic in and out of her Atoyac apartment at all hours of the night her reputation was probably in jeopardy, especially with her immediate neighbors and the cleaning women and maids. She promised Rowton to move out the following day since it was the end of the month and a logical time. She also promised, when revisiting the LIRING office the next morning, to make this known, stressing her financial plight.

6. LIRING/4 then appealed to Rowton to help her establish some sort of contact with LIRING/3, if for nothing else than to find out how he was and whether he needed anything. I/4 felt that Rowton might send some business contact of his to visit I/3 on Rowton's behalf, giving some recognition signal to LIRING/3. When Rowton pointed out the danger in this of possibly making things worse for I/3, LIRING/4 commented that Sandoval had told her that visitors were not required to sign a register or give lengthy explanations. I/4 added that she might find someone, including Sergio Valdez or Raúl Moreno or one of their friends, who might make a short trip to Guatemala City to see LIRING/3. In reply to Rowton's query, I/4 commented that she did not expect anything from the wife or mother of Carlos Fernabal since they had not even bothered to telephone her since the arrest became known.

7. Rowton promised to give the matter some thought and discuss it further with LIRING/4 the following afternoon.

Wallace B. Rowton
