With words of justified anger, our citizens come with the leaflets, and they are especially offended by the fact that one of the leaflets is some kind of a farce in which the new Czechoslovak crown is stamped on both sides by inflammatory words. Our citizens hold in esteem the new crown, which is firm and valuable and has great purchasing power, which helped us to get rid of rationing. Therefore, with sharp and often crude words, they criticize that its image had been misused as the basis for printing big lies concerning the government of our republic and the USSR.

The second leaflet is propagating the Fascist provocations which took place on 17 June in the German Democratic Republic. When those provocations ended in failure, their organizers ordered that they should be used at last for the printing of leaflets with pictures demonstrating the bandits of Berlin in action, as they are starting fires or indulging in provocations, etc.

Those pictures belong to the series of photographs which the Nazi throatcutters used to take while they were starting fires in the occupied countries, in the Ukraine, in Cracow, in Lidice. It is quite natural that this, too, can only create disgust toward those who have started this criminal action. Besides, the pictures of the Fascist provocations in Berlin are no sensational news for us, as the directors of the balloon action obviously imagine. Similar pictures were published not long ago in our Svet Press. It demonstrates the absolute political shortcoming, which, when people mentioned it, is described as stupidity of the organizers of the balloon action, who think that they could influence our people by one-sided leaflets, which constitute a glorification of hatred and of the attack against peace which was to take place on 17 June in Berlin.

In vain is the part of the defender of Czechoslovak working people—and this will always be the same—assumed by those from whose actions there emanates the wish to start a new murderous war, which is not wanted by any honest working citizen, whatever his political or religious opinion. This provocation clearly demonstrates how the USA reactionary circles plan the lessening of international tension.

It is a gross heresy just at the time when the people of the entire world are looking forward with hope toward the possibility of a truce in Korea, when with confidence they are following the peace policy of the USSR, aiming at the peaceful settlement of all disputed international questions.

Therefore, the balloon action was met with sharp condemnation on the part of our people. The balloon specialists would certainly not like to hear what the people say when they bring the leaflets to the SNB and to the National Committees. It is worth noticing that even such people who so far did not find an active attitude toward socialist development express their surprise about the means the West is employing. And all our people are deeply offended by the blatant violation of the independence of our state territory. They are surprised by the great amount of stupidity of the people.
