Section A. Employee serial number: 657391. Name: Finn K. Hjelmsøe, Jr. Date of birth: 12 March 1938. Official position title: Civ. Officer. Grade: S.S. D.

Type of appointment: Career; Career-Provisional (see Instructions—Section C); Reserve; Temporary; N.T.E.; 2% annual; Special (Specimen); Assignment Supervisor; Relocation Employee.

Date report due in O.P.: 31 November 1957. Reporting period: 11 November 1957–31 March 1958.

Section B. Performance by Specific Duty.

W. Wex: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the condition varies from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Absenteeism: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding: Performance is as exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specifications. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effects in performance of the duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their capacity to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Establishment and maintenance of cover as a genuine working member of his profession. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 2: Reporting and assessing persons of operational interest to Paris Station and to other stations. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 3: Investigating of organizations and phenomena of operational interest to the Station. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 4: Collection of positive and operational information using his cover for others. Rating letter.

Specific duty No. 5. Rating letter.
