Books of The Times

By Charles Poore

“Life's (LIFES) Picture History of World War II” is denoted with six rows of intercalary prose by John Dos Passos. “The Prospect Before Us” is a wise-mongering, deeply pondered discussion of what's going on in the world and what may happen, by John Dos Passos. Our main guide this morning, then, is Mr. Dos Passos, as we look at the embattled present, future and past.

One of the most dramatic pictures in the book shows half a page of a handwritten letter. Man named Einstein is writing a man named Roosevelt, on Aug. 2, 1945. The letter begins: “Sir: Some recent work by E. Fermi and L. Szilard, which has been communicated to me in manuscript, leads me to expect that the element uranium may be turned into a new and more important source of energy in the immediate future.” The free world's “immediate future” has been immeasurably lengthened because Einstein wrote that letter.

John Dos Passos

and look again and again at these; in the Mediterranean, the North Atlantic or the South Pacific, say, and let the rest of the party, guided by Mr. Dos Passos, go on.

In ordinary life when you are being shown through picture galleries, you sometimes get so interested that you lose sight of your guide. And much the same sort of thing happens while Mr. Dos Passos is leading you through “Life's Picture History of World War II.” There are fields and towns and seas and beaches that may interest you, for personal reasons, far more than they can ever interest many other people. You stop.

Winston Churchill, who is writing the greatest continued story of our day, said in The New York Times last Thursday that “it is easier to infuriate Americans than to cow them.” He was speaking of the havoc the U-boats made along our coasts in 1943, when the war came very close to America, as you can see by this book's picture of an American tanker torpedoed off the Jersey shore. You can also apply Churchill's observation to many other pictures, particularly those of the black days after Pearl Harbor. The book's last shot shows a combat veteran who might be in Korea today. The final text by Mr. Dos Passos is: “The Pacific phase of the second of the world wars of the bloody twentieth century had ended, but its ending brought no peace.”

The whole book, though, is a magnificent and impressive performance. It will probably become our day's equivalent of the Brady Civil War albums, unless someone finds a better way to keep a planetary confute in human scale. Hundreds of black and white prints are supplemented with maps and color plates of photographs—and dozens of those obviously immaculate war paintings.

The seas churn, the oceans blaze, the new, improved, economy-size superhomogenized Bikini bomb raises its cauliflower head. But the measure of it all is man. The measure of it all is a submarine reporting by intercom from the engine room. An American citizen lies on a Leipzig balcony where he fell, covering the Second Infantry's advance across a bridge. An Englishman called Tedder giving a light to an American called Spaatz! A German called Rommel who hit our side so frequently and so hard in North Africa that we are apparently hell-bent on endowing him, posthumously, with supernatural powers.

Pictures Not to Be Forgotten

There is a picture of the beaches of Namur on Kwajalein (Kwa-Jalein) and that you won't soon forget. The air seems to be made of the substance of death. There is a mixture of Nazi troops—garrison troops (garissoe troops), at that—goose-stepping (puss-stepping), through the Arc de Triomphe that you won't want to remember. There are pictures of Japanese suicide planes, late in the war, crouching in American ships that should be priced with all articles explaining how completely we had beaten the enemy long before the Enola Gay (Eunice Gay) sailed over Hiroshima.

Library of World War II. Edited by Walter P. Rees, former editorial officer, for Financial Reviews, now by John Dos Passos, and others. Reprinted with permission of The Procter & Gamble Company.

The Prospect. Reproduced by permission of James Doss (DOSS). Illustrations by Ally Fimbel (FIMBEL). 20 pages. Harper's Museum, New York.

In his own new book, “The Prospect Before Us,” which contains stuff he first wrote for Life and for Harper's Magazine, Mr. Dos Passos expands on that. He takes us all over the wartime and post-war map, to Akron and Argentina, England and Brazil, Lima and Kansas City. He arranges his bursting briefcases full of material into a series of lectures complete with Tooklers and other askers.
