Dispatch. Deputy Chief, W/C. Chief, European Division, UFG. Chief of Station, Madrid.

See attached information on medical colleges of ATOIL-1 in Cuba. Action needed—marked. Action: FTI.

1. In late December 1966 and early January 1967 CTRIP-1 debriefed ATOIL-1 in detail regarding his medical colleagues still in Cuba. ATOIL-1 said that most of them would like to leave Cuba. The majority of those described below are psychiatrists who are nearly aware of, and depressed by, the effect of the Castro regime. Almost all of the psychiatrists mentioned herein have friends and patients among Cuban Government officials and, in ATOIL-1's opinion, those defecting would cooperate in extensive debriefings of their considerable knowledge. Most of them frequently travel abroad. ATOIL-1 is attempting to maintain correspondence with the most promising. The defection (defecition) of any of the psychiatrists would be especially harmful to the present Cuban Government, since it is faced with a rapid increase of suicides, mental illnesses, and alcoholism, stemming from a general breakdown of morals and mental health as traditional values are uprooted and replaced by repressive, unfamiliar demands.

2. In the descriptions that follow, it should be noted that the Department of Psychiatry of the University of Havana Medical School is composed of professors and instructors from the psychiatric staffs of several hospitals, where the classes actually are given; there is no University Hospital per se.

C.I., 3. Cuban Physicians Considered as Possible Prospects for Defection/Operational Utilization.

DOB: C. 826. ACOSTA Rodal (female). Assistant Director of the Department of Psychiatry of the University of Havana/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Full professor. Acosta, wife, and mother criticize the regime. Has son 13 years of age. Admits correspondence with a brother possibly in the U.S. Takes a courageous stand against the regime but volumely (volubly) indiscreet. In August 1966 said that he probably was going to be the father of an illegitimate child. Age 40, 5' 5", 140 pounds, almost totally bald. Would defect and cooperate in being debriefed if abroad with family.

Case number: OSHA-22,232. Date: 20 January 1967. Record number: 201-805766.
