Continuation of Dispatch. Dispatch Symbol and Number: HMA-37739.

Clear that he was in touch with a WOLADY organization. Nonetheless, no specific explanation was given LIRING-3 of his sponsor and he requested none. LIRING-3 was told that TORMET would be seeing him for some months, since ROWTON was leaving the country for an indefinite period.

4. LIRING-3 was told that although TORMET was trusted by ROWTON and collaborated with him, he represented a different organization. LIRING-3 was also told that although he had in the past been receiving between 3,000.00 and 3,500.00 Mexican pesos per month on an informal basis, TORMET's organization felt that 1,500 Mexican pesos per month ($120.00) would be a fair salary at this stage of the operation. TORMET explained that he was aware of LIRING-3's past activities directed against the Cubans, and the resultant problems which had arisen. It was explained that TORMET's interest was in Central American revolutionary activities. In order to deal with LIRING-3's virtual "burned" status with the Cubans, he was directed to tell any Central American contacts that the Cubans no longer trusted him, and that he therefore was no longer directly involved with any revolutionary groups or activities. Nonetheless, LIRING-3 was directed to offer any assistance which he could provide to any revolutionaries, on the basis of his leftist beliefs and the friendships which he had made with FAR members while in prison in Guatemala. It would then be a matter of time before we could learn whether LIRING-3 was completely blacklisted in all revolutionary circles because of his problems with the Cubans or whether he could provide information of value.

5. LIRING-3 throughout the meeting seemed in good spirits and he seemed to accept the turnover without any qualms. Indeed, he pointed out that the Cubans had lost trust in him only after he had been given various tasks to do by ROWTON which he had known and warned in advance would cause suspicion. It was agreed that LIRING-3's troubles were not of his own making, but that at this stage all that could be done was to attempt to circumvent the existing problems.

6. LIRING-3 was given a Station non-attributable telephone number and false name to ask for (Identity) to set up meetings with TORMET. Only the meeting time was to be set by phone, and a prearranged pickup point was decided upon. It should be noted that TORMET's QP vehicle was used for this first meeting with LIRING-3, which means it was of course exposed to LIRING-3.

7. Subsequent to this meeting, LIRING-3 never initiated contact with the Station. Although he might have lost the new telephone number he was given to use with TORMET, there is no indication he ever again tried to call ROWTON, who was in Mexico for at least three weeks after the 1 July turnover to TORMET.

8. The Station assumes that for whatever reasons, LIRING-3 has in effect terminated himself. Given the nature of this case—the fact that LIRING-3 was denounced in Cuban official circles as a RVROCK agent, the fact that LIRING-3 in over two years was never very productive and now the apparent decision of LIRING-3 to break off contact—it has been decided to make no effort to reestablish contact with him.

For Horace E. PRALLETT
