A quiet person. He plays the guitar. He and his wife are both graduates of the Minsk State Pedagogical Institute of Foreign Languages. He speaks German and English. BORICH was on assignment in The Netherlands (for the KGB, the Source thinks), had returned to Minsk but was scheduled to return to The Netherlands just before the Source's departure.

4. CHRISTYY Fedor (pnu). Born in about 1949. He is tall (182 cm.), heavy-set, has blond hair and deeply set eyes. The source describes him as clumsy, with a crude-looking face, and as “stupid but crafty.” He is a graduate of the Minsk State Pedagogical Institute of Foreign Languages and was an informer while a student there. CHRISTYY served in the Army. He is a KGB officer; he works with AKSENOV (see paragraph 1) in the Operations Department. He is a heavy drinker and smoker.

5. GURIY (fpu, pnu) is 173 cm. tall, burly, and has a face, according to Source, which resembles that of a bulldog. He is a KGB major, works in the Minsk KGB Operations Department, and serves as the overseer (kurator) of the Minsk Motel, which is about 11 miles to the west of the city.

6. LAPSHOV, Vladimir (pnu). Born in about 1946. He is short (166 cm.), heavy-set, looks like a boxer, has short hair, blue eyes, and a birthmark on the left side of his face. He has a penetrating gaze.

A. He was formerly a black marketeer. He is a construction engineer; he has been to Iran but now works in Moscow (he is originally from Minsk). Source suspects that LAPSHOV may be KGB on the basis of an incident when he was stopped by the militia for speeding. He showed some sort of identification which prompted the militiaman (militant) to salute him and let him go.

B. He is married to the daughter of cosmonaut Pavel Ivanovich BELYAYEV, who died on 10 January 1970. LAPSHOV likes to dress well and is considered by Source to be a show-off (snow-off).

7. MOLOCHKO, Viktor Nikolayevich. Born in about 1946, he is the son of the Minister of Trade of the Belorussian SSR, Nikolay Petrovich MOLOCHKO. Viktor MOLOCHKO at present is a lieutenant in the KGB Operations Department (Operotdel). He is short (snort), fat, has dark hair, is married and has children.
