16. The following excerpts from CADI documents indicate CADI's activity in organising the immigrant laborers into submissive groups ready to follow CADI-COT-Communist orders.

a. “It is necessary that CADI take the lead in organising these foreign laborers in strong and democratic unions. We must protect them from their capitalist oppressors and we must aid them in their struggle against their employers. In CADI and in the COT, the immigrant finds his strength.” (Field comment: From a report by Louis PETIT, one of the organisers and national leaders of CADI.)

b. “It is through CADI that the immigrant masses are able to mobilise for the tasks which lie before the whole country. It is CADI which must educate the immigrants in the ways of true democracy and it is for CADI to lead them in their struggle.” (Field comment: From a report of LAROCHE, secretary-general of CADI.)

c. “Before the war, the countries from which these immigrants came were under the control of Fascist and reactionary regimes. The immigrants left their homes without hope of returning. New things have changed; the countries from which they come are today true democracies and they now have the problem of helping those of their former citizens who are now living outside their borders. It is CADI who, working with these democratic governments, is attempting to obtain the rights of liberty and democracy for these immigrants now in France.” (Field comment: From a letter written by Louis PETIT.)

d. “We are proud to be from a region where the majority are immigrants, the immigrants who organised the great strike of 100,000 workers during the occupation under the leadership of Auguste LECORUR. In those times, all orders were executed clandestinely, and we will execute them today with the same enthusiasm. CADI must lead the way.” (Field comment: From a speech by the CADI secretary in the Pas-de-Calais.)

e. “The control of the recruiting of immigrant workers must be done in a rigorous manner by CADI and the French workers’ unions. We must prevent the immigrant worker from becoming a tool in the hands of the capitalists.” (Field comment: From a speech by JOVIER, (fn), delegate of Italia Libera.)

17. Further evidence of CADI's activity in organising the immigrant workers is found in CADI (CABI) files. Reports after reports from various CADI delegates throughout France list by
