Formation Report Information Report

Central Intelligence Agency (Central NITELGENCI AGENCY)

Report No. 00-321/16309-68. Date: D518. References: DCB Code: 47,540. Date of information: 02 Jun 68. Place and date acquired: Jun 68.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: Nationalized U.S. citizen of Haitian birth, official of a U.S. import-export enterprise. Source makes occasional trips to Haiti and has many contacts with Haitian business and political figures both in the U.S. and in Haiti.

1. The Government of Haiti (GOH) has issued claims that the invaders of 10 May 6 have been wiped out and that total victory against them has been achieved. A special Thanksgiving message was celebrated recently in Port-au-Prince to commemorate and celebrate the event. On the surface, things are politically quiet.

2. The reality seems, however, to differ to a marked degree from the foregoing. Although the populace has remained quiet, it does not believe the GOH claims of total victory. In point of fact, the invaders have not been wiped out and they have occupied and gained control of the small town of Quartier Morin (Quartier Mors) and of the Citadelle Laferrière (Citodelle Lafarriere), both situated near Cap-Haïtien (Cap Haïtien). The GOH has decided not to begin military operations against them, but to adopt a defensive attitude and wait and see what happens. The GOH realizes that to dislodge the rebels from the citadel, which is located in very rugged terrain, would be extremely difficult militarily and would be quite indefensible politically, because the citadel has strong emotional historical associations for Haitians. To bombard it into rubble, which would be the only feasible way to recapture it, would create terrorism among the populace. Accordingly, the GOH seems prepared to do nothing, in the hope that the rebels will die away. Such an eventuality seems unlikely, however, because the invaders have not only succeeded in gaining control of the area above-mentioned, but also have succeeded in rallying about 140 of the local populace to their side. Reports in the U.S. Spanish-language press of 12 Jun 68 stated that the rebel force is now 300 strong and that 140 of these are local people who have rallied to them. My information confirms these figures. The populace in Port-au-Prince expects further action from the rebels. The latest rumor (and the word “rumors” must be emphasized) in Port-au-Prince is that another invasion will be launched into southern Haiti this time, and that Cuba has infiltrated a number of illegal enclaves.

Information Report.

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIS member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must know the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 117, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U.S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. It shall not be disseminated to contractors. It shall not be disseminated to anyone or any person, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.
