“Boat” at this stage of the game and suggests that we maintain LICALLA at its present location and with its present operator, LIPSTICK-39. One alternative appears to be about as good as another in this case, and it is an acknowledged fact that LICALLA, at its present location, is a worthwhile and productive asset. Headquarters ideas and comments on the LICALLA Base would be appreciated.

At the present time it is planned to move LIPSTICK-39 and family to a furnished apartment when the time comes to remodel the LICALLA Base. After completion of the remodeling, LIPSTICK-39 and family will return to the present LICALLA Base.

d. PHOTO TRUCK

(1) Target — Investigative asset used for taking surreptitious photographs of persons, places and things that are from time to time of interest to the Station and Headquarters.

(2) Personnel — LIPSTICK-2, as indicated by the low numerical designation of his cryptonym, has been employed by KUBARK for several years. At the present time LIPSTICK-2 is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the photographic surveillance truck. He is also used occasionally to spot and rent operational apartments. In the past, LIPSTICK-2 has served as team leader of a low-level surveillance team, which was compromised and subsequently disbanded, as a LIFEAT line inspector when he was not busy with the photo truck, and as a static surveillance man, i.e., used as an outside sentry during the March 1958 entry of the LIMUST Base by KUTUBE/D, KURIOT, and KUCLUB technicians. LIPSTICK-2 was assigned the task of watching the entire area during the day for any unusual activity on the part of target personnel. He was not told that he was to watch a specific house. He was dismissed from his static surveillance before dusk, and the Headquarters technicians did not enter LIMUST until after 2030 hours. LIPSTICK-2 is the brother of LIMEWATER (LIFEAT Project), and LIPSTICK-34 (LIPSTICK Surveillance team member) is LIPSTICK-2’s wife’s nephew. LIPSTICK-2’s cover is buying and selling cars; however, about the only business he has in this connection is when he buys and sells cars for KUBARK. His cover is quite weak. He receives a monthly salary of $3,200.00 (MN) plus $600.00 (MN) per month for the use of his personal car.
