Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 036130.

Section A: General.

1. Name (Last): Flores, Daniel.  
2. Date of Birth: 08/04/35.  
3. Sex: M.  
4. Grade: GS-10.  
5. SD: D.  
9. Official Position Title: Ops Officer.  
7. Checker of Assignment: DDP/MW/3.  
8. Current Station: High.  
8. Checker Type of Appointment: X Candidate; Reserve; Temporary.  
10. Checker Type of Report: X Initial; PRAN-Current Supervisor.  
Career Provisional (See Instructions—Section C).  
X Annual; PRAN-Assignment Employee.  
Special (Specify).  
Special (Specify):  
11. Date Report Due in O.P.: 31 October 1971.  
12. Depositing Period (From–To): 1 May 1971–30 September 1971.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory. Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on leave or suspension, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal. Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient. Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of those duties. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise and indicate number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1. Rating Letter.

Specific Dut.
