32. Then they were stopped by the French gendarmes, who thought that they were Germans. David quickly inverted the story of their flight from the occupied zone for joining the Free French Legion. The gendarmes took them to a village where David could buy a pair of shoes, but alas, canvas shoes only, and of too large a size. When they were directed to a company of that Legion, to LOUIS, the chief of this company gave them a horse cart to go to the regimental base in Marseille, Camp de Sainte-Marthe.

33. There arrived, David advised Pascal to go to the registrar first, so they both could see whether he, as a Frenchman, would be accepted without showing his German passport. David, being a Georgian, did not want to go first. Pascal went. His story was not believed. To prove his being a Frenchman and not a German as suspected, he showed his German passport for foreigners. This made the situation worse, and Pascal was happy to get out without being arrested.

34. Both retreated. David decided to return to Paris. Pascal did not want to return and said that he would go to Algiers to get a job on the construction of the Algiers-Nigeria railroad. They departed.

35. David, on his way back to Paris, reached Lion (Lyon). There he went to one of his far relatives, Guiga TZITZICVILI, and asked whether the latter could help him to get a permit to go to German-occupied Paris. Guiga thought this was a simple matter, because he had a good friend in the Security (Sureté). However, the relative failed, nearly got in trouble himself, and advised David to disappear quickly, which the latter did.

36. Somehow David managed to pass the French control by showing his German passport. The guard misunderstood his difficult name and let him pass as Corporal Fritz VILLI.

37. But the German post stopped David and started asking different questions. David demanded to be brought to the chief of guards. He was taken to an M.D.C., whom he again asked to be brought to an officer. He was brought to a Sturmbannführer (Sturmbanführer), major in the SS. David explained to this officer something about having visited his brother in Marseille. The officer nicely helped him to return to Paris.

38. Back in Paris, David went to his parents. The mother mocked him about his quick return from Brazil.

39. Soon David reported to the German Kommandantur (Commandantura) in Paris to volunteer as a driver for the SA, the Transportation Corps of the Nazi Party (Hazy Party). He was accepted and sent to Berlin, NORDHEIM LAGER, close to OSTANREUTE. He knew how to drive; he had a driver's license since 1938.

After some three or four months of training they were distributed.
