Section 25. General Qualification

I certify that the following answers are true and correct to the best of my awareness and belief, and I agree that any intentional mistaken statement or charge as to a fact will constitute grounds for an immediate dismissal.

Section 26. Information and Final Comments

Note: You are informed that correctness of all statements made herein will be investigated, and you are invited to make any changes or additions in your statements “as is” you may think advisable.

Are they any unfavorable incidents in your life not mentioned above which may be discovered in subsequent investigations, whether you blame directly involved cannot, which might be furnished explanation? If so, specifically; if not, answer, “No.”

Section 27. Certification

I certify that the following answers are true and correct to the best of my awareness and belief, and I agree that any intentional mistaken statement or charge as to a fact will constitute grounds for an immediate dismissal.

Signed at (SETOH AT) Washington, D.C., March 20, 1948.

David E. Murphy

Section 28. Emergency Addressee

Name: Mrs. Marlonne Murphy. Relationship: Wife.

Address: 1431 35th Ave., San Francisco, Calif. Telephone: 1-941.

Section 29. Sports and Hobbies

Track, soccer in college; tennis, basketball at present.

Section 30. Information and Final Comments

I certify that the following answers are true and correct to the best of my awareness and belief, and I agree that any intentional mistaken statement or change as to a fact will constitute grounds for an immediate dismissal.

Section 31. Certification

I certify that the following answers are true and correct to the best of my awareness and belief, and I agree that any intentional mistaken statement or change as to a fact will constitute grounds for an immediate dismissal.

Section 32. General Qualification

I certify that the following answers are true and correct to the best of my awareness and belief, which may be discovered in subsequent investigations, whether directly involved or not, whether you are involved or not, and whether involved directly or indirectly, whether or not you are involved directly or indirectly, whether directly involved or not, whether involved or not, and whether involved directly or indirectly.
