Intelligence Information Report.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 790 and 794, the transmission or dissemination of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Honduras. Report No. OO-B-321/14313-70. Subject: Interest of Lopez in Second Term; Decline in Influence of Zuniga; Lack of Support for Candidacy of Fernandez. Date distributed: 2 June 1970. References: CIRL LA1-70. Date of information: May 1970 and earlier. Place and date acquired by source: Honduras, May 1970 and earlier.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: Naturalized U.S. citizen who has worked and lived in Honduras for a number of years. He has numerous social contacts and business connections with officials of the government, the armed forces, and the business community.

This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. President Oswaldo Lopez Arellano is interested in a second term. This opinion is based on a growing consensus among Congressmen, Honduran business leaders, and the military that Lopez desires to remain in office for another term. The thinking in these Honduran circles is that the lack of disclaimers by Lopez is, in itself, a strong indication of his “continuismo” plans. Approximately ten days ago Herman Pascua, manager of the National Railroad, headquartered in San Pedro Sula, had a discussion with the President during which Pascua passed the remark that he would like to remain with the railroad as long as Lopez remained in office. Lopez made no specific rejoinder to this, but Pascua left the President’s office with the distinct impression that Lopez would run for reelection.

2. Lopez would probably be reelected with relative ease. The opposition Liberal Party is divided internally and lacks both an effective candidate and the capital necessary to offer a serious challenge.

3. The power and influence of Ricardo Zuniga has declined drastically in recent months. This is not due to any specific act but more to a growing realization by President Lopez of Zuniga’s dishonesty, ambition for power, and inability to get along with some government officials and prominent military officers. President Lopez was particularly dismayed at Zuniga’s handling of Honduran propaganda during the recent Honduran/El Salvadoran border war. Lopez allegedly felt that the invective against El Salvador often mirrored the type used by Cuban Communism.

4. Miguel Andonie Fernandez, a self-appointed presidential candidate, is an honest, sincere, and well-respected man. There is a small group of roughly ten Arab and Jewish businessmen in San Pedro Sula known as the “economic mafia” because they control so much of Honduran business activity. This group has taken note of the candidacy of Fernandez and has been impressed by his honesty and sincerity. They will not support him, however, because they feel he lacks the political experience and popular base for a successful campaign.
