Dispatch.

To: Chief, AF. Processing: Marked for further review; do not carry away; Collyer (Gault) reading three dimensions; abstract; received. Received: Chief of Station, Algiers. Project: Monthly Report/Errol S. KULPA.

1. Attached find contact and subject reports covering activities of KULPA during the month of January 1963. The two outstanding characteristics of this project remain a helter-skelter operational pattern and the usual difficulties in administration.

2. We cannot really blame KULPA for the former. His forte is moving around and being able to convince. These two qualities are rare enough not to demand in too loud a voice for the third—serious concentration on a long-range target. It is not that KULPA lacks the professionalism, rather it is the tempo of his personal and professional life that inclines him to speed rather than accuracy. As last month was marked by the stop and go of SCIMITAR/6, so this month was hampered by the upcoming Congo voyage. It is not that these ventures are unimportant, it simply remains difficult to judge KULPA's performance on events occurring outside our area of competence.

3. We can say nothing new or nothing untrue on the administrative aspects of the project. The cry is the same from all small stations—why must so much valuable time be spent on tiny administrative detail. In KULPA's case the matter is perhaps compounded by his transfer from Casablanca but his complete file is living evidence of the imbalance of the outside staffer. In the regular four-way breakdown, the file reflects almost no paper in Plans and Development, Production is not fat, Operations is fuller but transitory, Support is a swollen, blistering monster. We see no end to it. Our present agenda for the next KULPA meeting calls for a discussion of eleven separate administrative items. One more chestnut and we are finished. The KULPAs of the world take precise, careful case officering with sufficient time prior and post the meeting to bring order from chaos. It is just this time that a small station lacks. So far, we are glad to state, KULPA seems to be worth the price paid.

DAVID W. LAWTON

Distribution: Orig. & 1 - C/AF (w/att h/w).

Attachments: a.a.a (1 copy of each).

Cross reference to. Date typed: 17 February 1963. Date defiled: February 19, 1963. Operation symbol and number: AAAA-554. Headquarters file number: 3-6-25/4.
