Declaration of Appointee.

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty. Question 3 is to be answered in all cases; otherwise answer only those questions which require an answer different from that given to the corresponding questions on your application form. If no answers are different, write “NONE” in Item 10, below. Any false statement in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal after appointment. Imperfection is a criminal offense and will be prosecuted accordingly.

I, [REDACTED], present myself, a male, aged 25 years, 8 months, a citizen of the United States, by the name and address given below.

Date of birth: Nov. 28, 1918. Place of birth: Celina, Tennessee, U.S.A. In case of emergency please notify: C.M. Scold/PASTEUR. Telephone No.: 752 E. Main St., Tipton, Okla 74761.

4. Does the United States Government employ, in a civilian capacity, any relative of yours (either by blood or marriage) with whom you live or have lived within the previous months? No.

If so, for each such relative fill in the blanks below. If additional space is necessary, complete under Item 10.

Name. Post office address (give street number, if any). Position; temporary or not; department or agency in which employed. Relationship. Married. Single.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing “X” in proper column.

1. Are you a citizen of or do you owe allegiance to the United States?

2. Are you an official or employee of any state, territory, county, or municipality?

If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 10.

3. Do you receive any annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act, or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service?

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 10 the reason for retirement, that is, age, optional disability, or by reason of voluntary or incentive separation after 3 years’ service; amount of retiring pay; and under what retirement act, and rating, if retired from military or naval service.

4. Have you ever been discharged, or forced to resign, for misconduct or unsatisfactory service from any position?
