A. Ivan (ALFERYEV)

B. Rosa (ALFERYEV)

C. Anatoliy Iliot (VASILYEV)

(Readability is very poor. Music is playing very loudly.)

A., B., and C. continue their conversation. (Reel 4.)

They talk about clothing and dinner jackets. O. says he doesn't own a dinner jacket and adds, “But according to regulations, I... By official government regulations, a counselor is provided/allowed to have a dinner jacket. I'll tell you, there are some people who think I don't know this. They keep quiet about it... but I'm embarrassed to say...” B. comments, “You should have one made, and that's all.” C. says that when he needed a dinner jacket, he talked to the Ambassador about it. He adds, “Concerning the dinner jacket, he—the Ambassador—said, ‘Drive over; you have... well, get it from ALFERYEV.’ That's an Ambassador!” (Short portion unreadable.)

B. remarks, “Anatoliy Iliot, he—probably the Ambassador—is a strange man.”

They continue talking about dinner jackets. A. says that some diplomats at other embassies also do not have dinner jackets. He asks C., “Why don't you ask the French Ambassador if he has a tail coat...” C. comments, “What a comparison!” A. continues, “By the way, they rent tail coats.... Ask the French consul. If he owns a dinner jacket...” O. states, “And you go ahead and ask how much they pay an ambassador—$500, $1,000. I know they get a high salary.” (Portion unreadable; all talk at once.) A. says, “He doesn't have one; they rent evening clothes.” C. disagrees, “No, Ivan, you're wrong. That doesn't bother me.” A. asks, “I realize that.” C. explains, “This is a matter of representation—diplomacy. If a man has such a difficult, such a difficult... but I know that (XG).” (Portion unreadable; all talk simultaneously.)

A. insists, “Everybody rents evening clothes; everybody rents.” C. explains, “But I'm supposed to have it—a dinner jacket—according to the regulations. It's written, it's written. Why should I rent it? If you wish, I'll let you read it—the regulation.”
