Notice of Official Efficiency Rating.

Regular. As of 3 October 1949. Based on performance during the period from 3 April 1949 to 3 October 1949.

Name of employee: BOE, William V. Title of position, service, and grade: Operations Officer (Intelligence Officer), OS-12. Organization: OSO, COPS, FDE, SEA, Division 4. Efficiency rating: Excellent.

Chief, Employees Division.

Interpretation of Efficiency Rating

Your efficiency rating is an official record of the way you are doing the work of your job.

Excellent (Ex) means that performance in every important phase of the work was outstanding and there was no weakness in performance in any respect.

Very Good (VG) means that performance in at least half of the important phases of the work was outstanding and there was no weakness in performance in any respect.

Good (G) means that performance met requirements from an overall point of view.

Fair (F) means that performance did not quite measure up to requirements from an overall point of view.

Unsatisfactory (U) means that performance in a majority of important phases of the work did not meet job requirements.

Inspection

You are entitled to inspect your efficiency rating sheet (Standard Form 81), or a copy of it, upon request to your supervisor or personnel officer.

You are also entitled to inspect the final ratings, not the rating forms, of all employees in your office or station.

Significance of Efficiency Ratings

An efficiency rating of “Good,” “Very Good,” or “Excellent” is necessary in order to receive a periodic within-grade salary advancement.

An efficiency rating of “Fair” requires a one-step salary reduction if an employee’s pay rate is above the middle rate for his grade, the fourth step in six-rate grades.

An efficiency rating of “Unsatisfactory” requires that the employee be dismissed or reassigned to other work in which he could be reasonably expected to render satisfactory service.

Efficiency ratings are a factor in determining the order in which employees are affected by reduction in force.

Appeals

If you believe your rating is wrong, you should first discuss it with your supervisor or personnel officer. You have the right, if your position is subject to the Classification Act, to appeal your rating within certain time limits to a Board of Review established for your agency. Appeals or requests for additional information concerning appeals should be addressed to the Chairman, Board of Review, care of Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D.C.
