Section C.

Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in mind their prospective relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify, as applicable, ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of management. Include advisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds; these must be commented on, if applicable. [REDACTED] 10-27 AM 6/5.

Subject has US Station responsibility for Far Eastern operations. He continues to do an excellent job of exploiting his foreign and American contacts for operational and intelligence objectives. His handling of a difficult penetration agent in the Indonesian Embassy (HASHARK) has received high praise in formal traffic from Headquarters. A previously unproductive Station agent (WUALLOY/1) has improved his reporting and his access since Subject has taken him over, and was the Station's only agent at the Havana Tri-Continent Conference. Subject's handling of a potential penetration operation against the Indonesian Embassy showed balanced judgment and a good appreciation of the CE and FI factors involved. His knowledge of Far Eastern politics, geography, and contemporary history is encyclopedic, and his handling of orientals in the USA confirms the high marks given him by FE supervisors in earlier reports. He has begun to use his cover in initiating new contacts within the diplomatic community, as well as continuing to assess several WUENVOY candidates within the academic community. His handling of confidential funds is characterized by good judgment and prompt accountings. He has excellent working relations with his colleagues at the Station and in Headquarters.

Continued on attachment.

Certification and Comments.

I, [REDACTED], certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

By employee.

Date: 15 September 1966.

Signature of employee.

By supervisor.

This employee has been under my supervision 12.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Not shown to employee because of promotion request.

Official title of supervisor: 15 September 1966. Chief, US/NOG.

To be filmed and signature: Robert E. Boios.

By reviewing official.

Comments of reviewing official: Mr. Randall is an experienced, calm and sober individual who has raised the level of the quality of operational work in this Station. I concur in the above evaluation.

Date: 16 September 1966. Official title of reviewing officer: ACOS. Joseph J. Millar.
