SR/CDE/59/72

14 September 1959

Memorandum for: Chief, GS/SSD  
Attention: Mr. Richard Hanna  
Subject: Request for ZI utilization of agent, ASASIIC

1. Background:

Subject was brought to the United States via EBRAINCO flight on 20 April 1959 for training, after which he was to have been dispatched on a black mission into the USAR as a member of a REDCA team during late 1959. CI/CA Division approved (No. C-73532) on 11 March 1959. The proposed mission was recently postponed until late 1960, and it is presently contemplated that subject will re-enter training for the mission about 1 August 1960.

2. Inasmuch as considerable time, effort and expense have been devoted to the recruitment and training of the agent, who appears well qualified for the mission, it is desired to retain him during the interim in a productive capacity. Due to his rather unique background and capabilities, it is believed he could be employed in a useful capacity by TSS.

3. In view of the foregoing, it is presently planned to release subject from the present 24-hour custody, permit him to reside in an apartment in Washington, D.C. under alias, and work on a daily basis for TSS offices in an established TSS covert site. The work tentatively planned for him involves cataloging specific information taken from East German documents, and developing and/or improving tools and methods for picking locks. Although TSS might present other related requirements, subject's employment would not involve work which would preclude his eventual use as a RFTSOX agent.

4. By separate memoranda, CI/CA Division has been requested to suspend subject's CA until he resumes training, and OS/Alien Affairs Staff has been requested to coordinate with Immigration and Naturalization Office concerning subject's proposed status and documentation.

5. Your approval of paragraph 3 above is requested.

6. For further information on this subject, please contact Mr. Perry Crookhan on extension 8331.

Michael Rab  
Chief, SR/DCB

H-1-255477
