Travel Order.

Lucien E. CONEN.

Name: Jules K. CORTESE. Office phone: 332. Title: Arsenals Officer. Official station: (Foreign Indication) 13-2.

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with Agency Regulations.

Itinerary: Travel authorized from Washington B. & C. to (foreign indication) 13-2.

Purpose: For FCS. Subject will be under FCS cover, which only allows subject to remain in (Indication) one year. If FCS show will therefore be one year.

Special provisions: Authorized 150 lbs. operational excess baggage. Permittee authorized for per permit services. Subject will be under bag cover. 32.

Coordination, as required: DD/P. Other operational areas. Theater clearance, if obtainable.

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized.

Travel to begin on or about: 7 June 1951.

Certification by processing branch: Certified a true copy. Signed copy on file in Central Processing Branch. Reviewed. No change necessary. Amended as indicated.

Certification by processing branch: The change of official station indicated is effected in the interest of the Government and not for your personal convenience in connection with change of station. You are authorized to transport your immediate family, household goods, and personal effects, subject to weight limits, restrictions, and provisions as set forth in Agency Regulations. Travel to first post of duty abroad, including expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal effects, and automobile, is authorized. Return from post of duty abroad, including expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal effects, and automobile, is authorized. Military orders required by NCOs, 28 May 54. Dependents to travel with employee. Dependents to travel within one year of employee. Temporary duty. FRD H. STOWELL, Capt., AGC.

Mode of travel: By air.

Allowance for privately owned automobile: Seven cents per mile, not to exceed cost by common carrier. Seven cents per mile, as being more advantageous to the Government.

Terminating approximately: Arrived at PCS.

Name and title of authorizing official: I Barlow, Fl/Cpl. Gordon M. Stowell, CPT.
