I. Funding and Accounting

A. Headquarters

1. Will payroll Subject’s compensation (and authorized deductions and allowances, as applicable).

2. Will allow a PCI travel funds and audit accounting, which is to be submitted by Subject when accounting is complete.

3. Will advance funds and receive accounts for operational funds. His first accounting will be upon moving into permanent quarters, and initially quarterly thereafter, unless activity warrants a more frequent accounting period.

B. Station

Will provide only emergency support as needed.

C. Cover

1. Subject has no legitimate cover from which, through agreement with KUBARK, he would receive payments.

The problem. Subject will have $50,000 in cover income from writing. But should it not cover him from writing, in the event he should at some future time receive cover income from other sources, it would be affected.

2. Paragraph 7, entitled Office, is in question with the contracting office as to what is intended, as Subject’s only income from cover activities appears to be income from his writings. Subject is under the impression income from writings is not to be refundable.

II. Terms of Contract and Additional Items

11. Allowances

Subject was informed that allowances were subject to fluctuation as a result of standardized or KUBARK (KUBAK) regulation changes.

IIa. Subject was advised to notify Headquarters of changes in his family status, as such changes would affect the allowance being payrolled where rates are determined by Subject’s family status.

12. Receipts

Subject was advised that a receipt is required where practicable, or a certification in lieu of receipt should be submitted for all reimbursable expenses in the amount of $15.00 or more.

20. Travel

Subject was briefed in general regarding reimbursable incidental expenses and travel entitlements in regard to his proposed itinerary. Among the points covered were the following:

A. Per diem rates applicable to Subject’s proposed itinerary.

B. Airline baggage provisions when economy/tourist flights are used.

Includes protection from automatic downgrading and geocoding facilities.
