Division of CORI Committees.

Date: 5 March 1965.

To: Chief, Finance Division.  
Via: Contract Approving Officer.  
From: Chief of Station, “Dallas City.”  
Subject: Inherent of CIVIL-IV as Independent Contractor.

1. City and Project Committee: The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under Project LINDA and is chargeable to LAUNCH. The effective date of the oral contract is 3 March 1965, subject to termination by OPMO upon 20 days’ actual notice.

2. Security Approval: The appropriate security approval for subject’s use has been obtained. Type PA in column Date.

3. Citizenship: Subject is a foreign national.

4. Contribution: The subject will be paid 5000 Pess per month. The approximate equivalent of this amount in PPPU currency is 100 dollars. Subject will receive a Christmas bonus equivalent to one month’s pay. Other contributions in the nature of bonus commitments, gifts, paid vacations, etc., include: Small Christmas and birthday gifts may be given. No commitment.

5. Taxes: Subject is subject to PPPU income taxes. If subject to PPPU income taxes, payments and/or deductions will be made in the following manner:

6. Customer and/or Submission: Subject will be furnished quarters and/or resistance allowances. The following commitments have been made regarding additional compensation to accommodate increased cost-of-living and quarters expenses: None.

7. Operational Expenses: Subject will be reimbursed for operational travel. Subject will be reimbursed for operational expenses. Any minor operational expense approved by the Case Officer, such as transportation to meeting sites. Note: Subject has never submitted a claim for any such expense to date.

8. Commitment Obligation: The following have not been cancelled; the individual but may have to be met by OPMO. Give reason for each contingent obligation: Subject may have to be provided safe haven if his present position becomes aware of his activities for OPMO; this does not apply as long as in PORTS.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

10. Comment: This MOC is submitted because subject’s salary was raised from $4000 to $5000 a month effective 1 March 1965. Authority: DER 6922 (L 5-55) of 5 March 1965.

Case Officer.

Approved: Susan K. Smith, Meld Contracting Officer (355).

Date: Contract Approving Officer.
