AM-2178

Paz, Iturbide IF, what he would not be able to visit then that day, because they were saving a reception.

B. On 16 October 1947 talked with (fn) MEXICA concerning a recorder which the diary wishes to buy to use for music. MEXICA said that the National University had ordered three and he had asked for one extra so as to get it into the country without taxes. There was also the possibility of obtaining one in Mexico. MIAMI promised to discuss the possibilities with the friend who was interested.

C. Ultramar Express contacted MIAMI of the Commercial Office on 10 October concerning data on visits for Mexican citizens going to the U.S.A. They were making up a list of visa regulations for consulates and embassies.

D. FAX contacted Marine/EMI. MIAMI during early October and indicated that a family would be moving from one of JEXIZI's apartments at Cuauhtlán I, and another family would like to move in. EMII stated that since they were from the Soviet embassy there would be no problem and they could make whatever arrangements would be easiest for them. The family leaving were in apartment 9 and would move out on the 19th. FAX is listed as living at Cuauhtlán 141-9.

E. On 19 October the Soviet Commercial Office moved to OUTTILLO 19, Mexico, U.F. (D.F.).

F. General Kléber to SS Carrara, Director of Civil Aeronautics, informed MIAMI on 25 October that during the month of November there was to be a series of lectures at the Department of Communications and SS would give one or two on the subject of “The Future of Civil Aviation.” He wanted to obtain some data on Soviet commercial planes and planes from the other countries in that part of Europe. Kléber indicated that if they had anything, he would be glad to give it to him.

G. On 23 October MIAMI called Kléber to tell him that he was of the Foreign Office and reported that a group of six hundred persons had met in front of the main door of the Soviet Embassy and were shouting interventions, making a lot of noise, and obstructing passage to and from the Embassy. MIAMI said MIAMI should, if he could do anything, touch with Protocol or any other responsible person. MIAMI made arrangements for members of the Soviet police force to give protection to the Ambassador.
