12 May 1965

Subject: Contact Report, Silvia McDonald. 12 May; Maria Cristina Garden.

1. Gostetner, known as Don Jackson, and Martheine, introduced as Kurt Bryan, met Subject on 12 May. Subject reported on her attendance at the WJJI Victory celebration at the Sovrab held on 9 May, and its aftermath on 11 May at the art gallery of Alfredo Santos.

2. Subject, who attended the reception alone—her invited friend Georgina did not go—attracted a small circle of companions during the evening. First, there was a Guatemalan, a professor at the National University, who made conversation, learned she was a singer, and spoke of having her appear at a concert in Puebla (Pusbla). Next, Vladimir Andreev, his receiving-line duties ended, joined her. Their conversation dealt with artists in Mexico, a pick-up from the first time they had met at the Santos Gallery some two months ago. Then, Valeriy came by and seemed to be mostly interested in watching Subject. Subject took an instant dislike to Valeriy, probably Kostikov. A short, blond Russian then drifted into the group, whom Subject pegged as a parachutist. This turned out to be accurate, probably Nikolai Ivanov. Andreeva came by just about the time Subject was inviting the group to visit the Santos Gallery. Subject was just about able to include Andreeva in the invitation, and then Andreeva was gone from the group. The invitation was for 11 May at 1100. During the evening Andreev mentioned that he would like Subject to perform at the Sovrab. Subject said she would, but no details for the engagement were made.

3. On 11 May Andreev and Valeriy showed up at the Santos Gallery. Subject introduced them to Alfredo Santos. Andreev seemed to be enchanted by the Gallery; Valeriy was less demonstrative. They had brought a bottle of vodka and passed a few hours in the company of Alfredo. Subject confirmed her distaste for Valeriy, and formed her impression of Andreev that he wanted to break out of dull Soviet circles into the gayer, freer atmosphere of the artist set in Mexico. No specific appointment was made for Subject to see either of the two Soviets another time.

4. Subject, in her concern to know where this operation was taking her and the part she was to play in it, rang in some additional characters in her personal life. There was Georgina (LNU), her very good friend, sisterless, clinging to Subject’s orbit, a student at U of A, who considered Andreev a “dear.” Subject considered that Andreev and Georgina might very well develop a relationship.
