Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the Administrative Officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the Supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you send the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item 8 of Section 3 below.

Section A. General.

Name: Richardson, Jacques. Date of birth: 20 Jan. 1924. Sex: M. Service designation: DI. Official position title: Area Operations Officer. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: Tokyo Station R&D. Grade: OS-14. Date report due in OF: AS-14. Period covered by this report: 1 October 1956 to 30 September 1957. Type of report: Reassignment—Supervisor.

Section B. Certification.

For the rater: This report has been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not: Completed at Headquarters; subject not available. Copy sent to field.

A. Check (X) appropriate statements: This report reflects my considerations of this individual.

If individual is named in CI or D, a warning letter was sent to whom; copy attached to this report.

I cannot certify that the rated individual knows how I evaluate his job performance because (specify):

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and deficiencies so that he can use them as stands.

B. This date: 16 Oct 1957. C. Type or printed name and signature of supervisor: Edward Marchin. D. Supervisor's official title.
