Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II—Operational Information.

B15FAT-NO. FEMA 21557.

Instructions to Case Officer

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is set to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions in PRQ parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of PR 10-215, paragraphs 6a, 5.12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in PR 10-215.

3. Three (3) completed copies of PRQ part I (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and two (2) completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRQ format in two (2) copies.

5. Fill in all items of information obtainable. If item is not applicable, write “NA.” If additional space is required for an item, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

1. Cyphikym: LITAMIL-9. 2. Pseudewym.

Section I: Contact and Development

Indicate how, when, where, why, and by whom subject was first contacted or developed.

Case Officer (Clyde I SHILOCK) was introduced to Subject on 18 July 62 by LITAMIL-3, who was recovering from a gall stone operation in the hospital. The co-mate contacted with the subject, a resumé accompanying a written message. No penetration of the PENNINSIE Embassy in Mexico. See MEXI 1167 re initial meeting.

2. Indicate whether subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

Subject could be turned over to any responsible Case Officer, particularly one with a speaking knowledge of Spanish. Subject speaks English and French as well as Spanish.

3. List other case officers who have handled subject or from whom he received or has received. Give names by which they have been known.

Subject known Clyde I SHILOCK, his Case Officer, by true name. SHILOCK will introduce Laurence F. MARKER to Subject during the week of 16 June 1963.
