9 August 1980

For: Mr. Burnham

Subject: FD DICK; Conference with Mr. Burnham

1. In the first of a series of talks with Mr. Burnham, following his return from Europe, a broad coverage of the Cultural Congress was employed as well as post-Congress plans and proceedings.

2. I went into very little detail with Mr. Burnham as to the eventual setup of the Congress as a permanent institution except to suggest that it had very broad and far-reaching implications and would be carefully studied and pursued within the next few weeks. Mr. Burnham, however, expressed his point of view (which is to be further explored in other meetings this week) as follows:

3. The continuation of the Congress as a going concern of intended permanence is now a fact. (We know that there is an executive committee, an operating committee and that the institution of a Paris Office has been authorized.) Overtly, a permanent Congress for Cultural Freedom can vastly improve the climate of opinion throughout Europe, at least, to the extent that it may considerably counter Soviet propaganda and may very well affect large groups of people far beyond the point of neutrality, perhaps to resistance. Also overtly, the Congress can utilize its participants in various forms of writing, speaking, and political action. Overtly, the Congress can perform a number of useful functions, including maintenance of contact with various resistance groups, forwarding money to such groups, spreading of European destiny propaganda and other purposes. No great pretensions are necessary in connection with the establishment of the Congress as a permanent institution, though a small office in Paris and another in Berlin are indicated. The sponsorship of a French intellectual periodical seems to be one of the most pressing and one of the best ideas, and Aron is enthusiastic about it and is willing to work for such a magazine as editor. Other members of the Congress, Takhovskiy, for instance, are willing to work on Congress publications and both Koestler and Bubner-Neumann are very anxious to take part in the literary and political activities. Bondy is a very useful man, apparently entirely reliable and a good writer and organizer; he knows languages and knows European politics.
