Which AMYUM-19 belongs), liaison with AWORLD conducted through AMYUM-19 ipso facto involves KUBARK in factional strife. We recall that some of the major troubles besetting the action mechanism prior to Playa Giron stemmed from the interference of political commissars. Without derogating from the importance of the ideological component in the struggle against AMTIDO, in any showdown between the military command and the political functionary corps, it behooves us to range KUBARK alongside the former unless the points at issue manifestly implicate PEPRIME security. Under AWORLD ground rules KUBARK supports AMBIDDY-1 as the commander of an unconventional warfare instrument, not an exile organization, let alone the ideology and aspirations which animate it.

6. The AMYUM opposition group represented by AMYUM-15 clearly desires a share in the decision-making processes which KUBARK has entrusted to AMBIDDY-1. While they pay lip service to the principle of non-interference in purely military affairs, in the final analysis it would be impossible to keep the two aspects apart. Any concessions on KUBARK's part to the pretensions of the AMYUM opposition would confront KUBARK with intangibles in the form of occult pressures brought to bear upon AMBIDDY-1 whose impact we could not possibly gauge or control.

c. AMYUM dissidence flourishes in the WAVE area, whereas AWORLD's center of gravity rests in Central America. Unless AMBIDDY-1's stewardship is unimpeded by AMYUM factionalism, AWORLD's performance is bound to suffer since AMBIDDY-1's preoccupations will always retain a focus on his WAVE area backyard.

f. The impression that AWORLD may be disintegrating is fed by intelligence which essentially reflects WAVE area backstage maneuvers in the political sphere, not the situation in the camps about which we are, as a matter of fact, relatively uninformed. By striving to insulate AWORLD against the vagaries of WAVE area bickering and strife, the AWORLD picture is bound to move into clearer focus, and any shortcomings for which AMBIDDY-1 should be called to account can no longer be blamed upon the debilitating effects of AMYUM intrigue and—most important—cannot possibly be blamed upon KUBARK once its links with AMYUM-15 have been severed.

Distribution limited to: AMYUM, AMWORLD, KUBARK.
