To prepare by hand the filigree net if the document needed it.

61. To the question of the debriefer concerning the expenses of all this immense work, David explained that all this cost him over 100,000 French francs. Later he changed this sum to 140,000 to 150,000 francs.

62. At first he made money by reselling golden watches of his friends, as well as other objects, receiving good gains.

63. Then he had three friends in Berlin, French radio engineers who had been brought to compulsory work in Germany but later released. The last names of those friends were LUCAS, ALLUMES, and VILEMANS. Lucas and Vilemain wanted to have travel documents to Paris. The father of Lucas was a wealthy man in Paris.

64. When David was preparing for his own journey to Paris, he let Lucas write a letter to his father, asking him to give David 200,000 francs. The father obliged.

65. Besides, and especially after he had his caches ready, he earned plenty of money through his operations on the black market, buying coffee at the French-Spanish frontier for 50 German marks per kilogram and reselling it in Berlin for 900 to 1,200 marks per kilogram.

66. He personally had made three or four trips to the Spanish border for coffee, and four other men had done this for him.

67. Those trips were easy, especially the French part of them, on which there were no special checks. The trips were dangerous because the luggage of military personnel was not searched, nor was the luggage of the police force.

68. When making and using these counterfeit seals, one had to pay attention to the number of the unit in the seal which one used: those numbers referred to the type of the work and the importance of the offices. For example, “10” would show that the seal was of an unimportant small office, whereas the right number to use was perhaps three or four.

69. Before letting LUCAS use the forged papers, David wanted to check the papers on somebody else.

70. David had a half-Jewish pal, KATZ-DISSMANN. His mother, born KATZ, Hungarian, had married a Jew named Katz, and later, in a second marriage, Dissmann. A son from this first marriage was now using the name of DISSMANN; however, he was under the pressure of a certain WERWERT, who knew of his Jewish origin. Katz asked David to prepare papers for the Spaniard WERWERT for an official trip to Spain. David agreed, but asked for two old genuine Spanish passports for this purpose.
