Section D. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence. If required for current position, amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and good consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Piccolo joined the CI Staff at his initiative and has served in several different roles in the period of this report. These included positions as survey officer in the Area Operations Branch for six months, operations officer in the Special Operations Branch for three months, and then acting chief of that branch for two months. Overall, he has performed his duties in these positions with efficiency and thoroughness.

During the six-month period Mr. Piccolo was assigned to the Area Operations Branch, his duties consisted of participation in CI operational surveys of two countries, Ethiopia and Peru. By way of explanation, a CI operational survey is defined as an in-depth review, both at headquarters and in the field, of a Station's operational activities in order to detect efforts by and determine the capabilities of foreign intelligence services to accomplish recruitments, penetrations, provocations, and deception operations, plus an evaluation of the threat these pose to future operations and assets. The surveys are conducted by a team of two or more operations officers, and their final report may be 100 or more pages in length. The report is addressed to the DDO and the Area Division Chief and gives them a detailed CI profile of the Station.

Section E. Certification and Comments.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 14 DEC 76. Official title of supervisor: DC/CI Staff Ops Group. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert G. L. Wall.

By Employee. I have or have not attached a statement concerning the supervisor's evaluation of my performance. Date: 12. 7. 76. Signature of employee: Joseph S. Piccolo.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

I fully concur with the comments of the supervisor. I have been most pleased with the manner in which Mr. Piccolo has moved in and taken over the management of his branch in the absence of the branch chief who departed with little warning. Mr. Piccolo is a hard-nosed, honest evaluator of CI problems. He has, however, the ability to manage problems and people with tact and professionalism.

Date: 12. 7. 76. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, CI Staff Ops Group. Typed or printed name and signature: Lawrence M. Sternfield.

By Employee. Signature of employee: Joseph S. Piccolo.
