American Journal of Psychotherapy  
Official organ of the Association for the Advancement of Psychotherapy, Inc.

Editorial Committee

Stanley Lesse, M.D., Editor

15 West 81st Street, New York 24, N.Y.

Bilvando Arietti, M.D.  
Leopold Bellak, M.D.  
Jerome Frank, M.D.  
Lawrence C. Kolb, M.D.  
Frederic Wertham, M.D.  
Joseph Wilder, M.D.  
Lewis R. Wolberg, M.D.  
William Wolf, M.D.

Dr. Jose A. Bustamante  
Instituto de Neurofisiologia  
y Psicologia  
Loma y 37, Alt. Del Vedado  
Havana, Cuba

April 21, 1967

Associate Editor

Ruth Nordeen Lowe

Dear Dr. Bustamante:

I have recently completed a reading of your paper entitled “Cultural Factors in Hysterias with Schizophrenic Clinical Pictures.” I found it to be of great interest and I appreciate your sending it to me. I have been working with Dr. William Wolf on the projection of medical education and psychiatry as they are likely to be in the next century. The first of a series of articles and of a monograph was published in the April 1966 issue of the American Journal of Psychotherapy. This takes in a great deal of analysis that would be included under transcultural psychiatry. Indeed, we are using the systems analysis approach which, of course, must take into account the broad psychosocial and socioeconomic forces that influence the psychodynamics matrices in individuals. I am interested in the particular securities that are precipitated in the ego structure of individuals by the very nature of the socioeconomic, sociopolitical and sociophilosophic system in which the individual lives. In an opposite vein, we are interested in the stresses that are placed upon the individual by various social systems from individual and practical standpoints. Awareness such as these should be of help in the planning of social systems for underdeveloped nations. While this seems like a very ambitious conceptualization, I do not believe that it is an unlikely possibility in the coming generations.

I look forward to receiving the copy of your book “Psicologia Medica,” Volume I. I believe that the outline as you presented it to me seems very inclusive.

Your note concerning a meeting dealing with
