Voluntary concession, the program should find the means through other contractors, or through its own offices, of arranging for disposal on a top priority basis. It would be out of the question that the Program was better suited to such an effort than any other. The Government programs, and that one of the most important characteristics of its effectiveness must be in its capacity to handle this type of case. In brief, it would seem that we can assume that ours has been inelastic in our approach to this problem and proposed to keep a minimum-precise relationship at all costs.

I went to bring out one new point. The three OEE meetings: all but one was devoted to the study of the problem, and so far as I know, there has been received on hand from the German country office. Others have been received on various occasions from SCHAEFF, and I also included in the list the Department reports to the OEE group. The change is made that the German country office has successively been responsible, has adopted overly restrictive measures, and has been highly technical. This statement was made in the OEE meeting that after the all-important Soviet acceptance, care had been turned over to the group's voluntary distribution, even though the receiver never got near Berlin. The statement was also made that since the Soviets, only diplomatic and military defections had been printed eligibility.

3. We are informed by Brown and other sources that the final charge made above relating to diplomatic and military defections is entirely erroneous, and this situation is borne out by our own investigation. In the past, eligibility was withheld from certain “voluntary depositors” who had in fact not gone further than that on the trek back to the USR and then returned to West Germany. However, we are informed that this is no longer necessarily true and that each case is judged individually.

Finally, the German mission feels that warrants flat a...ment that any or all assistance can be rendered to any encounter without regard to race, religion, philosophy, or politics, provided KU's will designate them to receive such assistance, in evidence of his and his unit's desire to cooperate wholeheartedly. We wish to assure headquarters that the field is now of the opinion that USR is making a sincere and energetic effort to carry out a most difficult task. We have no complaints at the present time as to the handling of that part of the program which touches KU's interests. It will be associated if this can be made clear by the KU's official responsible for liaison with the Escapers Program in Washington.

Distribution: 22 SR, with attachment (2); 1—CSOS, without attachment.

2 March 1954

James H. Marlatt
