But what they want is a sort of autobiographical type of article.

I don't mind writing about Revolution. Here's the problem. Once I write about it, it's all right for me to write about Revolution. Nobody will object about how far I go one way or the other. What I told you I could put in the public press generally, except for this about the other group, but in terms of Revolution itself there's no objection. However, if I have to go any further than that, that means that as far as I'm concerned most of these people will never touch me with a ten-foot pole. What contacts I have to do, some are more delicate than others—but I feel that after this trip they could be built up again, after somehow finding some means of interviewing people relatively regularly.

So what I want to ask you is, what sort of ideas, if any, you had in relation to me for future things; were you interested in my going, investigating anything further for you, or are you satisfied with what little I know now? As I say, I don't think I know terribly much really, except from other sources—incidental things which might corroborate what you know.

Secondly, in terms of following up, if there's anything in particular, for instance, I would suggest the person to get this Algerian side of the story from would be Georges Arnault, French writer who was in Algiers and worked on the first issue of Revolution Africaine, and after that never met—or, as far as I know, any more—split with Verges, who works in the Ministry of Information and remains fairly friendly on a personal basis, if that's what you're interested in. He could get me a good deal of information on the Algerian side, again through (date undated) and the Atlantic Monthly.

Secondly, there is a possibility that we might both try to cover the Second Bandung Conference.

(Through whom? Date?)

Mediat, the European representative of the Atlantic Monthly, and we might cover the Second Bandung in Algiers together. That's in June, if it is going to be held at all.

If you're interested in other things, you know, now I have contacts.
