And, consequently, has increased his own operational abilities.

2. Insofar as future planning is concerned, SCANTLING will continue to devote the greater portion of his time to the LITACIT operation. In addition, he will continue his work against the LIMERICK target, i.e., investigating LIFEAT and photographic base house leads in connection with the objectives of the LIEMPTY and LIMESA projects. The Station still plans to maintain SCANTLING as an independent Station asset free from the responsibilities of supervising other agents and operations.

3. SCANTLING will probably continue providing administrative support to LIEMPTY-3 (now covered under the LICOOL project), but will not be responsible for the operational direction of L-3.

B. Raymond H. GERENDE Segment:

1. During the past year the three photographic base houses have been trained in the use of a faster type film (HY-PAN) to facilitate the taking of photographs on dark cloudy days. One base, LICALLA, has made tests and recently begun making 35mm color slides using the new fast type Ektachrome film. This film is now processed in the Mexico Station dark room which heretofore was not possible. It is the Station's opinion that a few color photographs of target personnel will be useful for identification purposes. The LICALLA Base has also, during the past year, begun taking 16mm motion pictures in color with the expectation that Headquarters can eventually provide lip reading analysis of conversations taking place in the garden area of the LIMERICK installation.

2. Other operational progress has been made in connection with relieving GERENDE of responsibility for the LIJERSEY surveillance team. This now leaves GERENDE with a sufficient amount of time to supervise all photographic base houses, LIENTRAP and the outside photographic laboratory.

3. Future planning in relation to this segment does not call for expansion. Rather, the Station plans to perfect some of the photographic procedures now in use and to experiment with night photography possibilities using the fast HY-PAN film with telephoto lens of varying lengths. GERENDE will also concentrate on increasing the security and communications procedures used with each base.

C. Simon D. CLACKETT Segment:

1. CLACKETT'S assumption of responsibility for the LIJERSEY surveillance team has been a progressive step for the development of an additional and much needed support asset. Although the LIJERSEY team has been in existence for several years, it was only during the past year, with the assignment of
