(Seventh Department—June 1955–January 1960)

Nosenko continued to act as FRIPPEL’s case officer after FRIPPEL left the Soviet Union and after Nosenko had been transferred and promoted to the position of Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department. He met twice with FRIPPEL during this latter period when FRIPPEL visited the Soviet Union as a guide with groups of foreign visitors. Both of these meetings were handled by Nosenko alone, without Chelnokov.

The first meeting took place in the summer of 1962, after Nosenko returned to Moscow from Geneva. FRIPPEL arrived in the Soviet Union as a guide for some American journalists. (Nosenko was unable to give the composition of the journalist group or to recall where they stayed in Moscow and where else they travelled in the Soviet Union.) Nosenko contacted him in Moscow to learn what questions the newsmen intended to ask Khrushchev during a scheduled interview; subsequently Nosenko acknowledged that standard practice required visiting journalists to submit their intended questions for Khrushchev in writing to Soviet authorities prior to interviews. After the interview, he recontacted FRIPPEL to learn the reaction of the journalists to their talk with the Soviet leader. Nosenko could not recall their specific reaction to the Khrushchev interview but did remember that they were “satisfied.” Another reason for contacting FRIPPEL, Nosenko added in a later discussion, was to learn whether any of the journalists might have joined the group at the last moment in the United States, which might suggest intelligence connections on their part.

Nosenko met FRIPPEL alone for the second and last time during March 1963. Since FRIPPEL was a guide for tourists aboard the ship “Olympia,” which stopped for a day in Yalta and Odessa, Nosenko flew to Odessa from Moscow and accosted FRIPPEL in the lobby of the hotel where the tourists were having dinner. Finally able to get away from his group, FRIPPEL called on Nosenko in the latter’s hotel room, and the two drank and talked. Nosenko had given FRIPPEL a bottle of vodka as a gift, and FRIPPEL said he wanted to give Nosenko some whisky in return. They drove in Nosenko’s car to the port, where Nosenko waited in the car while FRIPPEL went aboard for the whisky. (He had invited Nosenko to visit the ship but could not obtain a pass for him.)
