Dispatch. To: Chief, MU Division. Info: Chief, SR Division. From: Chief of Station, Mexico City. REDCOAT/LCIMPROVE — John A. Stratos (John a STRATOS).

1. LICOZY/5 reported that on 12 October 1965 Subject visited his place of business and said that he had been referred to LICOZY/5 by the Soviet Embassy. He said he was interested in a one-way ticket to the Soviet Union. Subject furnished the following information to LICOZY/5: He was born on 19 August 1942 in Michigan. He is a student at U.C.L.A. and wanted to visit the USSR as a tourist. Subject held U.S. passport number C 530394 issued 29 August 1962. His permanent address was given as 19222 Pacific Coast Highway, Malibu, California. His tourist card showed that he entered Mexico by bus at Sonora, Sonora, on 9 October 1965. Subject paid for 15 days in the Soviet Union but said that he planned to stay longer.

2. He left Mexico via Air France flight 702 on 16 October (confirmed by flight manifests). His plans call for him to depart Paris for Moscow via Air France flight 724 on 17 October.

3. During a routine visit to the Consular Section of the Soviet Embassy, Valentin S. LOGINOV thanked LICOZY/5 for “taking care” of Subject but, in the presence of both PRIKHODKO and Consular Officer Vladimir S. KORMUSHKIN, LOGINOV admonished LICOZY/5 for asking for more biographic data than he needed to fill out the necessary papers. LICOZY/5 denied that he had asked for more information than he needed. (Subject apparently reported LICOZY/5’s actions in obtaining the above biographic data or was debriefed by LOGINOV, a suspected KGB officer.)

4. It seems unusual for an American student to travel from the U.S. to Mexico in order to travel to the Soviet Union since he is automatically increasing the cost of his travel by a considerable amount. Since Subject crossed into Mexico on 9 October, only a week before his departure for the USSR, it would appear that he came to Mexico exclusively for this purpose. It thus appears that the purpose of travelling via Mexico was to conceal this trip from the U.S. authorities.

CC: 5. Local ODENVY not advised. For Willard C. CURTIS.

Distribution: 1st g — CWI; 2nd g — CSR. Dispatch symbol and number: HUMA-27467.
