Section II: Motivation and Control

1. Estimate subject's motivation. (Be detailed, if possible, cite evidence. Do not use stock comment such as “anti-Communist.”)

Subject is highly motivated toward PERPETUE and the West. Is anti-Communist.

2. Indicate what control, if any, exists of the subject. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control explain.)

Station Mexico could reveal subject's activities to the Mexican government.

Section III: Cover

1. Cover used by subject and case officer in their meetings.

Subject and case officer meet clandestinely in darkened areas of the city at night.

2. Cover used by subject in obtaining his information and contacting his information source.

Subject, as an employee of the PERPETUE Embassy, obtains his information from his fellow workers and contacts.

3. Indicate service for which subject thinks he will work or is working.

Subject knows he is working for PERPETUE Intelligence.

Section IV: Intelligence Connections and Training

1. Explain subject's known past or present connection with any other intelligence service. Indicate the extent of such connection if known certainly.

Subject is not known to have had any contact with any other intelligence service.

2. List other individuals (agents, relatives, friends) who know of subject's present intelligence activities.

Dolores CUEVAS de EYturKNE. Subject's brother, local, resident in Mexico. Jose CARRAL Escalante. LITAHIL-3 probably suspects subject is in contact with CO.

3. Explain any training subject has had in clandestine operations.

Subject has not had any normal training in clandestine operations but he is cunning and intelligent and has made great strides on his own since first contact with his case officer.

Section V: Collaboration Potential

1. Indicate other foreign power subject would be most likely to collaborate with because of his ideology or past associations. Explain.

Subject would probably collaborate with an anti-Communist Cuban regime. If it should come to power,
