Richard Gibson (Jibson)

30 Stockleigh Hall  
Prince Albert Road  
London, N.W.8  
Tel.: PRI 8778

Age: 34. Born: Los Angeles, Calif., U.S.A., 13 May 1931.

Married—wife English. Three children—ages 7, 9 and 5.

Education: Primary schools, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.  
Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa.  
Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio (read English literature)  
University of Rome (Italian literature, 1951–52)  
Sorbonne, Paris (France studies, 1955)  
Columbia University Graduate School, New York (CBS Fellowship, 1960–61)

First entered journalism in 1950 as reporter-clerk for Philadelphia Afro-American (Phil-delphia Afro-American), a Negro weekly.

In 1951–52, while attending the University of Rome, I worked as a legman (legeman) for Edward Stevens, then chief of the Editorial Department of the Christian Science Monitor (Mon每日) of Boston. I also did part-time work—English-language public relations—for Italian Films Export, a semi-governmental Italian agency for the export of Italian films to English-speaking countries.

1953–54: drafted into U.S. Army. Served as non-com in Trieste, West Germany and U.S.A.

1955–58: English-language editor, Agence France-Presse, the French national news agency in Paris. Also wrote for the Agence Intercultural, AFP’s feature service.

1959–61: netta-written for Columbia Broadcasting System for radio and television in New York. Fired from this job because of my activities in founding the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in the U.S.A. to support the Cuban Revolution.

1961–62: Secretary-treasurer of the Institute for the Improvement of Inter-American Relations, Inc., chartered as an “educational foundation” under the laws of the State of New York. The Fair Play for Cuba Committee was a permanent committee of the Institute. As the chief paid officer of the organization, I directed a public relations campaign aimed at countering U.S. propaganda against Cuba. I published books, newsletters and placed advertising on behalf of Cuba in the U.S. press.

1962–64: English-language editor of the international review Revolution. Was one of the founding editors of Revolution Africaine in Algiers and was later sent to Switzerland to edit a monthly in English. Directed all aspects of the editing, publishing and distribution of the magazine.

1965–: Publisher of Richard Gibson Reports, a regular news and features service, mainly for Afro-American newspapers.
