In the open letter was not only a blunder on the part of Ambassador FREEMAN, but also indicative of the superiority complex of the United States. At one point, when Valentin LOGINOV had joined in the discussion, the undersigned retorted that the man who had written the article was a fourth-class writer without a dime who somehow had found the thousands of pesos necessary to place his editorial. When the Czech and the Russian laughed, the undersigned continued that if the Soviet Union wanted to give money to the Mexican Communist Party to engage in such shenanigans to amuse the local members of socialist countries, it was fine with the Americans, as this is just about all it could hope to achieve. SVESTKA and LOGINOV naturally denied that their countries had anything to do with the Mexican Communist Party, not to speak of the overt letter on the Ambassador. The undersigned, tongue in cheek, then pointed out that he was glad to tell them for their information that a Communist Party did exist in Mexico. Perhaps the most interesting reaction of SVESTKA came towards the end of the party just before the undersigned left.

During a discussion which included SVESTKA, LOGINOV, one of the Soviet military attaches (a tall colonel with white hair), another Russian, and a youngish, short, and chubby member of the Mexican Foreign Ministry the undersigned expressed a thought that the two systems of government, the capitalist and the soviet, were gradually inching closer together. When SVESTKA allowed himself to doubt it with a nasty little laugh the undersigned naturally could not resist telling him to have a look at what was going on in his country. The reaction of SVESTKA was both immediate and noticeable. He sort of straightened out, jerked his head back, opened his mouth, dropped the ashes of his cigar on the floor, and obviously bit his tongue as he said nothing. From the above and from the fact that SVESTKA plans to drive to the next Consular Association meeting in Guadalajara with his Soviet colleagues, the undersigned feels that SVESTKA is not only a lackey of the ex-NOVOTNY regime, but very probably in the employ of the Soviet KGB. He seems to be inseparable from LOGINOV and has lately mouthed the same provocations in the same techniques, showing himself more and more aggressive, a thing which he was not a year ago.
