Information Report

Central Intelligence Agency

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage-Lowe Law, Title 18 U.S.C. §§ 703 and 705, concerning the transmission or revelation of which to unauthorized personnel is prohibited by law.

Country: Mexico. Subject: Reaction to Siempre! editorial on Victor Rico Galan. Report No. CS-311/12962-66. Date distributed: 26 September 1966. No. pages: 2. Date of information: 2–6 September 1966. Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City, 7 September 1966. Field report No. HMN-10658.

This is unevaluated information. Source evaluations are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Mexican intellectual who is a personal friend of Victor Rico Galan although they disagree politically. Source has reported infrequently but reliably on Rico Galan's activities. The reported information was obtained from Mrs. Rico Galan and from a journalist.

Field Comment: The 7 September 1966 issue of Siempre! magazine, which appeared on the stands on 1 September, carried on pages 10 and 11 a letter written from prison by Victor Rico Galan explaining and defending his position and accusing the Mexican Government of being the real violators of the Constitution. On the following pages, an editorial titled “Mexico No Es Una Insula de Gorila” (Mexico Is Not a Police State), which rejected the points put forth by Rico Galan, defended Mexican institutions and concluded that because of the magazine's devotion to freedom of expression, time and space had been devoted to what should properly be recorded as a minor police incident.

1. Ingo de Rico Galan, wife of Siempre! writer Victor Rico Galan, said on 2 September 1966 that her husband was resigning from Siempre! because of the harsh editorial against him and his ideas which appeared in the 7 September issue of the magazine. Mrs. Rico Galan said that the editorial was far harsher than even President Gustavo Diaz Ordaz's comments on the matter which he included in his 1 September State of the Union message.
