Field Information Report.

Grading of source: A, completely reliable; B, usually reliable; C, fairly reliable; D, not usually reliable; E, not reliable (applied to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence); F, reliability cannot be judged (applied to untested or insufficiently tested sources).

Appraisal of content: 1, confirmed by other independent and reliable sources; 2, probably true; 3, possibly true; 4, doubtful; 5, probably false; 6, cannot be judged.

Country: Cuba. Subject: Return to Miami of Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas with arms and ammunition. Date of information: 22 May–4 June 1964. Place and date acquired: United States, Miami (4 June 1964). UFG-5343. Source: See below.

The information in paragraphs 1–3 was obtained from a former Latin American military officer who at one time resided in Haiti and the Dominican Republic. He still maintains fairly close friendships with officials of those countries. The source is a trained reporter, and his information has been reliable in the past.

On 29 May 1964 Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas, a Cuban exile leader, met with Miguel Taberno Blas, former member of the Cuba House of Representatives; Cecilio Ignacio Napoles Hidalgo, former army major during the administration of Fulgencio Batista; Pedro Duque, former army lieutenant under Batista; and Aurea Estéer Jorge Aragon, a Cuban woman. Masferrer said that within the next 60 days there would be a revolt within the ranks of Castro's forces and that anti-Castro groups would become active both in Cuba and outside.

2. Masferrer said that Manuel Ray Rivero, leader of the Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JUBE, Cuban Revolutionary Justa), would play an important role in the events that were to transpire in the next two months. Although he did not elaborate on just how the revolt would come about, Masferrer did say that the uprising would be possible because those persons participating in the revolt would have access to weapons and ammunition already cached in Cuba.

3. On 4 June 1964 Enrique “Kiki” Masferrer Rojas, Rolando's brother, had obtained the signatures of several Cuban exile leaders, which he intended to submit to the Immigration and Naturalization Service at Miami requesting authorization for Masferrer to return to Miami. It was expected that the document would be submitted sometime in early June 1964.
