Social Notes

British Legion

The Committee for the year 1st November 1951 to 31st October 1952 is as follows:

P. Allen Price, Hon. President. Rev. Edgar Pearson, Hon. Chaplain. Mr. T. A. Moodie, Chairman. C. O. Hardy, Vice-Chairman. D. Madden, Hon. Treasurer. R. W. Jeffery, Hon. Secretary. H. P. Rushforth, D. M. King and Miss K. McLean.

Among those who came down from Santiago for the cricket weekend we noticed Mr. and Mrs. Ian McLan, Mr. and Mrs. Dorlen Cooper and Mr. Ivor Davies.

Mr. and Mrs. K. T. Russell spent the weekend in Viña, returning by road on Monday.

Mr. A. Forbes Robertson was a visitor to Viña del Mar and is coming this week to Buenos Aires.

Toe H Birthday Festival

All members of the Women's Diocesan Union of St. Paul's Church, Cerro Concepcion, wish to thank all the ladies who attended their recent Bridge-Canasta Tea; also those who contributed cakes, flowers, etc., which helped to make the afternoon such a success.

On Friday, December 14th, a Xmas Sale will take place at the residence of Mrs. Allen Price, wife of H. B. M. Consul General, Calle 6 Poniente No. 50, Viña del Mar. There will be plum puddings, Xmas cakes, candy, cookies, Xmas gifts and two fortune letters. From 2:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.

The American Women's group are having their monthly sale at the Instituto Chileno Norte Americano, Wednesday, December 5th, from 3:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m.

Miss Monica Whitty celebrated her 15th birthday last Saturday with a most delightful party.

This year Toe H Craflock Branch and Toe H (Women's Section), Valparaiso, celebrated their Birthday Festival during the weekend November 24th–25th. The following members from Santiago attended: Mesdames C. T. Henry, Grace Jones, Isabel Holloway and the Misses Margaret Cater, Sally Fuenzalida, Tatiana Antipatf, Otina Bozza, Jane Plunkett and Margaret Henry.

On Saturday evening there was a short service in the Union Church at which the Rev. Murdoch MacLeod officiated and Mr. Albert Turner played the organ. The Rev. Edgar Pearson gave a most interesting and appropriate sermon, and specially mentioned the valuable help that Toe H were giving to the Seamen's Mission.

After the service a delightful cold supper was served in the adjoining hall. The Hon. Commissioner, Mr. David Blair, then welcomed the Santiago members and friends who had come to spend the evening with Toe H.

Have you visited the White Elephant sales held at the Instituto Chileno-Norteamericano de Cultura?

Plaza Anibal Pinto 1177

New and slightly used clothing and articles for sale. The next sale will be held December 5th at 4 p.m.

Maletas de cuero y oxtrolivianos para avión. Chequelas de cuero y gamuza. Portadocumentos. Billeteras. Artículos Deportivos.

Casa Leon

Condell 1353. Fono 2243. Fabricación propia.

The Orange started their innings equally badly, losing 3 wickets for 9 runs, and with no one excepting Shearman, who scored a “shaky” 10 runs, making double figures, they were all out for 36, leaving St. Peter's the winners by 23 runs.

Naylor and Wilkins bowled unchanged for St. Peter's, the former taking 3 for 18 and Wilkins 7 for 13. In fact, it is fair to say that these two boys won the match for their side.

St. Peter's fielding was only mediocre and several catches were dropped, but undoubtedly the better side won.

Seamen's Institute

We are informed that Mr. Henry Boys has been appointed resident layman of the Valparaíso Seamen's Institute as from the 1st December next.

Microscopes Wild (Heerbrugg)

Binocular microscopes with blue apochromatic lenses and phase contrast as high as 2,280. Spencer microscopes with one and two eyepieces.
