Date: 07-05-71. Name: P. S. 71. Institution: Cuban physicians whose defects are considered virtually impossible. Contact person: F.

Date: D.B. & M. Name: A. J. Rodriguez, III. Position: Professor and Director of the University of Cuba Medical School. He has been a member of the Communist Party in Cuba since he was young. He is intelligent, [persuade] (PERSEUDE), and individuated to his career. He is married and has three or four children. Age 36, 5' 7", 180 pounds, black hair. Institution: University of Cuba. Contact person: Jr.

Date: D.B. C. Hay. Name: B. M. “Trizas” Davis, Fidel. Position: Assistant Professor of the University of Cuba Medical School. Member of the CIBAG Committee. Professional skill as an administrator and public relations type, and is said to be a travelling correspondent of Fidel Castro. He is not believed to be a member of the Cuban Revolutionary Party of Cuba. Among others, 5' 8", 170 pounds, grey-black hair. Institution: University of Cuba. Contact person: Jr.

Date: Dob: 19-72. Name: C. Guerrero Barrera, Jose. Position: Director of the University of Spain (Spain) since August 1966. He made a rapid rise from Director of España to pre-chief-operator of public health. He is credited with professional skill as an administrator and public relations type and is said to be a travelling correspondent of Fidel Castro. He is not believed to be a member of the Cuban Revolutionary Party of Spain. Among others, 5' 8", 170 pounds, grey-black hair. Institution: University of Spain. Contact person: Jr.

Date: Dec. 1974. Name: N. P. Doctrinos Torrado, Francisco. Position: Dean of the Medical School, University of Tampa, and brother of the President of Cuba. Amboil worked closely with him for six months in a [chatting] (CHATTING) hospital and describes him as straightforward, honest (HOEST), hard-working, and one who evades politics (EAVARDS POLITICS). His present post was forced upon him by his brother. He is married, and one of his sons is active in the Communist Youth. Age 47, height 5' 7", 180 pounds, grey-black hair. Institution: Tampa. Contact person: Jr.

Date: DeB. C. Hay. Name: S. M. Rocha Ojeda, Francisco. Position: Director of National Statistics and member of the Communist Party of Cuba. He represented Cuba as a delegate to the World Health Scholarship in Mexico in 1965 and to a 1966 conference concerning sanitation in Washington, D.C. He was a university classmate of Amtoil-L's. Age 35–36, 5' 4", 140 pounds, brown hair, balding. Institution: Havana. Contact person: Jr.

Date: D.B. C. Hay. Name: F. X. Modesto (SM). Position: Instructor of Psychiatry at the University of Cuba Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. A Brazilian citizen resident in
