9. Preference for next assignment (continued): “Office B” is a good 3rd choice for 27 October 1958. Personnel Room.

C. Indicate your preference for next assignment by inserting numbers 1, 2, and 3 (for last, middle, and 4th choices in the boxes below):

Return to my current station.

Be assigned to headquarters for a tour of duty. With respect to possible assignments in headquarters.

Indicate choice of component: 1st choice: Lisbon. 2nd choice: WH DIV (post to Lisbon). 3rd choice: WH CHG.

Indicate choice of geographic area or specific station, based on qualifications: I will be selected by the following personnel: WH CHG. 1st choice: WH CHG. 2nd choice: WH CHG. 3rd choice: WH CHG.

Be selected by BOS.

10. How much leave do you desire between assignments? Indicate number of work days: 30.

11. Indicate the number and age of dependents who will be travelling or moving with you: None.

12. Signature: Complete item No. 5-1, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of above portion of this form.

To be completed by supervisor at field station.

13. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the station, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training:

It is requested that this officer be returned to Mexico City for another two (2) year tour. This officer is one of the most able CB officers COS has known and his transfer from this station would leave a vacancy very, very hard to fill with an equally capable person. Attempts to arrange other than tourist cover will be made for this next tour.

14. Signature: Complete item No. 5-2, transmittal sheet, to indicate completion of this portion of the form.

To be completed by appropriate personnel officer at headquarters.

15. In consideration of the past experience and performance of the employee, his expressed preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of the component to which he is currently assigned, indicate your recommendations for his next assignment and training:

If regular Embassy cover can be arranged, recommend additional tour Mexico City.

16. Name of personnel officer: BC Sachs; Robert N. Dahlgren. Signature: J. C. Sachs; Robert N. Dahlgren. Date: 21 October 1958.

For use of Career Service
