Dispatch.

From: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division. Info: Chief of Station, WH/N Miami. Subject: Current Rumors in PBRUMEN Exile Community.

1. As usual the first month of 1969 featured a large number of rumors making the rounds in the PBRUMEN exile community. While we normally tend to ignore such rumors, we are forwarding a couple of tidbits because they relate to GPVALIANT.

2. The first of these rumors deals with a new group which has presumably been formed for the purpose of trying to deal through GPVALIANT. Among those in the group are Carlos Prio, Lincoln Rodon, Juan J. Remos, Sergio Carbo, and Edgardo Butari. This group reportedly meets every Thursday at different houses. The last meeting in January was held at the home of Lincoln Rodon. At this meeting Prio presumably stated that Butari was a better contact to GPVALIANT than is Emilio Nunez Portuando. The general consensus was that Butari is a better contact because he is a business partner of Bebe Roboso and everyone knows Roboso's influence with GPVALIANT. The rumor mill has it that the group intends to pretend that it favors political and democratic solutions to the PBRUMEN problem but that they really seek armed intervention. In this same connection Father O'Farril has recently told AMPALM-4 that AMBIDDY-1 is once more connected with WOFIRM and that AMCORE-2 has joined him. The rumor mill says further that AMBIDDY-1 and AMCORE-2 are planning to open training camps once again with the tacit encouragement of the above group. According to AMPALM-4 O'Farril himself does not agree with the version of AMBIDDY-1 and AMCORE-2 wanting to establish training camps. O'Farril feels that the solution AMBIDDY-1 is looking for is through agreements between LNFORT (GPVALIANT) and the Soviet Union.

3. WIBALDA has picked up information quite similar to that learned through AMPALM-4. He also has reported the existence of this group and said that they are collecting money from the refugees in order to buy arms and equipment to overthrow AMTHUG-1. According to WIBALDA important members of Alpha-66, Segundo Frente, DRE, Autenticos, and Ortodoxos are involved even though these organizations themselves are not participating as groups in the movement.

Gross reference to dispatch symbol and number: UFAA-544. Typed: 10 February 1969. Film number: 201-267437.
