Office of Personnel.

Directions: State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty; do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others selected for the same duty at a similar level of responsibility. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties. Be specific.

Examples of duties that might be rated are: oral briefing; giving lectures; conducting seminars; writing technical reports; conducting external liaisons; typing; taking dictation; supervising; has and uses area knowledge; develops new programs; analyzes industrial reports; manages files; operates radio; coordinates with other offices; writes regulations; prepares correspondence; conducts interrogations; prepares summaries; translates German; debriefing sources; keeps books; drives truck; maintains air conditioning; evaluates significance of data.

Mail room. For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if the supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation in the case of a radio operator.

Descriptive rating number: 1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty. 2. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty. 3. Performs this duty acceptably. 4. Performs this duty in a competent manner. 5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.

Specific duty No. 1: Deputy to Branch Chief. Specific duty No. 2: Conducts Foreign Liaison. Specific duty No. 3: Prepares and manages projects.

Rating number 5: Supervising. Rating number 6: Prepares correspondence and reports. Rating number 4: Handles administrative routine.

Section D. Suitability for Current Job in Organization.

Directions: Take into account here everything you know about the individual—productivity, conduct in the job, pertinent personal characteristics or habits, special defects or talents—and how he fits in with your team. Compare him with others doing similar work of about the same level.

Suitability ratings: Definitely unsuitable—we should be separated. Of doubtful suitability—would not have accepted him if I had known what I know now. A barely acceptable employee—below average but with no weaknesses sufficiently outstanding to warrant his separation. Of the same suitability as most people I know in the organization. A fine employee—has some outstanding strengths. An unusually strong person in terms of the requirements of the organization. Excelled by only a few in suitability for job in the organization.

Rating number.

Is this individual better suited for work in some other position in the organization? Yes. If yes, explain fully:

Subject is an
