Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject's performance during the rating period has been marked by general excellence. As indicated in Section D, her supervision and direction of the Section's work relating to intel support, administration, preparation of special reports, training personnel, etc. is uniformly outstanding. The fact that these functions are handled in addition to her duties as the desk officer for the FI and Ops Support projects, which she performs with unusual competence, serves to illustrate her value to this Section. She has an exceptional ability independently to determine proper courses of action and to initiate action to carry them out. She has a profound understanding of the area operational program and contributions to it are imaginative and constructive.

In the opinion of the rater, Subject's performance compares favorably with any OS-13 desk officer within his experience, and she performs occasionally at the OS-14 level. Moreover, she carries out her duties cheerfully, loyally, and in close and amicable cooperation with her fellow employees at all levels.

In those aspects of her duties which involve cost, e.g. the review of operational projects, she has given close attention to the budgetary matters and has frequently suggested ways in which economies on the operations might be effected.

Section D. Certification and Comments by Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 28 January 1964. Signature of employee: (Liese W.). By supervision.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Official title of supervisor: C/WH/3/Mexico. Typed or printed name and signature: Bernard E. Reichhardt.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official:

I concur in the high rating given this employee. She is undoubtedly the ablest employee in this branch in the performance of her particular job.

Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/3. Typed or printed name and signature: John M. Stockton (Johm M. Stockton).

Date: 29 Jan 1964.
