Things happen. But we were not mistaken about this fellow. He proved to be a homosexual. He sold himself, so to say. The American ice ballet (Ice Capades tour) arrived. There were many such fellows (homosexuals) with it, and he was extremely drunk, and was embracing and kissing a man. The Americans also saw this and decided not to...

I thought, what to do? Let's write him a letter, in real English, on an English typewriter. We'll send this letter to his room. We knew that he was supposed to leave today, today. And we wrote it: “Listen, they know about you. You have been taught. It will go very badly for you back there. Come on. Stay here. We are waiting for your answer.”

Well, as is customary, you had someone accompany him. The Assistant Military Attaché escorted him. I don't remember who right now. Perhaps it was NIXON, NIELSON, a lieutenant colonel. What was his name? He accompanied him to Finland and then returned by plane.

Well, there was no answer from him to this letter. And it was already the last moment, and suddenly—“Listen, they are taking you away. Wait, they know who you are, what you are, it's all over. If that's the way it is, stay here.” No answer. What to do? Here's what happened: We got into a car. They (KGB surveillance) had reported that he and the Assistant Military Attaché had pulled out from Kropotkinskaya Naberezhnaya (America House) for the airport to take the plane. So we put on all speed to get there first. We got there first, in order to have got to him. No. It was WILSON.”

The interview then continued: NOSENKO was asked who had accompanied KEYSERS to the airport. He replied:

“Yes, Lt. Col. WILSON, I believe. He didn't leave him for a moment at the airport. I am turning around here, walking there. There is coffee there and cognac. He didn't leave him. I must separate them. O.K. So I said, ‘What about their documents? Make some pretext to separate them.’ They were separated for two minutes. I approached him and said: ‘Hello, hello, what about the letter? You think about it?’ He said something to the Assistant Military Attaché, that ‘they tried to approach me.’ So he was in Moscow in all only three or four months. He gave himself away, you see. If this ice ballet had not come we would have worked on him. At the start we did not know who he was or what he was, i.e., we knew that he came to replace the military code clerk, on whom we had spent much time.”

NOSENKO then moved on to a description of the STORSBERG operation without naming KEYSERS.

After describing the recruitment approach to STORSBERG, NOSENKO reported on 24 January 1964: “Then his replacement came. It was ZUJUS. We began to study him carefully and it appears that both ourselves and the Americans, primarily in the person of the Security Officer, discovered that he”

This officer's name is MASON.

See NOSENKO's statements on 28 January and 2 February 1964 (below). ZUJUS did in fact replace STORSBERG, who completed his Moscow tour in November 1961, five months after KEYSERS was removed from Moscow.
