Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain reasons given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Monitoring of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject continues to maintain a secure, effective cover mechanism. In this reporting period, the whole thrust and objectives of this cover facility have been changed from pursuit of targets designated by Headquarters at international conferences to pursuit of the local Soviet presence. This has caused a major readjustment, and Subject is now beginning to produce the type of leads that help the Station achieve its local operational objectives.

Subject continues to show a well-organized, methodical approach to his cover and operational tasks.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date. Signature of employee.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 8 August 1967. Official title of supervisor: COC Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: A./S. Robert L. Green.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of Reviewing Official: I rarely see the written product of this employee's efforts and know little of his work except as I am informed of it by his supervisor in the station. I have the impression, however, that the employee is responding to his supervisor's guidance and is not by any means simply drifting along paths indicated by his cover work, which can be a temptation when an employee has, as is true in this case, rather limited contact with his colleagues who work under official cover on the same targets. I thus concur in the evaluation on the basis of limited knowledge.

Date: 8 August 1967. Official title of reviewing official: COC Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: A./S. Robert L. Green.
