UFGT-16628. Page 2. Continuation of dispatch.

Colombian sugar to Japan, Morocco and Spain in competition with Communist Cuba. Produces ten-minute daily program on AMHIGH six days per week. Peripheral activities such as extensive mailings to Cuba have been sharply curtailed, and AMSCROLL executive board has been reduced from 13 to 3 persons and paid employees from 21 to 16 as of 1 July 1966.

3. AMWASP-1. See Reference B. He is a valuable element of the AMSCROLL project and is used in connection with approaches to defection and recruitment targets. We expect to terminate him 31 December 1966.

4. AMFRAME-1. Singleton agent who is main driving force behind AMSCROLL operation and, together with AMASK-1, runs AMKNOT activity.

5. AMKNOT. A new committee formed at headquarters request to hit ZRWAGON defection target. AMFRAME-1 and AMASK-1 are working very effectively as principal agents for this project, and the latter has been especially effective in securing jobs for ZRWAGON defectors.

6. AMCROW. Project is being sharply curtailed. We expect to reduce budget to approximately $1,000–1,500 monthly in FY 67. Project lacks an aggressive principal agent, and the combination of internal personnel problems in AMCROW group and its marginal performance have led to decision to curtail. Radio program on JMHOPE was terminated 31 March, and after 31 July we expect to reduce AMCROW paid staff to three persons. We believe it will be useful to preserve AMCROW name and certain AMCROW contacts in Latin America and to continue AMCROW mailing operations on a more limited basis.

7. AMMOP. No major changes. Operation is viewed as a device for monitoring and influencing Christian Democratic movement in Latin America and is of long-term interest for its potential as a political force in Cuba. However, principal agent lacks many qualities needed to make him an effective political leader or intelligence producer, and we are assessing other AMMOP members as possible replacement. AMMOP youth sector, headed by AMCRIB-1, maintains excellent contacts with its counterparts throughout the hemisphere and has been useful as a press placement mechanism.

8. AMSTRUT-2. No changes. See Reference B for project description.

9. AMLIRA. No change. See Reference B for description of project activities. Monthly magazine started January 66, well received by readers, and efforts to make magazine self-sustaining have resulted in paid advertisements and subscriptions, which are expected to increase as magazine becomes more widely known. AMLIRA group prepared target studies on Cuban athletes attending regional Olympic Games in Puerto Rico in June 1966, and AMLIRA agents are currently working with KUBARK task force at Puerto Rican games.

10. AMBASAL-1. No substantial changes from Reference B. AMBASAL-1 “Carta Circular” now sent only to Cuba, and monthly bulletin sent only to international addressees—in past both publications had been sent to Cuba and to Latin America. AMBASAL-1 program on AMTHIGH has been dropped as of 1 June but continues on JMHOPE once weekly, Sundays.

11. YOARD/JMHOPE. No substantial changes. More emphasis has been placed on news programs as a result of refugee debriefings indicating desire for more news. JM
