Section D: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. State manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and code consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and time must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This report covers Mr. Phillips' initial period as a Division Chief. It coincided with a period of unusually high stress and strain in the Western Hemisphere Division, particularly in relationships with the State Department and in the problems left over from our drastic measures designed to protect ourselves against a potential counterintelligence disaster. The most important fact to be recorded about Mr. Phillips' direction of his Division during this period is that he kept operations at the top of his priority list, and that as a result our operational achievements in the area during the past year have been on the whole better than in the year before.

Mr. Phillips is developing into a very competent manager, and has handled well the problems involved in adjusting to decreasing manpower ceilings. He is prudent in the use of official funds. He is a good supervisor and is providing excellent leadership to his subordinates, who have responded with a clear improvement in morale during the period since Mr. Phillips assumed charge.

Continued next page.

Section E: Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 9. Date: 22 April 1974. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature: Associate Deputy Director for Operations David R. Blee.

2. By Employee. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance. Date: April 1974 (ESPRIL 1974). Signature of employee: J.L.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Concur. An excellent operational leader who is learning rapidly the nuances of a Division Chief's job in Washington. He is an inspirational leader whose management techniques and abilities are still developing. All in all a first rate performance. Date: 11 June 1974. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Director for Operations. Typed or printed name and signature: William E. Nelson.

4. By Employee. Certify that have been the entries in all sections of this report. Date: 6/15/74. Signature of employee: STV.
