Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II — Operational Information. Dispatch No. HMMA 21557.

Instructions to Case Officer

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requestor furnishes answers to all questions in PRG parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of PR 10-215, paragraphs 6a, g, 13b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in PR 10-215.

3. Three (3) completed copies of PRG part 1 (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and two (2) complete copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRG format in two (2) copies.

5. Fill in all items, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write “NA.” If additional space required for item, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

1. Cryptonym: LITAMIL-9. 2. Pseudonym.

Section I: Contact and Development

1. Indicate how, when, where, why, and by whom subject was first contacted or developed.

Case Officer (if any) is introduced to Subject on day he made contact with the Subject, a PERUHEN diplomat, to debrief and use as a penetration of the PERUHEN Embassy in Mexico. See MEXI 1167 re initial meeting.

2. Indicate whether subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

Subject could be turned over to any responsible Case Officer, particularly one with a speaking knowledge of Spanish. Subject speaks English and French as well as Spanish.

3. List other case officers who have handled subject or whom he knows or was known. Give names by which they have been known.

Subject knows Clyde K. SHRYOCK, his Case Officer, by true name. SHRYOCK (SHRTOCK) will introduce Lawrence F. BARKER to Subject during the week of 16 June 1963.
