Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of individual or group activities and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

It is a pleasure to write a Fitness Report on this officer.

Always a strong performer, Subject has continued to mature and improve during the reporting period. Early in the year he took over the Station's operational support team for several months, handling them extremely well, while developing a new team on the outside. In July he assumed primary responsibility for the Station's new REDTOP program and has done an outstanding job of keeping abreast of REDTOP activities here and exploiting those opportunities which have occurred despite a seriously understaffed section. At the same time he is continuing to direct one outside contract agent, service an audio operation and still found time to develop another particularly important new audio operation up to its final stages of implementation. These tasks reflect the Station's confidence in and reliance on Subject, who is giving an overall outstanding performance.

Subject's greatest strengths are good judgment, enthusiasm, dynamism and an ability to grasp the major elements of any task and handle them quickly and intelligently. He is personable and mixes well. During the year he has made excellent progress in expanding his contacts throughout the Colombian community and selecting and developing those that can be of use to the Station. He is aided in this by his wife, who is attractive, has excellent Spanish and is a great addition to his work.

Continued.

1. Certification and Comments.

By employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date. Signature of employer: 4 Feb. 1969 /B/ Thomas J. Keanan.

2. By supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. OP Officer DCOS /S/ Wallace A. Mills.

By reviewing official.

Date. Official title of supervisor. Typed or printed name and signature: 4 Feb. 1969, Chief of Station /S/ Dino J. Pionzio.

3. Comments of Reviewing Official.

COS fully concurs with above appraisal. Subject definitely falls into the category of potential Chief of Station material. He has uncommon operational judgment, broad professional experience, a keen sense of priorities, handles people well and combines the unusual traits of being well liked yet firm. Devoted to his job, he works long hours without diminishing his efficiency. Although respectful to his superiors, he is decisive. An excellent family man, he has no bad habits. His wife is of great assistance to him in his work. COS intends to recommend subject for promotion to GS-14 in the next cycle in the belief that men of subject's ability and potential should be brought along rapidly. He will be 39 years old next June and it is essential that he be made to feel that.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature: 4 Feb. 1969, Chief of Station /S/ Dino J. Pionzio.
