In April 1963

Contact Report

VILLI/1 – Ambassador Eouagnoo – Clellard Joseph Charles

1. Ambassador Eouagnoo had previously informed VILLI/1 that Clellard Joseph Charles, President of the Commercial Bank of Haiti, was coming to New York on 24 April and suggested that VILLI/1 might work with him in financing Eouagnoo's diplomatic residence in Haiti.

2. Mr. Allen informed VILLI/1 that Charles is a confidant of President Duvalier and could be expected to report on all Americans with whom he had conversations and the substance of these conversations. VILLI/1 was authorized in any circumstances with Charles to convene an emergency meeting on political issues unless Charles himself first received political information. It was suggested to VILLI/1 that he might inquire about Haiti's economic status, the outlook for the economy on which Haiti's economy may stand or fall, and how the currency was being backed in the choice of a foreign aid program.

3. Mr. Allen said that Charles was of great interest and that he would like to know why he was in the U.S. at this time. VILLI/1 was authorized in any circumstances with Charles to convene an emergency meeting at which Charles would be present unless Charles himself first received political information. It was suggested to VILLI/1 that he might request Charles to convene an emergency meeting, the outcome of which would be important.

4. It was further informed to VILLI/1 that Charles should be present at the convention with Charles and that he might press him as to whether top officials are protecting elite interests outside the country and question the constitutionality of such an expensive international policy for the President, given the bad state of the Haitian economy. VILLI/1 could then request that the flight of capital from the U.S. and Canada lead to the survival of Haiti's economic status for investment outside Haiti.

5. VILLI/1 said that he viewed the following of this operation, that he would wear his other hat, i.e., support his own fund rather than support it in some way. In stress to previous statements.
