People of the world towards our desperate calling may be some day achieved and that they may stretch their friendly hand to our patient, but erect, people. For the better understanding of the labor accomplished we will synthesise the main steps taken by this section in the development of the mission the DRE has assigned it.

Origin of the Section of International Relations

The Section of International Relations was created by the National Executive of the DRE in the months of November–December 1960. Luis Bosa Dominguez, ex-President of the Faculty of Science of the University of Havana, was appointed for its direction in January 1961. Mr. Eduardo Munis (Muniz) was ordered to come to Miami and was assigned the coordination of the DRE's labor in Latin America. Mr. Munis arrived on the 8th of February, 1961.

The First Steps

Before Muniz's arrival in Miami, the DRE's activity in the international field was so limited that it lacked importance, even though it had sent a delegation to the Chancellors' assembly which was held in 1961 in the city of San Jose, Costa Rica, and had also sent a delegation to Central America for the purpose of establishing contacts with student leaders in these countries. In the last days of February 1961, a DRE commission composed of Ernesto Fernandez Travieso, Teresa Valdes Hurtado, and Eduardo Muniz was sent to Washington for the purpose of delivering a letter written by the DRE as the genuine representation of Cuban students to the President of the United States, John F. Kennedy. This letter was handed to Mr. Richard Goodwin (it is unknown if it ever reached President Kennedy). It stated the basis and ideals which moved the DRE to fight the Castro regime and the common inspirations which led it together with the rest of Latin American students towards the achievement of social justice for the people of our continent.

Despite all this—and for motives which have not yet been given to us—during February, March, and April 1961, we were entirely restrained in the development of our labor because of the poor admittance given to our plan. Our labor was reduced to the sending of some propaganda to Latin America, to the organizing of files of contacts and organizations, and to maintaining relations with them by mail. However, at the beginning of March 1961, the first three DRE delegations in Latin America were established: Costa Rica, Venezuela, and Mexico. These delegations practically received no economic support for more than five months (they subsisted almost only by their own means), and so their labor was reduced to the least.

Giron Invasion: New Outlooks

New possibilities in the Latin American field were disclosed when, on the 17th of April, the invasion through Playa Giron was defeated by the Communist forces, demonstrating thus the mistake which the administration of the United States had made in not relying upon continental public opinion, which had been skillfully influenced by Castrist propaganda. An objective glance on the
