A feeling that if the situation in the Philippines changed, both he and his wife would like to go back there. This is what he may be going (working for) through his contacts with the Progressive Review. I don't know how far they have contacts with the people inside the Philippine government, but they claim to have.

Shashikan R. — 8 Mochav Kanji, Dikit Rd., Bombay 57. A Pastel was an Indian from Bombay who wrote several articles, among other things. He is a businessman and I imagine a rather successful businessman. He is on the fringe of the Indian Communist Party and now involved with the pro-Chinese wing of the party.

Modhav Hunji — Dr. RL, Bombay 57.

Strelkoff address — 151 Ave. Sufrin, Paris 15. From S4F 3436, Miss C. J. Snethlage. Man-lage from Amsterdam is the head of the Cuba group, the Cuba committee in Holland. She is very prominent in this Pacifist Socialist Party. She has been to Cuba; despite her advanced age—she is seventy-some—she is very active.

Torild Skard (Torila SKARD), c/o GOMNAES, C 14 Studentbyen, Oslo, Norway. Skard is a student leader in Norway. I think she is now a member of Parliament. She did a lot of publicity for the magazine.

Dr. Leiva Samper — HOEC representation in Paris. He is a doctor, a cardiologist, and seems to be quite a distinguished one. He is a heart surgeon. 129 Rue de Tolbiac, Paris 192, phone PO R 47-39 (hospital).

Schwartzenberg is my lawyer in Paris. SINE — 35 Rue de Cheling, phone TRI 73-32.

Manuela Sixes is a member of the Liberal Party. She's a standing candidate for Ipswich, very pro-Cuban and pro-Algerian. She's got a lot of influence inside the party because of who she sleeps with. I don't know who it is, but I've heard an awful lot of stories.

Jose Venturelli, Calle E, No. 158 1-B, Vedado, Havana. Close friend.

Havana is a Venezuelan artist and member of [an organization], supposedly very, very interested in the magazine. He is a friend of Maxxas. Martha Dodd—you may find on the cards—the magazine was going to him c/o Martha Dodd at the Havana Libre Hotel directly.

Martha Dodd had no contact with the magazine. She reportedly had taken quite a pro-Chinese position but to be so hopelessly compromised with the Czechs and Russians that she can't say too much except en cachet, to everybody she meets, especially young people. Whether this is her real attitude or not, I don't know. She might also be doing this to gain the confidence of people. There is no question that Venturelli is her very close friend.

Costas Veropoulos (?) is a student group leader from Greece who edited a magazine in Greece called Africa Asia Latin America. It was a cut-down version of Revolution and represented, for the Greek youth, the left wing of the EDA.
