Santos: In order that said proxy receive from Mr. Raul Santovenia Lopez the furniture, chattels, documents, and cash that the latter delivers him, with the faculty to sign and subscribe the public or private document that Mr. Santovenia may ask of him as security.

Third: That they revoke, cancel, etc., invalid Power No. 2 dated January 6, 1964, granted before the Notary Public of Martí, Matanzas Province, Cuba, Doctor Antonio Solares Santa Maria, on behalf of Mr. Raul Santovenia Lopez.

Fourth: That they likely wish to say by means of this document how grateful they are to Mr. Santovenia Lopez for having managed their affairs with complete honesty. Finally, the appearers state that it is their will that their proxy use this authorization without limitations, and for everything that they themselves could personally do.

Thus they state and grant before me, following the reading of this instrument by me, the Notary Public, since they renounced the right they had to do so themselves. They ratify its contents and sign before me. I attest.

Signed: Anastacia Yun, Pedro Kim, Dr. A.R. Armijano.

It agreed to its original, that under number 12 is filed at the General Registry of Public Instruments of this office under my charge, and which I have consulted. And to deliver to the appearers upon their request, I issue this first copy in two sheets of paper, on the date of its grant, after having affixed the corresponding revenue stamp, and having left a note of its issuance on the margin of its original. I attest.

The undersigned, Lawyers and Notaries Public of the Association of Las Villas (Las Villae), District of Santa Clara, with residence here, attest that the preceding signature belongs to our colleague Dr. Aurelio R. Arminana Trinillo. At Santa Clara, on June 5, 1967. There appear the seals and signatures of the legalizing notaries.

Republic of Cuba. Ministry of Justice.

I, María del C. Deo-Chopelles y Fesser, Keeper of the Registry of Legalization of Signatures, certify that the preceding signatures of notaries with residence in Santa Clara, Doctors Consuelo Barrero and Armando Lopez, are authentic. At Havana, Cuba, on June 16, 1967. Signed.

I, the undersigned, José A. Parlá, a legal translator, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct English translation of the hereto annexed document in Spanish. At Havana, Cuba, on June 19, 1967.

José A. Parlá  
Legal Translator
