Subject: LIBERTY!

Date, time, and place: 3 Sept. ’69 – 7 Dec., Aldots – Tenants.

1. Subject was already at the meeting site when I arrived ten minutes after the hour—late because of another dominant and brusque tie-up. We had to leave early to pick up his wife and child and take them home and, therefore, asked if we could continue our meeting at a later hour, same day. I had no objection, so we agreed to meet at Sunborn’s, Tiber & Reforma, and proceed elsewhere from that point.

2. Subject did not prepare anything for me regarding his meeting with LOG as I had requested but assured me that he recalled it vividly, then proceeded to describe it to me without any prompting by me.

Fonda

3. Subject met LOG at the Kravada del Refugio, 166 Liver o-l, at 1100 hours, 29 Aug., as had been arranged. They stayed in the restaurant for approximately 90 minutes. LOG asked Subj if he had seen any of his American friends lately and Subj replied that he had seen “John” and “Flex” in the usual manner, i.e. as students. LOG offered the opinion that Subj was being “surrounded” by AMIS and asked if Subj felt the same way. Subj denied that this was so, at least as far as he was concerned, but if LOG felt that some of those people were “intelligence” types, he, the Subj, certainly did not feel that way. LOG then asked Subj how he was fixed financially and the latter said he was as broke as usual. LOG then suggested that Subj could have a little extra money if he would only agree to write a report or two about these Americans. Subj told LOG that he had already reported orally all he knew about John and Flex and that he saw little point in repeating it in writing. LOG then suggested that he would pay for such reports and thus help Subj out of his financial difficulties. When asked by Subj, LOG offered to pay 20 pesos for each report, claiming that “we have unlimited funds for this sort of thing.” Subject did not make any comment, and said that “as a fellow Soviet I would hate to accept any money for such a favor.” LOG insisted that this small amount would help Subj take the vacation he was so eager to take. LOG told Subj that he had bad news: he would not be able to return to Moscow on the first of Oct. as he had wished. A replacement for him is not available and he therefore has no idea when he will depart. In fact, he had hoped that he could have brought his replacement with him to this meeting, but no luck. In any event, Subject invited LOG and his wife to come to his home for a farewell dinner on 15 Sept. at 1000 hours. LOG asked Subj to invite Flex and Flex also, and Subj agreed. Subject confided to me that the 15th was a particularly bad date, having forgotten that this was a big holiday. He will call LOG and see if he still wants to keep the same time.

4. Subject told me that NERODIO had confided in him to the effect that LOG had tried to recruit him by writing notes on his friends. NERODIO refused. NERODIO made Subject promise that he would not breathe a word of this to anyone.
