Chief, Contact Division  
Chief, Wilmington Office

20 November 1957

No. 57-402

Joseph Kovago, Ex-Mayor of Budapest

Attention: RS/USSA Branch A66377

1. Upon reading an article appearing in a Wilmington daily newspaper (copy attached), J. Jacobs visited ex-mayor of Budapest Joseph Kovago and got the following information:

2. “Ex-Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Nagy was asked by the Free Europe Committee to form a new Hungarian Committee which will replace the two committees now in existence. The new committee is being formed because the Free Europe Committee wishes to economize and representation from several Hungarian political parties is wanted.”

3. “Since I do not dare correspond with friends and relatives in Hungary and the US government is interested in current information on Hungary, I think I can give the name of an individual who is living in Vienna and is truly an ‘operator.’ His name is Dr. Thomas Pasztor. I believe he can be useful to the US because I recommended him for the purpose of gathering information on Hungary to Mr. David Martin of the International Rescue Committee. Most of the information gathered by Pasztor has been used by the US in reports on Hungary to the United Nations.”

4. “Pasztor’s address is L. Jakobergasse 4.III.18, Vienna, Austria, telephone 522-0-455. I am able to give the following biographic data on Pasztor: aged 46, divorced, official of the Pfeiffer Party after he was kicked out of the Szelikholders Party, arrested for anti-Communist activities in 1948 or 1949. He was convicted and sentenced to death, which was later commuted to life imprisonment. He was in the same political prisons with me at Vac and the Gyuto prison in Budapest.”

5. “While in prison he was a ‘double-dealer’ and most prisoners liked him but distrusted him. He seemed to be able to find out about all news both inside and outside the prison. He was released from prison during the destalinization period and escaped to the West during the revolution.”

F 5564
