Movimiento Unidad Revolucionaria

Memorandum

To: Mr. Andrew C. McLellan  
Inter-American Representative  
AFL-CIO  
Washington, D.C.

From: Dr. Rafael Rivas-Vázquez  
Secretary for Economic and Professional Affairs,  
Unidad Revolucionaria,  
Miami, Fla., U.S.A.

Ref.: Considerations of the Japan-Cuba trade and its consequences throughout Latin America.

I. Introduction

The Japanese people, its businessmen, and its government have been able to make Japan occupy a leading place among the industrial countries of the Free World. In 1964, Japan was the leader in Free World shipbuilding, contributing 40% of the tonnage; in the electronic field, Japan came in second; in steel production and chemicals, Japan was able to occupy third place; and in automobile production, Japan was fourth, with 1.7 million vehicles produced.

The free-loving and democratically oriented Cuban people are sympathetic to this effort the Japanese people are making, an effort which is well known and admired throughout the whole world. At the same time, the free-loving and democratically oriented Cuban people—the ones within Cuba and the ones living in exile—are astonished to watch Japan very much involved in trade relations with Communist Cuba, although Japan is aware that by so doing it is directly aiding a tyranny and, at the same time, providing this regime with the necessary funds to subvert its neighbors throughout Latin America.

It should be pointed out that Japan, based on its concern for human rights, could very well consider that its present trade relations with Communist Cuba are completely negative, but this is not the only reason. Japan must be aware that its trade relations with Communist Cuba will eventually, in a very near future, jeopardize Japan's trade relations with Latin America, and this is already beginning to happen.

II. Japan-Communist Cuba Trade Relations

A. Trade Balance

Japan has always had a deficit in its trade balance with Cuba, i.e., not only in its present trade relations, but also during its trade prior to the establishment of the Castro-Communist regime.

Telefono FR 3-8032

105 E 9 St., Miami, Florida
