Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-170. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item A of Section A below.

Section A. Phillips, Howard.

Name: Phillips, Howard. Date of birth: 31 Oct. 1922. Sex: Male. Service designation: DP. Office position branch of assignment: Office pos., Staff agent Opچی (PP). Grade: CS-14. Date hired/moved to: August 9, 1956. Period covered by this report: 9 February 1956–14 September 1956. Type of report: Initial. Assistant/supervisor. Assistant/employee.

Section B. Caldwell, William.

Certification: I certify this report for the rated individual. This report has been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

Check appropriate statements: This report reflects my job opinions of this individual. I have discussed with this employee his strengths and deficiencies so that he understands where he stands.

Date: 19 Sept. 1956. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: Caldwell, William. Supervisor’s official title: Chief of Station.

For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

Approved 10/8/56. Posted Pos Control. Reviewed by PUD [signature].

Continued on attached sheet.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section. A. THIS
