Section C. Narrative Comments.

During the past reporting period, Mr. Maksymiec's responsibilities were more pointedly directed towards the requirements of a laboratory technician as described in the position description and less towards his previous utilization as a photographer. A conference was held with him on 15 June to explain the need for this redirection, and a memo ATB 147/70 dated 16 June was prepared and furnished to him detailing the performance of these duties. He was anxious to stop being thought of as a photographer and welcomed the opportunity to move into a more technically oriented activity. The specific duties outlined are listed in Section B of this report.

It was expected that there would be a learning period during which his proficiency would gradually increase in these new responsibilities. However, progress has not been as rapid as had been hoped due to what appears to be a lack of initiative on his part, coupled with severe emotional outbursts against his immediate supervisor and other Center personnel. The latest of these occurred on 28 August, when he used abusive language in the presence of other Branch personnel, including the Branch Chief, against his Section Chief. This necessitated a written letter of reprimand and his transference to direct supervision by the Branch Chief, and, as of 5 October 1970, to another Section within the Branch.

The ratings of M in Duties 1 and 2 of Section B reflect primarily the subject's reluctant participation in data collection and his lack of initiative in learning the operation of the microdensitometer. In Duties 4, 5, and 6, he has required a maximum amount of supervision, which has resulted in senior personnel doing the work.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: S. Okt. 1970. Signature of employee: Meghan Law A. Mclaren. By employee signature.

2. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. By supervisor signature.

Date: 10/5/70. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Advanced Technology Branch 1277 PIC. Type or printed name and signature: F.M. K. Friederiksen.

3. By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the rater's comments. We have been making every effort to aid Mr. Maksymiec in becoming an asset to RED as a laboratory technician. To date, there has been little noticeable progress; in fact, the temper outbursts mentioned above indicate a deteriorating condition. Unless this situation improves, it may be necessary to recommend termination action.

As I have stated in previous comments, it's unfortunate that he cannot find a position which takes advantage of his expertise in photography, since this would go a long way to resolving his problems.

Date: 9 October 1970. Official title of reviewing official.
