Section D: Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, noting in process (if any) their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training and/or on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Section E: Certification and Comments. Months employee has been under my supervision.

1. By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date. Official title of supervisor; typed or printed name and signature.

2. By employee. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance. Have attached. Have not attached. Date. Signature of employee.

3. By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official.

I concur in this evaluation. My principal interaction with Jim Moore during the year has been the result of our mutual concern for the well-being of a capable officer who performs well and has growth potential but who is difficult to work with and has, on occasions, apparently been on the brink of a physical breakdown brought on by tension, overwork and other factors. In his approach to this problem, Jim has been concerned, compassionate, responsible, and thoroughly professional.

Under Jim's direction, the Dallas complex has achieved a high ranking among DCD offices and is holding it.

While Jim Moore is a long-time DCD officer, he seems to have lost none of his enthusiasm and drive. He is a valued and respected colleague.

Date: 10 February 1975. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, Domestic Collection Division. Typed or printed name and signature: Juleson R. Horton; JACKSON R. HORTON.

4. By employee. I certify that I have been the entries in all sections of this report. Date: Bet. 5-10-75. Between the lines is as separate statement.
