Mr. Newton S. Miller

Dear Mr. Miller:

This is a memorandum of agreement between you and the United States Government in regard to your employment by CIA. It is hereby mutually agreed and understood that:

1. As an employee of CIA, at the present grade and salary of GS-13, $5420 per annum, you will accept cover employment in the International Cooperation Administration effective as of December 1, 1986. You will, insofar as consistent with your basic responsibility to CIA, abide by all the rules, regulations, practices and policies of the ICA, in order to appear as a conventional member of that establishment. Your appointment to the ICA is being effected at the class of FSS-3 and salary of $5420 per annum.

2. It is understood and agreed that the minimum period of your overseas tour of duty is governed by and coincident with the prescribed tour of duty of your cover organization. Currently, your prescribed tour consists of a period of two (2) years from the date of your arrival at your overseas post of duty. Your assignment may be terminated earlier for the convenience of CIA, and the length of your tour of duty, as currently specified, may be unilaterally changed by CIA in order to conform with subsequent changes in the prescribed tour by ICA. If you request termination of your overseas assignment solely for your own convenience, unless it is for circumstances that are considered by the Agency to be beyond your control or if you are terminated for cause either by ICA or CIA before you have completed the minimum period of service prescribed above from the date of arrival at your overseas post of duty, you will not be entitled to return travel or transportation for yourself or your dependents to the United States at Government expense. If you request termination of your overseas assignment solely for your own convenience, unless it is for circumstances that are considered by the Agency to be beyond your control or if you are terminated for cause either by ICA or CIA before you have completed one (1) year of service from the date of your arrival at your overseas post of duty, you will be required to reimburse the Government for all its expenses for your travel and transportation, and that of your dependents, from the continental United States to such overseas post of duty.

3. Travel to your post of duty overseas and your return travel to the United States, as well as travel performed overseas which is consistent with your cover designation, will normally be at the direction of ICA. Such travel will be accomplished in conformance with applicable regulations of ICA and you will receive and retain the amount paid by ICA without regard to CIA regulations except when you are directed for operational reasons to perform travel in accordance with CIA regulations.
