Attachment to 233-C:

Special Report: Situation and Perspectives.

I. Organization

1. At the conclusion of the Berlin sessions of the Congress for Cultural Freedom, the basis for continuing work was created by the appointment of several committees. Some confusion and uncertainty reigned at this period; these need to be clarified. The following is suggested:

a. Honorary Chairman: Letters will go out this week to the Five Philosophers—Croce, Dewey, Maritain, Jaspers, and Russell—requesting them to honor the Congress by continuing to serve with the permanent commission.

b. Sponsors: A great many distinguished men in the field of art and science had given their support to the Berlin Congress, although they were unable to come. Their names would be most useful in the Congress' continuing activities. If, as seems only appropriate, the final International Committee of 25 should consist only of “active members,” then some of the nominations originally included should be transferred by the working Executive Committee to this special list of Sponsors. Those before the Congress included—and permission here will also be requested—Andre Gide, Ralph Bunche (Ralph Bunyan) (important, for no Negro was nominated in Berlin), Carl Dammeyer, Salvador de Madariaga, among many others.

c. International Committee of 25: At the Berlin sessions the following were nominated: (1) Ignazio Silone; (2) David Rousset (Housett); (3) Arthur Koestler; (4) Carlo Schmid (Schamid); (5) Irving Brown; (6) Julian Amery; (7) Hookon Lie; (8) James Burnham; (9) Sidney Hook; (10) Nicolas Nabokov; (11) Eugen Kogon; (12) Theodore Llovier; (13) Herbert Read; (14) Denis de Rougemont (Rougmont); (15) Lionello Venturi (Lionallo); (16) Boris Nikolaovsky; (17) Karl Kupka; (18) Josef Czayak; (19) Margaret Buber-Heumann; (20) Andre Philip. These were all present and are confirmed. The following were nominated and still have to be informed and confirmed: (21) Richard Crossman; (22) Francois Mauriac; (23) Pablo Casals (for the “Sponsors”?); (24) Thornton Wilder; (25) Erik Pollak; and (26) Salvador de Madariaga (“Sponsor”?).

d. Executive Committee of 5: This consists of the first five named above—Silone, Rousset (Housett), Koestler, Brown, and Schmid (Schamid), who has definitely accepted and thus taken the place of Kogon.

2. It was decided to hold the first meeting of the Congress Executive Committee during the first week in September in Paris. It will probably be desirable to hold several informal meetings before then in order to work out the outline and details of a functioning Congress plan.
