TRSA-1084.

6. In view of headquarters intention to terminate this project, it is not deemed advisable at this time to install HUMANOID in a new safehouse to process HUMANKIND material. Accordingly, headquarters advice is requested as to whether HUMANOID may continue using his house for the next few months, or whether this operation should be suspended immediately, inasmuch as no suitable alternate cutout has been located to date.

7. In reply to your request for comment on the salary increase for HUMANOID recommended by the former Chief of Station, please be advised that the writer concurs in the recommendation. As indicated in TRSA-1056 and TRSA-999, this agent has been living on a very close financial margin and has been aware of the recommended raise for some months. It is conceivable that he has taken the possibility into consideration in his personal financial arrangements. In any event, should headquarters decide to terminate subject, it is recommended that several months salary be authorized as a termination bonus in order that there will be no likelihood of security considerations arising from subject's possibly over-extended financial position. This bonus payment is believed justified by subject's long tenure of service.

8. With regard to paragraph 3 of TRSW-685, there have been no changes in subject's cover and current modes of contact and communication from those set out in TRSA-950. HUMANIST-2 makes a weekly door-slot drop at night at the photographic studio, and a live meeting takes place at the studio approximately three nights a month, with safety-danger signals being utilized. In addition, HUMANOID meets once or so a month with HUGGER, either at her home or at the studio. HUMANKIND contacts remain the same. My contacts with HUMANOID have taken place at his home, in a park, in a local pension, at my home, and in coffee bars on a staggered schedule of about once a week.

9. With reference to WASH 14671, please be advised that absolutely no commitments have been made to subject, and, on the contrary, hints have been dropped to aim of a possible curtailment of funds which might require discontinuing certain operations here. No difficulty is anticipated in terminating subject upon receipt of final instructions from headquarters.

10. With further reference to WASH 14671, your attention is respectfully invited to the following headquarters files which reflect opinions and evaluations of subject by other staff personnel:

TZPA-365 Part II: “Subject's superiors regard this man as highly dependable.”

TZPA-365 Part I: “Subject's immediate superior is Lt. Col. Wm. R. FORRES, Director of Intelligence, CAIRC, who recommends subject highly.”
