Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of monoglot supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. Section C: attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject's performance during the period of over one year under review continued to deserve the rating of Outstanding. Her major contributions during that period were in the fields of operational research and exploitation of information obtained through technical means. She was, during this period, given full responsibility for the handling of two full-time senior transcribers, including administrative matters. In view of the difficulty of recruiting target personnel, the task of fully exploiting information obtained from technical sources is of great importance. Subject handled this task with her usual enormous capability for work, displaying initiative and great professionalism. She continued, in addition, to handle the other tasks listed in this report together with sensitive reporting sent by a separate channel, altogether a much heavier workload than is usually carried by one person. She was helped in this by her good knowledge of Spanish, a talent for administrative work, considerable analytic experience, and great devotion to her work. Subject should be considered for promotion to the grade of GS-14 at the first opportune moment.

Certification and Comments by Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 3 April 69. Signature of employee: Charlotte Bustos-Yidela /s/.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 19 months. Date: 3 April 69. Official title of supervisor: Ops Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: Francis Sherry /s/.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: The reviewing officer fully agrees with the ratings and comments of the rating officer. Subject consistently performs her duties in an outstanding manner, bringing to her job truly exceptional qualities of intelligence, reliability, and good humor. She is one of the most valuable employees in the Station, and the recommendation for her promotion from GS-13 to GS-14 is fully and enthusiastically endorsed. Date: 3 April 69. Official title of reviewing official: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: Winston Scott /s/.
