5.

The C/O reminded Subj of what he basically was in Soviet eyes—an Eastern European refugee, said a Jew. And more, he had never professed to them any ideological sympathy to the Communist cause. The most he had done was to declare that the Soviets represented the wave of the future, and he wanted to be on the winning side. But he must recognize that such sentiment coming from a Jew could hardly have convinced the Soviets.

b) Next step of approach to Soviets in Mexico:

The C/O suggested to Subj as an effective way to break off from the Soviets that he should drop completely all affirmations of “friendship”—cut out the “hasta la muerte” bit. Subj, in turning down any and all Soviet requests for information or assistance, should couple it with the open declaration that he has quit.

Subj agreed to follow this line, except for the qualification pertaining to his presence in Moscow.

a) Clarify status of Loginov as “Consul”:

Subj said that during his meeting with Prikhodko and Loginov on 8 September 1966, while they were talking about Pavel Yatskov, whom Prikhodko said he had seen in Moscow, Subj addressed the following question to Loginov: “When is your boss coming back?” Loginov replied: “You’re talking now to the Consul.”

3. The C/O wished to clarify or reaffirm his understanding of Subj’s response to Prikhodko on 8 September when the Soviet asked about legalizing a tourist in Mexico, reported in paragraph 4 of the Contact Report of 8 September. First, the C/O paraphrased for Subj the way he had reported Subj’s reasoning process about Prikhodko’s question (see Comment in paragraph 4 of the Contact Report)—Subj said that it was essentially correct.

Then the C/O related the way he had reported Prikhodko’s question and Subj’s reply. Subj said that that was not exactly how the conversation had taken place. He restated the conversation as follows:

Prikhodko: “Which will be the best way to legalize a tourist in Mexico?”

Subject: “You know the answers.”

Prikhodko: “If you would have to put a man in your office, would you be able to?”

Subject: “It would be difficult—necessary to consult Gobierno, because the company had to have the required capitalization to place a foreigner.”

LIC024-5 Contact Report No. Sept. 66, eng. Filed: P-2912.
