Section VIII Continued from Page 4.

4. Are you now or have you ever been a licensed or certified member of any trade or profession, such as pilot, electrician, radio operator, teacher, lawyer, CPA, medical technician, etc.? Yes.

5. If you have answered “yes” to above, indicate kind of license and state issuing license. Provide License Registry Number, if known.

6. First license or certificate (year of issue): 2-18-54. 7. Latest license or certificate (year of issue): N.A.

8. List any significant published materials of which you are the author. Do not submit copies unless requested. Indicate the title, publication date, and type of writing (non-fiction or scientific articles, general interest subjects, novels, short stories, etc.). N.A.

9. Indicate any devices which you have invented and state whether or not they are patented. N.A.

10. List public speaking and public relations experience. In college and as a junior executive in foreign trade.

11. List any professional, academic or honorary associations or societies in which you are now or were formerly a member. List academic honors you have received.

Phi Sigma Iota, National Honor Society of Roman Languages.

American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese.

Graduate scholarship offered by the State of Louisiana and Tulane University (under which I did five years of graduate work).

Honorary mentions and medals.

Section IX. Employment History.

Note: List last position first. Indicate chronological history of employment for past 15 years. Account for all periods including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Give address and state what you did during period of unemployment. List all civilian employment by a foreign government, regardless of dates. In completing item 9, “Description of Duties,” consider your experience carefully and provide meaningful, objective statements.

1. Inclusive dates (from and to—by month and year): April 1954–October 1960.

2. Name of employing firm or agency: Century Electric Company.

Address: 1806 Pine St., St. Louis, Mo., USA.

4. Kind of business: Manufacturer of motors, generators, etc.

6. Title of job: Assistant District Manager.

7. Salary or earnings: $1,000 per month (mp).

9. Description of duties: To promote and service the sale of Century motors, generators and related equipment in the territory of Cuba, and to cooperate in collections when necessary. To manage the Havana district sales office in full respons
