Office.

Section C: Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current or former employment and their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Also provide, if required, current position. Explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject's tour in Lima has been cut short by the serious illness of his daughter. As a result of this illness, it was also necessary for him to spend the months of December and January on emergency leave in the United States, returning without his family in February in order to transfer his ops workload and pack out his personal effects for PCS transfer to Headquarters on 4 March.

Although the undersigned had the privilege of working with Subject only briefly, as rating officer he had the advantage of taking over handling of most of Subject's cases following the departure on emergency leave. Thus he was able to observe firsthand and in detail the human material with which Subject had worked, the progress he had made in developing their access and capabilities, and the respect these agents had for him.

During the period covered by this report, Subject continued his pursuit of the MPCHEEK target as his primary operational responsibility. He developed and recruited a prominent member of the local MPCHEEK community who has good access to the MPCHEEK embassy and handled four other access agents. He also handled a unilateral surveillance team and the Station's press placement assets via a principal agent who in turn handled three sensitive assets.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 4 Mar 74. Signature of employer: /s/ Daniel Flores.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report was not shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 4 Mar 74. Official title of supervisor: DCOS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Arthur T. Ledenburg.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official.

As the rater makes clear, Subject will be missed in Lima and we can only sympathize with the reasons why he must now leave. He was doing the Station a great deal of good and advancing his own career nicely as well. It is worth recalling that Subject presided here in Lima over what we understand is still a unique operational feat, a staged recruitment approach to an MPCHEEK official. Also, Subject was often used on a variety of operational tasks having little to do with his assigned targets because, in the

Continued.

Date: 4 Mar 74. COS. /s/ Richard S. Welch.
