Personnel Evaluation Report. Items 1 through 6 will be completed by Administrative or Personnel Officer.

Name: RICHARDSON, Jacques G. Grade: GS-12. I.O. (Den. Chief). Office: DUP. Staff or Division: SR. Branch: SR-5 Far East. Departmental: FIELD.

Period covered by report: From 2-18-52 to 2-18-53. Type of report: Annual; Reassignment.

Items 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

7. Major duties: Assist the Branch Chief in management of the Branch and its overseas stations (3); at present, I act as Branch Chief about 25%-30% of the year. Supervise the planning and preparation for approval of all basic plans, programs, and projects. This involves thorough discussion with each of seven (7) desk chiefs of the purposes and procedures for accomplishing any single mission under any given project, including target analysis (whether FI or PP), preparation of intelligence annexes, logistic and fiscal requirements, specific personnel needs, etc. Am responsible for working directly with the Division's Intelligence Branch for control of requirements, ops intelligence, and reports. Am responsible for maintaining liaison with appropriate staffs and other Divisions who must coordinate any action or document. Assist or direct, as required, specific mission planning at overseas stations on TDY. Supervise preparation of all periodic reports; interview candidate employees.

8. Courses of instruction completed during report period: International Politics, Graduate School 102, Georgetown University, Washington. Length of course: 4 months: 3 hours' credit. Date completed: 5 June 1952.

9. Type of work primarily interested in: I am primarily interested in the conception, planning, and operational management of FI and PP activities, and ops policy and control.

If different from present job, qualifications: This differs from my present assignment essentially in that a Branch Chief or his Deputy becomes so involved in administrative detail that he cannot always give his undivided attention to project management and agent handling problems. Otherwise, I feel that my background and experience qualify me for the functions I aspire to perform.

10. Date: 7 February 1953. Signature.

Items 11 through 18 will be completed by Supervisor.

11. Performance: As Deputy Branch Chief, Mr. Richardson has performed his duties, taken as a whole, in a superior manner. His timely and efficient preparation of intelligence annexes, logistic and fiscal requirements and reports has been particularly outstanding. During three to four months of the past year, Mr. Richardson has acted as Branch
