Fitness Report.

Section A. General.

Name: DEVUOND, Irving C. Date of birth: 14 June 23. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13. Department/Directorate/Area of assignment: DDP/WH/COG. Official position title: Career Agent.

Check type of appointment: Initial X. Career, Reserve, Temporary, Career-Provisional, Annual, Reassignment Supervisor, Reassignment Employee, Special (Specify).

Date report due in O.P.

Reporting period: 1 January 1967–10 July 1967.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

W. Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Section Supervisor of one of the four sections within Special Operations Branch. Section consists of two officers and one secretary. Rating letter: S.

Responsible for the supervision of a 25-man indigenous commando group. Group consists of 2 operational intelligence collection teams, 4 infiltration team boat crews and an 8-man alert/contingency commando team.

Specific Duty No. 2: Responsible for the recruiting, training, administration and operational matters for the 25 agents involved in infiltration/exfiltration operations into a denied area. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Administrative duties for Section operations to include financial support, supplies and equipment, clearances.
