Appointment-Affidavits.

Position to which appointed: First Secretary and Consul. Date of appointment: November 20, 1970. Department or agency: Department of State. Bureau or division: Foreign Service of the U.S. Place of employment: Tegucigalpa, Honduras.

I, Robert T. Shaw, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that:

A. Oath of Office

I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter. So help me God.

B. Affidavit as to Subversive Activity and Affiliation

I am not a Communist or Fascist. I do not advocate nor am I knowingly a member of any organization that advocates the overthrow of the constitutional form of the Government of the United States, or which seeks by force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States. I do further swear (or affirm) that I will not so advocate, nor will I knowingly become a member of such organization during the period that I am an employee of the Federal Government or any agency thereof.

C. Affidavit as to Striking Against the Federal Government

I am not participating in any strike against the Government of the United States or any agency thereof, and I will not so participate while an employee of the Government of the United States or any agency thereof. I do not and will not assert the right to strike against the Government of the United States or any agency thereof while an employee of the Government of the United States or any agency thereof. I do further swear (or affirm) that I am not knowingly a member of an organization of Government employees that asserts the right to strike against the Government of the United States or any agency thereof, and I will not, while an employee of the Government of the United States or any agency thereof, knowingly become a member of such an organization.

D. Affidavit as to Purchase and Sale of Office

I have not, nor has anyone acting in my behalf, given, transferred, promised or paid any consideration for or in expectation or hope of receiving assistance in securing this appointment.

Subscribed and sworn (or affirmed) before me this 12th day of May, A.D. 1971, at Tegucigalpa, Honduras.

Title: Consul of the United States of America.

Note: The oath of office must be administered by a person specified in 5 U.S.C. 2303. The words “So help me God” in the oath and the word “swear” wherever it appears above should be stricken out when the appointee elects to affirm rather than swear to the affidavits; only these words may be stricken and only when the appointee elects to affirm the affidavits.
