Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sec. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Cuba. Subject: Shortage of lubricating oil; operating supplies for refineries; ship bunkerage. Date of info: Aug 60. Place and date acquired: Havana, Aug 60.

Report No. 00-B-3,164,652. Date distributed: 23 Aug 60. No. pages: Two.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.

1. As of Aug 60 there is a shortage of lubricating oil in Cuba which will become critical in a fairly short time. Great efforts have been made by the Castro regime to obtain lubricating oil from US suppliers, and a vessel, the Mar Caribe, has visited a number of US ports attempting to obtain the oil. However, it has been refused everywhere and had to return to Cuba in ballast. As of 10 Aug 60 it is loading molasses for delivery to Boston, and will then proceed to Montreal in an attempt to obtain lubricating oil.

2. A former Esso employee, Frank Garcia, left Cuba on 2 Aug 60 for Mexico to try to obtain lubricating oil. He is going to visit the Mobile blending plant, PEMEX, and several others.

3. A US national recently employed by ICP to attempt to arrange for the purchase of necessary supplies and spare parts for the oil industry has been traveling throughout the SW part of the US, also attempting to arrange for lubricating oil, but with no success. This individual is such an unsavvy character that it is not beyond the bounds of probability that he might “go south” with the funds entrusted to him, which are considerable.

4. There are 20 principal types of lubricating oil needed for the total economy, and the actual status of supply of each is not known. They may be completely out of some and have six months supply of others. However, the general story is that there is a “one month supply” of lubricating oil available.

5. Lubricants for power plants, transportation, and communications are the primary concern. They are in critically short supply in diesel lubricants for engines and heavy equipment, and turbine oil for power plants.

6. There is no lubricating oil manufactured on the island although the Castro regime is trying to set up a plant. However, this is a long range project and takes a lot of time and money.
