11. Preference for Next Assignment. Describe critically the type of work you would prefer for next assignment if different from that indicated in Item No. 9 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choice.

I would prefer to continue Operation Officer work but with opportunity of acquiring greater experience in a supervisory capacity.

11B. Indicate if you desire to extend your current tour by checking in appropriate box. Also indicate preference for next regular assignment by inserting 1, 2, and 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in remaining boxes. Complete all alternate choices and options in all cases even though you are requesting an extension of your tour.

Extend tour twelve months at current station to 1 July 1969.

Be assigned to HOQUE for a tour of duty. Indicate your choice of division, staff or office. 1st choice: WH. 2nd choice: WH. 3rd choice: WH.

Be assigned to another field station. Indicate choice of geographic area or specialization. 1st choice: Buenos Aires. 2nd choice: Montevideo. 3rd choice: Quito.

Return to my current station.

To be completed by Field Station.

12. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee and his preference for next assignment, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training:

Fully concur in subject's request to return to station for a second tour. He is the most valuable officer in the station and is laying the groundwork for operations that will require an additional tour to bring to full fruition. His wish to acquire greater supervisory responsibilities is not only entirely reasonable but desirable from the WOFIRM point of view. He has already (continued on attached sheet).

To be completed by Appropriate Headquarters Office.

13. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee, his preference for next assignment and the staffing requirements of your component, indicate your component's recommendation for his next assignment and training.

WH recommends Mr. Keenan be approved for home leave in June 1969 followed by a second tour in Bogota.

Date: 10 Sep '69. Title: C/WII/Personnel. Signature: Henry L. Berthold.

For use by Career Service.

14. Approved Assignment. Adm'dl. J.belov.

15. Employee notified by dispatch No. 12-2789 dated:

Cabinet No.: WATCO.

Career Service Representative, Interpretive: PETER S. P.
