1. Agent/Subject: LICOZY-5  
2. Case Officer: Vincent P. RIZZUTO  
3. Date and site of contact: 25 September, Cafeteria (Caffeturia) Parque

P-7442; P-2270; P-9026; P-11,712; P-889; P-1612.

Date: 25 September 1969

Paragraph 5 (continued)

It off than attempt to collect the money. There are sufficient funds in the project.

Paragraph 7 (continued)

There is more to this invitation than meets the eye and that the KGB will be going all out to recruit him. I think Subject may be right and I think he should probably find a good excuse for not going.

Subject states that he had complained to KAZANTSEV (P-880) about the shoddy treatment he had been getting from LOGINOV (P-11,712). Never before had he been forced to “stand in line” for Soviet visas for his clients. In the past, he had been able to send passports to the Soviet Embassy any day—never mind the office hours—and get the passports back with visa the same day. Subject says that LOGINOV himself finally admitted that this was because Subject had been uncooperative (meaning that he had refused to let LOGINOV recruit him). Subject says unequivocally that LOGINOV is leaving PCS by the end of October and that he is not being replaced by a newcomer. Subject understands that NECHIPORINKO, who in a former tour had worked in the Consular Section, will take over as Chief of the Consular Section when LOGINOV leaves.

Subject says that KAZANTSEV is about to leave (in fact, Subject thought KAZANTSEV had already left) and that both a replacement for him and a new ambassador were on the way. I told Subject that as far as I know, KAZANTSEV was to be replaced by another concierge who would be Chargé, but Subject insisted that an ambassador had been named and would be coming soon. He did not know who the ambassador would be.

Subject remarked that both IVANOV and NIKITONOV had left and he said that NIKITONOV was, he thought, a very decent person.

Subject said that PRIKHODKO (P-2270) had come to see him to say goodbye. PRIKHODKO had said, almost with tears in his eyes, that Subject had been a very good friend and that he would never forget him. He invited Subject and wife to come visit him in Moscow. Then when Subject asked PRIKHODKO for his address, PRIKHODKO handed him a card. Subject then said that he didn’t really have an address yet but that Subject could write him in care of Latin American Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Subject remarked that PRIKHODKO was undoubtedly being sincere, but when you came right down to it, he was just as hemmed in and afraid as any of the others. Subject said that it was a real tragedy that the Soviet system made such robots out of good people.
