Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. Store suggestions made for improvement of work performances. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section D to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of monoglot or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds may be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

15 March 1970.

This case officer is intelligent and articulate, and is capable of dealing with equanimity with intellectuals, particularly academicians. He has had sufficient experience in field assignments to have developed an area of expertise. His operational and intelligence reporting is organized, coherent and thorough.

He was one of the few officers within the Base who made agent recruitments during the period. One of these was essentially routine, through no fault of the rated officer, but in another case the officer skillfully used an imaginative cover, as he also did in a third recruitment case which had the additional complexity of WODISH involvement. In all these cases the officer illustrated his ability to plan, organize and carry through an operation to a successful conclusion.

If I were to fault this officer I would say that he is not essentially an activist, and that he lacks the force to be a notable recruiter. Conversely he does possess the sense of caution which slows down recruitment but also saves mistakes.

Continued on separate sheet.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 3 February 1970. Signature of employee: Frederick C. Randall (Signed in Pseudo on Form 45a).

By Supervisor.

Months employee was beyond order by my supervision: 12.

Date: 3 February 1970. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Base. Typed or printed name and signature: John G. Shaffer, Jr.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of Reviewing Official.

I am somewhat surprised that the rater gives an overall rating of “P” for Subject's performance when in the rater's own words “he was one of the few officers within the Base who made agent recruitments.” In another recent fitness report on another officer who has since been transferred and whose activities for
