Field Reassignment Questionnaire.

Name of employee (as shown on ID): [Signature]. Date received by Career Service: 3 Feb. 1969. Name of supervisor: David Murphy. Date: 3 Feb. 1969. Date received at headquarters: 20 February 1969. Dispatch number: TM-7989-47.

To be completed by employee.

1. Date of birth: 20 I 1934.  
2. Service designation: CS.  
3. Current position, title and grade: S&T project manager, Area Ops Office, GS 15.  
4. Station or base: Paris.  
5. Crypt for current cover: LPOVER.

6A. Date of PCS arrival in field: 5 Sep 1967.  
6B. Requested date of departure: Please see 11R.  
6C. Expected date of first check-in at new assignment: Summer 1970.  
6D. Desired date to report to duty after leave: o/a 15 August 1970.

7. Number and ages of dependents who will travel with you: 3: (at that time) 42, 19 and 16.

8. Personal circumstances that should be considered in determining next assignment: My younger daughter should graduate from high school in Europe in June, 1970. Because she should not be transferred at that critical scholastic juncture, I would like to remain in the field another nine months to see her through her senior year.

In my next assignment, I would like to use my fluent French from time to time, as possible.

9. List your major duties during current tour (see special note on transmittal form). Also attach personal cover questionnaire in accordance with CSI-F 240-8.

I planned, established and operated a long-range S&T spotting-assessment activity against sensitive targets, and a shorter-range similar local activity in an adverse political climate.

I planned, developed and exploited an adapted non-official cover to mask the operational activity, interrelated into the further-ranging overall activities of a major Station.

I managed the non-official cover activity as a viable professional/commercial activity, including many business and production aspects, as well as the local handling of the firm's unwitting personnel.

I assisted other Stations and Offices, at their request, in spotting-assessment activities, in local search and surveillance activities, and in recruitment.

As part of my crucial non-official cover role, I developed independently continuing cover to serve corporate merger, I developed separately continuing cover to serve operational access needs as well as those of status cover.

10. Training desired: Indicate what training you believe you should take during the next several years.

I would like to take (a) the seniormost management course offered by or through the Organization as well as (b) a review course of activities within the CS and the Organization as a whole.

In addition, I would also like to (c) audit, at least, the S&T course, if that is still being offered.

If (a) is possible through a civil
