-5-

Made by taxi: father had to make many rounds. They got a one-family house with a garden of about 1,000 square meters. David and his brother went to the “Lycée Hoche (Hloche).”

6. In Viroflex, David learned to know a boy, Jean ADAM, six months older than he himself. Jean was the only son of the director of the perfume export house O.L.M. David had a fight in the woods with Jean after he had got a stone thrown by Jean at his head. They were good friends later.

Jean had friends: two brothers ARFIELD, one’s first name was Jack, and their nice-looking but loose-minded sister Maud. When competing in springing from a swing, Jack broke one of his legs. David and Jean put him on a chair, carried him to the porch of his house, and ran away.

David and Jean founded a “secret club.” They built an Eskimo (Escimo) igloo and made a fire in it. The igloo caught fire and ignited the surrounding field and forest. The boys fled. The fire brigade had to battle the fire. David went home. He did not say anything to his father about his part in the fire; he explained his red face by saying he had been running a lot while playing. Later the police came. David’s fault was detected; his father had to pay the damages, but he did not have enough money for this.

7. David’s father had, by this time, given up his taxi driver’s job. He was working on different inventions. He was sure he had discovered petrol fields in France, but he was not believed. He invented a device for automatic replay of records; he asked for 90% of the income but was offered only 40%. Father had a movie projector with which David was not allowed to play. Thus, David constructed his own projector and showed it to his father. Father was thrilled and allowed David to use his (father’s) projector. David did so and broke it.

8. In Viroflex, neighboring the house where David lived, resided ten single Georgians who had resisted the Russians during World War I or afterward. David used to visit those men; he was something like a mascot to them. They had a dog and an ape. They taught David some small tricks.

Six of the men were working as taxi drivers for the subsistence of the whole group. One stayed at home, cooking for all, and one, Aakhutza TCHELORASHWILI, was the boss. David remembers some names or nicknames of them: CHOGHOU, SACHIKO, GARGARETHELI, SERGO (died), COLA.
